V
s
V
Fil 1
j
*
'
-“*aM1
Encyclopaedia Britannica.
BOO
BOOK-Binding is the art of gathering together
and fewing the fheets of a book, and covering it
with a back, Stc.” It is performed thus: The leaves are
firft folded with a folding-ftick, and laid over each other
in the order of the fignature j then beaten on a Hone
with a hammer, to make them fmooth and open well}
and afterwards prefled. They are fewed upon bands,
wrhich are pieces of cord or packthread ; fix bands to
a folio book } five to a quarto, oftavo, &c.} which is
done by drawing a thread through the middle of each
Iheet, and giving it a turn round each band, begin¬
ning with the firil and proceeding to the laft. After
this the books are glued, and the bands opened and
fcraped, for the better fixing the pafteboards} the back
is turned with a hammer, and the book fixed in a prefs
between two boards, in order to make a groove for fix¬
ing the pafteboards } thefe being applied, holes are
made for fixing them to the book, which is prefled a
third time. Then the book is at laft put to the cutting
prefs, betwixt two boards ; the one lying even with
the prefs, for the knife to run upon } the other above
it, for the knife to run againft : after which the pafte¬
boards are fquaied.
BOO
The next operation is the fprinkling the leaves of
the book ; w'hich is done by dipping a brulh into Book-
vermilion and fap-green, holding the brulh in one binding,
hand, and fpreading the hair with the other; by which k-“"V—
motion the edges of the leaves are fprinkled in a regu¬
lar manner, without any fpots being bigger than the
other.
Then remain the covers, which are either of calf-
Ikin or of Iheep-lkin : thefe being moiftened in water,
are cut out to the fize of the book; then fmeared over
with pafte made of wheat flour; and afterwards ftretch-
ed over the pafteboard on the outfide, and doubled
over the edges withinfide; after having firft taken off
the four angles, and indented and platted the cover at
the head-band: which done, the book is covered, and
bound firmly between two bands, and then fet to dry.
Afterwards it is walhed over with a little pafte and wa¬
ter, and then fprinkled with a fine brulh, unlefs it
Ihould be marbled ; when the fpots are to be made
larger by mixing the ink with vitriol. After this the
book is glazed twice with the white of an egg beaten,
and at laft polilhed with a polifhing iron pafled hot over
the glazed cover. ^
BOO K-K E E P I N G
TS the art of recording mercantile tranfa&ions in a
regular and fyftematic manner.
1. A merchant’s books Ihould contain every parti¬
cular which relates to the affairs of the owner. They
Ihould exhibit the ftate of all the branches of his bufi-
nefs, the connexion of the different parts, the amount
and fuccefs of the whole. They Ihould be fo full and
fo well arranged, as to afford a ready information in
every point for which they may be confulted.
The matter which the books fhould contain is com¬
prehended under the three following heads: Firft, The
debts which are owing to the owner, and the debts
which he owes to others. Secondly, The goods and
other articles of property which belonged to him; the
quantity and value fold, or otherwife difpofed on ; and
the quantity and value which ftill remain in his poffef-
lion. Thirdly, The amount of his flock when the
books were opened ; the profits he has obtained, and
Vol. IV. Part I.
the Ioffes he has fuffered, fmce; and the amount of his
flock at prefent.
That method of book-keeping which anfwers thefe
purpofes moft clearly and concifely, is the beft. The
Italian method, by double entry, is generally preferred*
at leaft, it is founded upon the moft univerfal princi¬
ples) and is the moft convenient in extenfive and com¬
plicated bufinefs: and the accountant who underftands
it, will find little difficulty in following, or even in in¬
venting, other methods that are better accommodated
to any particular purpofe.
The Italian method requires three principal books;
the Wafte-Book, Journal, and Leger.
Sect. I. Of the Waste-Book.
2. The wafte-book, or day-book, contains an exaft
regifter of all occurrences in bufinefs in the fame order
•A as *
Book¬
keeping.
% T
2
Wafte-
Book.
%
B O 0 K-K E
as tliey take place. It begins with an inventory of
every thing belonging to the owner, a lilt ol the debts
due to him, and of the debts he owes to others : It is
carried on with a full relation of all the money he re¬
ceives or pays j of all the goods he buys or fells; and
of every other occurrence in his bufinels. Each arti¬
cle ihould be entered as foon as the tranfaftion takes
place, and Ihould be clearly expreffed in the plained
language. It Ihould require no fupply from the ac¬
countant’s memory, but Ihould be fully intelligible to
any perfon, however unacquainted with the bufinefs j
at the fame time, it fhould be written with all conve¬
nient brevity } and, therefore, fometimes refers to in¬
voices and other accounts, for particulars. The ac¬
countant’s fird care fhould be to have nothing defec¬
tive or ambiguous j his fecond, to have nothing fuper-
fluous.
3. The date is written in text on the top of each
page. The articles are feparated from each other by
a line : and the tranfa&ions of one day are feparated
from thofe of another by a double line, in the middle
of which there is left a blank fpace for inferting the
day of the month. This book mud be kept with the
greater care, as it contains the materials from which
the other books are compofed; and any error or defedl
will occafion a like one in the others. Befides, it is
the book whofe authority is truded to, and which mud
be exhibited to judges, or arbiters, when an account is
difputed. As the journal is filled up from the wade-
book, the authority of the former is edeemed more
authentic, unlefs there be an obvious miilake through
hurry •, and either of thefe books is depended on ra¬
ther than the leger, which, from its form, is more
liable to error, and may be more eafdy vitiated by a
fraudulent defign.
4. As the wade-book contains the whole fubdance
of the bufinefs, it may b,e applied fo as to afford any
information that can be wanted: but the labour of con-
fulting it would be very great. For indance, if it
were required to know how much any perfon owes us,
we mult look over the book from the beginning, and
mark down every article in which we have dealt with
him ; or, if it were required to know what quantity
of goods we fliould have on hand, we mud look over
the whole book, and mark down every article bought
or fold. This operation would not only be found
very tedious, but much expofed to the rilk of omif-
fions. To prevent thefe inconveniences, another book
is ufed in which the articles are arranged in a metho¬
dical order. This book is called the Lsger, and we
fhall conlider it next; becaufe the journal, though
it comes before it in the order of writing, cannot
be well underdood, till the nature of the leger be ex¬
plained.
Sect. II. Of the Leger.
In the leger, articles of the fame kind are colledl-
ed together 5 and, for that purpofe, it is divided into
jnany accounts, under which the different branches of
bulinefs are arranged. Each account is introduced by
a proper title, to explain the nature of the articles it
contains 3 and articles of oppofite kinds, which belong
1
E P I N G.
to the fame account, are placed on the oppodte pages ^eScr‘
of the fame folio : for indance, money received on the ^ »
one fide, and money paid on the other 3 or goods bought
on the one fide, and goods lold on the other. I he leit-
hand page is called the Debtor or Dr. fide of the ac¬
count, and the right-hand page the Creditor or Cr. fide.
The difference between the dims of the F)r. and Cr.
fides is called the Balance.
Accounts in the leger are of three kinds, which
anfwer to the three purpofes of book-keeping mention¬
ed § 1.
6. Fird, Perfonal Accounts. It is neceffary to
open an account for every perfon or company with
whom there are any dealings on credit. At opening the
books, if they be indebted to the owner, the debt is
entered on the Dr. 3 but, if he be indebted to them, it
is entered on the Cr. During the courfe of the bufi¬
nefs, goods fold on trud, money paid, and every thing
for which they are accountable to him, is entered on
the Dr. 3 but goods bought on trud, money received,
and every thing for which he is accountable to them,
is entered on the Cr. The balance fhows how? much
they owe him, when the Dr. fide is greateil: and how
much he ow’es them, when the Cr. fide is greater.
7. Secondly, Real accounts. By this we underdand
accounts of property of whatever kind, fuch as ready
money, goods, houfes, lands, drips, fhares in public
companies, and the like.
The account of ready money is entitled Cafh. On
the Dr. fide, the money on hand at opening the books
is entered, and afterwards every article of money recei¬
ved. On the Cr. fide, there is entered every article
of money paid out 3 and the balance diows how
much ought to be on hand. The fum of the Dr. fide
of this account is always greater than that of the Cr.
fide.
8. Accounts of goods are generally ruled with in¬
ner columns for entering the quantities. When the
books are opened, the goods on hand are entered on
the Dr. fide of the refpeftive accounts 3 the quantities
being placed in the inner, and the values in the outer
column. Goods bought are entered in the fame man¬
ner, and goods fold are entered on the Cr. fide 3 the
quantities and values being placed in the proper co¬
lumns. Charges laid out on goods are entered on the
Dr. fide 3 and, when an incidental advantage arifes
from them, fuch as public bounty, it is entered on the
Cr.
If the fums of the inner columns on the oppofite fides
be equal, it (hows that the goods are all fold, and then
the balance of the money-column (hows the gain or lofs.
If the Cr. fide be greater, it is gain : if the Dr. fide
be greater, it is lofs. If the fum of the inner column
be greater on the Dr. fide, it Ihows that part of the
goods are on hand 3 and their value muff be added to
the fum of the Cr. fide, in order to determine the gain
or lofs.
9. If there be two or more kinds of the fame fort of
goods, they may be entered in the fame account, al¬
lowing as many inner columns as there are kinds, and
entering the quantities of each kind in the inner co¬
lumn referved for it. This method exhibits the gain
01* lofs on the whole goods 3 but does not Ihow how
much of it arifes from each kind.
BOO K - K E
Or, a feparate account may be opened for each kind,
diftinguifhing the titles by the qualities, or by fome
other mark. Thus, one account may be kept for fine
linen, another for coarfe linen ; one for port-wine crop
1787, another for port-wine crop 1788 ; one for rum
from Jamaica, another for rum from Barbadoes. This
method Ihows the gain or lofs on each kind.
When there are more kinds than can be conveniently
introduced in the fame account, they may be divided
into feveral clafies, each clafis being placed in a fepafate
account ; and the particular kinds diftinguilhed in in¬
ner columns. Thus the account of fine linen may be
divided into feveral columns, for different kinds, di-
ftinguifhed by the number of threads in the breadth, or
by any other convenient charafler.
xo. Accounts of flaps contain on the Dr. the value of
the fhip when the books are opened, and all expences
laid out thereon ; on the Cr. all freights received. In
like manner, accounts of houfes or lands have the va¬
lue of the fubjeft, and all repairs, or other charges, en¬
tered on the Dr. and all rents or other profits received
on the Cr. If the fubjeft be fold in whole or in part,
the fale is entered on the Cr. And the balance after
valuing the fubjeft (if any) on hand, fhows the gain or
lofs.
Accounts of property in the public funds, or {hares
In companies, public or private, contain the value, or
money paid in, on the Dr. and the dividends re¬
ceived on the Cr. and are balanced as other real ac¬
counts.
Some perfons open accounts for houfehold furniture,
plate, jewels, books, or the like. The entries on thefe
accounts are made in the fame manner.
In general, real accounts contain the value of the
property, and all charges, on the Dr. and the fales and
other returns on the Cr. When the account is to be
balanced, if any property remains, the value thereof
is placed on the Cr. j and then the balance (hows the
lofs or gain, according as the Dr. or Cr. fide is great-
eft.
11. Thirdly, Accounts of Stock, Profit and
Loss, and its fubfidiary accounts, which are fometimes
called Jitfitious accounts.
The Jlock account contains on the Dr. the amount
T>f the debts wdfich the owner ow’es when the books
are opened 5 and on the Cr. the amount of ready mo¬
ney, goods, debts, and property of every kind be¬
longing to him : therefore the balance fhows what his
nett ftock is ; or, in cafe of bankruptcy, how much
his debts exceed his effects. There is nothing further
entered on this account till the books are balanced :
and then, if the bufinefs has yielded profit, the nett
gain is entered on the Cr. ; if it has been unfuccefsful,
the nett lofs is entered on the Dr : after wTich, the
balance fhowrs the nett ftock at the time the books are
clofed.
12. The Profit and Lofs account contains every ar¬
ticle of gain on the Cr. and every article of lofs on the
Dr. The balance fhows the nett gain or lofs, and is
transferred to the proper fide of the ftock-accoimt, as
mentioned above. This account is partly compofed of
articles that occur while the books are running. For
example, legacies received are entered on the Cr. goods
deftroyed on the Dr. The reft of the articles are thofe
E P I N G.
of gain and lofs, arifing from the real accounts, which Leger.
are collected when the books are balanced. —-v—«
13. It has been found convenient to open feveral
fubfidiary accounts, in order to ihorten and methodize
that of profit and lofs. Thefe contain certain articles
of gain or lofs, wdiich may be reduced under diftindb
heads. They are in effedt fo many parts of the profit
and lofs account, and their balances are entered on the
proper fide of that account when the books are clofed.
The chief of thefe accounts are the following.
Interefi actount, Which contains on the Dr. firms
paid or incurred for intereft j and on the Cr. firms re- .
ceived, or become due for the fame.
CommiJJion account. Which contains on the Cr. ar¬
ticles of gain received or owing us for our trouble m
tranfadling bufinefs for others. There are feldom any
entries on the Dr.
Charges merchandife, Which contains on the Dr.
all charges paid or incurred on the bufinefs, which do
not belong to any particular account, as ftiop-rent,
public burdens for trade, clerks wages, portages, and
the like. If any of thefe ftiould afterwards be charged
to fome other account, the fum fo charged is entered
on the Cr.
Propgr expences, Which contains on the Dr. money
or any thing elfe, withdraw n from the trade for our
private ufe. There are feldom any entries on the Cr,
The amount of this account, as well as the former, is
not properly lofs j but as it has the fame effedl in dimi-
nilhing the ftock, it is placed in the fame effect in di-
miniftnng the ftock, it is placed in the fame manner
to the Dr. of profit and lofs.
Lofs by bad debts. Which contains on the Dr. fuch
debts as we reckon defperate \ and on the Cr. any of
thefe which may happen to be unexpedtedly recovered-.
Account of abatements, Which contains on the Dr.
difeounts allowed by us on payments received $ on the
Cr. difeounts (if any) allowed to us on payments made.
It is particularly uleful in retail bufinefs, where dif¬
eounts are often given, to Ihow how much they amount
to.
Infurance account. Which contains on the Cr. pre¬
miums received for making infurances j and, on the Dr.
Ioffes fuftained on the fame. There may be feveral ac¬
counts of this kind, fuch as infurance againft fea-hazard,
which is the molt common ; infurance againft fire ; in¬
furance of lives ; and infurance of debts. The balance
{hows the gain or lofs which arifes from being con¬
cerned in inlurance.
More or fewer of thefe accounts may be ufed, ac¬
cording as the articles are frequent \ and others may
be invented to fuit the purpofes of the bufinefs which
the books are kept for.
14. Every limple tranfaftion in bufinefs belongs to
two accounts, and murt be entered on the Dr. of the
on and on the Cr. of the other. Thus, when a per-
fon becomes indebted to us, the article he owes muft
be entered on the Dr. of his account ; nnd, if it be for
money paid him, it is alfo entered on the Cr. of calh j
if for goods fold, it is entered on the Cr. of the account
of goods tj if for any thing delivered him by another
peribn at our defire, it is entered on the Cr. of the de¬
liverer’s account •, if for any wrager or bargain, by which
w'e are gainers, it is entered on the Cr. of profit and
A z lofs.
B O O K - K E
Leger. l0fs. Thus, in whatever way the debt arifes, it is en-
—^ tered on the Cr. of fome other account, as well as on
the Dr. of the perfon’s account who owes it.
In like manner, when we become indebted to any
perfon, the article we owe muft be entered on the Cr.
of his account. If it be for money received, it is alfo
entered on the Dr. of calh *, if for goods bought, it is
entered on the Dr. of the account of goods 5 if for any
thing delivered to another perfon at our defire, it is
entered on the Dr. of the receiver’s account } and if it
be in confequence of a lofing bargain, it is entered on
the Dr. of profit and lofs.
Again, when goods are received, the tranfa£lion is
entered on the Dr. of the account of goods. If they
be bought for ready money, it is alfo entered on the
Cr. of cafh ; if on truft, it is entered on the Cr. of the
feller ; if they be exchanged for other goods, it is en¬
tered on the Cr. of the goods delivered ; if they be ob¬
tained by fome profitable bufinefs, without any return,
it is entered on the Cr. of profit and lofs.
When goods are delivered, the tranfaclion is entered
on the Cr. of the account of goods; and, if they be
fold for ready money, it is alfo entered on the Dr. of
cafii j if on credit, it is entered on the Dr. of the pur-
chafer 5 if exchanged for other goods, it is entered on
the Dr. of the goods received ; and, if they be given
gratis, or deftroyed, it is entered on the Dr. of profit
and lofs.
Laftly, "When any article of lofs occurs, the tranf-
aftion is entered on the Dr. of profit and lofs j and as
we muft either pay it in money or goods, or remain in¬
debted to fome perfon for it, it mutt be entered on the
Cr. of cath, or of goods delivered, or of the perfon en¬
titled to receive it. And, when an article of gain oc¬
curs, it is entered on the Cr. of profit and lofs, and al¬
fo on the Dr. of cadi or goods, if money or goods be re¬
ceived •, and on the Dr. of the perfon accountable for
it, if not immediately paid.
Thus, every article in any account, whether perfonal
or real, or belonging to profit and lofs, correfponds
to fome other article on the oppofite of a different ac¬
count. The fame fum is entered on the Dr. of one
account and on the Cr. of the other j and it follows
from this, that, If all the accounts in the leger be add¬
ed, the amount of the fums of the Dr. will be equal to
thofe of the Cr.
Sect. III. Of the Journal.
15. The journal is a fair record of all the tranfac-
tions compiled from the wafte-book, in the fame order
as they ftand there j but expreffed in a technical ftyle,
that it may be transferred to the leger with more eafe.
When we are to enter any article in the journal, we
muft confider which accounts in the leger it will re¬
quire to be placed to, both on the Dr. and Cr. and write
[the former account] Dr. to [the latter acsount] ; then
we annex an explanation of.the article, and place* the
fum in the money-column.
Example. ^
Wafte-book) Sold for ready money, 30 yards li-
jren, at 3s, L. 4 iq •—
E p 1 n G.
Journal.) Cafo Dr. to Linen.
Sold 30 yards, at 3s.
L.4 10 —
Journal.
Here we confider, that the article muft be entered on
the Dr. of cafti, becaufe money is received ; and on the
Cr. of linen, becaufe linen is delivered : Therefore w^e
write Cajh Dr. to Linen, to wftiich w'e annex the nature
of the tranfa61ion. The article thus entered is called
a journal-pof ; Cajh is called the Dr. ; Linen the Cr. ;
the words “ Cadi Dr. to Linen,” the Entry, and the
following w'ords the Narration.
The purpofe of expreffmg the article in this form,
is to point out the accounts in the leger, to which it
will require to be polled, and thereby enable the ac¬
countant to write the leger with more eafe than he
could do if it were filled up immediately from the
W’afte-book.
The learner will be able, from this example, to en¬
ter any fimple article in the journal, providing he knows
the accounts to which it fhould be polled on the Dr.
and Cr. of the leger. This mult be collected from the
defeription of the leger accounts already given §6—13.
and the nature and tendency of the article.
16. General Rules for the Journal-entries.
I. Every thing received, or perfon accountable to us, is
Dr.
II. Every thing delivered, or perfon to whom we are
accountable, is Cr.
17. As the whole art of writing the journal depends
on a proper choice of the Drs. and Crs. we fhall give
fome particular rules for the molt common cafes,
and a few examples for the illuftration and pradftice of
each.
Rule I. The perfon to whom any thing is delivered is
Dr. to the thing delivered, when nothing is received in
return. _
Therefore when money is paid, the receiver is Dr.
to cafh.
When goods or other property is fold on credit, the
purchafer is Dr. to the thing Ibid. Thus,
Wafte-book.) Paid John Beilin full L. 52 — —-
Journal.) John Bell Dr. to Cajh, paid
him in full 52 —
Wafte-book.) Sole! 50 yards cloth to
J. Hill, at 12s. 30 •— —
Journal.) J. Hill Dr. to Cloth, fold him
50 yards, at 12s. 3° — —
18. R ule II. A thing received is Dr. to the perfon
from whom it is received, when nothing is delivered in re¬
turn.
Therefore, wrhen money is received, Calh is Dr. to
the payer : when goods are bought, the goods are Dr.
to the feller. Thus,
Wafte-book.) Received from Thomas Gay
in full L. 72 — —
Journal.) Cafh Dr. to Thomas Gay, re¬
ceived in full 72 — —
Wafte-book)
BOO
Journal. Wafte-book.) Bought from J. Hawley
6olb. wool, at Qd.
Journal.) Wool Dr. to JJaiu/ipy, bought
6olb. at pd.
K-KEEPING.
Wafte-book.) John Public owes me a
2 5 — year’s rent of the Angel-tavern L.52 —
2 5 — Journal.) “John Public Dr. to Angel-ta¬
vern, for a year’s rent due by him 52 —
Journal.
v—-J
19. Rule III. A thing received is Dr. to the thing gi¬
ven for it.
Therefore goods bought for ready money are Dr. to
calh.
When goods are fold for ready money, Cadi is Dr.
to the goods.
When goods are bartered, the goods received are
Dr. to the goods delivered. Thus,
Wafte-book.) Bought for ready money
lohds. wine, at 15I. L
Journal.) Wine Dr. to Cafh, bought
lohds. at 15I.
Wafte-book.) Sold for ready money 100
gallons rum, at 9s.
Journal.) Cajh Dr. to Rum, fold 100 gal¬
lons, at 9s.
Wafte-book.) Bartered 3hds. wine, at
15I. for 100 gallons rum, at 9s.
Journal.) Rum Dr. to Wine, received 100
gallons at 9s. in barter for jhds. at 15I.
IJO 
150 
45 — “
45 
45 
45 
2 2. Rule VI. When an article of lofs occurs, Proft
and Lofs, or fame fubfidiary account, is Dr. If the lofs
le paid in ready money, it is Dr. to Cajh ; if it be paid
in any thing elfe, it is Dr. to the thing delivered. If it
remain unpaid, it is Dr. to the perfon to whom it is owing.
Thus,
Wafte-book.) Given my daughter at her
marriage. L
Journal.) Profit and Lofs Dr. to Cajlo,
given my daughter at her marriage
Wafte-book.) Taken for family ufe from
my granary 3 bolls meal, at 13s 4d.
Journal.) Profit and Lofs [[or Proper
expences~\ Dr. to Meal, taken for fa¬
mily ufe, 3 bolls, at 13s. 4d.
Wafte-book.) Due James Rich for a
year’s intereft on 1000I. at 4 per. cent.
Journal.) Profit and Lofs [or Interfi
account^ Dr. to fames Rich, due him
a year’s intereft on 1000I. at 4 per cent.
. 500— —-
500 
40 
20. Rule IV. Goods and other real accounts are Dr.
for all charges laid out on them. If money be laid out,
they are Dr. to Cajh ; if any thing elfe be delivered, they
are Dr. to the thing delivered: if the charge be taken
in trufi, they are Dr. to the perfon to whom it is due.
Thus,
Wafte-book.) Paid for repairs to fhip
Traffick
Journal.) Ship Trajfck Dr. to Cajh, paid
for repairs.
Wafte-book.) Delivered wood from my
timber-yard for repairing the Angel-
tavern.
Journal.) Angel Tavern Dr. to Wood, de¬
livered for repairing the fame
Wafte-Book.) Due to William Carpen¬
ter for repairs to the Angel-tavern
Journal.) Angel-tavern Dr. to William
Carpenter, due him for repairs
L18 
18 
15 
15 
12 
12  
23. Rule VII. When an article of gain occurs, that is
not immediately connected with any real account, Cajh, the
article received, or the perfon accountable for it, is Dr. to
Profit and Lofs, or to fame fubfidiary account. Thus,
Wafte-book.) Received in a gift from
my father L.
Journal.) Cajh Dr. to Profit and Lofis,
received from my father
Wafte-book.) Received in like manner
at opening {hop, 100 yards cloth at 1 zs
Journal.) Cloth Dr. to Profit and Lofs,
received from my father at opening
{hop 100 yards, at 12s
Wafte-book.) James Barbour owes me
a year’s intereft; of L.iooo
Journal.) James Barbour Dr. to Profit
and Lofs [or Interefi account"] due by
him for a year’s intereft of icool.
IOO —
100  
60 
60 — —•
JO 
50 
21. Rule V. When rents of houfes or lands, freights
ef fhips, bounties on goods, or any other profits from real
accounts, are received, Cajh is Dr. to the account from
which the profit arifes : ij any thing befides money be recei¬
ved, the article received is Dr. : if they remain unpaid, the
perfon who owes them is Dr. Thus,
Wafte-book.) Received freight of the
{hip Traffick for a voyage to London L.35 — 
Journal.) Ship Traffick Dr. io Cajh, re¬
ceived freight to London
Wafte-book.) Received 100 barrels fal-
mon, being the rent of Inver fiftiery,
at 52s.
Journal.) Salmon Dr. to Inverfijhery, re¬
ceived the rent, being. 100 barrels, at
52s.
24. Rule VIII. When one perfon pays money, or de¬
livers any thing elfe to another on our account, the
perfon who receives it is Dr. to the perfon who pays
it. Thus,
Wafte-book.) James Goldfmith has paid
the bank of Scotland on my account, L. 100 —.
Journal.) Bank of Scotland Dr. to James
Goldfmith, paid them by him 100  
Wafte-book.) Arthur Young has deli¬
vered James Baker 100 quarters wheat,
for which I am to account to him, at 30s 150 —— —-
Journal.) James Baker Dr. to Arthur
Toung, for 100 quarters of wLeat deliver¬
ed him on my account, at 30s 1 jo —   -
Payments of this kind are often tranfa<5ted by bills of
exchange.
35 
260 — —
25. Thefe...
6 BOO K-K
Journal, 25. Thefe examples will make the learner acquaint-
'““’■’V'—'' cd with the form of the journal, and the rules extend
to the greateft part of the fimple tranfaftions that oc¬
cur in domeftic trade. We may obferve, that the tech¬
nical fenfe of the words Dr. and Cr. has an analogy to
their meaning in common language, but is not precile-
ly the fame. Thus, in Ex. 1. Rule VIIL the jour¬
nal entry is, of Scotland Dr. to’Jetties Go/dfrnitb ;
by which we are not to underftand that the bank is in¬
debted to James Goldfmith j for a debt between them
has no connexion with our bufmefs 5 and therefore
ought not to be entered in our books: the meaning of
the entry is, that the bank becomes indebted to us by
the tranfaftions narrated j and that we become indebt¬
ed to James Goldfmith by the fame.
26. An article which contains more Drs. or more
Crs. than one, is called a complex poft. The form of
thefe will appear fronuthe following examples.
Ex. 1.] Sold William Drapier,
25 pieces cloth, at 15I.
per piece L. 375 
130 Hones wool, at 5s 6d
per Hone 35 *5 ““
  .L. 410 15 —
E E P I N G,
Sundries Drs. to Cloth, Journal,
W.Drapier, ios to pieces, at 15I. s"rrr-'r~i
1 L.150- 
J. Mercer, for 12 ditto at 15I. 180 
—   L.330-—
22
Ex. 3.] Bought from H. Hood,
5 puncheons rum, at 42I. L.210 
3 hds. claret, -at 33, 99 
2 pipes madeira, at 56, 112 
— L.421 — ■—
This example falls under Rule II. The articles re¬
ceived, rum, claret, and madeira, are Drs.; and the
perfon from whom they are received is the only Cr,
Sundries Dr. to Henry Hood,
Rum, for 5 puncheons, 3142!. L.2IO 
Claret, for 3 hds, at 33? 99  
Madeira, for 2 pipes, at 56, 11 2 
  —L.421 — —
■Ear. 4.] Bt. 50 qrs. wheat from J.
Tull, at35s. L.87 jo —
12 from S. EUis, 36s. 2112 —
—  L. 109 2 —
If the two articles fold to William Drapier were en¬
tered feparately in the Wafte-book, and transferred to
the Journal by Rule I. they w^ould Hand thus:
William Draper Dr. to Cloth, fold him
25 pieces, at 15I. 375   
William Drapier Dr. to Wool, fold him
150 Hones, at 5s 6d 35 lS
And if thefe were pofled to the leger, there would
be two articles placed to the Dr. of William Drapier,
one to the Cr. of Cloth, and one to the Cr. of Wool.
But the fales may be entered in the form of one
complex journal poll, as follows:
William Drapier Dr. to Sundries,
'To Cloth, for 25 pieces,
ati5l. - L.375——
To Wool, for 130 Hones,
at js 6d - 35 15 —
■ —  L410 15 —
And then there is only one article on the Dr. of Wil¬
liam Drapier in the leger.
This example alfo falls under Rule II. There is only
one Dr. wheat being the only thing received j and two
Crs. becaufe it is received from different perfons.
Wheat Dr. to Sundries.
To J. Tull, for 50 qrs. at 35s. L.87 10 —
To E. Ellis, for 12 qrs. at 36s. 21 12 —
In like manner, examples might be given of complex
poffs under every rule, which contained either feveral
Drs. or feveral Crs. j but as it is unneceffary to en¬
large fo far, we fliall only add a few examples of cafes,
in which the different parts of the complex article fall
under different rules.
Ex.5.2 Sold 150 qrs. beans to A. Arnot,
at 13s. 4d. L. 100 — —
75 ditto to S. Berry,
at 13s. 4!. 50 —
18 ditto for ready
money, 13s. ad. 11 17 —
Ex. 2.] Sold 10 pieces cloth to W. Drapier,
at 15!. L. 150    
12 ditto to J.
Mercer, at do. 180-—-—
—     L‘ 33° 
22
This example alfo falls under Rule I. But whereas
there wras one Dr. and two Crs. in the former example,
there are two Drs. and one Cr. in this : William Dra¬
pier and John Mercer, the purchafers, are Drs. for
their refpeftive quantities *, and cloth, which is the
only thing delivered, is Cr. for the whole quantity.
The journal poff is,
243 L.161 17 —
Here beans are delivered, fome to different pur-
chafers on truff, and fome for ready money. The
purchafers are Drs. for the quantity fold to each,
by Rule I. ; Cafti is Cr. for the quantity fold for
ready money, by Rule III.; and beans are Cr. for the
whole.
Sundries Dr. to Beans,
yi. Arnot for 150 qrs. at 13s. 4d. L.IOO —~
*S. for 75 13s.4d. 50 
Cajh, for 18 13s. 2d. 1117 —
  L.161 17 —■
Ex.
Journal.
BOO
Ex. 6.] Bought from David Young
K - K
8 cwt.
cwt.
3 Vs'
Paid in part,
Balance,
copper, at
L. 105
x al.
per
L. 50 
55
-L.105
Here the article received, copper, is the only Dr. j
but as it is bought partly for ready money, and partly
on credit, it is Dr. to Cafh for the value of the former,
by Rule III. and to the feller for the value of the latter,
by Rule II.
Copper Dr. to Sundries.
For 8 cvvt. 3 qrs. at I2l. per
cwt. - L.105 
’To Cafh in part, L.50 
To D. Ybung? for balance due him, 55 
 L.105 
Ex. 7.] James Wilfon being bankrupt, I have ac¬
cepted a compofition on the debt due by him to me of
150I. and difcharged the fame.
The compofition received, at 15s.
per L. is, L. 112 10 —
And the balance loft 37 10 —
 L.150 
Here the whole debt of 150I. due by James Wil¬
fon, is cancelled ; and he muft therefore be ftated as
Cr. for that fum. Cafh is Dr. for the fum received, by
Rule II.; and Profit and Lofs, orLofs by bad debts,
for the reft, by Rule VI.
Sundries Dr. to 'James Wilfon,
Cafh, for compt, on 150I.
at 15s. per L. L.112 IO —
"Profit and Lofs, for balance loft 37 10 —
 L.150 
Ex. 8.] Shipped for William Smith, per the Bonad-
venture, Forbes, from Leith to London.
1000yds linen, at is 2d L.58 6 8
6oolb. leather, bought
from J. Currier, at is. 30 — ,—
Paid charges at fhipping — 13 4
-L.89 —
Here William Smith is Dr. for the amount of the
cargo ; he is debtor to linen for the quantity delivered,
as by Rule I. and to J. Currier for the leather delivered
by him, by Rule VIII. and to cafh for the charges
paid by us, by Rule I.
William Smith Dr. to Sundries,
To Linen, for 1000 yards,
at is. 2d. L.58 6 8
To J. Currier, for 600 lb.
leather at is. 30 — —
To Cafh, for charges at fhip-
P'ng — 13 4
Shipped per the Bonad-
venture, Forbes, from
Leith to London.    L. 89 — —
27. The learner may be aflifted in underftanding
thefe and other complex pofts, by refolving them into
fimple ones. Moft of them might have been ftated in
E E P I N G.
that manner; and the complex form is only preferred
for abridging the leger. In fome articles the diffe¬
rent claffes are fo conne&ed, that they cannot be fe-
parated with propriety.
The narration is fometimes equally diffufed through
the port, after the Dr. and Cr. as in the five firft exam¬
ples. Sometimes the chief circumftances are narrated
before the Drs. or Crs. be fpecified, as in Ex. 6.; fome¬
times after the firft, as in Ex. 7.; and fometimes at the
end, as in Ex. 8.
28. In fome articles, there are both more Drs. and
more Crs. than one. Thefe may be entered in one
journal-poft, Sundries Dr. to Sundries, fpecifying firft
the Drs. and then the Crs. But, as this method is
fomewhat confufed, we w’ould recommend it as a bet¬
ter way to divide the tranfaftion into two journal-pofts;
fo that the firft may contain only one Dr. and the fe-
cond only one Cr.
7
Journal.
Ex. Bartered with James Fo-
theringal 100 pieces ofna-
burghs, at 12s. L.60 ——
loolb. thread, at 3s. 6d. 17 10 —
  L.77 10 —
For lohds. linfeed, at 50s. L.25 ———
500 yds. linen, at is. 6d. 37 10 —
And received the ba¬
lance in money 15 
 L.77 10
Journal. Sundries Dr. to Sundries.
Lintfeed, for 10 hds. at 50s L 25 
Linen, for 500 yds, atis6d 37 10 —
Received in barter from J. Fo-
theringal
Cafh, for balance 19 — —
L. 77 10 —
To Ofnaburgs, for 100 pieces,
at 12s L. 60 
To Thread, for 100 lb at 3s 6d 17 10  
Delivered him in barter L.77 10  
Or rather,
Sundries Dr. to James Eotheringal.
Lintfeed, for 10 hds at 5s L.25 
Linen, for 500 yds, at is 6d 37 10 —
Received in barter
Cafh, received balance 15 
 L.77 10 —
James Eotheringal Dr. to Sundries.
To Ofnaburgs, for 100 pieces,
at 12s L.60 
To Thread, for 100 lb. at 3s 6d 17 10  
Delivered in barter L. 77 10 —
29. It is neither pra&icable nor neceffary to enume¬
rate all kinds of complex pofts that may occur in bu-
finefs. We {hall here only mention the entries which
occur at opening the books.
The firft journal port contains the fubftance of the
inventory. The entry is Sundries Drs. to Stock ; the
particular Drs. are Cafh, the different kinds of goods
and other property belonging to us, and the perfons in¬
debted to us»
The
BOOK-KEEPING.
8
Pofllng The fecond journal-poft contains the debts due by us.
^cfn^the" entry *s’ Stock Dr. to Sundries ; the particular Crs.
^eger6 are t^le Per^ons to whom we are indebted.
* y—■ ■ The form of thefe entries is more fully exhibited at
the beginning of the following fets.
30. The journal fliould be written by one perfon, in
a fair hand and at leifure hours. The articles are fe-
parated, and the titles and dates marked in the fame
manner as in the wafte-book, § 3. The entries are
xvritten in half text, for ornament and diftin&ion. In
the inventory, the defignation (or the bufinefs, ftation,
and the place of refidence) of every perfon is mentioned j
and the fame is done the firft time that any name oc¬
curs in journal-entry. At other times it is fufficient
to enter the name without the defignation, unlefs we
have dealings with two perfons of the fame name j in
which cafe, it is always neceffary to annex the defigna¬
tion, in order to diftinguifh them. The narration fliould
be complete, without referring to the wafte-book j and
fo clear, that every perfon, acquainted with the ftyle
of the journal, may underftand it writh eafe. When the
port is written, we mark a dafh / againft the article,
on the margin of the wafte-book, to ftiow how far the
writing of the journal is advanced.
Sect. IV. Of Posting and Balancing the
Leger.
31. The firft thing to be done in the leger, is to
allot a proper fpace for each account. The accounts
may be either opened in the fame order that they oc¬
cur in the journal; or accounts of the fame kind may
be placed together, the perfonal accounts in one part
of the leger, and the real accounts in another. The
accounts of Stock and Profit and Lofs are generally
placed at the beginning. The room which each will
require cannot be exaftly known, but muft be con-
jeftured from the number of tranfaftions that are like¬
ly to follow.
The number of the folio is marked in ftrong text
at each corner of the top-line $ and the titles of the ac¬
counts are written in fair text through both folios, if
neceffary. The defignations of the perfonal accounts
may be written in half text, or Italian hand: and fome
write the titles in Saxon hand for ornament. The
wTord Dr. is prefixed to the title on the left-hand page $
and Contra Cr. annexed to it on the right-hand page.
32. Next, An Index muft be provided, for pointing
out the folios wdiere the accounts are opened. The
titles of the accounts are entered alphabetically in the
index, and the number of the folio annexed. Perfonal
accounts are entered by the firft letter of the furname ;
companies, by the firft letter of the furname of the firft
partner •, and all other accounts by the firft letter of
the firft vTord. The moft convenient kind of index is
a long narrow book, of 24 leaves, one for each letter
of the alphabet. A is marked on the top of the firft
leaf, and the paper pared aw^ay below it; B is mark¬
ed on the fecond leaf, under A *, and the other let¬
ters on the following leaves, in the fame manner ; by
means of which we can turn at once to any letter re¬
quired.
33. In porting the leger, proceed by the following
dire&ions. Fhft, look for the Dr. of the journal-poft
2
in the index, under the proper letter, and this dire£s lofting
you to the folio of the leger wdiere the account is, ifan? fialari*
it be already opened : if not, you muft allot a fpace ^eger.6
for it, write the title, and enter it in the index. Then y—.
enter the article on the left-hand page of the account
under the title of the former article, by writing the
date on the margin, and the name of the creditor on
the line, with the word To prefixed, and a ftiort narra¬
tion of the tranfadlion annexed, and inferting the fum
in the money column, and the quantity, if it be an ac¬
count of goods, in the inner column. Then turn to
the account of the Cr. of the journal-poft, and enter
the article in the right-hand page, prefixing the word
By to the name of the Dr.
34. This being done, turn to the journal, and mark
on the margin the number of the folios to which the
article is ported. The figures which point out the re¬
ference to the Dr. and Cr. folios ftrould be feparated
by a line : for example, If the Dr. entry be on the
third folio, and the Cr. entry on the fifth, the refe¬
rence is marked Thefe figures (how how far the
porting is advanced, and are ufeful in comparing the
books.
The figures for dates or references ftiould be written
in a lighter hand than the figures in the columns for
money or quantity.
35. There is often a reference-column ruled in the
leger, for pointing out the other entry, correfponding
to any article. In this column, the folio of the Cr.
entry is marked againft the Dr. article, and the folio
of the Dr. entry againft the Cr. article.
Sometimes the accounts are numbered according to
their order in the leger j and the references, both in
the journal and leger, point out the number of the ac¬
count inftead of the folio.
36. In complex ports turn to the feveral Drs. or
Crs. in their order, and enter the articles according to
the foregoing direftions j placing the fums belonging
to each in the money-column againft their refpe&ive
entries.
37. An article in the leger is generally comprehend¬
ed in one line. The narration ftiould be as full as can
be contained in that bounds. If it cannot be narrated
completely, the journal is referred to for further parti¬
culars, by writing per ‘Journal, (or p. J.), either af¬
ter an incomplete narration, or immediately after the
Dr. or Cr. when there is no room for a proper nar¬
ration. In complex ports there can feldom be any nar¬
ration annexed to the Angle Dr. or the Angle Cr. The
entry is generally To Sundries per J. or, By Sundries
per J. If the fenfe of the w’hole article can be nar¬
rated, it ftiould be done j but it is improper to narrate
the firft or any other part of the article, and omit the
others.
38. When the fpace allotted for an account in the
leger is filled up, the account muft be tranfported to
another folio. For this purpofe add the columns on
both fides, and write againft the fum, Tranfported to
folio , inferting the number of the folio where the
new account is opened, in the reference column, or on
the line, if no reference-column be ufed. Then, after
titling the new account, and entering the number of
the folio in the index, write on the Dr. To amount^
brought from folio , inferting the number of the fo-
BOO K-K
Polling llo where the old account was; and on the Cr. By a-
and Balan- mount, brought from folio } and place the fums
I^c^ei-516 an(^ fl113111^"165? ^ an7j in ti16 proper columns.
t., ~ . When either fide of an account is full, both fides
Ihould be tranfported, and diagonal lines drawn, to fill
up the vacant fpace of the fide which requires it.
39. The books (hould be written up as frequently
as can be done conveniently j fo that the journal may
keep pace nearly with the wafte-book, and the leger
with the journal. Each book Ihould be carefully re-
vifed, and compared with the book from which it is
polled. In comparing the leger, obferve the following
direffions :
Begin with the firft journal poll, and turn to the fo¬
lio of the leger where the Dr. is entered, which you
are dire£fed to by the marginal reference, and com¬
pare the date, entry, and fum. If you find them to
correfpond, it is well j if not, the leger muft be alter¬
ed till it correfpond with the journal. Then place a dot
before the reference-figure in the journal, and a mark
A before the fum in the leger.
Proceed in the fame manner to compare the Cr. of
the journal-poll, and all the following polls in their or¬
der. The dots in the journal (how how far the com-
parifon is advanced, and the marks in the leger fhow
what articles are compared.
The fums of accounts tranfported Ihould be left
blank till the books be compared ; as an error in any
article will occafion an alteration in the fum.
40. Some accountants correct all errors in the le¬
ger, without crazing any thing, by the following me¬
thods : ill, If the fum be entered too fmall, they make
a fecond entry for the deficiency. 2d, If it be enter¬
ed too large, they make an entry on the oppofite fide
for the excels. 3d, If it be entered on the wrong fide
of the account, they enter it twice on the other ; once,
to counterbalance the error, and a fecond time for the
true entry. 4th, If it be entered on a wwong account,
they charge the wrong account Dr. to, or Cr. by, the
right one.
41. We do not much approve of thefe methods, as
they give the books a confufed appearance j and wmuld
rather recommend the following rules: id, If an ar¬
ticle be omitted, do not attempt to interline at the
place where it Ihould have been ; but infert it under
the lall article when you difeover the omiflion, and
mark a crofs X againll it on the margin, and another
at the place where it ihould have been. 2d, If you dif¬
eover a millake immediately •when committed, corredl
it without cancelling any thing, as in this example. To
Cafb, fay, '10 James Speirs received to account. 3d, If
you have written a line entirely wrong, or in a wrong
place, write the word Error at the end, prefix a crofs,
'and omit or cancel the fum. 4th, Cancel errors, by
drawing a line lightly through them, fo that the old
writing may Hill be legible j by which it will be evi¬
dent, that the book has not been vitiated for a fraudu¬
lent purpofe. The fame method Ihould be followed in
correcting errors in the journal.
42. When the comparifon of the books is finifhed,
glance over the leger, to obferve if the mark of com¬
panion be affixed to every article. If not, you muft
turn to the journal, and obferve if the articles be
right which had been marked.
43. Becaufe the v-hole fum of the Dr. fide -of the
Vol. IV. Part I.
E E P I N G.
9
leger fliould be equal to the whole fum of the Cr. $ 14. Poftmg
it is proper to try if they correfpond. For this pur-
pofe, you may add the Dr. of every account, except Cj>jr; r.6
fuch as are already balanced, placing the fums in an
inner column, and extending them at the end of one or
more folios, as you find moll convenient, to the outer
column j and as you go along, add the Cr. in the fame
manner. If the fum total of both fides be equal, it
gives a prefumption that the books are right j if they
differ, there is certainly fome millake. This is called
the Trial-balance. The labour bellowed upon it is nor. ‘
loft, as the fums may be referved for aftiftingus to col-
lecl the balances j the method of which will be ex¬
plained afterwards.
44. If the fums of the trial-balance do not corre¬
fpond, the books muft be examined again. For this
purpofe, begin with the firft article on the Dr. fide of
the firft account, and turn to the account where the
correfponding entry is, which you will find by the fi¬
gure in the reference-column. If the articles agree,
mark them with a dot. Proceed in like manner w ith
the other articles on the Dr. of the firlt account} then
with the articles on the Cr. of the fame ; and then with
the following accounts in their order, till the error or
errors be difeovered. In complex entries, obferve if
the amount of the fums on one fide be equal to the
fum on the other. When you come to a dotted arti-
ticle, you may pafs it by, becaufe it has been exami¬
ned already.
If the errors be not difeovered at the firft revifal,
you muft repeat the fame operation again, till you
bring the books to balance. Marks different from the
former ones, or differently placed, may be ufed, to fig-
nify that an article has been examined a fecond or third
time. As the dete61ion of errors is the moll tedious
and difagreeable part of book-keeping, the accountant
will be induced to guard againft them with all poflible
care, when he has once experienced the trouble which
they occafion.
45. Before wre explain the method of balancing *the
books, it will be proper to dire61 the learner how to
balance particular accounts. When we fettle accounts
with any perfon, and afeertain how much is owing at
either hand, it is neceffary to balance his account in
the leger, and open a new' one, beginning with the
fum that was due according to the fettletnent \ and
when we clear accounts again, we mull go back to
that article, and no farther.
If any articles be charged on either fide, at the time
of fettling, they mull be immediately entered on the
walte-book ; from which they will pafs in courfe to the
journal and leger •, and a remark muft be entered in
the Wafte-book, that the account was fettled, and the
balance transferred to the proper fide of the new ac¬
count. This remark is tranferibed in the journal ;• and
the leger account is balanced, when it occurs, in the
courfe of polling.
If the balance be due to you, write on the Cr. By
balance due to him to Dr. neve account, and infert the
fum due you ; after which, the amount of both fidcs
wall be equal. Add the account, placing the fums op¬
pofite to each other) and, if the fides be unequal,
draw a diagonal line through the vacant fpace of the
fliorter fide, and clofe the old account by drawing lines
under the firms. Then open the new account imme-
B • diately
10 . B 0 0 K-K I
Polling diately under the old one, or in a new folio, if the old
ind Balan- one fu]^ writing on the -Dr. To balance of for-
Ve^er'6 tner accol,nt (*ue him. If the balance be due by you
^'r . to him, the entries are made on the oppofite fides, with
the neceffary alterations. When the new account is
opened in the fame folio, it is unneceffary to repeat the
title •, but the year and month, as well as the day, are
repeated at the date of the firft article.
46. Sometimes when an account is balanced, one or
more articles are left out on purpofe : For example,
goods lately bought on credit may be left out, and the
fettlement may only relate to articles of longer Hand¬
ing. When this is the cafe, if the articles omitted be
on the Dr. of the leger, we write on the Cr. thus.
By articles fold him f nee if ''January replaced: and
when we have balanced the account, and opened a new
one, we write on the Dr. To articles replaced at fet¬
tling, furnijhed f nee if January: or, if the articles
were left out for any other reafon, we explain the fame
in the narration. If the omitted articles be on the Cr.
the like entries are made on the oppofite fides. It
fhould be noticed in the wafte-book and journal when
this operation is necelfary.
47. When we poll any common article from the
journal, we enter the fum on the Dr. of one account,
and on the Cr. of another : when we balance an ac¬
count, w'e place the balance fum on the Dr. of the old
account, and on the Cr. of the new one, or contrary-
wife : and when we replace an article, as above diredl-
ed, to the Dr. or Cr. of the old account, wTe place it
after balancing to the Cr. or Dr. of the new one. Thus,
in thefe entries, as well as in common polls, there are
like fums entered on the Dr. and Cr. of the leger, and
the general equality of the fides is Hill preferved.
48. Merchants generally balance their books once
a-year. The defign of this operation is, to colleft the
various branches of their bufinefs, diffufed through the
books, into a concife abHradl j to afeertain their gain
or lofs fince the lall balance •, and exhibit the prefent
Hate of their funds. If the bufinefs be of fuch a kind,
that mofi of the branches naturally come to an iffue at
a certain time of year, that time is the proper one for
making the balance. Otherwife the end of the year,
or the leall bufy time, may be chofen.
49. It is proper, before balancing, to fettle as many
perlonal accounts as poflible ; to clear all arrears and
linall charges } to take an exadd inventory of the goods
on hand, as far as can be done ) and affix a moderate
value to each article, according to the current prices at
the time •, fuch a value as you would be willing at pre¬
fent to buy for. It is more proper to value the goods
on hand in conformity to the current prices, than at
prime cofl \ for the defign of affixing any value is to
point out the gain or lofs, and the gain is in reality
obtained foToon as the prices rife, or the lofs fuffered
fo foon as they fall j therefore it is impoffible to make
up a juH Hate of the affairs, unlefs the prefent prices
be attended to.
50. Thefe things being done, proceed to make the
balance as follows : Prepare two ffieets of paper, ruled
with money-columns, in the form of Dr. and Cr. j
write Profit and Lofs as the title of the firff, and Ba¬
lance as the title of the fecond.
Prepare alfo fome paper for computing the balances,
and mark dawn the folios, titles, and fums of each
E P I N G.
account in the leger, in a regular order. If a trial-ba- Pofting
lance rvas made, the fums may be tranferibed from it.
Pafs by fuch accounts as are already clofed 5 alfo the c^_ere
accounts of Stock and Profit and Lofs, which are al- ■, . ’
ways the lafi of being balanced. Then fubtraft the
leffer fum from the greater, and enter the difference on
either of the ffieets that the nature of the article points
out, and on the fide of that ffieet which correfponds
to the greater fum of the account. More particu-
larly,
In perfonal accounts, enter the difference, which is
the debt owing to you, or by you, on the proper fide
of the balance-ffieet.
In the caih-account, enter the difference, which is
the money in hand, on the Dr. fide of the balance-
ffieet.
In accounts of goods or other property, if there be
nothing remaining on hand, enter the difference, which
is the gain or lofs, on the proper fide of the profit and
lofs ffieet.
If the whole be Hill on hand, enter the prefent va¬
lue on the Dr. of the balance-ffieet 5 and, if this be
different from the prime coH, charges included, enter
the difference in the proper fide of the profit and lofs
ffieet.
If part be fold, and part on hand, place the value
of the quantity on hand under the fum of the Cr. and
add them. The fum is the whole return that will be
obtained, if the reft of the goods be fold at the effi-
mated value *, and this, being compared with the fum
of the Dr. which is the whole expence, (hows the gain
or lofs. Enter the fame in the proper fide of the pro¬
fit and lofs ffieet, and enter the quantity and value on
hand on the Dr. of the balance-iheet.
Obferve if the quantities in the inner columns be e-
qual on both fides, when the goods are all fold ; or, if
the difference, when only part is fold, be equal to the
quantity on hand. If they correfpond, you have a juff
account of the goods. If the Dr. be greater, there is •
fomething amiffing, which you muff enter on the Dr.
of the balance-ffieet, and mark the caufe of the defici¬
ency, as inlake, wafle, or the like. If the Cr. be
greater, there is an excefs, which you muff enter on
the Cr. of the balance-ffieet, together with the occafion
of it, as difference of meafure, or the like.
In accounts fubfidiary to profit and lofs, enter the
difference on the proper fide of the profit and lofs
ffieet.
When there is nothing written on one fide of an ac¬
count, enter the fum of the article or articles on that
ffieet which the kind of the account points out.
51. When you have colledled all the balances, fura
up both ffieets, and add to the profit and lofs ffieet
the fums of the profit and lofs account in the leger :
then fubtraft the leffer fum of each ffieet from the
greater.
This being done, mark the fums of the ftock-ac-
count on your computation paper, and add thereto the
balance of the profit and lofs ffieet on the fide which
correfponds with the greater fum of that account: then
fubtrafl the leffer fum from the greater. The remain¬
der will be equal to the difference of the fides of the
balance-flieet, if the books be right, and the balances
exaftly colledled.
52. We fliall prove that this equality muff always
liold3
BOOK-KEEPING.
Foft'ing hold, from the nature of the articles collefled. The
an ^r’ l^e ^a^aiice'^lee,: contains every kind of pro-
C£ger.e Pef-y belonging to you, and every debt owing to you j
«j'and the Cr. contains every debt owing by you : there-
-fore the difference of the fides fhows what your nett
'effate amounts to. The profit and lofs {heels, when
the articles from the leger are included, contain every
thing you have gained on the Cr. and every thing you
have loft on the Dr. ; and the difference of the fides is
your nett gain or lols. 7 he ftock-account contained
your efiefls and debts at the time the books were open¬
ed ; and therefore, when the gain or lofs is added to
the proper fide, it muft ftrow the extent of your nett
eftate at prefent. Thus the ftock-account and the ba-
lance-lheet both point out how much you are worth at
prefent; the one from your former itock, allowance
being made for your gains or Ioffes ; the other from a
view of your prefent effeas and debts ; and they will
correfpond, becaufe both muft be agreeable to the
truth, if the books be correa.
53. 1 hough the books muft balance, if free from
error, yet it is fometimes difficult to adjuft them ex-
aaiy, elpecially vdren the bufinefs is extenfive, and the
errors trifling. If there be ftill a difference, which we
do not think it worth while to make further fearch for,
we may^clofe the books, by making Profit and Lofs
Dr. or Cr. for the fame. This introduces an article on
one fide of the leger, which has none correfponding
to it on the other, but is balanced by fome undifeovered
error.
54* The balance being ftruck, your next wmrk is to
dole the books. Every article in the leger fhould be
polled from the journal *, therefore, the moft regular
way of finiihing both is by inferting the following ar¬
ticles in the journal, and polling them in the common
manner to the leger.
ill, Profit and Lofs Dr. to Sundries, for lofs, oh the
following accounts. 1 he particulars are taken from the
Dr. of the Profit and Lofs flieet.
2d, Sundries Dr. to Profit and Lofs, for gain, on the
following accounts. The particulars are taken from the
Cr. of the Profit and Lofs Iheet.
3d, Balance-account Dr. to Sundries, for debts and
property belonging to me.
4th, Sundries Dr. to balance-acconnt, for debts due-
by ms. The particulars of this and the former are ta¬
ken from the refpedlive fides of the balance-lheet.
5“bj Profit and Lo fs Dr. to Stock for nett gain; or
Stock Dr. to Profit and Lofs, for nett lofs.
6th, Balance-account Dr. to Stock for nett Jock.
55* When the four firft of thefe articles are ported
in the leger, all the perfonal, real, and fubfidiary ac- Poft'mg
counts will balance, and you may add them as you S°
along. In accounts of goods, if there be any defici- ^eger
ency, yoii muft enter it on the Cr. in the inner co- < .1  *u
lumn j and, if there be any outcome, you muft enter
it on the Dr. before you add the account. Then the
fums of every account and every column on the oppo-
fite fides will be equal.
1 he only accounts that remain open are, Profit and
Lofs, Stock, and Balance. The fifth poll balances the
profit and lofs account, and the fixth balances the
ftock-account. It was noticed, § 14. that the whole
fums of Dr. and Cr. of the leger are equal •, and there¬
fore, if the fides of every accouilt, except one, be ba¬
lanced, that one will balance of its own accord. The
balance-account alone remains open, and, upon trial,
you will find that the fides are equal. This affords an
additional proof, or, at leaft, a different view, of what
was demonftrated, with refpect to the balance of the
books, in § 52.
The lines above and under the fums, at a general
balance, may be drawn with red ink ; and, at the ba¬
lancing of particular accounts, with black ink, for di-
ftin£Iion.
56. Some choofe to infert the particulars of the pro¬
fit and lofs and balance {beets in the refpedlive ac¬
counts of the leger. If this be done, it is unneceffary
to enumerate them alfo in the journal.—Some choofe
to balance the accounts of goods, whenever the quan¬
tity is fold off*, and we approve of this method, as it
leffens the work at the general balance, which is al¬
ways fufficiently laborious.
57. 1 hus is the ftate of a perfon’s affairs brought
together, in a ffiort compafs, under his viewT 5 and the
articles of the balance-lheet fupply materials for a new
inventory. It is convenient, however, to alter the or¬
der, and arrange the real accounts together, and the
perfonal ones together.
58. It is not neceffary to begin new books, nor open
the accounts anew, unlefs the old folios be full. The
accounts may be continued in the former folios j but it
is bell to begin a new leger, if the old one be not
likely to hold all the bufinefs of the next year. When
one comes to have feveral fets of books, it is common
to diftinguifh them by the letters of the alphabet. The
firft wrafte-book, journal, and leger, are marked A,
the fecond, B 5 and fo on.
In the following fpecimen, the w?afte-book and jour¬
nal are placed x>n oppoftte pages, that the learner may
eafily compare them j and the rules are referred to by
their numbers.
B 2
WASTE-BOOK,
12
/
INVENTORY of ready money, goods, and debts,
belonging to James Ofwaldmerchant in Edinburgh.
Ready money
2co bolls meal, at 13s. L. 130 —
6hds Port wine, at 15I. 90 —
70 reams paper, at 10s. 6d. 36 15
120 fp. five hank yarn, at
2S. 3d. - 13 10
BOO K-K E
(1) WASTE-BOOK.
Edinburgh,KW I. 17^9'
L.75 to
A houfe in Lawn-market Edin. value 30c
James Bofwell merch. Edin.
owes per account R* 73 4
Thomas Pirie writer Edin.
owes per do. 12 3 8
Henry Hardy merch. Glaf-
gow per bill 75 — —
David Miller manufacturer
Haddington, per receipt 18 
 178
§ 29  
270 5 —
824
/
LIST of debts by the faid James Ofwald.
To the Royal bank per account L. 230 
To Tho. Smith merchant London per do. 54 
To Will. Nilbet carpenter Leith per do. 28 7 3
§ 29
—3-~
/
/
/
/
/
Bought for readv money 105 yards calicoe, at 3s. 2d
° Rule III.
Sold James Cuthbert merchant Leith 50 bolls meal,
at 13s. 3d. - - *
Rule I.
—5--
Bartered 60 fpindles five hank yarn, at 2s. 4d. for 80
yards diaper, at is. 9d.
Rule III.
312
16
33
12
—10.-
Paid William Nifbet in full
Rule I.
— 13.-.
Bought from Will. Bruce merchant
Leith, 200 bulhels fait, at is. 8d. L. 16 13 4
320 done iron, at 3s. 4d. 53 6 8
/
/
Rule II.
'-15-
28
70
Sold 3orms paper to Ja.Bofwell, at 12S L. 18 —
12 to John Henderfon ftationer
Edinburgh, at 12s. 7 4
5 for ready money, at 11 s. 215
47
Rules I. III.
-19.
27
Sold Will. Hunter merchant Dunbar
150 bufii. fait, at is pd L. 13 2 6
Received in part - L. 10 ^
And he owes the balance - 3 2 ^
Rules I. III.
13
E P I N G.
JOURNAL.
Edinburgh, January i. 1789.
(0
Sundries Dr. to Stock for articles belonging to James
Ofwald merchant Edinburgh".
Cu/fr on hand
Mea/. For 200 bolls at 13s L.130 —
Port-wine. For 6hds at 1 5I. 90 —
Paper. For 7orms, at ios6d 36 15
Tarn. For 120 fp. five hank,
at 2s 3d 13 10
L.75 —
Houfe in Lawn-market Edin. value
Ja. Bofwell mer. Ed. per ac.L. 7 3 4 —
T"^o. T/Wf writer Ed. per do. 12 3 8
Henry Hardie merchant Glaf-
gow per bill - 75 
David Miller manufacturer
Haddington, per receipt 18 
270 5
300 —
178 7 8
824
Stock Dr. to Sundries.
To Royal Bank per account L. 230 ■
To Tho. Smith merch. London per acc. 54 
To Will. Nifbet carpenter Leith per do. 28 7 3
312
~3--~
Calicoe Dr. to Cajh. Bought 100 yards at 3s 2d
James Cuthbert merchant Leith, Dr. to Meal, fold
50 bolls, at 13s 3d
~-5-~
Diaper Dr. to Tarn. Delivered 60 fp. five hank, in
barter for 80 yards, at is yd
William Nijbet Dr. to Cajh. Paid him in full
--13.--
! Sundries Drs. to Wtlham Bruce merchant Leith
.3 Salt. For 200 bulhels, at is 8d L. 16 13 4
Iron. For 320 ftones, at 3s 4d 53 ^ ^
15-*
Sundries Drs. to Paper.
fames Bofwell. for 3orms, at I2S L. 18 —
John Henderfon itationer
Edinburgh, for 12 12s 7 4
Cajhi For 5 US 2 15
47
.19.-
Sundries Drs. to Salt, for 15 2 bib. at 1 s yd L. 13 2 6
Cafh. Received in part - L. I o
William Hunter merchant Dunbar, for
balance due by him - 3 2 6
8
12
33
28
70
27
12
19 —
Edinburgh,
/
/
/ BOO K
(2) WASTE-BOOK.
Edinburgh, January 22. 1789.
-KEEPING.
Received from Henry Hardy in pay¬
ment of his bill B.75 —
And for intereft on do 2X0
Rules II. VII,
Paid the Royal Bank
Bought from Alex. Sharp merch. Dundee 500 fp
four hank yarn, at is I id L.47 18 4
Paid him in part E.15 — —
And the balance due him is 32 18 ^
/
/
Rule I.
—26.—
77
100
Rules II. III.
-3°.
Received 1 $obollsmeal, at 13s 2d L.98:15s, in bar¬
ter for 6 hds. Port wine, at L.16 L.96 — —
Paid the balance 2 15 —
Rule III.
Edinburgh, 2d February 1789.
Sold James Bofwell
48 bulh. fait, being the rem. at is 8 jd L.4 2
60 fp. five hank yarn, at 2s 34d 617 6
100 ftone iron, at 3s 4 Jd 16 17
Rule I.
-3*
/
/
Received from James Cuthbert in part
Rule II.
 10. 
/
Bartered 2 2 reams paper, at 1 2s
30 bolls meal, at 13s 6d
For 334J fp. four hank yarn, at 2s
Rule III.
L.13 4 —
20 5 —
l-33 9
Taken for the ufe of my Ihop the remaining ream
paper, value
Rule VI.
  —  16. 
/ Received from William Hunter in full L.3 2 6
from James Bofwell in part 70 — —
/
/
Rule II.
Paid the Royal Bank
Rule I.
19.
Bartered 100 yards calicoes, at 3s 6d L.17 : 10
For one hd. Port-wine
Received the balance
L.14 10
3 ~
Rule III.
47
18
27
3°
33
73
IOC
*7
I5
*7
JOURNAL. f(2)
Edinburgh, ]ahv22. 17^9*
*3
Ca/h Dr. to Sundries.
To Henry Hardy. Rec. paym. of his bill 1.75 
To Profit andLofs. Rec. interelt on do. 2 10 ■
Royal Bank Dr. to Cajb. Paid them
-26.
Tarn Dr. to Sundries, for 500 ipindles four hank
at is 1 id L.47 18 4
To Ca/h. Paid in part L. 15 — —
To Alex. Sharp merch. Dundee for bah 3 2 1 ^ 4
■3C*
Meal Dr. to Sund.ioi 150 bolls, at 13s 2d L.98 : 15s
To Port-Wine. For 6 hds. delivered in
barter, L. 16
To Cajh. Paid balance
L.96 —
2 i5 
Edinburgh, 2d February 1789.
James Bofivell Dr. to Sundries.
To Salt, for 48 bulh. being the rem.
at is 8Jd L.4 2 —
To Tarn, for 60 fp. five hank, at 2s 3Jd 617 6
To Iron, for 100 ftones, at 3s 4^ 16 17
Cajh Dr. to James Cuthbert. Received in part
Tarn Dr. to Sundries, For 334.' fp. four hank yarn
at 2s L.33 : 9s
To Paper. For 22 reams delivered in
barter, at 12s L. 13 4
To Meal. For 30 bolls, at 13s 6d 20 5
Charges Merchandife Dr. to Paper, taken for the
ufe of fhop, 1 ream, value
-16.-
Ca/h Dr. to Sundries.
To William Hunter. Received in full L. 3
To James Bofwell. in part 70
Royal Bank Dr. to Caff:. Paid them
•I9-- ;—
Sundries Drs. to Calicoes. For 100 yards delivered
in barter, at 3s 6d L. 17 : 10s
Port Wine. For 1 hd. L. T4 10
3 —
Caff:. Received balance
77
100
47
98
27
3°
10
t8
*5
17
33 9 '
10 6
73
100
17 10 —
Edinburgh,
*4
/
B O O K-
(3) . WASTE-BOOK.
Edinburgh, 19th February, 1789.
KEEP
Sold 30 bolls meal for ready money,
at 13s 8d L.20 10 —
45 to Henry Hardy, 13s rod 31 2 6
27 to William Hunter, at 13s lod 18 13 6
32 to Baillie and Bell, Borrovv-
Hownnefs, at 13s lod 35 19 4
r54
Rules I. III.
 23- 
/ Drawn on the Royal Bank
Rule II.
/
/
/
/
Paid William Bruce in part E.50  
Alexander Sharp in full 3218 4
And Tho. Smith’s bill on me at fight 35 — —
Rule I.
Edinburgh, 2d March, 1789.
Paid charges and cellar-rent of fait
Charges and loft rent of meal
Rule IV.
L. 1 2 6
3 3 —
/
/
/
/
Received from Thomas Pirie in full L. 1 2 
Difcounted him   38
Rule II. VI.
-5-
Sold James Dalton, Manchefter
60 fpindles four hank yarn, at 2s ^-d L. 6 1 3
300 do do at jsnjd 29 13 9
360
Rule I.
-12.-
Received from Jan Jonkheer Rotterdam, 6 bags clo¬
ver feed, qt. 200 lb. each, amount per invoice
f. 312, at 2 2d per/. L. 28 12  
Paid freight and charges 1 3
ic6
x 20
117
12
35
Rules II. IV.
-17.
Bartered with James Bofwell 2 bags clover feed, at
L.6, L.12 for 2 hds. lintf. at 55s L. 5 10 —
Received in money g 
And he owes the balance 1 10
Rules III. I.
Paid Tho. Smith in full
And for intereft
L 19 —
x 10
Rules I. IV.
 21 
Sold 140 lb. clover-feed to John Scott farmer at
Haugh-head, at 7 Jd L. 4 7 6
70 to James Cuthbert, at 7^d 239
I 20 for ready money, at 7^4 312 6
33°
Rules I. II.
29
12
20 10
*5
*7
10
.1
r n a
JOURNAL,
Edinburgh, 19th February, 1789.
Sundries Drs. to Meal.
!Cajh. For 30 bolls, at 3s 8d L20 10
.z JJcnry Hardy. For 43 13s rod 31 26
.\}Vi lHam Hunter. For 27 x^siod 18 13 6
.4 Baillie and Bell, Bor-
rowftownnefs. For 52 13s xod 35 19 4
I54
23*
Cajh Dr. to Royal Bank. Drawn on them
Sundries Drs. to Cajh.
Salt. Paid Charges and cellar-rent L. x 26
Meal. Paid charges and loft-rent 3 3  
Sundries Drs. to 'Thomas Pirie.
Cafh. Received in full L. 12   •
Profit and Lofs. Difcounted him — 38
Sundries Drs. to Cajh.
William Bruce. Paid him in part L. 30 — —
Alex. Sharp. Paid him in full 32 18 4
Tho. Smith. Paid his bill on me at fight 35    
Edinburgh, 2d March, 1789.
(3)[
106
120
ii'
Jatnes Dalton, Manchefter, Dr. to Tarn.
For 60 fp. four hank, at 2s |d L. 6 1 3
And 300 do. at is 11 Jd 29 13 9
360
-12.-
Clover-feed Dr. to Sundries.
Jan Jonkheer, for 6 bags, qt. 20G lb. each,
is 1200 lb. amount per invoice, f. 312, at
22^ < L.28 12 —
To CaJ}}. Paid freight and charges 1 3  
-17.
Sundries Drs. to Clover-feed. For 2 bags, at
61. L.12 
Lint feed, for hds. reed, in bart. 55s 5 10  
Cafh. In part ^  
*4 James Bofwell, for balance 1 10 ■
Sundries Drs. to Cafh.
• 3 Thomas Smith. Paid him in full L. 19 — —
♦ i Proft and Lofs. Paid him intereft 1 10  
• 21.-
Sundries Drs. to Clover feed.
.5 John Scott, farmer at Haugh-head, for
140 lb. at 7id L. 4 7 6
.3 James Cuthbert, for 70 7 ^4 2 3
for 120 7^4 3 12
I 330
12
35
29
12
20
Li —
17 —
10
10 3
Edinburgh^
BOO K-K
{4) WASTE-BOOK.
Edinburgh, 'i^th March, 1789.
E E P I N G.
1 ?
James Bofwell has paid the Royal Bank on my acct
Rule VIII
25
Bought from William Ainflie merchant Alloa J (hare
of the Ihip Hazard, for
Rule II.
 28 
Sold Baillie and Bell,
150 Hone Iron, at 3s yd
ihd. Port-wine
Rule I.
L.26 17 6
15 5 —
Edinburgh, 2d April, 1789.
Sold for ready money
50 yards diaper, at is lid
30 bolls meal, at 13s yd
I hd. lint-feed
160 lb. clover-feed, at y^d
30 Hone iron, at 3s 6jd
Rule III.
 6. 
L.4 15 10
20 7 6
3 3 °
5 3 4
563
Drawn on the Royal Bank for
Rule II.
Bought for ready money
30 calks train oil, at 22s ^*33    —
30 bolls meal, at 13s L. 19 10 —
40 do. at 13s 2d 26 6 8
   45 16 8
70
Rule III.
40
IS°
42
38
*5
60 —
Sold Will. Ainllie 30 yds. diaper, at 2s L. 3 —
And paid him go 
Rule I.
 8.—
Baillie and Bell have paid Will. Ainflie, at my de
lire, balance of my lhare of the Ihip Hazard
Rule VIII.
 ——11  
Sold James Bofwell 20 calks train-oil, at 27s
Rule I.
--I4—
Sold George Gordon merch. Stirling
10 calks train oil, at 28s L. 14
1 hd. lint-feed
35 bolls meal, at 13s 8d
3 5 —
23 18 4
L.41 3 4
Received in part
And he owes the balance
L. 35 
6 3 4
Rule I. II.
— • 16 
Paid Baillie & Bell’s bill on me to C. Cowan,at light
Rule I.
78
33
”7
27
16
11
41
38
Roja/Bank Dr. to Janies Bofwell. Paid them by him
JOURNAL.
Edinburgh, z^th March, 1789.
25-
Share of flip Hazard Dr. to William Ainflie me¬
diant Alloa, bought -5- lhare for
-28—
Baillie and Bell Drs. to Sundries.
3 To Iron. For 150 Hone, at 3s yd L. 26 17 6
1 To Port-wine. For ihd. 15 5 —
Edinburgh, 2d April, 1789.
Cafh Dr. to Sundries.
To Diaper. For 50 yards, at is 1 id L.4 15 10
To Meal. For 30 bolls, at 13s yd 20 7 6
To Lint feed. For ihd. 3
To Clover feed. For i6olb. at y^d 5
To Iron. For 30 Hone, at 3s 6Jd 5
3 —
3 4
6 3
Cafj Dr. to Royal Bank. Drawn on them for
Sundries Drs. to Cafh.
Train oil. For 30 calks, at 2 2s L. 33 
Meal. For 30 bolls, at 13s L. 19 10 —
And 40 at 13s 2d 26 6 8
   45 jS 8
40
150
42
S8 ! J II
60
70
William Ainjhe Dr. to Sundries.
To Diaper. For 30 yards, at 2s L. 3 
To Cajh. Paid him 30    
-8.-
_v5 William Ainfie Dr. to Baillie and Bell. Paid him
by them on my account, being balance of fliare
of Ihip Hazard
78 16
33
iiy —
•f James Bofwell Dr. to Train oil. Sold him 20 Calks
.5) at 27s
-14.-
’A George Gordon Dr. to Sundries.
•5 To Train-oil. For 10 calks, at 28s L. 14 
•4 To Lint feed. For 1 hd. 3 3 _J
•kTo Meal. For 35 bolls, at 13s 8d. 23 18 4
— BTiUle and Bell Dr. to Cajh. Paid their bill on me
.IJ to C. Cowan, at fight
27
18
38
3 1
Edinburg
,6 BOO K-K E
(5) WASTE-BOOK.
Edinburgh, 18th April,
/
/
/
Taken for the ufe of my family, the remaining five
yards calicoe, at 3s
Rule VI.
22.
The Royal Bank have paid Jan Jonkheer’s bill on
me, I mdt. at my defire
Rule VIII.
 25.-1
15
10
Received my proportion of profits on a voyage to
Rotterdam by the Hazard
Rule V.
~3°*
/ Paid for fmall charges on my bufinefs
fince firft January L. 5 3 8
Perfonal and family expences 32 
Rule VI.
Due Thomas Sharp, my clerk, for wages
Rule VI.
Due to the Royal Bank for intereft
Rule VI.
Previous to the balancing of my books, I have ta¬
ken an inventory of the goods in my (hop and
vvarehoufe,
124 bolls meal, at 13s 6d
474 fp* f°ur yarn, at 2S
40 {tone iron, at 3s 4d
300 lb. clover-feed, at 6d
L.83 14
47 8
6 13
7 10
I value my houfe at
And my {hare of fhip Hazard
L. 145 5 4
300 —
140 —
L-585 5 4
28
33
37
8
12
E P I N G. >
JOURNAL.
Edinburgh, r8th April, 1789.
(5)
[v5
•3
.2
Proper expences Dr. to Calicoes. lor 5 yards taken
for family ufe, at 3s 2d
°jan Jonhbeer Dr. to Royal Bank. For his bill on
me 1 mdt. paid by them
Cajh Dr. to Share of Ship Hazard. Received my
proportion of profits on a voyage to Rotterdam
•4
• 22.—
-25.
Sundries Drs. to Cajh.
Charges Merchandife. Paid fmall char¬
ges fince Jan. 1. L5
Proper Exp. Paidperf. and family charges 32
3 8
Charges of Merchandife Dr. to Thomas Sharp, my
clerk. Due him for wages
Proft and Lofs Dr. to Royal Bank. Due them for int
Profit and Lofs Dr. to Sundries, for articles of lofs.
To'Salt - - L— M
To Charges Merchandife - 13 14
T0 Proper Expences - 3 2 15 10
See § 54.  
Sundries Drs. to Proft and Lofs, for articles of gain
.1 Meal - - - L. 9 18 —
.1 Port-wine - - 6
.2 Paper - - - 4
.2 Tarn - - 2
.3 Calicoes - - 1
.3 Diaper
•3 Iron - - 2
•4 Clover feed - - 5
•4 Lint-feed
•5 Share of flip Hazard - . 23
•5 Train oil - 8
.1
.1
.1
.2
.2
.2
.2
.2
•3
18 —
15
18
3
13
15 10
7 11
— 1
18 —
*5
28 12
33
37
10
2 11
47
10
•5
Bal. Account Dr. to Sun. for articles belonging to me.
To cajh
To Meal. For 124 bolls, at 13s 6d
To Tarn. For 474 fp. at 2s
Amifling 4- fpindle.
To Houfe in Lawn-market
To fames B of well
To Henry Hardy
To David Miller
To fames Cutbhert
To Iron. For 40 {tone, at 3s 4d
To fohn Henderfon
To William Hunter
To fames Dalton
To Clover-feed. For 300 lb. at '6d
Inlake 10 lb.
To fohn Scott
T0 Share of (hip Hazard
To George Gordon - ■»
I. 8 3
83 M
47 0
300 —
37 11
31 2
18 —
5 6
6 13
7 4
18 13
35
7 10
4
140
6
7 6
3 4
65
9 10
757
3
f
BOOK-KEEPING.
(6) JOURNAL.
Edinburgh, 30th April 1789.
Sundries Drs. to Balance-account.
Meal. Outcome 3 bolls
Royal Bank - . L 201 3 2
William Bruce - . 20    -
Thomas Sharp . . 8 
Projit and Lofs Dr. to Stock, for nett gain
^'ock Dr. to Balance-Account, for nett flock
5 4
The next Journal would begin thus:
Sundries Drs. to Stock.
Cafh on hand L. 8 3 10
Meal. For 124 bolls, at 13s L. 83 14 —
7~arn. For 474 fp. 4 hank, at 2s 47 8 —-
Iron. For 40 flone, at 3s 4d 613 4
Clover-feed. For 3001b. at 6d 7 10 —
 145
Houfe in Lawn-market Edin¬
burgh, value L. 300 — —
Share in Jhip Hazard. For
one third 140 
 44.0 — —
James Bofwell Edinburgh.
Due by him 37 11 —
Henry Hardy Glafgow. Do. 31 2 6
David Miller Haddington. Do. J 8 — —
James Cuthbert Leith. Do. 563
HfWr’r/otf Edinburgh. Do. 7 4 —
William Hunter Dunhux. Do. 18 13 6
James Dalton Manchefter. Do. 35 15 —
John Scott Haughhead. Do. 476
George Gordon Stirling. Do. 6 3 4
-164 3 1
229
16
528
Stock Dr. to Sundries.
To Royal Bank. Due them
To William Bruce, Leith. Due him
Thomas Sharp, my clerk. Do.
L 201 3
20 —
8 —
757
•229
12
3 s
Vol. IV. Part L
C
i8
Dr.
1789
Jan.
'Apr.
Dr.
1789
Mar.
Apr.
B
L E G E R.
OOK-KEEPING.
FO.
Dr.
7789
jan.
Eeb.
Mar.
Apr.
Dr.
1789
Jan.
Mar
Apr.
Stock,
To Sundries per J.
To Balance-account, for nett ftock
311
528
840
Projit and Lofs,
To Thomas Pirie, difcounted him
To Cafh, paid Tho. Smith intereft
To Royal Bank, for intereft due them
To Sundries, per J.
To Stock, for nett gain
Cap,
1 To Stock on hand
15 To Paper, for 5 reams, at 11s.
19 To Salt, in part, per J.
22 To Sundries for Hen. Hardy’s bill, with int
3 To James Cuthbert, in part
16 To Sundries, per J.
19 To Calicoes, for bal. of 100 yards, per J.
To Meal, for 30 bolls, at 13s 8d
20 To Royal Bank, drawn on them
4 To Thomas Pirie, in full
7 To Clover-feed, in part, for 2 bags
21 To Clover-feed, I20lb. at 7^d
2 To Sundries, per J.
6 To Royal Bank, drawn on them
14 To George Gordon, in part
25 To Share of fhip Hazard for ftrare profits p. J
47
16,13
67 19 TO
Meal,
To Stock on hand, at 13s
To Sundries, per J. at 13s 2d
To Cafn, paid charges and loft-rent
To Cafh, per j.
To Profit and lofs, for gain
Outcome
Dr.
1789
Tan.
Feb.
Apr.
75
2
10
77
30
73
3
20
120
12
5
3
38
6c
35
33
599
Bolls
200
i5°|
— 1
701
— 1
423
Port-wine,
To Stock on hand, at L. 15
To Calicoes, in barter
To Profit and Lois, for gain
Hds
6
130
98
3
45
9
11
287 12
90
14
6
L E G E R.
FO.(l)
1787
3 Jan-
1 Apr.
1789
8 Jan.
— Apr
2
4
8
3°
1789
Jan.
Feb.
Mar
— Apr
Contra
By Sundries, per J.
By Profit and Lofs, for nett gain
Cr.
Contra
Cr.
By Cafh, received int. on Hen. Hardy’s bill
By Sundries, per J.
824' 2
840 16
Contra
Cr.
By Calicoes, for 105 yards, at 3s 2d
By William Nifbet, in full
By Royal Bank, paid them
By Yarn, in part, for 500 fp. four hank
By Meal, paid balance of 150 bolls
By Royal Bank, paid them
By Sundries, per J.
By Sundries, per J.
By Clover-feed, paid freight and charges
By Sundries, paid Tho. Smith, with int. per J.
By Sundries, per J.
By William Ainflie, paid him
By Baillie and Bell, paid their bill on me ft.
By Sundries, for charges and expences per J.
By Balance account
1789
— Jan.
_ Feb.
8 Apr.
1789
Jan.
Mar.
Contra
By James Cuthbert, at 13s 3d
By Yarn in barter, at 13s 6d
By Sundries, per J.
By Cafh, at x 3s 7ft
By George Gordon, at 13s 8d
By Balance account at 13s 4d
210
65
67
10
T1
16
28
TOO 
15 —
2
TOO
117
4
1
20
78
3°
38
37
8
599
Cr.
Bolls
5°
3°
154
30
35
124
423
33
20
xo6
20
23
83
Contra
io|By Meal, in barter, at L. 16
28;By Baillie and Bell
Cr.
Hds
15
2
8
10
11
287 12
96
*5
111
Dr.
Dr.
1789
Jan.
Apr.
Dr.
1789
Jan.
Feb.
Apr
(*)
B O O K - K E E
L E G E R. fo.
I N G.
L E G E R.
Papery
To Stock on band, at 1 os 6d
To Profit and Lofs, for gain
70,
Tarn,
ijTo Stock on hand, at 2s 3d
26|7'o Sundries, per J. at is nd
10 To Sundries, per J. at 2s
30 To Profit and Lofs, for gain
Spindles
Dr
1789
Jan.
Feb.
Mar.
Apr.
Dr.
2789
Jan.
500
334?
120
120
Dr. Houfe in Lawn-market,
1789
Jan. i To Stock, for value
"James B-ofw-ell merchant Edinburgh,
To Stock due by him, per account
To Paper, for 30 reams, at 12s -
To Sundries, per J.
iy To Clover-feed, for bal. of 2 bags, per J.
11 To Train-oil, for 20 calks, at 27s
Dr.
1789
Jan.
Feb.
Dr.
1789
Jan.
Dr.
1789
Jan.
Feb.
Mar.
Apr.
Thomas Pirie writer Edinburgh,
To Stock due by him per account
36
1 789
Jan
4] 18! 6 Feb.
41
97
Henry Hardy merchant Glafgow,
To Stock due by him per bill
29X0 Meal, for 45 bolls, at 13s lod
David Miller manufacturer Haddington,
To Stock due by him per receipt
Royal Bank of Scotland,
22 To Calh, paid them
l6|Tc Calh, paid them
24X0 Ja. Bofwell, paid them by him
30 To Balance-account
1789
}an.
Feb.
Mar.
Apr.
FO. (2 )
I9
Contra
Cr.
15 By Sundries, per J.
10 By Yarn in barter, at 12s
By Charges Merchandife, for Ihop-ufe
147
11
1789
Apr.
1789
Feb
Mar.
Apr.
12
75
31
IQO
I OO'
40
201
44I
1789
8 Mar
1789
-
6 Apr.
1789
Apr.
Contra
5'By Diaper, at 2s 4d
2 By James Bofwell, at 2s 31
5 j By James Dalton, per J.
30 By Balance-account, at 2s
Amifiing
Cr.
Spindles.
4 H\$ H
30
360
474
8 34 j-120
60,3
60 2
Contra
By Balance-account
Cr.
Contra
[ 6 By Cafh in part
24 By Royal Bank, paid in by him
30 By Balance-account
Cr.
41
97
Contra Cr.
4 By Sundries in full, with difcount, per. J.
1789
Jan.
— Feb.
— Apr.
Contra
By Calh in full
By Balance-account
Cr.
, Contra
By Balance-account
Cr.
Contra
Cr.
3 2
—1 ’
By Stock, due them per account
23|By Calh, drawn on them
6 By Calh, drawn on them
By J. Jonkheer, for his bill paid them, p. J.
30 By Profit and Lofs, for intereft due them
300
70
40
37
J47
11
11
12
75
31
18
230-
120 [—-
60 — —
28 I 2 ——
2 11 2
441
3 2
Dr.
so
(3)
Dr.
1789
Feb.
Mar.
Dr.
1789
Jan.
Dr.
1789
Jan.
Apr.
Dr.
1789
Jan.
Mar.
21
Dr.
3789
Jan.
Apr.
Dr.
1789
Jan.
Mar.
10
B O O K - K E
LEGE R. to.
Tho. Smith merchant London^
To Cafh, paid bis bill on me at fight
To Calh, in full
William Nijbet carpenter Leith,
To Cafh, paid him in full
Calicoes,
To Calh, at 3s 2d
To Profit and Lofs, for gain
"Jo. Cuthhert merchant Leith,
To Meal, for 50 bolls, at 13s 3d
To Clover-feed, for 701b. at 74:d
Diaper,
To Yarn in barter, at is 9d
To Profit and Lofs, for gain
Salt,
To William Bruce, at is 8d
To Cafh, paid charges and cellar-rent
Dr.
1789
Feb.
Apr.
Dr.
1789
Jan.
Apr.
William Bruce merchant Leith,
To cafh in part
To Balance-account
Yds.
i°5
io5
Yds.
80
80
Bujh.
200
200
Iron,
To William Bruce, at 3s 4d
To Profit and Lofs, for gain
Stones,
32°
35
'9
54
28
1789
— Jan.
1789
3 Jan.
1789
6 Feb.
4 Apr.
*5
7 15
32°
53
15
10
55 H
11
E P I N G.
L E G E R.
1789
6 Feb.
9 Apr.
3
1789
10 Apr.
1789
Jan.
Feb.
Contra
By Stock, due him per account
Contra
By Stock, due him per account
Contra
By Sundries, per J. at 3s 6d
By proper Expences taken at 3s 2d
Contra
By Cafh in part
By balance account
Contra
By Cafh at is 1 id
By William Ainflie, at 2s
Contra
19 By Sundries, per J. at is 9d
2 By J. Bofwell, for the rem. at is 8{4
Apr. 30 By Profit and Lofs,
Inlake
1789
Jan.
1789
Feb.
Contra
17 By Sundries, per J.
Contra
By James Bofwell, at 3s 4|d
Mar. 28|By Baillie and Bell, at 3s ?d
Apr. 2 By Cafh, at 3s 64d
30 By Balance-account, at 3s 4d
(3)
Cr.
Cr.
Cr.
Yds.
100
5
'i
1051
Cr.
Cr.
Yds.
50
3°
80
Cr.
Bufh
150
48
200
Cr.
54 — —
54—
28 7
17 10
zh
.8! s
3°
5
35
13
17
l5
10
10
3
3
10
10
6
4
10
Cr.
Stones.
100 2
I5°4
30 1
4° 5
 ;
32°
70——
70
1617
26 17 6
5 6 3
6ii3' 4
55 H 7
Dr.
(4)
BOOK
L E G E R. fo.
-K
E E P I N G.
L E G E R.
FO.
JE)r.
1789
Jan.
Dr
1789
Jan.
Feb.
Dr
1789
Feb.
Dr.
1789
Feb.
Apr.
Dr.
1789
Feb.
Mar.
Apr
Dr.
1789
Mar
Dr.
1789
Mar.
Apr.
Jo. Henderfon Jlationer Edinburgh,
14 To Paper, for 12 reams, at 12s
2 3
12
Dr.
1789
Apr.
Dr.
1789
Mar.
Apr.
3°
William Hunter merchant Dunbar,
To Salt, for balance of 150 bufliels, per J.
To Meal, for 27 bolls, at 13s lod
Alex. Sharp merchant Dundee.
To Cafli, in full
Charges Merchandife,
To Paper, taken for (hop-ufe, 1 ream
To Cafh, for fmall charges fince ifl Jan.
To Tho. Sharp, for wages
Baillie and Bell Borrowjlownnefs,
To Meal, for 52 bolls, at 3s rod
To Sundries, per J.
To Cafh, pd. their bill on me to C. Cowan, st.
James Dalton Manchejler,
To Yarn, for 360 fpindles four hank, per J.
Clover-feed,
32
J3
22
17
To Sundries per J. for pr. cofl and char.
To Profit and Lofs for gain
t!
ib.
1200
1200
J. Jonkheer merchant Rotterdam,
To Ro. Bank, for his bill on me paid by them
Lint-feed,
To Clover-feed, in barter, at cjs
30 To Profit and Lofs, for gain
Hds.
2
l3
18
14
38
117
35
29
34
18
T5
i?
1789
Apr
1789
6 Feb.
6 Apr.
1789
4 Jan-
1789
6 Apr.
8
1789
4 Apr.
6
1789
Apr.
17
1789
— Mar
Apr
30
20
Contra,
By Balance-account
Cr.
Contra,
By Cafh in full
By Balance-account
Cr.
Contra, Cr.
By Yarn, for balance of 300 fpindles, per J.
30
28 12
1789
Mar,
Contra,
By Profit and Lofs
Cr.
Contra, Cr.
By William Ainflie, paid him by them
Contra,
By Balance-account
Cr.
21
(4)
32
18
13 H
1314! 2
5 Ii7
Contra,
By Sundries, per J.
By Sundries, per J.
By Cafh, at 7^d
By Balance-account, at 6d
Inlake
Cr.
lb.
400
330
160
300
10
1200
117
35
J5
i°
18.
5
6 8
1789
Apr
Contra,
lajBy Clover-feed, for 6 bags, per J.
Cr.
Contra,
By Cafh
By George Gordon
Cr.
Hds.
1
34*7
28 12
6 8
Dn
22
is)
Dr.
1789
Mar. 21
Dr.
1789
Mar.
Apr.
Dr,
1789
Apr.
Dr.
1789
Apr.
Dr.
1789
Apr.
Dr.
1789
Apr.
Dr,
1789
Apr,
Dr.
J.789
Apr.
BOOK-
L E G E R. fp.
John Scott farmer at Haughhead,
To Clover-feed, for 1401b. at 7 *d
Share of /hip Hazard,
To William Ainflie, bought i fhare for
To Profit and Lofs,
William Ainfie merchant Alloa,
6jTo Sundries, per J.
10 To Baillie and Bell, for bal. paid him by them
Train-oil.
6T0 Cafli, at 22s
30 To Profit and Lofs, for gain
George Gordon merchant Stirling,
I4T0 Sundries, per J.
Cafks
m
3°
Proper Expences.
18T0 calicoes, for 5 yards, at 3s 2d
30To Cafh, for charges fince ill January
3°
Thomas Sharp, my clerk,
To balance-account
Balance-account,
30 To Sundries, per J.
KEEPING.
L E G E R.
1789
6 Apr.
150
23
173
33
II7
150
41
41
32
32
757
757
1789
Apr.
1789
Mar.
1789
Apr
1789
4 APr*
1789
10 Apr.
10
1789
Apr.
25
30
3°
12
12,
1789
3 APr- 3°
Contra
Cr.
By Calh, for (hare profit of a voyage to Rot.
By Balance-account
Contra Cr.
By Share of Ship Hazard, for - bt. from him
Contra
By James Bofwell, at 27s
By George Gordon, at 28s
Cr.
Cafks
20:2
IO;5
-I
3°
Contra
By.Calh in part
By Balance-account
Cr.
Contra
By Profit and Lofs
Cr.
Contra
By Sundries, per L
By Stock
Cr.
i pi
33
140
^S,—1—
1 )
*5°
'5°,—
27
!4
41
35 —
3
3
S2
J5 10
321510
8 —
229
3: 2
'528 9j 1
757H 3
T RIA L-
BOOK-KEEPING.
' G I T Ji T U *1 M O 0 '
' /T VS
~y
TRIAL-BALANCE.
Dr.
: \
i. Stock
Profit and t,ofs
Calh
2 Meal
Port-wine
Paper
Yarn
i Houfe in Edinburgh
3 James Bofw'ell
Henry Hardie
David Miller
Royal Bank
#
4 Calicoes
James Cuthbert
Diaper
Salt
5 Iron
William Bruce
John Henderfon
William Hunter
Charges Merchandiie
"6 James Dalton
Clover-feed
Flax-feed
John Scott
’Share of Ship Hazard
7 Train oil
George Gordon
Proper Expences
Thomas Sharp
Cr.
L.312 7 3
4 4 10
599 15 il
L.277 14 8
104 10 —.
36 15 —
94 17 4
300 — —
L.247 11 —
3126
18 — —
140 —- —
L. 91$ 8
L. 824 2 8
210 —
591 12 1
L. 203 18 8
*ii 5 —
41 13 6
49 12 6
L.1418 4
813 17 —
L. 16 12
35 6
17 15 10
6
3 -
436 13 6
L.110 —
441
5 10
L.53 6 8
50 — —
7 4 —
1813 6
*3 H 2
L- 35 *5 —
29 17 —
5 10 —
4 7 6
150 — —
L- 33 — —
4i 3 4
32 15 10
76 14 7
L. 18
JO =■■■• ’
7 *5 10
17 4 6
142 18 4
225
L. 49
70
L. —
27
6
33
7 1
8 —
106 19 2
L.2719 — 1
L. 41
35
T
406 9
55l
73
- •:.C
I , ,
II9
66 15 1
84 
L.2719
• - 8 ...
COMPU-
n r 4^1 ?
‘ » ; ?
<>:' - 4
*j r- , tT
24
BOOK-KEEPING.
COMPUTATIONS.
Calh
2 Meal
Dr. 420 bolls
Cr. 299
121
124
3 outcome
Port wine
Paper
Yam
Spindles
834! 120 ■
360 120
474?-
AmilTing
Houfe in Edinburgh
3 Ja. Bofwell
Henry Hardy
David Miller
Royal Bank
4 Calicoes
J. Cuthbert
Diaper
Dr. Cr.
k*599 15 11 L. 591 12 1
591 12 1
L. 8 3 10
L. 277 14 8 L. 203 18 8
  83 14 —
L. 83 14 —
L. 287 12 8
277 14 8
4 Salt
5 William Bruce
Iron
320 ftone
280
Profit L. 9 18 —— 4°
L.104 to — L. 111 5
  104 10
Profit L. 6 15 —
L. 36 15 — L. 41 13 6
  36 15 —
Profit L. 4 18 6
L. 94 17 4 L. 49 12 6
 47 8 —
L- 47 8 —
L. 91 — 6
94 *7 4
Profit L.
L. 300 
L.147 11
110 —
L. no — —
J. Henderfon
W. Hunter
Char. Merchan.
. ' . ; t i «-
6 Ja. Dalton
Clover-feed
1200 lb.
890
310
300
10 inlake „
Lint-feed
J. Scott
Share Hazard
L. 27 11 —
L. 31 26
L. 18 
L. 240 — — L. 441 3 2
  240 — —
L.201 3 2 7 Train-oil
L. 16 12 6 L. 18 5 10
- . -- 16 12 6 George Gordon
Profit L. I 13 4
35 6 3
30 - Proper Ex.
  Thomas Sharp
L. 5 6 3
L. 7   L. 7 15 10 STOCK
. . 7 Balance
Profit L.
15 10
Dr. Cr.
L. 17 15 10 L. 17 4 6
17 4 6
Lofs — 11 4
L. 50 — — L. 70 — —
5° 
L. 20 
L. 53 6 8 L. 49 1 3
  6 13 4
L. 6 13 4
L- 55 M 7
53 6 8
Profit L.
L. 7 4 —
L. 18 13 6
L. 13 14 2 lofs
7 1*
L- 35 *5
L. 29 17
L.
7 10
L. 27 7 1
7 10 —
L. 34 17 —
29 17 —
L.
Profit L. 5 •— 1
5 10 L. 6 8 —
5 10 —
Profit L. —- 18 —
L. 4 7 6
L. 150 33 
140 
L.140  
L. 173 
150 
Profit L. 23 — —
L. 33 L. 41 
33 ^
Profit L. 8 —- —-
L. 41 3 4 35  
35 
L. 634^
L. 32 15 10 lofs
L. 8 
L. 312 7 3 L. 824 2 8
528 9 1 prof. 16 13 8
L. 840 16 4 L. 840 16 4.
PROFIT
2
BOOK-KEEPING.
Salt
Charges Merchandife
Proper Expences
In Eeger
Nett gain
Calh
Meal, 124 b. at 13s 4d
Yarn, 474 Ip- at 2S
Amifling 4
Houfe in Edinburgh
James Bofwell
Henry Hardie ,
David Miller
J. Cuthbert
Iron, 40 done, at 3s 4d
J. Henderfon
W. Hunter
James Dalton
Clover-feed, 300 lb. at 6d
Inlake 10 lb.
J. Scott
Share of Hup Hazard
George Gordon
Von. ,1V. Part I.
25
PROFIT and LOSS SHEET.
L.—- 11 4
13 14 2
32 15 10
L.47
4
I 4
4 IQ
L.51 6 2
16 13 8
L.67 19 10
Meal
Port-wine
Paper
Yarn
Calicoes
Diaper
Iron
Clover-feed
Lint-feed
Share of fhip Hazard
Train oil
In Leger
L.9 18 —
6 15 —
4 18 6
232
1 *3 4
— 15 10
2 7 11
5 — i
— 18 —
23 — —
8 
L.65 9 10
2 10 —
L.67 r9 IQ
BALANCE-SHEET.
L.8 3 10
83 14 —
47 8 —
300 — —
37 11 —
31 2 6
18    
563
6 13 4
7 4 —
18 13 6
35 15 —
7 10 —
Meal, outcome 3 b.
Royal Bank
William Bruce
Thomas Sharp
L. 20! 3 2
20    
8 — —-
L. 229 3 2
476
140 -——
634 st6c&
L-757 12 3
528 9 1
L.757 12 3
I
26
BOOK-KEEPING.
Subfidiary The prefent article, it is hoped, will appear fuffi-
Ecoks. ciently extended for a work of this nature. It contains
r ""' the general principles of Italian book-keeping ; and is
fufficient to unfold the nature and defign of that art
to the fpeculative inquirer, to direfl the accountant in
common and eafy cafes, and prepare him for under-
ftanding thofe that are more complicated. In fa£t if
he has a clear apprehenlion of the fenfe of the tranfac-
tions, the tendency of the journal entries, and the im¬
port of the balances in the leger, he will feldom be at
a lofs how to proceed.
Subjidiary Books ufed by Merchants.
Though all merchants accounts may be kept by the
WaJIe-booi, Journal, and Leger, alone •, yet men of
great bufinefs find it convenient, either for abridging
thefe, or for other ends, to ufe fome others, generally
called Subfidiary or Subfervient Boohs; the moil com¬
mon of ttdiich are thefe nine following, viz.
1. Cafj-Book. This book is kept in a folio form,
like the leger, and ferves to abridge the calh-account
there. On the left-hand page, or Dr. fide, Cajh is
charged Dr. for all the fums received j and on the right-
hand page Ca/b is made creditor for all the fums paid.
Once a week, or, which is more ordinary, once a month,
this book is polled to the leger j or, if you pleafe, firft
to the journal, by two entries, vios. Cajh Dr. to Sun¬
dries, for all the receipts, and Sundries Drs. to Cajh,
for all the payments. By this means the cafh account
in the leger will be fo far contra£led as to confift of
12 lines, vi%. one for each month in the year.
2. Book of Charges of Merchandife. This book is
. only paged, and deligned to abbreviate the calh-book.
It contains particular charges on goods and voyages;
fuch as carriage, cuftom, freight, cranage, wharfage,
&c : as alfo other expences that affedl trade in gene¬
ral ; fuch as, warehoufe-rent, (hop- rent, accountant’s
wages, poftage of letters, and the like. At the end
of each month the money-columns of this book are
added up, and the fum carried to the credit-fide of the
calh-book.
3. Booh of Houfe-expence. This book is alfo paged,
and deligned likewife to eafe the calh-book. It con¬
tains all dilburfements for family provifions, fervants
wages, houfe-rent, apparel, utenfils &c. The money-
columns of this book are alfo added up at the'end of
each month, and the fum transferred to the credit fide
of the calh-book.
4. Invoice-book. This book, which is ufed chiefly
by factors, is paged, and contains doubles or copies of
the invoices of goods lent to fea, or of goods received
from abroad.
5. Sales-book. This book too is chiefly ufed by
Jaftors ; and into it are polled, from the walle-book,
the particular fales of every configned cargo ; by which
means the feveral articles of a fale, that lie fcattered in
the walle-book, are brought together, and reprefented
under one view, and that in a manner more full and
minute than they are colle£led in the leger account.
This book exhibits the fales of every confignment fepa-
rately and by themfelves : to which are fubjoined the
refpedlive charges, fuch as freight, cullom, the factor’s
commilhon, as alfo abatements allowed to buyers, &c.
whofe fum fubtrafled from the grofs amount of fales
gives the neat proceeds. From this book, when a car„-
go is fold off, an account of fales is drawn out, in order
to be tranfmitted to the employer.
6. Bill-book. The defign of this Bill-book, or Month-
book, is to furnilh a merchant with a ready way of know¬
ing the time when bills or other debts become payable
to or by him. It confiils of 1 2 folios, one for each
month in the year. The left-hand page contains the
debts that fall due to the merchant in the month on
the top, and the right-hand page contains the debts
payable by him to others in the fame month.
7. Receipt-book. In this book a merchant takes re¬
ceipts of the payments he makes. The receipt Ihould
contain the date j the fum received, exprefled in words
at large, and alfo in figures in the money-columns; the
reafon why ; and whether in full or in part ; and mull
be figned by the perfon receiving. But there is no oc-
cafion to mention the merchant’s name ; for the book
being his owm, fufficiently implies that.
Letter-book. It is very imprudent in any perfon
to fend aw’ay a letter of bufinefs, without keeping a
double of it to himfelf; and therefore to prevent the
bad confequences of fuch a carelefs practice, merchants
are provided with a large book in folio, into which is
copied verbatim every letter of bufinefs before it be
fent off. So that this book, together with the letters
received (which mult alfo be carefully kept in files or
boxes), makes a complete hiltory of all the dealings
that pafs betwixt a merchant and his correfpondents ;
which may be very ufeful and neceflary on many oc-
cafions.
Pocket-book. This is a fmall book, of a portable
fize, which a merchant carries in his pocket w'hen bu¬
finefs calls him abroad to a tavern, a fair, the country,
or other places. In this he fets down the bargains he
makes, the expences he is at, the debts he pays, or fums
he receives, with every other part of bufinefs he tranf-
a£ts while abroad ; as alfo any occurrence or piece of
news he thinks worth while to record. And when he
comes home to his counting-houfe or ihop, he transfers
the things contained in this book, each to their proper
places in the walle-book, or books fubfidiary.
Faftors of great bufinefs fometimes keep another
fmall book, called the Memorandum-book. Into this
book is copied, from letters as they come to hand,
Ihort notes of the feveral commiflions for buying goods
contained in them ; and as the commiflions are effec¬
ted, the notes are croffed, or have fome mark affixed
to them. This is more convenient in doing bufinefs,
than to be continually running to the letters them¬
felves.
The above are the fubfidiary books moil in ufe : but
a merchant is not tied down or rellridled to them ;
he may keep fome, and negle£l others, or invent more
as the nature of his bufmefs requires, and he finds con¬
venient.
Sul
New Method of Book-keeping by Mr Jones.
A new method of keeping books, entitled the Eng-
lifh Syjlem of Book-keeping, has been propofed by Mr
Edward Thomas Jones of Briilol, for which a patent
was granted in January I79^’
Three books are required in the Englijh fyfem of
book-keeping, viz. a Day-book or Journal, an Alphabet,
and a leger. The day-book mull have three columns
on each page ; one of which to receive the amount of
debits
BOO K-K
A new Me- debits and credits j one column to receive i the debits
thod. only ; and one column to receive the credits only : or
( it may be ruled with only two columns on each page,
one of which to receive the amount of the debts, and
the other to receive the amount of the credits. On
each page of the day-book, there muft alfo be four
other columns ruled, two on the left fide next the
amount of the debits, and two on the right fide next
the amount of the credits. Thefe columns are intend¬
ed for receiving the letter or mark of polling, and the
page of the ledger to which each amount is to be poll¬
ed. It is not neceffary that the alphabet be ruled, but
it mull contain the name of every account in the leger,
the letter annexed to it as a mark of polling, and the
page of the leger. The leger is to be ruled with
three, four, five, or feven columns on each page, as
may be moll agreeable, for receiving the amounts of
the tranfadlions rvhich are entered in the day-book.
The plan of making up books of accounts, according
to this fyllem is the following ;
When a perfon begins trade, either as an individual
or in company, he mull open an account with himfelf
in the leger. He mult firll enter in the day-book,
and then to the credit of his account in the leger, the
amount of the property which he has advanced into
the trade. His name only may be placed at the head
of the account, or it may be called Jlock-accoimt.
When goods are purchafed* give the perfon credit
of whom they are bought; W'hen goods are fold, debit
the perfon to whom they are fold. When you pay money,
debit the perfon to whom it is paid, not only for the a-
tnount you pay, but alfo for any difcount or abatement
that may be allowed, and give the calhier credit for the
neat amount paid. When money is received, credit
the perfon of whom it is received, not only for what
he pays, but alfo for any difcount you have allowed,
and debit the calhier for the neat fum received. In
thefe entries a plain narrative of the fa£l fhould only be
introduced. Technical phrafes, excepting the terms
debit and credit Ihould be avoided. Thefe are the
only terms applicable to every tranfaflion, and may
be affixed to every entry.
In the hurry of bufinefs, entries may be made to the
debit inllead of the credit of an account in the day¬
book, and viceverfa. To obviate this evil, Mrjones pro-
pofes to have only one column for receiving the amount
of every tranfa&ion, whether debit or credit, at the
time of making the entry j and that the debits may be
conveniently feparated from the credits, previous to
polling, which is neceflary to prevent confufion, he has
two other columns in the fame page 5 the column on
the left fide receives the amount of every debit, and
the column on the right fide receives the amount of
every credit. Thefe columns mull be call up once a-
month. The column of debits and credits of itfelf
forms one amount) the column of debits forms a fe-
cond amount j and the column of credits a third a-
mount. The fecond and third amounts, when added
together, it is plain, mull agree with the firll amount
which includes both the debits and credits, otherwife
there mull be fome error, either in making the entry
or in the addition.
In this manner the accountant may obtain an ac¬
curate llatement of the tranfa&ions recorded in his
books for every month, which will fhow how much
E E P I N G. 27
he owes for that month, and how much is owing to Anew Me-
him j and by fubtradling the amount of the credit J
from the whole amount of the debits for any given ~v
time, with the value of the Hock of goods on hand, the
profits of the trade for that period will at once appear.
The next part of the operation in this fyltem is that
of polling. An account is opened in the leger with
every perfon to whofe debit or credit an entry has been
made in the day-book j and to each account a letter is
affixed, which is to be ufed as a mark of polling. The
name of the perfon, his place of abode, and the folio of
the leger, mull then be entered in the alphabet, with
the fame letter prefixed to each name, as is affixed to
the account in the leger. The next Hep of the procefs
is to affix to each amount in the day-book in the co¬
lumn for that purpofe, the page of the leger on which
each account is opened. This will be feen in the al¬
phabet. The date and amount of each debit are then
to be polled in the proper columns in the leger, on the
left or debit fide of that account to which it relates j
taking care to enter as a mark of polling in the day¬
book, againll each amount, the fame letter that is
affixed to the account in the leger to which faid
amount may be polled. The debits of January, Fe¬
bruary, March, &c. it is to be obferved, mull be poll¬
ed into the column for thofe months in the leger, and
the credits mull alfo be polled in like manner, each ac¬
count being filled up in the centre, at the expiration of
every month, with the whole amount of the month’s
tranfa&ions. Thus may the whole llatement of each per-
fon’s account for the year be included in a fmall fpace.
The columns to the right and left contain the feparate
amount of each tranfa&ion. The column in the cen¬
tre exhibits a monthly llatement.
Having ffiewn in what manner the entries are to be
made and carried through the different books, accord¬
ing to this fyltemj the next thing is to defcribe the me¬
thod of examining them, fo as to afcertain with cer¬
tainty their accuracy j and not only to difcover if each
tranfaftion has been correftly polled, with regard to
its amount, but alfo that it has been rightly entered to
the debit or credit of its proper account. The mode of
examination propofed by this fyllem is different from
thofe which have been hitherto praflifed, both in ex¬
pedition and accuracy. All that is neceffary is to add
together the different fums in the debit and credit co¬
lumns through the leger: and the amount of thofe
columns, if right, mull agree with the columns in the
day-book for the fame period. This examination
Ihould take place once every month j and if the a-
mounts do not agree, the polling mull be called over,
and when the time allotted to each column of the leger,
whether it be for one or more months, has expired,
the amount of each column Ihould be put at the bot¬
tom of the firll page, and carried forward to the bot¬
tom of the next, and fo on to the end of the accounts.
The amount in the day-book for each month’s tranf-
adlions, mull be brought into one grofs amount for the
fame time.
But this procefs, although it proves that the leger
contains the vffiole contents of the day-book, is not to
be confidered as complete without fome mode of afcer-
taining if each entry be polled to the right account.
To difcover this the following method is adopted. It
is to be admitted as a rule, that a letter, which may be
2 uled
48 B O O K - K
Anew Me-ufed alphabetically in any form or fliape, is to be af-
thod. fjxecj t0 each account in the leger, and the fame letter
prefixed to the names in the alphabet. 1 hefe letters
are to be ufed as marks in polling, and affixed to each
account in the day-book as it is polled. It is therefore
only neceiTary to compare and fee that the letter af¬
fixed to each entry in the day-book is the fame as that
which is prefixed to the fame name in the alphabet.
If there be no difference, it mull be right, otherwife
there mult he fome error.
When the accounts are to be balanced at the end of
the year, or at any other time, if the profits of the
trade are to be Hated in the books, the value of the
flock of goods on hand at prime coll, either in one
fum, or by fpecifying the amount of every article, may
be entered in the dary-book, and an account opened
for it in the leger, to the debit of which it is to be
E E P I N G.
polled. The cafiing up of the leger is then to be com- A new Me,
pleted } and when it is found to agree with the day- thod- f
book, and the amount placed at the bottom of each v
column, fubtraft the credits from the debits, and the
difference will Ihew the profit of the trade ; but if the
credits be the greater amount, then a lofs has followed.
To avoid error in taking off the balances of the leger,
one rule mull be obferved. Firll, find out the differ¬
ence between the whole amounts of the credits and
debits on each page for the year, with which the differ¬
ences of the outllanding balances of the feveral accounts
on each page mull exa&ly agree, otherwife the ba¬
lances have not been taken right. Proceeding in this
way every page will be proved, and the balances of
any number of legers, according to this plan, cannot
be taken off wrong without being obferved.
BOO
Bookfeller. BOOKSELLER, one who trades in books, whe-
—v   ther he prints them himfelf, or gives them to be print¬
ed by others.
Bookfellers, among us, are the fame with the biblio-
pohe of the ancients, whofe office was diftin£l from
that of librarii. Petty dealers, or venders of fmall
ware, were diltinguilhed by the diminutive appella¬
tion libelliones. At Rome, the Argiletum was the
mart of books, as Paul’s Church-yard, or Fleet-ftreet,
and Paternoller-row, have been in Loudon : whence
that of Martial.
ArgUetanas mavis habitare tabernas,
Cum tibi, parve liber, ferinia nojlra vacent.
Bookfellers in many places are ranked among the mem¬
bers of univerfities, and entitled to the privileges of ftu-
dents.; as at Tubingen, Saltlhurg, and Paris, where
they have always been dhtinguilhed from the vulgar
and mechanical traders, and exempted from divers
taxes and impofitions laid on other companies.
Formerly, the offices of bookfellers and printers
were united in the lame perfons. Labbe gives a lift of
learned bookfellers *, moft of whom were alfo authors.
Of late, bookfellers have drawn their bufinefs into lefs
compafs, and leaving the labour of compofing books
to one fet of perfons, and that of printing them to an¬
other, content themfelves with the gainful part j thus
miniitering to the republic of letters not with the head
or the hand, but the purfe only. In this view, they
have been very important and ufeful agents between
authors and the public j and have contributed, in no
fmall degree, to the encouragement of genius and lite¬
rary induftry, and the fpread of fcience. There are few
authors, who have undertaken the printing and publiih-
ing of any work likely to be tranfmitted to pollerity,
without being connected with fome bookfeller, or book¬
fellers, eminent in their profeffion.
The fairs of Fiancfort and Leipfic are famous for
the refort of bookfellersf, not only from all parts of the
empire, but Holland, Flanders, &c. dhey have each
their Ihop or warehovffe, over which is inferibed the;
BOO
name of fome celebrated bookfeller of former times ; Eookfelkr.
Officina Elzeviriana, Erobeniana, Morelhaua, JanJam* ' v
ana, 8>i-c.
An acquaintance with the bookfellers marks or figns,
frequently expreffed on the title-pages of their books,
is of fome ufe ; becaufe many books, efpecially in the
laft century, have no other defignation either of printer,
bookfeller, or even city. The anchor is the mark of
Raphelengius at Leyden ; and the fame with a dolphin
twilled round it, of the Manutii at Venice and Rome ;
the Arion denotes a book printed by Oporinus at Ba-
fil ; the caduceus, or Pegafus, by the Wecheliufes at
Paris and Francfort; the cranes, by Cramoify ; the
compafs, by Plantin at Antwerp; the fountain, by
Vafcofan at Paris ; the fpheie in a balance, by Janfon
or Blaew, at Amfterdam ; the lily, by the Juntas at
Venice, Florence, Lyons, and Rome; the mulberry-
tree, by Morel at Paris ; the olive-tree, by the Ste-
phenfes at Paris and Geneva, and the Elzeviers at Am¬
fterdam and Leyden ; the bird between two ferpents,
by the Frobeniufes at Bafil; the truth, by the Com-
melins at Heidelberg and Paris; the Saturn, by Coli-
meus; the printing-prefs, by Badius Afcencius, &c.
The traffic of books was anciently very inconfider-
able, infomuch that the book-merchants of England,
France, Spain, and other countries, were.diftinguiffied
by the appellation, of Jlationers, as having no (hops,
but only Halls and Hands in the ftreets. During this
Hate, the civil magiftrates took little notice of the book¬
fellers, leaving the government of them to the univer¬
fities, to whom they were fuppofed more immediate
retainers ; who accordingly gave them laws and regu¬
lations, fixed prices on their books, examined their
corre£lnefs, and punifhed them at diferetion. But
when, by the invention of printing, books and book¬
fellers began to multiply, it became a matter of more
confequence ; and the fovereigns took the direction °f
them into their own hands, giving them new ftatutes,
appointing officers to fix prices, and granting licenfes,
privileges, &c. ^
BQQM, in the fea-language, a long piece of timbeT
with
BOO [ 29 ] BOO
Eoom with which the clew of the ftudding-fail 13 fpread out ;
H and fotnetimes the boom is ufed to ipread or boom out
Buot‘ , the clew of the msin-maft.
Boom, denotes alfo a cable ftretched athwart the
mouth of a river or harbour ; with yards, top-mails,
battling or fpars of wood lafhed to it, to prevent an
enemy’s coming in.
BOOMING, among Tailors, denotes the application
of a boom to the fails. A fhip is faid to come boom¬
ing forwards, when (lie comes with all the fail Ihe can
make.
BOONEN, Arnold, portrait painter, was born at
Dort in 1669, and at nrll was a difciple of Arnold
Veibuis, a painter of hitlory and portrait. After¬
wards he placed himfelf with Godfrey Schalcken, and
continued wdth that artifl for fix years. The fweet-
nefs of his colouring, and the neatnels of his touch,
with a linking likenefs in his portraits, procured
him a number of admirers. He painted in the
manner of his mailer, particularly fubjedls by candle¬
light, which were very delicate, and very natural; and
much more of his wmrk was requelled by the lovers of
the art than it was polfible for him to undertake.
He had the honour to paint the portraits of the czar
of Mufcovy •, of Frederick I. king of Pruifia j of the
victorious duke of Marlborough, as w'ell as many of
the princes of Germany j and molt of the noblemen
who attended the czar. His Ityle of colouring wras
extremely good, and he had an elegant manner of dif-
pofing the attitudes of his figures j his handling was
neat, and the whole had fo much harmony that he
was jufldy ranked among the ablelt artills of his time.
The fmall pictures of Boonen are in the talle of his
mailer Schalcken ; but his exceffive application, to an-
fwer the multitude of his engagements, impaired his
health, and dellroyed while it enriched him. He died
in 1729.
BOOPTHALMUS, a kind of agate with large
circles in it, beating fume refemblance to an ox’s eye,
from whence it has got this name.
BOOPS, in Zoology, the trivial name of a fpecies
of balaena. See Bal^ena, Cetologv Index.
BOOSH AFTER, formerly the city of Uttica, fa¬
mous for the retreat and death of Cato, lies about fe-
ven miles inland from Porto Farina in the bay of
Tunis. Nothing remains of its ancient grandeur ex¬
cept part of a large aqueduCt, fome cillerns, and other
magnificent ruins, which cover a large extent of ground,
and Ihow it to have been a very confiderable place.
The fea, it is known, came up anciently to this city,
though now feven miles dillant.
BOOT, a leathern cover or defence for the leg, ufed
on horfeback, both to keep the body more firm, and
defend the part from the injuries of the weather. Boots
feem to have taken their name from the refemblance
they bear to a fort of jacks or leathern bottles formerly
in ufe, and called bottce, in the old French bouts. Borel
derives the name from the old French word hot, a
flump, by reafon the boot gives the leg this appearance.
The Chinefe have a kind of boots made of filk or fine
ftuflf lined with cotton, a full inch thick, which they al¬
ways wrear at home. This people are always booted j
and when a vifit is made them, if they happen to be
without their boots, their guefl mull wTait till they put
them on. They never fxir out of doors without their
boots on ; and their fcrupuloufnefs in this refpedl is Fifliing-
the more remarkable as they are always carried in their b0j‘j>ts
cnairs.. . Booth,
The boot was much ufed by the ancients, by the \—-y—
foot as well as by the horfemen. It was called by the
ancient Romans ocrea ; in middle-age writers, greva,
gamberia, bamberga, bembarga or benbarga. The boot
is laid to have been the invention of the Carians. It
was at firll made of leather, afterwards of brafs or iron,
and was proof both againlt cuts and thruils. It was
from this that Homer calls the Qxe.dk.?, brazen looted.
The boot only covered half the leg ; fome fay the right
leg, which was more advanced than the left, it being
advanced lorwards in an attack with the fword ; but
in reality it appears to have been ufed on either leg,
and fometimes on both. Thole who fought with darts
or other miflile weapons, advanced the left leg fore-
moll, fo that this only was booted.
Fijhing-Boors, are a thick Itrong fort ufed in drag¬
ging ponds and the like. Hunting-boots, a thinner
kind ufed by fportfmen. Jack-boots, a kind of very
flrong boots ufed by the troopers.
Boot, is likewife a kind of torture for criminals ;
to extort a confeffion, by means of a boot, flocking, or
bulkin of parchment j which being put on the leg
moift, and brought near the fire, in Ihrinking fqueezes
the leg violently, and occafions intolerable pain.
There is alfo another kind of boot; confining of
four thick flrong boards bound round with cords : two
of thefe are put between the criminal’s legs, and the
two others placed one on the outfide of one leg and the
other on the other j then fqueezing the legs againll the
boards by the cords, the criminal’s bones are feverely
pinched, or even broken, &c.
,The boot is now difufed in England and Scotland ;
but it fubfifts Hill in fome other countries.
Boor-Tree, or Boot-lajl, an inllrument ufed by firoe-
mak-ers to widen the leg of a boot. It is a wooden
cylinder Hit into two parts, between which, when it is
put into the boot, they drive by main force a wedge or
quoin.
BOOTES, a conllellation of the northern hemi-
fphere, confining of 23 liars according to Ptolemy’s
catalogue, of 18 in Tycho’s, of 34 in Bayer’s, of 5 2
in Hevelius’s, and of 54 in Mr Flantftead’s catalogue.
BOOTH, Barton, a famous Engliih after, bom
in Lancafhire in 1681, and educated in Weftminlter
fchool under the celebrated Dr Bulhby, where his fuc^
cefs in the Latin plays cufiomarily performed by the
fcholars gave him an inclination for the ftage. He
was intended for the church ; but running away from
fchool to Dublin, he there commenced after. His firft
appearance was in the part of Oroonoko, in which he
came off with every teftimonial of approbation from the
audience. From this time he continued daily impro¬
ving j and, after two fuccefsful campaigns in that king¬
dom, conceived thoughts of returning to his native
country, and making a trial of his abilities on the Eng¬
liih llage. To this end, he firll, by letter, reconciled
himfelf to his friends ; and then, as a farther flep to¬
wards infuring his fuccefs, obtained a recommendation
from Lord Fitzharding (one of the lords of the bed¬
chamber to Prince George of Denmark) to Mr Bet¬
terton, who with great candour and good nature took
him und^r his care, and gave him all the afliflance in
his
BOO
Bootli. h[s power. The firft part Mr Booth appeared in at
""V—-' London was that of Maximus in Lord Rochefter’s Va-
lentinian, his reception in which exceeded even his moft
fanguine expeftations j and very foon after his perform¬
ance of Artaban, in Rowe’s Ambitious Stepmother,
which was a new tragedy, eftabliihed hk reputation
as fecond at leafl: to his great inftruftor. Pyrrhus, in
the Diftreffed Mother, was another part in which he
fhone without a rival. But he was indebted to a happy
coincidence of merit and chance, for that height of
fame which he at length attained in the charafter of
Cato, as drawn by Mr Addifon, in 1712. For this
play being confidered as a party one, the Whigs, in
favour of whofe principles is was apparently written,
thought it their duty ftrongly to fupport it, while at
the fame time the Tories, who had too much fenfe to
appear to confider it as a retledlion on their adminiftra-
tion, were dill more vehement in their approbation of
it, which they carried to fuch a height, as even to
make a colle&ion of 50 guineas in the boxes during the
performance, and prefent them to Mr Booth, with this
compliment, “ That it was a flight acknowledgment
for his honed oppofition to a perpetual dilator, and
his dying fo bravely in the caufe of liberty.” Befides
this, he had a prefent of an equal fum from the mana¬
gers, in confideration of the great fuccefs of the play,
which they attributed in a good meafure to his extra¬
ordinary merit in the performance j and certain it is,
that no one fince that time has ever equalled, or even
nearly approached, his excellence in that chara&er.—
But thefe were not the only advantages which were to
accrue to Mr Booth from his fuccefs in this part ; for
Lord Bolingbroke, then one of the principal fecretaries
of date, in a little time after procured a fpecial licenfe
from Queen Anne, recalling all the former ones, and
nominating Mr Booth as joint manager with Wilkes,
Cibber, and Dogget *, none of whom were pleafed at
it j but the lad efpecially took fuch difgud as to with¬
draw himfelf from any further fhare in the management.
In 1704, Mr Booth had married a daughter of Sir
William Barkham Bart, who died in 17x0, without
idue. Being now edablidied in the management, he
once more turned his thoughts towards matrimony ;
and in the year 1719 united himfelf to the celebrated
Mifs Heder Santlow, a woman of a mod amiable dif-
pofition, whofe great merit as an a&refs, added to the
utmod difcretion and prudential economy, had enabled
her to fave up a confiderable fortune. During the 20
years in which Mr Booth continued a manager, the
theatre was in the greated credit *, and his illnefs and
death, which happened on the 10th of May 1733,
contributed not a little to its decline.
Mr Booth wrote a dramatic entertainment called
Dido and JEneas *, but his maderpiece was a Latin in-
fcription to the memory of Mr William Smith, a cele¬
brated a£!or, who died while he was young.—As an
aftor, his excellency lay wholly in tragedy, not being
able to endure fuch parts as had not drong pafhon to
infpire him. And even in this walk, dignity rather
than complacency, rage rather than tendernefs, feemed
to be his tade. For a particular idea of his abilities,
we mud refer to the defcription Mr Cibber has given
of him in his Apology •, and the admirable charafter
drawn, of him by that excellent judge of dramatic per-
B O R
fe&ion, Aaron Hill, Efq. in a political paper publi/hed Eooty
by him called the Prompter, which may be feen at it
length in Theoph. Cibber’s Lives of the Poets, and , ^oraX-
Chetwood’s Hidory of the Stage.-—His character as a
man was adorned with many amiable qualities, among
which, a goodnels of heart, the bads of every virtue,
was remarkably confpicuous j and fo particularly was
he didinguidied and carelfed, and his company fought
by the great, that, as Chetwood relates of him, not one
nobleman in the kingdom had fo many fets of horfes at
command as he had.
BOOTY, whatever is taken from an enemy in time
of war.—Among the Greeks, the booty was divided
in common among the army, the general only claiming
a larger diare. By the military difcipline of the Ro¬
mans, fpoils taken from the enemy belonged to the re¬
public, particular perfons having no right to them. The
generals who piqued themfelyes on their probity carried
it wholly to the public treafury. Sometimes indeed
they divided it among the foldiery, to animate them,
and ferve in lieu of a reward. But this didribution
depended on the generals, wdio vrere to condudl them-
felves herein with great equity and moderation ; other-
wife it became a crime of peculate to lay hands on the
pillage, as regularly belonging only to the date. The
confuls Romulus and Vaturius were condemned for
having fold the booty taken from the Equi.—Among
the Jews, the booty w'as divided equally between the
army and the people, though under the kings a dif¬
ferent kind of didribution obtained.—Among the Ma¬
hometans, two thirds of the fpoils are allowed to the
army : the other third to God, to Mahomet and his re¬
lations, and to the orphans, the poor, and the pilgrims.*—
Among us, formerly the booty w7as divided among the
foldiery. If the general be in the field, every body
takes what he can lay hold on : if the general be abfent,
the booty is diftributed among the foldiery, two parts
being allowed to the cavalry, and one to the infantry.
A captain is allowed ten (hares, a lieutenant fix, and a
cornet four.
BOPPART, a town of Germany, in the circle of
the Rhine, and eledlorate of Treves j it is feated at
the foot of a mountain near the Rhine, in E. Long. 7.
35. N. Lat. 50. 19.
BOPSINGEN, a towrn of Suabia in Germany,
feated on the river Egar, in E. Long. 9. 55. N. Lat.
48. 51.
BOQUINIANS, in church hiftory, a fe£! of here¬
tics, fo called from Boquinus their founder, who taught
that Chrift did not die for all mankind, but only for
the faithful, and confequently was only a particular
Saviour.
BORAGO, Borage. See Botany Index.
BORAK, among Mahometans, a fabulous animal,
fuppofed to be of the middle kind betw’een an afs and
a mule, whereon their prophet was carried in his noc¬
turnal flight from Jerufalem into the heavens. This
animal the Arabians call Al-Borak, q. A.JJjining. The
night when the journey was performed is called Lailat
al Meeraga, i. e. the night of afcenfon ; and the flight
itfelf Al Mefra ,• concerning wdiich there is a multi¬
tude of traditions.
BORAX, in Chemiftry, a fait in appearance fome-
W’hat fimUar to cryftals of alum, brought originally
from
t 30 1
BOR [ 3
Borbetoma- from the Eaft Indies in an impure ftate, and afterwards
g^s freed from its impurities by certain procefles in the
Bora-lode European countries. It was long a matter of un-
U—certainty whether this fait be a natural or fa&itious
fubftance in thofe countries from whence it is
brought 5 but it is now beyond a doubt, that it is na¬
turally produced in the mountains of Thibet, from
whence other parts of the eaftern continent are fup-
plied.
According to an account in the Philofophical Tranf-
a&ions, vol. Ixxvii. by Mr Blane, it is produced in the
kingdom of Jumlate, about 30 days journey north from
Betowle, a fmall principality about 200 miles north-
eaft of Lucknow. The place where it is found is faid
to be a fmall valley furrounded with fnowy mountains,
in which is a lake about lix miles in uwcumference j
the water of which is conftantly fo hot that the hand
cannot bear it for any time. Around this lake the
ground is perfectly barren, not producing even a blade
of grafs •, and the earth is fo full of a faline matter, that
after falls of rain or fnow it concretes in white flakes
on the furface like the natron of Hindoftan. On the
banks of this lake, in the winter feafon, when the falls
of fnow begin, the earth is formed into fmall refervoirs
lix inches high : when thefe are filled with fnow,
the hot water from the lake is thrown upon it;
which, together with the water from the melted fnow,
remains in the refervoir, to be partly abforbed by the
earth and partly evaporated by the fun ; after which
there remains at the bottom a cake of fometimes half
an inch thick of crude borax, which is taken up and
referved for ufe. It can only be made in the winter
feafon, becaufe the falls of fnow are indifpenfably re-
quifite, and alfo becaufe the faline appearances upon
the earth are ftrongeft at that time. When once it
has been made on any fpot, it cannot be made again
on the fame until the fnow has fallen and diiTolved three
or four times, when the faline efflorefcence appears as
before. See Chemistry and Mineralogy Index.
BORBETOMAGUS, va. Ancient Geography, a city
of the Vangiones on the Rhine } now Worms, in Ger¬
many.
BORBONIA. See Botany Index.
BORBORITES, in church-hiftory, a feft of Gno-
ftics, in the fecond century, who, befides embracing the
errors of thefe heretics, denied the laft judgment. Their
name comes from the Greek Borbores, “ filth 5” on ac¬
count of a cuftom they had of daubing their faces and
bodies with dirt and filth.
BORCH, a town of the duchy of Magdeburg in
Lower Saxony, feated on the river Elbe, in E. Long,
j2. 14. N. Lat. 52. 25.
BORCHLOEN, a town of the bifhopric of Liege in
Germany, lituated in E. Long. 5. 28. N. Lat. 50. 50.
BORCOVIUM, in Ancient Geography, a town of
the Ottadini in Britain, now Berwick on Tweed.
BORD-halfpenny, a fmall toll by cuftom paid to
the lord of the town for fetting up boards, tables,
booths, &c. in fairs and markets.
BoRodLands, the demefnes which lords keep in their
Lands for the maintenance of their board or table.
BoRD-Lode, a fervice required of tenants to carry
timber out of the woods of the lord to his hoiife.
It is alfo ufed to fignify the quantity of provifion
t ] BOR
which the bordarii or bordmen paid for their bord-
lands. v"
BoRD-Service, the tenure of bord-lands, by which £0.
Ibme lands in certain places are held of the bilhop of*——^
London, and the tenants now pay fixpence per acre,
in lieu of fending provifion anciently for their lord’s
table.
BORDAT, in Commerce, a fmall narrow fluff,
which is manufactured in fome parts of Egypt, parti¬
cularly at Cairo, at Alexandria, and Damietta.
BORDE, Andrew, a phyfician, was born at Pe-
venfey in Suflex, early in the 16th century, and fup-
pofed to have been educated at Weftminfter fchool. In
his Introduilion to Knowledge, he fays, that he was a
ftudent of Oxford j but of what college he does not
mention. He left the univerfity without a degree, and
entered himfelf a brother of a Carthufian convent in or
near London ; but not liking the fevere difcipline of
that order, he returned to Oxford and applied himfelf
to the ftudy of phyfic. Some time after, he embarked
for the continent 5 and, as he himfelf expreffes it, “ tra¬
velled through and round about Chriftendom, and out
of Chriftendom into fome parts^bf Africa.” In the
years 1541 and 1542, he refided at Montpelier in
France,- where he was made doClor of phyfic, and after
his return to England was incorporated into the fame
degree at Oxford. From the preface to his introduce
tion above mentioned, it appears that he had been in
Scotland, which probably wTas foon after his return from
France. Having now fatisfied his inclination for tra¬
velling, he fettled firft at Pevenfey wThere he was born,
afterwards at Winchefter, and finally in London, where
he is faid to have become a fellow of the college of
phyficians, and firft phyfician to King Henry VIII.
But notwithftanding his eminence in his profeffion, he
had the misfortune to fpend the latter end of his life
in the Fleet prifon, where he died in the year 1540.
As to his charafter, Wood fays,, that “ he was efteem-
ed a noted poet, a witty and ingenious perfon, and an
excellent phyfician.” Pits call him a man of fufficient
learning, but too volatile and inconftant.. Bale and
fome others, on the contrary, abufe him grofsly. His
writings are, 1. A book of the introduction of know*-
ledge, the whych doth teach man to fpeak part of
all manner of languages, &c. Lond. J542, 410 j dedi¬
cated, from Montpelier, to the lady Mary daughter
to Henry VIII. It is written partly in verfe, and
partly in profe, containing 39 chapters, before each
of which is a wooden print of a man. 2. The brevi¬
ary of health, wherein are remedies for all manner
of fickneffes and difeafes, &c. Lond. 154.7, &.c. 4to.
3. Dietary of health, Lond. 1576, 8vo. 4. The
merry tales of the madmen of Gotham. Printed, fays
Wood, in the time of Henry VIII. in whofe reign, and'
after, it was accounted a book full of wit and mirth by
fcholars and gentlemen. Afterwards being often printed,
it is now only fold on the ftalls of ballad-fingers. 5. A
right pleafant and merry hiftory of the mylner of
Abington, with his- wife and his fair daughter, and of
two poor fcholars of Cambridge. Lond. printed by
Richard Jones, 4to. 6. A book of every region,
country, and province \ which (hows the miles and
leagues diftance from city to city, and from town to
town, with tke noted things in the laid cities and towns.
Wood.
BOR [32
Border Wood fays that the author lent the manufciipt of this
book to his friend Thomas Cromwell, who loft it, to
the great grief of. the author, who -would otherwifq
'have publiftied it. In this inftance, however, the an¬
tiquary was miftnformed} for it has ftnce been publiftied
by Hearne at the end of Benediflus abbas Pelerb. de
vita Henrici ll. Oxf. J735, 8vo. 7. The principles
of aftronomy, the whych diligently perfecuted is in a
manner a prognofticatidn to the world. Lond. printed
by Robert Copland, i2mo. The author fays that he
wrote this little book in four days, with one old pen
without mending.
BORDER, in Gardening, is made to enclofe par¬
terres, that they may not be injured by rvalking in
them. Borders are made either circular, ftraight, or in
cants $ and are turned into knots, fcrolls, volutes, and
other compartiments. They are rendered very orna¬
mental by the flowers, -ftirubs, yews, &x. that are rai¬
led in them. They are always laid with a (harp ri¬
ling in the middle ; becaufe, if they are flat, they are
noways agreeable to the eye : and as for their breadth,
the largeft are allowed five or fix feet, and the fmalleft
commonly four.
BORDUNI, or Bordone, Paris, an excellent
Italian painter, was born at Venice about the year
3512 ; and, being of a noble family, had a polite edu¬
cation. He was the difciple of Titian ; but has been
admired more for the delicacy of his pencil than for the
truth of his outlines. He was at the court of France
in the reign of Francis I. who had a great efteem for
him, and^ for whom he drew' not only abundance of
hiftory-pieces, but the portraits of feveral court-ladies,
in fo fine a manner, that original nature was hardly more
charming. He at length returned to Venice, laden
with riches and honour •, and having gained great
reputation in all parts of Italy, died in 1587, aged
*5*
BORDURE, in Heraldry. See there, N° 10.
BORE, among engineers, denotes the diameter of
the barrel of a gun pr cannon, or rather its whole
cavity.
BOREAS, a Greek name, now' in common ufe for
the north wind. Pezron obferves, that anciently Bo¬
reas fignified the north-eajl wind blowing at the time
of the fummer folitice. The Greeks erefted an altar
to Boreas. He is reprefented on the temple at A-
thens with his robe before his mouth, as if he felt the
cold of the climate over which he prefides, agreeably
to the defcription of Ovid, who calls him gelidus tyran¬
nies, “ the {hivering tyrant,” Met. vi. ver. 711. But
he is ufually deferibed by the Roman poets as violent
and impetuous y ibid. ver. 6S6—ver. 7°7* -^n Pa^nf*
ing, he is generally reprefented like an old man with a
horrible look, his hair and beard covered with fnow or
hoar froft, with the feet and tail of a dragon. M.
Spierlingius has a treatife in praife of Boreas, wherein
he {Hows the honours paid to him by antiquity. Bo¬
reas, according to this author, purifies the air, renders
it calm and falubrious, preferves buildings from de¬
cay, drives away the plague and other noxious difea-
fes, and expels locufts and other vermine hurtful to the
grounds.
BOREL, Peter, a learned phyfician, was the fen
<}f James Borel v.'ho publiftied feveral poems, and was
] BOR
born at Caftres in 1620. He applied himfelf to the BorelH,
ftudy of phyfic, of which he was created doftor, and Borgia,
pratftifed with great fuccefs in the city of Caftres. To- '
wards the end of the year 1653, he went to Paris, and
was foon after made phyfician in ordinary to the king.
In 1674, he was received into the academy of feien-
ces, and diftinguifhed himfelf by writing a great num¬
ber of works. The moil efteemed are, 1. IHJloria-
rum et obfervationum medico■phyficarum centurice quin-
que. 2. Bibliotheca chymica, duodecimo. 3. De vero
telefcopii invent ore, cum brevi omnium canfpifcillorum
hi/loria. He died in 1678.
BORELLI, John Alphonso, a famous philofo-
p>her and mathematician, born at Naples the 28th of
January 1608. He was profeffor of philofophy and
mathematics in fotne of the moft celebrated univer-
fities of Italy, particularly at Florence and Pifa, where
he became highly in -favour with the princes of the
houfe of Medicis } but having been engaged in the re¬
volt of Medina, he was obliged to retire to Rome,
where he fpent the remainder of his life under the pro-
te&ion of Chriftina queen of Sweden, who honoured
him with her friendfhip, and by her liberality towards
him foftened the rigour of his hard fortune. He con¬
tinued two years in the convent of the regular clergy
of St Pantaleon, called the pious fchools, where he in-
ftrnfted the youth in mathematical ftudies. He died
there of a pleurify, the 31ft of December 1679, in the
72d year of his age. He wwote in Latin, x. Euclid
reftored. 2. The theory of the influence of the planets
in medicine, deduced from phyiical caufes. 3. Of per-
cuffive force. 4. Of natural motions depending upon
gravity. 5. An hiftorical and meteorological account
of the burning of Mount iEtna, in the year 1669. 6.
Of the motion of animals } and feveral other works,
fome of which are in Italian.
BORGIA, C^sar, natural fon of Pope Alexan¬
der VI. was a brave general, but a moft abandoned vil¬
lain. See [Hi/lory of) Italy.—It is incredible what
numbers he caufed to be taken off by poifon, or by the
fword j and it is notorious that fwarms of affaflins were
conftantly kept in pay by him at Rome, for the fake
of removing all who w!ere either obnoxious or inconve¬
nient to him. He experienced various turns of for¬
tune } and was fometimes very profperous, fometimes
the reverfe. He very narrowly efcaped dying by poi¬
fon in 1503 } for having concerted with the pope a
defign of poifoning nine newly created cardinals at
once, for the fake of poffefling their effects, the poifon-
ed wune, deftined for the purpofe, wras by miftake
brought to and drank by themfelves. The pope died
of it; but Ctefar, by the vigour of his youth; and the
force of antidotes, after many ftruggles, recovered. He
only recovered to outlive his fortune and grandeur, to
fee himfelf depreffed, and his enemies exalted 5 for he
was foon after divefted of all his acquifitions, and fent
a prifoner to Spain, in order to free Italy from an incen¬
diary, and the Italian princes from thole dangers which
the turbulent and reftlefs fpirit of Ctefar made thm
fear, even though he w'as unarmed. He efcaped from
thence; and got fafe to Navarre to King John his bro¬
ther-in-law, who was then at war with his fubje&s.
Ceefar ferved as a volunteer in that war, and w as killed
in 1507.
FORGO,
BOR [ 33 ] BOR
Borgo BORGO, an ancient town of Sweden, feated on the
*! gulf of Finland, in the province of Nyland. E. Long.
. 26. 25. N. Lat. 60. 34.
Borgo de St Sepulchro, a town of Tufcany, in Italy,
fituated in E. Long, 13. o. N. Lat. 43. 30.
Borgo de Val de Faro, a town of Italy, in the duchy
of Parma, in E. Long. 10. 36. N. Lat. 44. 35.
Borgo Forte, a towm of the Mantuan in Italy, fitu-
ated at the confluence of the rivers Po and Menzo. E.
Long. xi. o. N. Lat. 44. 50.
Borgo San Domino, a town of Italy, in the duchy
of Parma, with a bifliop’s fee. E. Long. 10. 31. N.
Lat. 41. 53.
BORGOGNONE, a celebrated painter, whofe true
name was Giacomo Cortejji; but he is commonly call¬
ed Borgognone, from the country where he w^as born,
about the year 1605. He rvas much admired and high¬
ly applauded for his admirable gufto and grand manner
of painting battles. He had for feveral years been con-
verfant in military affairs, w'as an officer of confiderable
rank in the army, made the camp his fchool, and form¬
ed all his ideas from what he had feen performed in
the field. His ftyle is roughly noble, full of fire and
fpirit, and there are a few prints etched by his own
Land. Towards the clofe of his life he retired to the
Jefuits convent at Rome, where he is faid to have ta¬
ken fan&uary to rid his hands of an ill bargain he
had got of a wife j but happily furviving her, he
lived in great efteem and honour till after the year
1675.
BORIA, a fmall town of Spain, in the kingdom of
Arragon. W. Long. 2. 2. N. Lat. 41. 50.
BORING, in a general fenfe, the art of perforating,
or making a hole through any folid body.
Boring of Water-pipes. T he method of boring wa¬
ter-pipes is as follows. The poles of alder, which is a
very ufeful wood in making pumps, water-pipes, &c.
being laid on horfes or traffels of a foot height, to reft
the augre upon while they are boring, they fet up a
lathe to turn the leaft end of the poles, to fit them to
the cavities of the great end of the others. They
turn the fmall ends of the poles about five or fix inches
in length, to the fize they intend to bore the bigger
ends about the fame depth, viz. five or fix inches. This
is defigned to make a joint to fhut each pair of poles
together, the concave part being the female part, and
the other 4;he male of the joint. In turning the male
part, they turn the channel in it, or a fmall groove at a
certain diftance from tne end } and in the female part
they bore a fmall hole to fit over this channel. This
being .done,^ they bore the poles through $ and to pre¬
vent them from boring out at the fide, they ftick great
nails at each end to be a guide in boring. It is ufual,
however to bore them at both ends; fo that if a pole*
be crooked one way, they can bore it through and not
fpoil it.
Boring, in Farriery, a cruel and abfurd method of
treating a wrenched ftioulder. See Farriery In-
des.
Boring, in Mineralogy, a method of piercino- the
earth with fcooping irons, which being drawn back at
proper times, bring up with them famples of the dif¬
ferent ftrata through which they have paffed; by the
examination'of which the fkilful mineralogift will be
able to guefs whereabouts a vein of ore or a ftratum
Vol. IV. Part I.
of coal may lie, or whether it tvill be worth while to Boriquen
open a mine for the purpofe of working it. II
BORIQUEN, one of the Caribbee iflands in North , ■BorIafe' ,
America, near that of Porto Rico. The Englifti for- v
merly had a fettlement there, but were driven away by
the Spaniards. It is at prefent without inhabitants,
though agreeable and fertile j the air being wholefome,
and the water good. There are a great number of
land-crabs, whence fome have called it Crab-ifand,
W. Long. 64. 35. N. Lat. 18. O.
BORISTHENES, in Ancient Geography, the lar-
geft river of Sarmatia Europea, thus defcribed by Me¬
la, who copies verbatim from Herodotus : “ It runs
through a cognominal people, is the moft pleafant of
all the rivers of Scythia, and calmer than all of them
in its courfe, and very agreeable to drink : it feeds very
rich paftures, and produces large fifli of the beft fla¬
vour, and without bones j it comes a great way, riling
from fprings unknown \ its courfe is a diftance of 40
days, and fo far is it navigable.” It is nbw called the
Dnieper or Nieper.
BORKELO, a ftrong town in the United Provin¬
ces, in the county of Zutphen, feated on the rivet Bor-
kel, in E. Long. 6. 30. N. Lat. 52. 15.
BORLASE, Dr Edmund, an eminent phyficiafi
and Englifli writer in the 17th century, was the fon of
Sir John Borlafe, mafter of the ordinance, and one of
the lord juftices of Ireland in 1643. He ftudied in
Dublin college, and afterwards at the univerfity of
Leyden, at which laft place he took the degree of
dodlor of phyfic. He afterwards pra<ftifed phyfic with
great fuccefs in the city of Chefter, and was incorpo¬
rated dodlor of the faculty in the univerfity at Ox¬
ford. Among the books which he wrote and publilh-
ed are the following. 1. Latham Spaw in Lancalhire,
with fome remarkable cafes and cures performed by it.
2. The reduftion of Ireland to the crowm of England. *
3. The Hiftory of the Irilh rebellion. 4. Brief reflec¬
tions on the earl of Caftlehaven’s memoirs, &c. He
died after the year 1682.
Borlase, William, a very ingenious and learned
waiter, was of an ancient family in Cornwall, and born
at Pendeen, in the parilh of St Juft, Feb. 2. 1695-6.
He was put early to fchool at Penzance, and in 1709
removed to Plymouth. March 1712-13, he was en¬
tered of Exeter college, Oxford j and, June 1719, took
a mafter of arts degree. In 1720, he Was ordained a
prieft j and, in 1722, inftituted to the re&ory of
Ludgvan in Cornwall. In 1732, lord chancellor
King prefented him to the vicarage of St Juft, his
native parifh; and this, with the redlory aforefaid,
were all the preferments he ever had. In the parifti
of Ludgvan were rich copper wmrks, which abound
wuth mineral and metallic foflils 5 and thefe, being
a man of an aflive and inquifitive turn, he colleft-
ed from time to time, and thence was led to ftudy
at large the natural hiftory of his native county. He
was ftruck at the fame time with the numerous mo¬
numents of remote antiquity that are to be met with
in Cornwall; and, enlarging therefore his plan, he de¬
termined to gain as accurate an acquaintance as pof-
fible with the Druid learning, and with the religion
and cuftoms of the ancient Britons, before their con-
verfion to Chriftianity. In 1750 he w’as admitted a
fellow of the Royal Society ; and, in 1753, publilhed
>
BorTafc
II
Borneo.
• rr „ B . 0 R .. [3+
m folio at Oxford his “ Antiquities of Cornwall $” a
fecond edition of which was publiihed, in the fame
_ form, at London, 1769, with this title, “ Antiquities,
hiltorical and monumental, of the county of Cornwall 5
confiding of feveral eflays on the ancient inhabitants,
Druid fuperftition, cuftoms and remains of the moft
remote antiquity in Britain and the Britifh ifles, ex¬
emplified and proved by monuments now extant in
Cornwall and the Scilly iflands j with a vocabulary of
the Cornu-Britilh language. Revifed, with feveral
additions, by the author 5 to which is added a map
of Cornwall, and twTo new plates.” His next pub¬
lication was, “ Obfervations on the ancient and pre-
fent date, of the iflands of Scilly, and their import¬
ance to the trade of Great Britain; Oxf. 1756,”
4to. This wras the extenfion of a paper which had
been read before the Royal Society in 1753. In
1758 came out his “Natural hiftory of Cornwall;
Oxf.” fol. After thefe publications, he fent a variety
of foflils and remains of antiquity which he had de-
fcribed in his works, to be repofited in the Afhmolean
mufeum: for wdiich, and other benefa&ions of the
fame kind, he received the thanks of the univerfity, in
a letter from the vice-chancellor, Nov. 18. 1758 ; and,
March 1766, the degree of doftor of law^s. He died
in 1772, aged 77 years, leaving two fons out of fix,
whom he had by a lady he married in 1724. Befides
his literary connexions wuth many ingenious and learn¬
ed men, he had a particular correfpondence with Mr
Pope; and there is Hill exifting a large colledtion of
letters written by that poet to Dr Borlafe. He fur-
nifhed Pope with many of the materials which formed
his grotto at Twickenham, confining of curious foflils;
and there may at prefent be feen Dr Borlafe’s name in
capitals, compofed of cryftals, in the grotto. On
which occafion Pope fays to Borlafe in a letter, “ I
am much obliged to you for your valuable colleftion ©f
Cornifli diamonds : I have placed them where they
may befi: reprefent yourfelf, in a Jhade, but fhining,”
alluding to the obfcurity of the doflor’s fituation,
and the brilliancy of his talents. Befides the above
works, he fent many curious papers to the Philofophi-
eal Tranfa&ions, and had in contemplation feveral
other works.
BORMIO, a county depending on the republic
of the Grifons in Switzerland. It is bounded on the
fouth by the ftate of Venice, on the eaft by the ter¬
ritory of the houfe of Auftria, and on the fouth and
weft by Caddea. It is 15 miles over both ways; and
is divided into five communities, viz. the town of Bor-
the valley of Forbia, the Interior Valley, the
Lower Valley, and the Valley of Luvino. Bormio is
the only town in this diftricl; and has a governor call¬
ed called a podejla, fent by the Grifons to prefide in ci¬
vil and criminal affairs. It is feated at the confluence
cf the rivers Addo and Ifalacua, in E. Long. 10. 10.
N. Lat. 46. 45.
BORNE, a market town of Lincolnfhire in Eng¬
land. W. Long. o. 20. N. Lat. 52. 40.
BORNEO, an ifland of Afia, in the Eaft Indies,
and one of the three great Sunda iflands. It is thought
to be the largeft ifland in the world, next to New Hol¬
land ; being I50&milesin circumference. It is feated
under the equator, that line cutting it almoft through
the middle. It is almoft of a circular figure ; abounds
] BOR
with gold ; and the fineft diamonds in the Indies ate Borneo,
found in its rivers, being probably waftied down fromv-—v—-*
the hills by torrents. Here are alfo mines of iron and
tin, and loadftones. Bird’s nefts f are to be had in thisf SezBirdi*
ifland, which are eatable, and reckoned a great deli-^£/?J.
cacy. The beafts are, oxen, buffaloes, deer, goats,
elephants, tigers, and monkeys. This ifland has fine
rivers, efpecially towards the wreft and fouth. In
their monfoon from April to September, the wind is
wefterly ; and they have continual heavy rains, attend¬
ed with violent ftorms of thunder and lightning. The
rainy feafon continues for eight months of the year;
and as during that time all the flat country near the
coaft is overflow'ed, the air is rendered very unhealth¬
ful, and the inhabitants are forced to build their hou-
fes on* floats, which they make faft to trees. The
houfes have but one floor, with partitions made with
cane; and the roofs are covered with palmetto leaves,
the eaves of which reach within four or five feet of the
bottom. The weft and north eaft fides of the ifland are
almoft defert, and the eaft is but little known. The
inland parts are very mountainous; and the fouth-
eaft, for many leagues together, is a ftinking morafs,
which, being overflowed in the wet feafon, is very un¬
healthy.
The Portuguefe, who firft difcovered Borneo, had
arrived in the Indies above 30 years before they knew
any thing of it more than the name, and its fituation,
by reafon of their frequently palling by its coaft. At
laft one Captain Edward Corril had orders to examine
it more narrowly ; and being once acquainted with the
wmrth of the country, they made frequent voyages
thither. They found the coafts inhabited by Malayan
Moors, wflio had certainly eftablilhed themfelves there
by conqueft; but the original inhabitants ftill remain
in the mountains, and are ftyled Beajus, wdiich in the
Malayan language fignifies a wild man. The moft
authentic account of thefe people is the followipg,
which was extra&ed from the papers of Father Anto¬
nio Ventimiglia, an Italian miflionary. He wras fent
to Borneo from Macao, on board a Portuguefe Ihip,
converted great numbers to Chriftianity, and died on
the ifland about the year 1691. The Beajus have no
kings, but many little chiefs. Some are fubjedl to
the Moorilh kings, and pay them tribute ; but fiich as
live far up the country are altogether independent,
and live according to their own cuftoms. They are
generally very fuperftitious, and much addi&ed to au¬
gury. They do not adore idols; but their facrifices
of fweet wood and perfumes are offered to one God,
who, they believe, rewards the juft in heaven, and pu-
nifhes the wicked in hell. They marry but one wfife ;
and look upon any breach of conjugal faith, either in
the man or woman, as a capital offence. The Beajus
are naturally honeft and induftrious, and have a bro¬
therly affefHon for one another. They have a notion
of property, which yet does not render them covetous.
They fow and cultivate their lands ; but in the time of
harveft, each reaps as much as will ferve his family,
and the reft belongs to the tribe in common ; by which
means they prevent neceflity or difputes. With the
Moors on the coafts the Portuguefe for fome time car¬
ried on a confiderable trade, and at their requeft fettled
a fadlory there ; which, however, was afterwards fur-
prifed and plundered by the Moors, who put moft of
the
* - V
BOR [ 35 1 BOR
•Bornholm, the people to the fword. The tnoft confiderable river
Bornou. in Borneo is called Banjar, at the mouth of which our
”'r Eaft India Company have a fa&ory.
BORNHOLM, an ifland in the Baltic fea, to the
fouth-eaft of the province of Schonen in Sweden. It
Is twenty-one miles in length, and above thirteen in
breadth. It has three confiderable towns, Rattum,
Sandwich, and Nexia; with a great number of vil¬
lages j and is fertile and populous. It was conquer¬
ed by the Swedes in 1658 ; but the inhabitants, under
the conduct of Jens Roefods, voluntarily furrendered
it to the king of Denmark, on account of the bad
ufage they received from the former. In 1678, a bo-
' dy of 5000 Swedifti troops, in their paffage from Po¬
merania to Sweden, being (hipwrecked on this ifland,
fuch of them as remained were made prifoners of war.
The inhabitants defend the ifland by their own militia,
without any expence to the crown. The commandant
or governor refides at Rattum. E. Long. 14. 56. N.
Lat. 55. 15.
BORNOU, a kingdom or province of Zaara in
Africa, extending from 12 to 22 degrees of eaft lon¬
gitude, and from 17 to 21 degrees of north latitude.
* The northern part is poor, and like the reft of the pro¬
vinces of Zaara : but all the reft is well watered by
fprings and rivers that tumble down with a dreadful
noife from the mountains ; rendering the country pro¬
lific in corn, grafs, and fruits, and giving it a pleafing
afpeft. The eaftern and weftern frontiers are divided
into mountains and valleys, the latter being all cover¬
ed with flocks of cattle, fields of rice and millet, and
many of the mountains with wood, fruit-trees, and
cotton. On the north-weft ftands the mountain of
Tarton, having plenty of good iron mines j and on the
fouth flows the river Niger, which, it is faid, after
running a great many leagues under a long chain of
mountains, rears up its head again, and mingles its
ftreams with the waters of the lake Bornou in its
courfe, from whence it wafties the walls of the capital
of this kingdom. The compilers of the Univerfal Hi-
ftory, however, are of opinion, that in thefe moun¬
tains the river Niger hath its fource, becaufe no river
hath been traced to the eaftward, except the Nile,
which runs in a different courfe from north to fouth,
and the White river, on the weftern frontiers of Abyf-
flnia, which is a branch of the Nile. The eaftern and
weftern parts of Bornou are inhabited by a people of a
roving difpofition, who live in tents, and have their
women, children, and every thing elfe, in common ;
the wTord property, or any idea equivalent to it, being
utterly unknown among them. They have neither re¬
ligion, laws, government, nor any degree of fubordi-
nation; and hence they have been fuppofed by Cluve-
rius to be the lineal defcendents of the ancient Gara-
mantes, and this to have been the refidence of that peo¬
ple. In thefe parts, the natives are almoft to a man
fhepherds and hulbandmen. In fummer they go naked,
except a ftiort apron before; but in winter they are
warmly clothed with the fofteft ftieep-lkins, of which
they alfo form their bedclothes j and indeed this
is fcarce a fuflicient defence againft the inclemency of
the weather at certain feafons of the year, when a cold
piercing wind blows from the northern mountains that
chills the blood in proportion as the pores of the body
have been opened by the fcorching heats of furruner.
Baudrand and Draper affirm, that the natives are fcarce Boromseu*
fuperior in their underltanding to brutes, not even II
having any names whereby to diftinguilh each other, r°u& ^
except what they take from fome perlonal defe£t or
Angularity j fuch as lean, fat, fquinting, humpbacked,
&c. In the towns, however, it is acknowledged that
they are fomething more civilized and polite, being
many of them merchants ; but of thefe towns, or in¬
deed of the kingdom in general, very little is known.
BOROMALUS. See Borromeus.
BORONDON, St, an ifland in the Atlantic o-
cean, mentioned by fome writers, particularly Linf-
chotten, in their defcription of the Canary iflands, as
fomething fupernatural. It is faid to be about 100
leagues diftant from Ferro, probably weft, though no
writer has pretended to lay down its exaft fituation.
Here it is affirmed feveral ftiips have touched by acci¬
dent, and all agree in their relations of the ftate of the
inhabitants and ifland. They affirm, that it is perpe¬
tually clothed with a great variety of wood, chiefly
fruit-trees : that the valleys are in a perpetual ftate of
verdure $ and continually decked with flowers, grafs,
and plants, the fpontaneous produftions of the earth j
or with corn and pulfe, cultivated with great care by
the inhabitants: that the foil is fo prolific as to raife
large quantities of corn for exportation j and that the
ftiips that call here never fail of meeting with refreffi-
ments of every kind. It is faid to be peopled by Chri-
ftians, who have a language of their own, apparently
combined of a variety of modern languages j for, fay
they, whoever underftands the European tongues may-
make ftiift to hold converfation with this people. It
is remarkable, that no ftiips, exprefsly fent upon this
difcovery, were ever fortunate enough to fall in with *
the ifland of St Borondon, though the Spaniards have
feveral times attempted it from the Canaries. Hence
it has been called the marvellous ijland; and hence in¬
deed we may conclude, either that it exifts wholly in
imagination, or at leaft that it is furrounded with fuch
currents as infenfibly carry (hips out of their courfe,
and prevent their meeting with it. Some writers af¬
firm1 that it aftually difappears upon certain occafions,
and ffiifts its pofition : while others, with more appear¬
ance of truth, allege, that it is frequently overcaft
with thick and impenetrable clouds, which occafion
the difappointment of all the adventurers who have
gone in fearch of it.
BOROUGH, Burrough, Borow, or Burgh, is
frequently ufed for a town or corporation which is
not a city.
Borough, in its original Saxon horge, or borgh, is
by fome fuppofed to have been primarily meant of a
tithing or company confifting of ten families, who
were bound and combined together as each others
pledge. Afterwards, as Verftegan informs us, bo¬
rough came to fignify a town .that had fomething of a
wall or enclofure about it: fo that all places which a-
mong our anceftors, had the denomination borough,
were one way or other fenced or fortified. But, in
later times, the fame appellation wjas alfo beftowed on
feveral of the villce injigniores, or country towns of
more than ordinary note, though not walled.
The ancient Saxons, according to Spelman, gave
the name burgh to thofe called, in other countries, ci¬
ties. But divers canons being made for removing the
E 2 epifcopal
BOR [36
Borough epifcopal fees from villages and fmall towns to the
li , chief cities, the name city became attributed to epifco-
^En^luh" Pa^ towns> an^ t^at borough retained to all the reft j
■ ' . though thefe too had the appearance of cities, as being
governed by their mayors, and having laws of their
own making, and fending reprefentattves to parlia¬
ment, and being fortified with a wall and caftle, and
the like.
Borough, or burgh, is now particularly appropri¬
ated to fuch towns and villages as fend burgeffes or re-
prefentatives to parliament. Boroughs are equally
fuch, whether they be incorporate or not; there being
great numbers of our Englith boroughs not incorpo¬
rated } and, on the contrary, feveral corporations that
are not boroughs; e. gr. Kingfton, Deal, Ken¬
dal, &c.
Boroughs, in Scotland. See Law.
Royal Boroughs, in Scotland, are corporations made
for the advantage of trade, by charters granted by fe¬
veral of their kings *, having the privilege of fending
commiflioners to reprefent them in parliament, befides
other peculiar privileges. The royal boroughs are
not only fo many diftinft corporations, but do alfo
conftitute one entire body, governed by, and account¬
able to, one general court, anciently called the court
of four boroughs, held yearly to treat and determine
concerning matters relating to the common advantage
of all boroughs. The four boroughs which compofed
this court w’ere, Edinburgh, Stirling, Roxburgh, and
Berwick j rvhich two laft falling into the hands of the
Englilh, Linlithgow and Lanark were put in their
places j with a faving to the former whenever they
Ihould return to their allegiance. But this court not
being fufticient to anfwer the neceflities of the royal
„ boroughs, they were all empowered under James III.
in 14S7, to fend commiftioners to a yearly convention
of their own, which was then appointed to be held at
Inverkeithing, but is now held at Edinburgh, under
the denomination of the convention of boroughs, veiled
rvith great power, and having for their objeft the be¬
nefit of trade, and the general intereft of the bo¬
roughs.
BoRouGH-Courts, are certain courts held in bo¬
roughs, by prefcription, charter, or aft of parliament:
fuch are the Iheriff’s court, and court of huttings, in
London.
BoRouGH-EngliJh, a cuftomary defcent of lands or
tenements, in fome ancient boroughs and copyhold
manors, by which the youngeft fon, and not the eld-
eft, fucceeds to the burgage tenement on the death of
his father. For which Littleton gives this reafon } be-
caufe the younger fon, by reafon of his tender age, is
not fo capable as the reft of his brethren to help h?m-
felf. Other authors have indeed given a much ftran-
ger reafon for this cuftom ; as if the lord of the fee had
anciently a right to break the feventh commandment
with his tenant’s wife on her wedding night; and that
therefore the tenement defcended, not to the eldeft,
but to the youngeft: fon, who was more certainly the
offspring of the tenant. But it cannot be proved that
this cuftom ever prevailed in England, though it cer¬
tainly did in Scotland, (under the name of mercheta,
or Tnarcheta), till abolifhed by Malcolm III. But
perhaps a more rational account than either may be
brought from the praftice of the Tartars 3 among
] BOR
whom, according to Father Duhalde, this cuflom of Borough."
defcent to the youngeft fon alfo prevails. That nation hc«cl
is compofed totally of fliepherds and herdfmen and Borrj[riCUS4
the elder fons, as foon a* they are capable of leading a ■ — ^
paftoral life, migrate from their father with a certain
allotment of cattle, and go to feek a new habitation.
The youngeft fon, therefore, who continues lateft with
his father, is naturally the heir of his houfe, the reft
being already provided for. And thus we find, that
among many other northern nations it was the cuftom
for all the fons but one to migrate from the father,
which one became his heir. So that poflibly this cu¬
ftom, wherever it prevails, may be the remnant of
that paftoral ftate of the ancient Britons and Germans
wEich Caefar and Tacitus defcribe.
BoRouGH-head, or Head-borough, called alfo borough-
holder, or burjholder, the chief man of the decenna, or
hundred, chofen to fpeak and aft in behalf of the
reft.
Head-borough alfo fignifies a kind of head conftable,
where there are feveral chofen as his afliftants, to ferve
warrants, &c. See Constable.
BOROUGHBRIDGE, a town in the north riding
ofYorkftiire in England, feated on the river Your,
over which there is a handiome ftone bridge. 1 he
town is not large, but commodious, and fends two
members to parliament. W. Long. 1. 15* N. Lat,
54. 10.
BOROZAIL, or the zeal of the Ethiopians, a dii-
eafe epidemic in the countries about the river Senegal,
It principally affefts the pudenda, but is different from
the lues venerea. It owes its rife to exceflive venery }
in the men this diftemper is called afab, and in wo¬
men affabatus.
BORRACFIIO. See Caoutchouk.
BORRAGE. See Borago, Botany Index.
BORRELLISTS, in church-hiftory, a Chriftian
feft in Holland, fo denominated from their founder
Borrel, a perfon of great learning in the Hebrew,
Greek, and Latin tongues. They rejeft the ufe of
the facraments, public prayer, and all other external
afts of wmrfhip. They affert, that all the Chriftian
churches of the world have degenerated from the pure
apoftolical doftrines, becaufe they have fuffered the
word of God, which is infallible, to be expounded, or
rather corrupted, by doftors who are not infallible.
They lead a very auftere life, and employ a great part
of their goods in alms.
BORRICHIUS, one of the moft learned men of
his age, the fon of a Lutheran minifter in Denmark,
was born in 1626. He applied himfelf to phyfic in
the univerfity of Copenhagen, and began to praftife
during a moft terrible plague that made great havoc in
that city. He travelled : but before his departure, in
1660, he was appointed profeffor in poetry, botany,
and chemiftry } and at his return difcharged his duties
with great afliduity, of W'hich the wrorks he publifhed
afford full proof. He was raifed to the office of coun-
fellor in the fupreme council of juftice, in l686 j to
that of counfellor of the royal chancery, in 16895
and died of the operation for the ftone, in 1690. He
publiflred, 1. Lingua pharmacopceorum. 2. Differta-
twnes de poeticis Greecis et Latinis, 3. De 01 tu et pi 0-
grejfu chemice ; and feveral other works.
BQRROMEUS, St Charles, cardinal, and arch-
bilhoo
BOR [ 37 1 BOR
Borromeus. bifhop of Milan ; a perfonage of great note in the Ro-
mifh kalendar, and whofe fincere piety, fimplicity of
manners, and zeal for reformation, render him indeed
a charafter equally interefting and inftru&ive to the
members of any church. He was the fon of Gilbert
Borromeus count of Arena and of Mary of Medicis,
and was born at the caftle of Arona upon La^ Ma¬
jor in the Milanefe, in Oftober 1538. Wheiflie was
about 12 years old, Julius Caefar Borromeus religned
an abbacy to him of a conMerable revenue, which was
confidered as an hereditary inheritance of the family j
which Charles accepted, but applied the revenue whol¬
ly in charity to the poor. Having acquired a fuffi-
cient knowledge of the languages at Milan, he ftudied
the civil and canon law at Pavia, where he lived like
another Lot in Sodom, preferving his innocence among
a thoufand fnares by which it was endangered. He
received great advantage from the company and con-
verfation of Francis Alciat, one of the moft learned
men of the age, for whom he afterwards procured the
purple. He would accept no new benefice but upon
condition that he Ihould be at liberty to apply the re¬
venue to public ufes. In the year 1554, Charles be¬
ing then 16 years old, his father died, an event which
brought him back to the caftle of Arona j where,
though he had an .elder brother, Count Frederick,
he was requefted by the family to take upon him the
management of the domeftic affairs, to which at length
he confented.
After fome time he returned again to his ftudies,
which, in the year, 1559, being then juft 21, he fi-
nilhed by a folemn aft, and took his doftor’s degree.
The promotion of his uncle to the pontificate, by the
name of Pius IV. which happened the year following,
feemed to have very little effeft upon him ; but he was
very foon made protonotary, and entrufted both with
the public and privy feal of the ecclefiaftical ftate : he
was alfo, at the fame time, created cardinal deacon,
and foon after archbifhop of Milan. In obedience to
the will of his uncle the pope, he lived in great fplen-
dour, having a brilliant retinue and a great number of
domeftics •, yet his own temperance and humility were
never brought into queftion. In order to render even
his amufements ufeful, he eftablilhed an academy of
feleft and learned perfons, as well ecclefiaftics as laics,
from among his houfehold and dependants, who were
employed in fome exercife which tended to infpire a
love of virtue, and to form a juft tafte. Each of them
was to write upon fome chofen fubjeft, either in verfe
or in profe, and to communicate to each other in fre¬
quent conferences the fruits of their ftudies. The
works produced by this fociety have been publifhed in
many volumes, under the"title of NoEIes Vaticance,
becaufe thefe ufeful affemblies were held at the Vati¬
can, and at night, after the bufinefs of the day was
over. About this time Charles aifo formed a defign
of founding a college at Pavia, which fhould at the
fame time be a fchool of fcience and an afylum from
the vices and vanities of the world. In profecution of
this defign, he raifed a large edifice upon the founda¬
tions of feveral houfes which belonged to the family
of Borromeus in that city 5 he obtained from the pope
feveral benefices, which he attached to his building ;
he provided it with all tilings neceffary for the young
fcholars out of his own revenue ; and he dedicated his Borromeus*
college to St Juftina virgin and martyr. " »' J
Upon the death of his only brother Frederick, his
relations, his friends, and even the pope himfelf, ad-
vifed him to change his ftate, to quit the church, and
marry, that his family might not become extinft.
Charles, however, contrary to this advice and the ex-
peftations of the world, received the priefthood, and
addreffed the pope in thefe terms“ Do not complain
of me, Holy Father, for I have taken a fpoufe whom
I love and on whom my willies have been long fixed.”
From this time he became more fervent in exercifes of
piety and ecclefiaftical knowledge : He perceived that
fome literati who had departed from the faith had alfo
corrupted the writings of fome holy doftors of the
church, and he thought he Ihould render religion good
fervice if he could reftore the genuine reading : Fie
therefore employed Achilles Statius, a Portuguefe of
great learning, in this work, whom for that purpofe
he retained at Rome. To his zeal and attention alfo
is owing the congregation of eight cardinals, ftill fub-
fifting, to refolve doubts and obviate difficulties which
Ihould arife in explanations of the council of Trent.
There was a very intimate friendftiip between Bor¬
romeus and Don Barthelemy des Martyrs archbiffiop
of Prague, and author of a work entitled Stimulus
Pq/lorum. This work falling into Borromeus’s hands
gave him an earneft defire to become a preacher, as he
was now convinced that preaching was one of the
principal duties of a prelate. An almoft incr'nceivable
multiplicity of bufinefs, ill health, a feeble voice, and
a difficult pronunciation, were no inconfiderable ob-
ftacles to his defign, yet he furmounted them all j and
though his beginnings wjere weak, yet perfeverance
crowned them with fuccefs.
Having obtained permiffion to vifit his church,
wffiich the pope had hitherto refufed as he found his
prefence neceffary at Rome, he prepared to fet out
for Milan. He had before fent thither his grand vicar
Ormanetus, whofe labours at firft had not been unfuc-
cefsful, but who foon found oppofitions fo pertinacious
and obftinate as put an end to his hopes : Borromeus
therefore faw the neceffity of going in perfon, and he
wTas received with the moft diftinguiffied honours. He
was, however, foon recalled to Rome, where many
things made his prefence neceffary : the pope was gra¬
dually dying j and Charles arrived juft time enough to
adminifter to him the laft facraments.
Pius IV. died on the 7th of January 1566, and
28 days afterwards Cardinal Alexandrine mounted the
papal chair, and affumed the name of Pius V. the
fkill and diligence of Borromeus having contributed
not a little to prevent the cabals of the conclave.
As foon as this event had taken place, and all was
quiet at Rome, Borromeus gave himfelf wffiolly up to
the reformation of his diocefe, where the moft flagi¬
tious irregularities were openly praftifed, having firft
made another reform in his own family. He began
by making paftoral vifits in his metropolis, where the
canons were not diftinguifhed for the purity of their
manners. He foon reftored proper decency and dig¬
nity to divine fervice, by a variety of wife and necel-
fary regulations: In conformity to the decrees of the
council of Trent, he cleared the cathedral of many
pompous
4j
\
X
BOR
Sorromcns. pompous tombs, rich ornaments, banners, arms, and
in general of all the trophies with which the vanity of
man had disfigured the houfe of God j and in order
to give a fan&ion to his zeal by his example, he fpared
not the monuments of his neareft relations. Nor did
his zeal flop here : he divided the nave of the church
through its whole length into two parts, by ftrong
thick planks, that the two fexes, being feparated,
might perform their devotions without any attention
to each other, and with a modefty and recolle&ion
more fuitable to the place.
This paftoral care extended from the cathedral to
the collegiate churches, and even to the fraternities or
focieties of penitents, particularly that of St John the
Baptift. The duty of this fociety was to attend cri¬
minals to the place of puniihment, to affift, comfort,
and prepare them for death ; but the fpirit of the in-
ftitution was now forgotten, and the wretches who
were condemned to death were commonly dragged to
execution like beads, without any fpiritual affiltance or
confolation. But the archbifhop revived the original
fervour of this order, in the exercife of their peculiar
duty, and perfuaded many of the nobility and princi¬
pal perfons of the city to become members of a fociety
appropriated to fo eminent a branch of Chriftian cha¬
rity. The reformation of the monafteries followed
that of the churches, and the vigilance of the pallor
foon extended itfelf from the city to the country round
it, which abounded with irregularities that required
his correction. The great abufes and irregularities
which had overrun the church at this time arofe prin¬
cipally from the grofs ignorance of the clergy j in or¬
der therefore to attack thefe evils at their root, Charles
eftablilhed feminaries, colleges, and communities, for
the education of young perfons intended for holy or¬
ders. He met with many difficulties, and much op-
pofition in his endeavours to bring about a reformation
of manners j but he prevailed againft every obltacle by
an inflexible conftancy, tempered with great fweetnefs
of manners.
The governor of the province, and many of the fe-
nators, were apprehenfive that the cardinal’s ordinances
and proceedings would encroach upon the civil jurif-
diClion, and become inconfiftent with the rights of his
Catholic majefty, to whom the duchy of Milan was
then in fubjecfion. And this was a fruitful fource of
remonllrances, reprefentations, and complaints, which
long troubled the courts of Rome and Madrid, and
which the king of Spain, Philip II. referred entirely
to the decifion of the pope. But Borromeus had a
more formidable oppofition to druggie with, that of
feveral religious orders, particularly the Brothers of
Humility. Three provofts of the fociety entered into
a confpiracy to cut him off; and one of their confe¬
derates, called Jerom Donat, whofe furname was Fa¬
rina, took upon him to carry the defign into execu¬
tion. For this purpofe he mixed with the crowd that
went into the archiepifcopal chapel, where the cardinal
fpent an hour every evening in prayer with his dome-
flics and other pious perfons ; and having watched his
opportunity, he fired a harquebufs at him, which was
loaded with a ball fuited to the bore of the piece, and
with a confiderable charge of leaden fliot. It is faid that
the ball ftruck him on the fpinal bone, but fell down
at his feet without doing any other damage than foil-
* 2
t 38 I BOR
ing his rochet, and that one of the ffiot penetrated his Berromeiw
clothes to the Ikin, and there flopped, without im- —y-—
printing any wound, which was confidered as a mi¬
racle, efpecially as the other {hot tore away part of a
wall, and went quite through a table.
In the year 1576, the city and diocefe of Milan
were vifited by the plague, which fwept away incredi¬
ble numbers ; and the behaviour of Borromeus, on this
occafion, was truly Chnftian and heroic : He not only
continued on the fpot, but he went about giving di-
reftions for accommodating the fick, and burying the
dead, with a zeal and attention that were at once ar¬
dent and deliberate, minute and comprehenfive ; and
his example ftimulated others to join in the good wTork.
He avoided no danger, and he fpared no expence ; nor
did he content himfelf with eftablifhing proper regu¬
lations in the city, but went out into all the neigh¬
bouring parifties where the contagion raged, diftribu-
ting money to the poor, ordering proper accommoda¬
tions for the fick, and punilhing thofe, efpecially the
clergy, who were remifs in the duties of their calling.
Charles, notwithftanding the fatigue and perplexity
which he fuffered by thus executing his paftoral charge,
abated nothing of the ufual aufterity of his life, nor
omitted any of his ftated devotions; for, whatever ap¬
proached to luxury or magnificence, he confidered as
incompatible with the propriety of his charafler. It
happened, that being once on a vifit to the archbiffiop
of Sienna at his palace, a very fumptuous entertain¬
ment was provided for him. Borromeus, though he
had been ufed to content himfelf with bread and wa-
ter, yet fat down at the table, where however he ate
but little, and gave fufficient intimation that he was
much difpleafed with fuch oftentatious prodigality ;
but what was his furprife when he faw the table again
covered with a deffert, confifting of whatever was moft
rare, exquifite, and coftly ! He immediately rofe ha-
ftily from his feat, as if he had fuddenly recolle&ed
fome prefling bufinefs, and gave orders for his depar¬
ture, notwithftanding the rain, and the moft earneft
entreaties of the archbifliop. “ My Lord,” faid the
cardinal, “ if I fhould tarry here to-night, you would
give me another fuch treat as that I have juft feen, and
the poor will then fuffer another lofs, great numbers of
whom might have been fed wdth the fuperfluities that
have been now fet before us.”
The continual labours and aufterities of Borromeus
naturally ffiortened his life ; he went to Vercal to put
an end, if poffible, to the divifions which threatened
the moft fatal confequences ; and, when he was there,
he received a meffage from the duke of Savoy, re-
quefting his prefence at Turin. From Turin he re¬
tired to a place called the Sepulchre, on the mountain
Varais, where he was feized w ith an intermittent fever,
which fcarce permitted him to return alive to Milan,
where he arrived on the 3d of November 1584, and
died the next day. He was lamented by the city and
the whole province with fuch marks of fincere forrow
as are rarely feen ; and he w as immediately worftiipped
as a faint without waiting for the pope’s approbation.
The pope, however, when he was told of it by Cardi¬
nal Baronius, gave directions that the devotion of the
people ftiould not be reftrained, though Borromeus was
not canonized till the ift of November 1610, in the
pontificate of Leo XI. Since that time many
« churches
t
B OR
Bwremeuj, churcWs and chapels have been creeled m honour of
. nowing. thjg faint, and many religious focieties inllituted and
v '" put under his protection.
The foregoing particulars are extracted from an ac¬
count of the life of Borromeus, written fome years a-
go by Father Anthony Touron. Upon a comparifon
ot this lite with that written by Ribadeneira a Spanifh
Jefuit above a century ago, it appears that the im¬
provement of knowledge has made a very ftriking dif¬
ference in this kind of biography. Ribadeneira, who
lived in the midft of ignorance and fuperftition, did
not fufpeCt that the time was at hand when the incre¬
dible and ridiculous fables he recites could not be be¬
lieved : his life of this faint therefore abounds with
particulars which Touron has juftly omitted. We are
told that a miraculous light was ieen over the chamber
of Borromeus’s mother when flic was in labour : That
Borromeus, feeing two perfons carried violently down
a rapid river on their horfes, and juft ready to perilh,
caufed their horfes fuddenly to leap with them out of
the water, by giving them his benedi&ion : That Oc-
tavian Varefe, a gentleman of Milan, who was con¬
fined to his bed by licknefs, when Borromeus died be¬
came inftantly wTell, by recommending himfelf to the
faint’s interceffion. That a daughter of Julius Bona-
cina was inftantly cured of a diforder in her eye, which
had taken away the fight of it, by performing an adt
of devotion in honour of this faint : That a count of
Ferrara was inftantly feized with a violent difeafe upon
fpeaking irreverently of Borromeus’s picture, but was
cured upon confefling his fault. It would certainly be
a work of infinite fervice to the Romilh church, to
new-write the lives of her faints in fuch a manner as
can now be believed, fince the lives already written
might by that means be gradually fuperfeded, which
are a better antidote againrt Popery than the arguments
of the bell reafoncr in the world.
BORROWING andHiring, inZrtu;, are contracts
by which a qualified property may be transferred to
the hirer or borrower ; in which there is only this dif-
ference, that hiring is always for a price or ftipend, or
additional recompenfe 5 borrowing is merely gratuitous.
But the law iiTboth cafes is the fame. They are both
contracts, wdiereby the poffeffion and tranfient proper¬
ty is transferred for a particular time or ufe, on con¬
dition and agreement to reftore the goods fo hired or
borrowed, as foon as the time is expired, or the ufe per¬
formed, together with the price or ftipend (in cafe of
hiring) either exprefsly agreed upon by the parties,
or left to be implied by law, according to the value of
the fervice. By this mutual contraa, the hirer or bor¬
rower gains a temporary property in the thing hired,
accompanied with an implied condition to ufe it with
moderation, and not to abufe it; and the owner or
lender retains a reverfionary intereft in the fame, and
acquires a new' property in the price or reward. Thus,
if a man hires or borrows a horfe for a month, he has
the pofleflion and a qualified property therein during
that period ; on the expiration of which his qualified
property determines, and the owner becomes (in cafe
of hiring) entitled alfo to the premium or price for
which the horfe was hired.
There is one fpecies of this price or reward the molt
ufual of any, but concerning which many good and
learned men have in former times very much perplexed
[ 39 1
BOS
themfelves and other people, by raifing doubts about
jts legality in faro confeientice. That is, when money
is lent on a contract to receive not only the principal
fum again, but alfo an increafe by way of compenfation
for the ufe,^ which is generally called intereji by thofe
who think it lawful, and nfury by thofe who do not fo.
But as to this, fee the article Interest.
BORROWS! OWNESS. See Burrowstow-
NESS.
BORSEHOLDER, among the Anglo-Saxons, one
of the loweft magiftrates, wdiofe authority extended
only over one free burgh, tithing, or decennary, con¬
fiding of ten families. Every freeman who wifhed to
enjoy the proteftion of the laws, and not to be treated
as a vagabond, was under the neceflity of being , ad¬
mitted a member of the tithing wdiere he and his fa¬
mily refided j and in order to obtain this admiftion, it
was as neceflary for him to maintain a good reputa¬
tion ; becaufe all the members of each tithing being
mutual pledges and fureties for each other, and the
whole tithing fureties to the king for the good beha¬
viour of all its. members, they were very cautious of
admitting any into their fociety who W’ere of bad or
doubtful charafters. Each tithing formed a little ftate
or commonwealth within itfelf, and chofe one of its
moft refpe&able members for its head, who was fome-
times called the alderman of ftich a tithing or free-
burgh, on account of his age and experience, but
moft commonly borfeholder, from the Saxon words borh
“ a furety,” and alder, “ a head or chief.” This
magistrate had authority to call together the members
of his tithing, to prefide in their meetings, and to
put their fentences in execution. The members of
each tithing, with their tithing-man or borfeholder at
their head, conftituted a court of juftice, in which all
the little controverfies arifing within the tithino- were
determined. If any difpute of great difficulty or im¬
portance happened, or if either of the parties was not
willing to fubmit to a fentence given in the tithing-
court, the caufe was referred or appealed to the next
fuperior court, or court of the hundred-
BORSET, or BoRgETT, celebrated for its baths,,
a place about half a league from Aix!a-Chapelle in
Germany. The abbey here is a very magnificent pile
of building. It was formerly a monaftery ; but ferves
for a nunnery, whofe abbefs is a princefs of the em¬
pire, and lady of Borfet. The waters are warm, and
of the nature of thofe of Aix-la-Chapelle > but they
are only ufed as baths for the difeafes in wffiich the
waters laft mentioned are recommended, and alfo in
dropfical and oedematous cafes. The waters are di-
ftmguiftied into the upper and lower fprings. The
former w^ere found by Dr Simmons to raife^ the ther¬
mometer to 158°, the latter to only 127°. All the
baths are fupplied by the firft. Dr Simmons obferved'
that thefe waters were much lefs> fulphureous than thofe
of Aix-la-Chapelle, probably on account of their great¬
er heat. He likewife found that they abounded much
with felenites, which incruft the pipe through which
the water paffes, and likewife the fides of the bath.
BORYSTHENES. See Boristwenes.
®OS, J0HN Baptist du, a celebrated author and
member of the French academy, was born at Beauvais
in 1670, and finilhed his ftudies at the Sorbonne. In
16515, he was made one of the committee for foreiga
affairs.
Borrow-
Itownefs-
11
Bos.
——Y—J
Bos
II
Bofcawen,
S [ 4° 3 BOS
and was afterwards charged great intrepidity as a volunteer under Admiral Verncm,'BofcawenJ
at the taking of Porto Bello. At the fiege of Car-
thagena, in March 1740-1, he had the command of a
party of feamen who refolutely attacked and took a
battery of 15 twenty-four pounders, though expofed
to the fire of another fort of five guns. Lord Aubrey
Beauclerk being killed at the attack of Boca-Chica,
Captain Bofcawen fucceeded him in the command of
the Prince Frederic of 70 guns, In May I742>
returned to England, and married Frances daughter
of William Glanville, Efq; and the fame year was e-
lefted reprefentative for Truro in Cornwall. In I744>
he was made captain of the Dreadnought of 60 guns;
and foon after he took the Medea, a French man of
war commanded by M. Hoquart, the firft king’s fhip
taken in that war. May 3. 1747, he fignalized him-
felf under the admirals Anfon and Warren, in an en¬
gagement with the French fleet off Cape Finifterre,
and was wounded in the Ihoulder with a mulket ball.
Here M. Hoquart, who then commanded the Dia¬
mond of 56 guns, again became his prifoner; and all
the French flaps of w-ar, which were ten in number,
were taken. On the 15th of July he was made rear-
admiral of the blue, and commander in chief of the
land and fea forces employed on an expedition to the
F.aft Indies; and, on the 4th of November, failed from
St Helen’s, with fix fliips of the line, five frigates, and
2000 foldiers. On the 29th of July 1748, he arrived
at St David’s, and foon after laid fiege to Pondicherry;
but the men growing fickly, and the monfoons being
expe&ed, the fiege w^as railed, and Mr Bofcawen {bow¬
ed himfelf as much the general as the admiral in his
retreat. Soon after he had news of the peace, and
Madrafs was delivered up to him by the French. In
April 1750, he arrived at St Helen’s in the Exeter, and
found that in his abfence he had been appointed rear-
admiral of the white. He w'as the next year made one
of the lords commiflioners of the admiralty, and chofen
an elder brother of the Trinity-houfe. In February
1755, he was appointed vice-admiral of the blue. On
the 19th of April, failing in order to intercept a French
fquadron bound to North America, he fell in with the
Alcide and Leys of 64 guns each, which were both
taken: on this occafion M. Hoquart became his pri¬
foner a third time, and he returned to Spithead wfith
his prizes and 1500 prifoners. In J J56, he was ap¬
pointed vice-admiral of the white; and in 1758, admi¬
ral of the blue, and comfnander in chief of the expe¬
dition to Cape Breton; when, in conjun&ion with Ge¬
neral Amherft, and a body of troops from New Eng¬
land, the important fortrefs of Louifbourg and the
whole ifland of Cape Breton was taken, for which he
afterwards received the thanks of the houfe of com¬
mons. In 1759, being appointed to command in the
Mediterranean, he arrived at Gibraltar, wdrere hearing
that the Toulon fleet, under M. de la Clue, had palled
the Straits, in order to join that at Breft, he got un¬
der fail, and on the 18th of Auguft faw, purfued, and
engaged the enemy. His Ihip, the Namur of 90
guns, lofing her main-maft, he ftiifted his flag to the
Newark; and, after a (harp engagement, took three
large flaps, and burnt two in Lagos bay, and the fame
year arrived at Spithead with his prizes and 2000 pri¬
foners. On December 8. 1760, he was appointed
general
B o
affairs under Mr Torez ;
with fome important tranfaffions in England, Germa-
1 ny, Holland, and Italy. At his return to Paris, he
was handfomely preferred, made an abbe, and chofen
perpetual fecretary of the French academy. He was
the author of feveral excellent works; the principal
of which are, 1. Critical refleftions upon poetry and
painting, 3 vols 12mo. 2. The hiftory of the four
Gordians, confirmed and illuftrated by medals. 3. A
critical hiftory of the eftablithment of the French mo¬
narchy among the Gauls, 2 vols qto, 4 vols 12tno.
He died at Paris on the 23d of March 174’2,
Bos, Lewis JattJfen, an efteemed painter, was born
at Bois-le-Duc. Having been carefully inftrutted in
the art of painting by the artifts of his native city,
he applied himfelf entirely to ftudy after nature, and
rendered himfelf very eminent for the truth of his co¬
louring and the neatnefs of his handling. His favou¬
rite fubjeds were flowers, and curious plants, which
he ufually reprefented as grouped, in glaffes, or vafes
of cryftal, half filled with water; and gave them fo
lively a look of nature, that it feemed fcarce poflible
to exprefs them with greater truth or delicacy. It
was frequent with this mafter to reprefent the drops of
dew on the leaves of his obje&s, which he executed
with an uncommon tranfparence ; and embellilhed his
fubjeds with butterflies, bees, wafps, and other infe&s,
which, Sandrart fays, were fuperior to anything of
that kind performed by his cotemporary artifts. He
likewife painted portraits with very great fuccefs; and
fhowed as much merit in that ftyle as he did in his
compofitions of ftill life. He died in I5°7*
Bos. See Mammalia Index.
Bos, m Antiquity, was peculiarly ufed for an ancient
Greek filver coin, which was didrachmus, or equiva¬
lent to two drachms. It was fo called as having on it
the impreflion of an ox, and chiefly obtained among
the Athenians and Delians; being fometimes alfo
ftruck of gold. From this arofe the phrafe Bos in lin¬
gua, applied to thofe who had taken "bribes to hold
their tongue.
BOS A, a maritime town in the weftern part of the
ifland of Sardinia, with a caftle, a good port, and a
bilhop’s fee. It is feated on the river Bofa, to the
north-eaft of an ifland of the fame name ; and has good
fait pits. E, Long. 8. 30. N. Lat. 40. 19.
BOSCAGE, the fame with a grove or thicket.
Boscage, in a law fenfe, is that food which trees
yield to cattle ; as maft, &.c. But Manhood fays, to
be quit of bofcage is to be difcharged of paying any
duty for windfall wood in the foreft.
Boscage, among painters, denotes a landscape re-
prefenting much wTood and trees.
BOSCAN, John, a Spanifti poet of the 16th cen¬
tury, born at Barcelona. He was the friend of Gar-
cilalfo de Viga, another Spanifti poet. Thefe two
were the firft who made any great improvement in
the poetry of their nation, and their pieces were print¬
ed together. Bofcan, who died about the year 1542,
principally fucceeded in fonnets.
BOSCAWEN, Edward, a brave Britifh admiral,
was the fecond fon of Hugh late lord vifcount Fal¬
mouth. Having early entered into the navy, he was,
Jn 1740, captain of the Shoreham ; and behaved with
1
BOS [4i] BOS
Bofch general of the marines with a falary of 3000I. per
II . annum, and was alfo fworn one of the privy-council.
c He died in 1761.
BOSCH, Jacob Van den, a painter of Hill life,
was bom at Amlterdam in 1636, and painted fum-
mer fruits of various kinds, peaches, pears, apples,
plums, ne&arines, and cherries, with extraordinary
tieatnefs of pencil. He painted all his objefts after
nature, and imitated every fort of fruit with fo great
truth and delicacy, with fuch natural and tranlparent
colour, that they appeared delicious, and almolt real.
He died in 1676.
BOSCHAERTS, Thomas Willeborts, a cele¬
brated painter, was born at Bergen-op-zoom; and,
like the great painters who flouriihed at that time, be¬
gan to draw, when very young, in the books that were
intended for other lludies. Preferring his pencil to
every thing elfe, he drew his own pidfure, by his re-
femblance in a looking-glafs, fo like, that thofe w?ho
faw it were aftoniihed. This he did before he had the
leaft inftrudlion from any one, and w’hen he was only
12 years of age. Upon this his parents fent him to a
mailer, that he might follow the bent of his genius j
but his firil mailer being only an indifferent painter,
and incapable of fatisfying his earned delTre of learn¬
ing, he left him, and engaged himfelf with Gerard Se-
gersj under wdiom, after four years pradlice, he proved
a moll accomplilhed artill. Antwerp being at that
time the feat of arts, where there was a conflux of the
moll eminent painters, he thought it the fittell place
for his improvement ; and there executed fuch a num¬
ber of noble pieces as added greatly to the fplendour of
that wealthy city. In 1642, Henry Frederic prince
of Orange, and his fon Prince William, employed him
in their fervice •, in w'hich he continued feveral years,
and made thofe excellent pieces that are to be feen in
that prince’s palace at the Plague and other parts of
Holland, and painted portraits for moll of the perfons
' of quality that were then living. He died in the flower
of his age, in 1670.
BOSCO, or Boschi, a town of Italy, in the Mila-
nefe, feated on the river Orbe. E. Long. 9. 44. N. Lat.
44- 53-
BOSCOI, or Bosci, in ecclefiallical hillory, de¬
notes a fpecies or tribe of monks in Palelline, wTho fed
on grafs like the bealls of the fields. The word is
Greek, fioa-Kti, q. d. “ grazers formed from fioo-Keo,
pafco, “ I feed.” The Bofcoi are ranked among the
number of Adamites, not fo much on account of their
habit, as food. They took no care about provifion 5
but when eating-time came, or any of them w7as hun¬
gry, went into the fields, with each his knife in his
hand, and gathered and eat what he could find.
BOSCOVICH, Roger Joseph, the founder of an
original and fublime theory of natural philofophy, de-
ferves to be particularly noticed in a work of this na¬
ture \ but we have to regret that the materials from
which our biographical memoir mull be compiled, are
infufficient to fatisfy the curiofity concerning the liter¬
ary habits, and the charafteriltic features of this very
illullrious man.
His rank, indeed, as a philofopher, we are enabled
to appreciate by perufing fome of the immortal works
which he has bequeathed us; but, for a knowledge of
his moral chara6ler, difpofition, and temporal con-
Vou. IV. Part I.
cerns, wm can only have recourfe to the elogies of his Bofeovlch.
friends. Thefe are certainly entitled to much of our
confidence j and when the names of M. de la Lande,
M. Fabroni, Stay, and Zamagna are mentioned, we
may be thought fallidious, in implying the lealt dif-
trull of their tellimony. It is our refpedl for the pub¬
lic and for truth, and it is our knowledge of the na¬
ture of elogies, which have made us fo.
We have, therefore, endeavoured, rather to relate
the incidents in the life of Bofcovich, than to give a
tranfcript of friendly effuliorij and yet perhaps it may
be difcovered, that our portrait is luminous with eulo-
gium, whilll its outlines are poorly defined.
Bofcovich was born on the nth of May 1711, at
Ragufa, a fea port on the coaft of the Adriatic, and
capital of a fmall republic of the fame name, under the
protection of the Turks and the Venetians. We know
fo little of his parents, that rve can only conjedlure at
their circumltances and capacity, from the education
which they gave to their fon being liberal and judi¬
cious.
It does not appear that our author gave any tokens
of fuperior genius, till he was fent to learn grammar
and philofophy in the fchools of the Jefuits, who were
at that time the principal teachers in Ragufa, and
throughout Italy. Among!! them, his docility and o-
bedience could not pafs unnoticed, but were lufficient
to mark him as a likely fubjeCl for future eminence,
and confequently to procure to him particular attention.
In his 15th year, after he had gone through the ordi¬
nary courfe of education, and w'hen it was neceffary to
determine his further purfuits, application was made to
admit him into the order j and for the reafons we have
mentioned, was readily complied with. This was a-
greeable to his own inclination, and proved the fource
of that diftinClion in learning to which he afterwards
attained.
The Jefuits, it is w'ell known, had much interefl: and
authority to promote in the city of Rome $ whither it
w7as cullomary in them to fend thofe members whom
they knew to be qualified for that purpofe, and thofe
youths of whom they had great expectations, for more
inftruClion. As Bofcovich was fent there in the year
1725, we may reafonably imagine he had profited
much by his teachers, and was fignalized for his abi¬
lities. This zeal in the cultivation of youth, which
the Jefuits ever preferved, and which perhaps tended
more to the prefervation of their powder than all their
religious artifices, w7as attended w-ith confequences the
molt beneficial to humanity j and when we recoiled
how many and how great the geniufes were w hich it dif-
covered, and foltered and brought to maturity, we are
almolt induced to believe that it counterbalanced all
the ill effeds of their order. Had this education been
confined to fome limited fphere 5 had it embraced the
prattling dodrines of cafuillry and the unwieldy mafs
of cloiltered theology alone; unfortunate and melancho¬
ly for the world would have been this zeal: no refuge
for the venial penitent, no fecurity againll boiflerous
fedarifm would have remained ; an unmanly lethargy
would have debafed the mind, and the moral and the
intelledual world would have funk to a dread chaos
of confufion. But the Jefuits knew well the benig¬
nant influence of literature, and the falutary elevation
of fcience; they faw that wealth, and power, and ho-
F nour.
BOS [ 42 ] BOS
Eofcovich. riour, followed philofophy •, and that plillofophy had
     driven famine, wrctchednefs, and vice, from their ha¬
bitations. We dare not fay that the intereft and ag¬
grandizement of their order were fecondary confidera-
tions, but we will avow it as our opinion, that the
fhort reign of the Jefuits, and the objefts at which they
aimed, and above all the means which they employed,
were more inftruCtive, promifed better, and effected
more to humanity, than all the accumulated humility
and fan&ity of all the religious focieties of the Romilh
church. We have been led into this digreffion by the
coincidence of certain confiderations operating at the
time on our minds. Bofcovich was of the order of Je¬
fuits •, that order is no more ; its deftruction took place
in his life-time •, gratitude for the delight and the in-
ilruftion we have received from him and many others
of the order •, the prefent difpofition among mankind
to detraft from its merits, to magnify its imperfedions,
and to confound it with the fanatical and enthufiailic
groups of every perfuafion which have difgraced the
name and the dignity of religion. But to return ; our
author on his arrival in Rome, entered the novicelhip
of the order, -where his fludies wore a new afpeft, but
were ftill purfued with diligence. Chriilian morality,
the rules and conftitutions of the order, claimed his at¬
tention for two years j after which he was inftru£led in
rhetoric, and became well verfed in general literature,
in a particular manner in Latin poetry, which at that
time was very much cultivated.
From the noviciate he was fent to the Roman col¬
lege to fuidy mathematics and phyfics. It was in thefe
fciences that his elevated genius and uncommon abili¬
ties (hone forth fo confpicuoufly, and procured to him
the admiration of his fuperiors. In three years time
he was able to give private leflbns on mathematics ) and
was then exempted from a law, by which the novici¬
ates wrere bound to teach Latin and the belles lettres
for five years before they commenced the lludy of theo¬
logy. This exemption was in confequence of his great
predilection to the mathematics, of which he was foon
afterwards made public profeffor. It would appear to
us, that the fcience of theology, as it was then incul¬
cated, had little attraction for the mind of Bofcovich ;
for it is not likely that a mind intimately acquainted
with truth, and accuftomed to find her ever plain and
undifguifed, could relifh the retiring obfcurities of fo-
phiftry, or the flimfy decorations of amyftical religion ;
nor can we wonder, that during the four years in
which he was conftrained to the itudy, he fliould be¬
come more familiar with Leibnitz, Maclaurin, and
Newton, than with Loyola, and Laynez, and Aqua-
viva.
For the profefforfhip of mathematics he was emi¬
nently qualified, as, belides a thorough knowledge of all
the modern productions in the icience, he had acquired
a priitine feverity of demonftration by ftudying the
works of the ancient geometricians; and he conjoined
withal an obliging accommodation of his own powers
to the deficiencies of his pupils. It was for their be¬
nefit he at this time compofed elementary treatifes on
arithmetic, algebra, geometry, and trigonometry. But
notwithftanding the arduous duties of his fituation
which he invariably fulfilled, he found time to inftruCt
and enlighten more than boys 5 for about this pe¬
riod, he entertained fome of thofe original notions Bofcovich-.
which were deftined to grow up into fyftem, and one ~J
day to aftonifh the whole world of fcience. Thefe, as
they grew, were ftrengthened by folid arguments
in the public deputations, by anticipating obflacles,
overcoming and removing them, and by mighty ef¬
forts in extending and applying them to the moft re¬
mote and difcretive aClions of the univerfe. I he ani¬
mating fpirit of difcovery and invention led him to
confider every portion of phyfical fcience j and indeed
fo verfatile and fo vigorous was his mind, we would be
at a lofs to fpecify one portion, which, within a few
years, it did not comprehend, elucidate, and ad¬
vance. In confirmation of this we beg to prefent our
readers with an enumeration of the principal fubje&s
to which he turned his attention, and concerning
which he publilhed differtations whilft he continued in
the profefibrihip. The tranfit of Mercury over the
fun ; the fpots in the fun ; the aurora borealis 5 the
conftru&ion of fpheric trigonometry 5 the figure of the
earth ; a new telefcope to determine celeftial obje£ts j
the ancient arguments for the rotundity of the earth j
ofcillating circles 5 on infinites and infinitely little
quantities; the motion of bodies in unrefifting fpaces;
the aberration of the fixed liars j the inequalities in
terrellrial gravity j on aftronomy; on the limits of
certainty in aftronomical obfervations •, on the folid of
greatellattradlion; the cycloid; thelogiilic cuive lines;
the vires vivee; the comets; light; tides; the rain¬
bow ; the calculation of fractions; the centre of gra¬
vity ; the moon’s atmofphere ; the law of continuity ;
lenfes and dioptrical telefcopes; the objeftive microme¬
ter ; the divisibility of matter. Some of thefe are Ihort,
but all of them contain curious and valuable matter.
It is only by perilling them we are able to difcover
the gradual progrefs of his mind ; and to underliand
the manner in w'hich he arrived at the theory of na¬
tural philofophy, which alone will render his name im¬
mortal.
About this time a talle for philofophical poetry was
much prevalent amongll the learned, and fome of our
author’s acquaintances had laboured in it with fuccefs.
Of thefe we may mention Father Noceti who wrote on
the rainbow and the aurora borealis, and the jullly ce¬
lebrated Benedifl Stay, whofe poems on the philofophy
of Defcartes, and on the more modern philofophy, are
excellent examples of fine Latin compofition and fcien-
tific inveftigation. Bofcovich publilhed their works
with annotations and fupplements, in which a fplendid
fund of information and learning is difplayed.
By fuch undertakings, the fame of our author was
widely diffufed, and he became an obje£l of general ad¬
miration. The learned focieties of many countries in
Europe conferred on him unfolicited honours, and fe-
veral foreign princes invited him to their courts. His
opinions on various fubje£ls of civil architecture, to¬
pography, and hydrodynamics, were alked and enter¬
tained by Pope Benedia XIV. John V. of Portugal,
and others. Thefe neceffarily required his prefence in
different Hates, where he never failed to increafe his
reputation, and often terminated difputes which might
otherwife have gone on to open warfare.
He was employed to correa the maps of the papal
dominions, and to meafure a degree of the meridian
pafling
BOS [ 43 ] BOS
Bofcovich. paffing tlirougli them. In this he was aflifted by an
English Jefuit, Chrittopher Maire. An account of their
expedition was printed at Rome and Paris, and is in-
terfperfed with fome curious anecdotes, concerning the
opinions which the peafants of the Apennines formed
of them, and the operations which they had to per¬
form ; but it is valuable on account of the accurate de¬
tail which is given of their obfervations.
In the year 1757, he was fent to Vienna by the re¬
public of Lucca, to reconcile fome differences concern¬
ing the draining of a lake, in which the grand duke of
Tufcany the emperor Francis I. and that republic, were
concerned. It was after he had fucceeded in the object
of his vifit to that city, that he publiffied there his
Theoria Phi/ofophia Naturalis in 1758 5 and that he
gained the efteem of the emprefs queen.
Another occafion for his mediating powers foon pre-
fented itfelf, and which more nearly interefted him, as
his native city of Ragufa required them. It had been
liifpefted by the Britiih government, that fome drips of
war were fitted out at that port for the fervice of the
French, thereby infringing the neutrality. Such a iu-
fpicion having no juft foundation, alarmed the fenate of
Ragufa, and required fpeedy removal, as the confe-
quences of it might be extremely prejudicial to their
commerce. Bofcovich, who had often been fuccefsful
in fimilar circumllances for other powers, appeared to
them the moft proper perfon for this purpofe, and was
accordingly intrufted with it. He repaired to London,
and here alfo effected the objefl of his million with ho¬
nour to himfelf. He vifited the Royal Society, which
received him with diftinguilhing marks of refpeft, and
which he foon afterwards complimented with an ex¬
cellent Latin poem on the folar and lunar eclipfes.
This was in the year 1760, w-hen Dr Johnfon wras in
London. Mr Murphy fpeaks of an interview' w’hich
took place between our author and Johnfon j but in or¬
der to magnify the unruly powers of the tremendous
companion, he rather unhandfomely tells us of the eafy
cant with which a priejl might travel through Italy and
France. We are unwilling to mention what effefts on
fome minds may have been produced by the formida¬
ble fociety of a Johnfon 5 but if they are a contempt
of elegant fimplicity and ingenuous eafe, and an affe&ed
devotion to repulfive pomp and authoritative oftenta-
tion, be our lot far from his influence, amid the peace
and liberty of focial life.
• Bofcovich was invited by the Royal Society to be of
the party of their members fent to America, to obferve
the tranfit of Venus over the fun’s dilk, which happen¬
ed in the year 1762. The nature of his embaffy, and
the neceflity of returning home, however, prevented his
acceptance of the invitation. Soon after his return,
and when his embaffy was fulfilled, he was appointed
by the fenate of Milan to the mathematical chair in the
univerfity of Pavia, and to fuperintend the obfervatory
of the royal college of Brera. He continued in this
fituation for fix years, when he was made profeffor of
aftronomy and optics in the Palatine fchools of Milan
by the emprefs queen ; who alfo requefted him to con¬
tinue his attention to the obfervatory. This he ex¬
pected to be the moft agreeable part of his life. Ad¬
mired by the learned *, beloved by his friends •, having
an adequate income, and a conftitution found and vi¬
gorous ; he promlfed to himfelf, happy, becaufe ufeful Eoico
days, in the tranquil cultivation of the fciences : but a v~ >
cloud long impending now' burft over his head, and
thefe bright days never came.
The myfterious regulation in the political conftitu¬
tion of the Jefuits, though it had attrafled the keen
curiofity of the world, had, fot very fubftantial reafons
never been explored ; nay, fuch was the influence of
the order over the minds of the moft enlightened ftatef-
men, that this impenetrable myftery was held facred
by the civil power in many countries, as if no danger
could exift in what was not underftood. But the ra¬
pid progrefs of fcience, and the gradual decay of fuper-
ilition, required fome evidence of fecurity, and fome
proof that it w'as ever neceffary to conceal good inten¬
tions, and to cover virtuous principles with any other
garb than what truth could bellow. Thefe it is well
known, the Jefuits either could not, or were unwilling
to give ; and they, therefore, jullly incurred the fufpi-
cion of men. The moft trivial circumftances would
augment this fufpicion, and the leaft deviation from
redlitude in any of the order wmuld ferve to juftify it :
thefe w'ere not wanting, and foon became invincible }
the intereft of the Jefuits rapidly declined for many
years, and at lait, in 1773, their order was totally abe-
lilhed.
No exemption from the edict for its downfall could
be procured : all who held offices were difmiffed ; and
Bofcovich fought refuge in the city of Paris. Thither
indeed he w'as invited by the minifter, (we believe
Turgot) by whofe means he was made one of the di-
reftors of optics for the fea fervice, and received a
penfion : but it does not feem that his fituation was
agreeable to him ; for it is well known that the peculiar-
nature of his circumftances W'as the foie caufe of his
long refidence in Paris.
Whether his dillike arofe from the envy of fome of
the French, his own irritability of temper, or the in¬
congruity of the prevailing manners with his own,'we
cannot determine : but it is reafonable to imagine, that
the ruin of his order, and the fubfidence of his owm
importance, would leave fome indelible mark in hjs
mind ; and perhaps when he contemplated the ap¬
parent levity and the real fcepticifm of the age, he
might be brought to fear that the degradation or the
downfall of the w'orld was concomitant. Sentiments
very oppofite to thofe of the French, would thence
naturally arife 5 morofity and difconteirt would invade
him, and he wiflied to re vifit the fcenes of his youth.
Be all this, however, as it may, certain it is, he applied
for leave of abfence for two years, after he had refided
in Paris for ten years : this he eafily procured, and ac¬
cordingly fet out for Baffano in the republic of Venice.
At this place he publifhed in five vols. quarto, a col¬
lection of the works which he had finil'hed in Paris.
This forms a body of optical and aftronomical know¬
ledge, well worthy jhe attention of the philofophical
and mechanical cultivators of the fciences. It may be
worth mentioning, that by proceeding on the princi¬
ples contained in one of the differtations in this collec¬
tion, an amiable philofopher of our own country (Dr.
Robifon) believed it poffible to afcertain the motions
of the earth, though the obferVer fhould be confined
in a cellar; in profecuting the fubjedl, however, he
2 found
BOS
Bofcovich found that an error into which Bofcovich had
w—s ' concerning the aberration of light, undermined
the
principles°on which he had eretted fuch a wonderful
but legitimate problem. The candid and very intereft-
ing acknowledgement of the error, nnd his extreme dif-
appointment in the difcovery of it, which the do£!or
made in the 3d vol. of the Edinburgh Tranfaftions,
is at once an evidence of his own liberality, and an un-
defeafible teftimony to Bofcovich’s genius.
We beg to recommend to our readers the perufal
of the works which we have now mentioned; they would
tend to form the mind to the true mode of inveftigating
the phenomena of nature, and will fatisfaflorily {hew
that this mode is always rewarded by difcovery. The
following is a pretty juft account of their contents : A
new inftrument for determining tne refratfing and di¬
verging forces of diaphanous bodies j a deroonftration
of the falfehood of the Newtonian analogy between
light and found 5 the algebraic formulae regarding the
focufes of lenfes, and their applications for calculating
the fphericity of thofe which are to be ufed in achro-
matical telefcopes ; the corredlions to be made in oc¬
ular lenfes, and the error of the fphericity of certain
glaffes; the caufes which hinder the exaft union of the
folar rays by means of the great burning glaffes, and
the determination of the lofs arifing from it ; the me¬
thod of determining the different velocities of ligot paf-
{intf through different mediums by means of two diop¬
trical telefcopes, one common, the other of a new kind,
containing water between the objeftive glafs and. the
place of the image j a new kind of objective micro¬
meters j the defeats and inutility of a dioptrical tele-
fcope propofed and made at Paris, w’hich gives twTo
images of the fame objeft, the one direft, the other in-
verfe, with two contrary motions of moveable objecls j
maffes floating in the atmofphere, as hail of an extra¬
ordinary fize, feen on the iun with the telefcope, and
refembling Ipots 1 the aftronomical refractions, and va¬
rious methods for determining them j various methods
for determining the orbits of comets and of the new
planet, with copious applications of thefe doctrines to
other aftronomical fubje&s, and ftill more generally to
geometry and to the fcience of calculation j the errors,
the rectifications, and the ufe of quadrants, of fextants,
of aftronomical feCtors, of the meridian line, of tele¬
fcopes called the inftturoents of traniits, of the meii-
dian, and of the parallactic machine } the trigonome¬
trical differential formulae, which are of fo much ufe
in aftronomy •, the ufe of the micrometical rhombus, ex¬
tended to whatever oblique polition j the eiror ariung
from refraCtions in ufing the aftronomical ring for a lun-
dial, and the correction to be made •, the appearing and
the difappearing of Saturn's ring •, the methods of de¬
termining the rotation of the fun by means of the fpots,
propofed formerly by the author, and now perfected j
[ 44 3 BOS
fallen, the greateft exa&nefs poffible in determining the length Bofcovich.
of a pendulum ofcillating every fecond of middle time -y—'
by the comparifon of terreftrial and celeftial gravity j a
compend of aftronomy for the ufe ot the marine, con¬
taining the elements of the heavenly motions, and of
the aftronomical inftruments, to be explained to a prince
in the courfe of one month } a method for determining
the altitudes of the poles with the greateft exa&nefs, by
means of a gnomon alone, rvhere other inftrurqents are
not to be bad j the determination of the illuminated
edge of the moon to be obferved on the meridian 5 a
method of ufing the retrograde return of Venus to the
fame longitude, for determining the lets certain elements
of her orbit $ a method for correcting the Clements of a
comet, of which the longitude of the node is given, and
the inclination of the orbit has been found nearly ; an¬
other method for the fame purpofe, and for finding the
elliptical orbit, wdien the parabolic one does not agree
with the obfervations 5 a method for correCHng the ele¬
ments of a planet by three obfervations } the projection
of an orbit inclined in the plane of the ecliptic 3 the pro¬
tection of an orbit inclined in any other plane 5 the cal¬
culation of the aberration of the ftars, arifi.ng from the
fucceflive propagation of light 3 feme beautiful theorems
belonging to triangles, which are of great ule in aftro¬
nomy, reduced to moft fimple demonftrations.
After the publication of thefe works, our author lett
Baffano, and went to Rome to vifit the companions of
his youth. From Rome he proceeded to Milan, where
he revifed fome of his own works, and prepared for
publication the two laft volumes of Stay s poems.
I11 fuch occupations, and amidft friends whom equal
misfortune and temporary feparation had ftill more en¬
deared, he had remained happy, and might perhaps
have been ftill further ufeful to the world 3 but his
leave of abfence was now nearly expired, and his dis¬
like to a refidence in Paris was augmented by tne con-
traft w’hich his prefent abode afforded. He was too
delicate to apply for more leave of abfence 3 and though
he was fenfibie of the gratitude which he owed , to
France, he could not reconcile it with the deftiuCtion
of his own repofe. About this time alfo he had feve-
ral attacks of gout, but he would admit no medical
aid. Under thefe diftreffes, and others which we have,
before mentioned, our illuftrious autnor at laft iunk _
a melancholy defpondency feized on and fubjugated
his mind, fo that for five months he remained perfectly
fatuous 3 and an impofthume having burft in his bread,
terminated his exiftence on the 13th of February 1787,
in the 76th year of his age.
The following infeription was compofed by Benedict
Stay, and engraved on marble by order of the fenate
of Ragufa, in memory of their ufeful citizen the illus¬
trious Bofcovich.
Rogerio. Nicolai. F. Boscovichio,
SummL Ingenii. Viro. Philofopho. Et. Mathematico. Prseftantiflimo
Scriptori. Operum.. Egregiorum
Res. Fhyiicas. Geometricas. Aftronomicas
Plurimis. Inventis. Suis, AuCtas- Continentium
Celebriorum. Europae. Academiarum, Socio
Qui. In. Soc. Jefu. Cum. EiTet. Ac. Romae. Mathefim. Profiteretur
BenediCtoe, XIV. Mandante
Multe.
B
OS [ 45 ] BOS
Bofcovich. Multo. Lahore. Singular!. Induftria
—v ■■■—■' Dimenfus. Eft. Gradum. Terreftris. Circuli
Boream. Verfu?. Per. Pontificiam. Ditionem. Tranfeuntis
Ejufdemque. Ditioni?. In. Nova. Tabula. Situs. Omnes. Defcripfit.
Stabilitati. Vaticano. Tholo. Reddundte
Portubus. Superi. Et. Inferi. Maris. Ad. Juftara. Altitudinem. Redigendis
Reftagnantibus. Per Campos. Aquis. Emittendis. Commonftravit. Viam
Legatus. A. Lucenftbus. Ad. Francifcum. I. Caefarem. M. Etruriae. Ducem
Ut. Amnes. Ab. Eorum. Agro. Averterentur. Obtinuit
Merito. Ab. lis. Inter. Patricios. Cooptatus
Mediolanum. Ad. Docendum. Mathematicas. Difciplinas. Evocatus
JBraidenfem. Extruxit. Inftruxitque. Servandis. Aftris. Speculam
Deletae. Turn. Societati. Suae. Superftes
Lutetiae. Pariftorum. Inter. Galliae. Indigenas. Relatus
Commiffum. Sibi. Perficiundae. In. Ufus. Maritimos.
Opticae. Munus. Adcuravit
Ampla. A. Ludovico. XV. Rege. Xmo. Attributa. Penfione
Inter. Haec. Et. Poefim. Mira. Ubertate. Et. Facilitate. Excoluit
Do&as. Non. Semel. Sufcepit. Per. Europam. Peregrinationes
Multorum. Amicitias. Gratia. Virorum. Principum. Ubique. Floruit
Ubique. Animum. Chriftianarum. Virtutum
Veraeque. Religionis. Studiofum. Prae-fe-tulit
Ex. Gallia. Italiam. Revifens. Jam. Senex
Cum. Ibi. In. Elaborandis. Edendifque. Poftremis. Operibus
Plurimum. Contendiflet. Et. Novis. Inchoandis. Ac. Veteribus. Abfolvendis
Sefe. Adcingeret
In. Diuturnum. Incidit. Morbum. Eoque. Obiit. Mediolarii
Id. Feb. An. MDCCLXXXVII. Natus. Annos LXXV. Menfes IX. Dies II.
Huic. Optime. Merito. De. Republica. Civi
Quod. Fidem. Atque. Operam. Suam. Eidem. Saepe. Probaverit
In. Arduis. Apud. Exteras. Nationes
Bene. Utiliterque. Expediundis. Negotiis
Quodque. Sui. Nominis. Celebritate. Novum. Patriae. Decus. Adtulerit
Polt. Funebrem. Honorem. In. Hoc. Templo. Cum. Sacro. Et. Laudatione
Publice. Delatum
Ejufdem. Templi. Curatores
Ex. Senatus. Confulto
M. P. P.
Bofcovich.
Befides the works which wre have mentioned, he
wrote feveral others on various fubje£ls, as, on the pro¬
ject of turning the navigation to Rome from Fiumici-
no to Maccarefe 5 a third on two torrents in the terri¬
tory of Perugia ; a fourth on the bulwarks on the river
Ponaro; a fifth on the river Sidone in the territory of
Placentia ; a fixth on the entrance into the fea of the
Adige. He wrote other fuch works on the bulwarks
of the Po *, on the harbours of Ancona, of Rimini, of
Magna Vacca, and Savona, befides others, almoft all
which were printed. He had likewife received a com-
miflion from Clement XIII. to vifit the Pomptin lakes,
on the draining of which he drew up his opinion in
writing, to which he added further elucidations at the
defire of Pius VI.
^ - s. , We have fpoken of Bofcovich as the founder of a
Theoria * new fyftem of natural philofophy, which has occupied
Philofophix much of the attention of the learned, and which alone
.Naturalis, will render the name of its author immortal. It be¬
comes us therefore to give fuch a fynopfis of it, as may
fatisfy the general reader, or induce the ftudent to
fearch for more information in the work from which
we ourfelves have derived it.
In a fubjeft fo abftrufe and remote from obfervation
as many of the principles which we have to confider in
this theory, much difficulty in inveftigation is to be
expeffed, and perhaps the metaphorical language
which wre are conftrained to employ, will tend not a
little to embarrafs and miflead us. We are alfo aware-
of the many obftacles which a theory of fuch magni¬
tude has to encounter in the improved mode of philofo-
phifing of the prefent day ; w7e are aware that at the
bare mention of a new theory in natural philofophy,
fome of our readers will revolt from our page, affedl a
contempt of our labours, and call to their aid the au¬
thority of Bacon. But w7e would afk fuch, from
whence does their fpirit arife? we have found it in>
thofe who never ftudied a page of Bacon 3 and we
have known it accompanied by indolence, and by a
fupine indifference to aught that dignifies and elevates
humanity. It is furely no hard matter to condemn a
theory, merely becaufe it is a theory ; nor is it at all
demonftrable that fuch condemnation requires any
great effort of genius or underftanding. Now the
fpirit of Bacon is a fpirit of zeal, and labour, and per-
feverance, and above all, of inveftigation. Not then
from his writings has this contempt arifen, but from a
total ignorance of them 3 not from his doftrine, but
from an imaginary infpiration of his principles.
We
BOS
Bofcovich's We have reafon to believe that the theory of Bof-
SNrtunUf cov^c^ woul(i ^ave received the fanftion of the illuf-
trious Bacon j becaufe the foundation on which it is
[ 4<3 ]
BOS
Philofophy.
divided in¬
to three
parts;
3
has fome
refem-
blance to
ether
theories,
4
Leibnit-
5
Newto-
6
Principles
of it.
erefted is confecrated by irradiation from his works.
Be this, however, as it may, we are convinced that
fuch an example of true genius will be acceptable to
every friend of humanity, and to every cultivator of
fcience.
1 hat wTe may do juflice to our author in giving a
fynopfis of his theory, we (hall follow the order
which he himfelf has adopted ; and (hall fubjoin fome
general obfervations and remarks which have occurred
to us in the courfe of the wrork.
Bofcovich’s Theoria Philofophiae Naturalis is divid¬
ed into three parts, of which the JirJl contains the ex¬
plication of the theory, its analytic deduction, and its
vindication.
The fecond contains the application of the theory to
mechanics, and
The third the application of the theory to phyfics.
Of thefe in order, and firft of the explication of the
theory.
This theory has fomething in common with the
Leibnitzian and the Newtonian.
With the former it admits that the elements of mat¬
ter are limple and inextended j but it differs from it,
in denying the continued extenfion of the elements, and
in affecting that the elements are perfeflly homogeneous.
Like the Newtonian, it allows the exiftence of mu¬
tual powers or forces, wdiich vary according to the
diftance by certain laws ; but it goes further, in that
it afferts thefe powers are both repulflve and attrac¬
tive, and that wTen either of thefe terminates the other
begins : but it differs from the Newtonian in explain¬
ing by one principle phenomena to which the latter
applies three.
This one principle may be expreffed by an algebraic
formula, or by one continued geometrical curve ; and
it is the law by which the powers of repulfion and at-
traftion aft. As continued extenfion of bodies is re-
jefted from this theory, it is obvious, that as on the
one hand a repulfive po-wer muft render it impoffible,
fo on the other an attraftive power muff give rife to
the apparent examples of it, to the phenomena of cohe-
fion : this accordingly is one effential charafteriftic of
the theory.
From thefe few remarks we may deduce the princi¬
ples of the theory.
The firfl elements or atoms of matter are indivifiM
ble, inextended, but fimple, homogeneous, and finite in
number. They are difperfed in an immenfe fpace, In
fuch a manner as that any two or more may be diftant
from each other any affignable interval. This inter¬
val may be indefinitely augmented or diminifhed, but
cannot entirely vanifli. Aftual contaft of the atoms
is therefore impoffible, feeing that the repulfive power
which prevents the entire vanifhing of the interval,
muff be fufficient to deflroy the greatefl velocities by
which the atoms tend to unite. The repulfive power
muff encircle every atom, muft be equal at equal di-
ftances from the atoms, and moreover, muft increafe
as the diftance from the atoms diminifhes. On the
contrary, if the diftance from the atoms increafes the
repulfive power will diminifti, and at laft become equal
£o nothing, or vanifh : then, and not till then, an at-
Plate
XCIV.
fig. r.
traftive power commences, increafes, diminifhes, va- Pofcovich’i
nifties. But the theory does not flop here ; for it fup- s>'r;em of
pofes, that a repulfive power fucceeds to the fecond or
attraftive, increafes, diminifhes, vanifties j and that , ‘n °
there are feveral alternations of this kind, till at the v
laft an attraftive power prevails, and though diminifti-
ing lenfibly, as the fquares of the diftances iiicreafe,
extends to the molt diftant regions of our fyftem. „
Such a procefs as we have now mentioned may feem A geome-
complicated and confufed j but the curve line which tdcal curve
expreffes it is fo fimple, that we are perfuaded, our^1^^^^5
readers, though unacquainted with geometry, wall com- 0f ^e'1
prehend it, and hence will be able J^o underftand the theory,
theory itfelf.
We fhall now proceed therefore to exhibit this curve,
and to Ihew in what manner it elucidates the principles
of the theory.
The axis C'AC has an afymptote of a curve in the
point A, viz. the indefinite right line AB j on each
fide of which are placed two equal and fimilar bran¬
ches of a curve, viz. D'E'F'G', &c. and DEFGH1KL
MNOFQRSTV ; the latter of thefe having the afymp-
totical arch ED, though indefinitely produced towards
the right line AB, will never touch it; but it accedes
to the axis C'AC, and touches it in fome point E. From
this point it recedes on the oppofite fide of the axis to
fome point F, bends again to the axis C'AC, and cuts it
in the point G ; from this it recedes in a fimilar manner,
on the fide of the axis from whence it originated, and
arrives at the point H. From the point H it bends to
the axis C'AC, and cuts it in the point I ; and fo on in
alternate fits of accefiion and receflion till it has com¬
pleted the remaining arches IKL,LMN,NOP,PQR,
R.ST ; after which it becomes afymptotical, forming the
arch T/rV, which approaches the axis C'AC on the
fide oppofite that from ’which it originated, in fuch a
manner as that the diftances from the axis fhall be in
the reciprocal duplicate ratios of the diftances from the
afymptote BA.
Now, if we raife and let fall perpendiculars on the
axis C'AC in the points <7, £, </, &c. the fegments of
the axis fo formed, viz. A a, A b, A d, 8zc. are ab-
feiffes, and wdll reprefent the diftances between any*
two atoms or points of matter ; and the perpendiculars
fo conftrufted, viz. 77^, l r, dht are ordinates, and will
reprefent the intenfity of the repulfive or attraftive
powers, according to their fituation with refpeft to the
axis C'AC ; for, if on the fame fide with the afymptote
AB as a g, b r, they reprefent the former ; and if on
the fide oppofite to the afymptote, as 7/the latter
power.
From what we have faid, it is manifeft, that the
ordinate a g may be increafed beyond any aftignable
limit, provided the correfponding abfeiffa A 77 be di¬
minifhed beyond any affignable limit; feeing that the
limb of the curve ED is afymptotical which terminates
the ordinate a g, and confequently never touches the
right line AB ; but that, if the abfeifla be increafed as
to A b, then the ordinate will be diminifhed to b r ’y
and that by perpetually increafing the abfeifia to the
point E, the ordinate will be perpetually diminilhed till
at the point E it will totally vanifh.
Moreover, if we fhall increafe the abfeififa to A dy
we fhall find that on the oppofite fide of the axis C'AC,
there will appear the ordinate dh, which, by continuing
1 the
BOS f 47 ] BOS
Bofcovich’s the fame increafe of the abfcifla will increaie to the If thefe conditions be anfwered, it muft be evident Bofcovich'*
of p0;nt and then will diminiih perpetually, as it ap-
proaches to the point G, where it will totally vanifh.
. ‘u 0 iy- jf the abfciffa be Hill increafed, an ordinate arifes on
the oppofite fide, increafes to H, diminifhes to I, and
vaniflies, appears again, increafing to K, diminifhing to
L, vanidiing; and fo on through all the remaining
points and fituations of the curve, till at length com¬
ing to p o and s v, it continues to diminifh perpetual¬
ly, but never again totally vanilhes.
Such then is the nature of the curve, and fuch, it
mull be admitted, will comply with the defcription of
the repulfive and attractive powmrs, and the manner in
w’hi<jh they alternate, fo effential to the theory. The
In what htft power or that next the atoms is repulfive, and is
manner. greatefl at the leaf! difla«ces from them p by increaf¬
ing the diflances it diminifhes, vanifhes ; is fucceeded
by attraction, wdiich increafes, diminifhes, vanilhes; is
in like manner fucceeded by repulflon ; and thofe two
powers alternate x’epeatedly, when the attraction fuc-
ceeding, conftitutes the general gravity of Sir Ifaac
Newton, and reaches to the planets, and the far di-
ftant comets of the fyftem of the fun.
It is obvious, that the tranfltions which we have
defcribed mult occur in the infenfible diltances, being
all comprehended betwixt the atoms and the exterior
attractive power ; but it is alio obvious that this law of
the forces differs much from the Newtonian gravity, as
the curve which expreffes the latter is a hyperbola of
the third order, lying all on one fide of its axis which
it never cuts; confequently it does not admit of any
tranfitions, as we have before hinted at. It is of con-
fequence to remember this diftinCtion, for we fliall find
that on it depends much of our reafoning in the ap¬
plication of the theory to phyfics.
Some further explanation of the curve remains to
be given in the fecond part : in the mean time wre pro¬
ceed to take notice of certain geometrical properties
effential to it, as anfwering the conditions of the prin¬
ciples of the theory.
Bofcovich, in an after part of the wmrk, demonfirates
ftriCtly that the curve is poffeffed of thefe properties ;
but wre do not think it neceffary to detail his demon-
llration, as it is only acceffible to thofe who are verfed
in the high geometry, and as w'e imagine that a bare
ftatement of the conditions required will fatisfy the
generality of our readers.
This^curve conditions neceffary in the curve are fix in num-
has fix con-ber. Firlt, That it be regular, fimple, and not an ag-
ditions. gregate of arches of different curves. Secondly, That
it lhall cut the axis OAC in certain given points only,
and at the two diltances AE', AE; AG', AG, &c.
which are equal on both fides of the afymptote, the right
line AB. Thirdly, That there lhall be ordinates to
correfpond to every abfciffa. Fourthly, That there
lhall be equal ordinates at equal abfciffes on each fide
of AB. Fifthly, That the right line AB be an
afymptote to the curves on each fide of it ; the area
BAED afymp'-otical and therefore indefinite. Sixthly,
That the arches which are terminated by any twro in-
terfeftions may be varied in any manner, recede from
the axis C'AC to any diffance, and accede to what¬
ever arches of whatever curves, cutting, touching,
or ofcillating them wh^refoever and howfoever we
pleafe.
that by this curve we can exprefs any intenfity of any
force, in any direttion we pleafe ; and of confequence, phiiofophy,
that by one law' of the forces, every thing in the uni- ■ '«
verfe, connected in any manner with motion, may be
explained.
We come now' to confider the analytic dedudlion of
the theory, in which we lhall follow' clofely the Heps
of Bofcovich. to
Bofcovich fets out, by examining the nature of the Tw ana-
law of continuity, and the principles on which it is
. founded. In the year 1745 he publilhed a differtatioutjlc t}ieorv7
De Viribus vivis, in which he wras led to confider the
phenomenon of the collifion of bodies, and in confe¬
quence, the dilemma into which former philofophers
had fallen by their mode of invelligating it, and the
breach of the law of continuity which feme had al¬
lowed to extricate themfelves from the dilemma.
Maclaurin, of whom Bofcovich fpeaks in terms of
the higheft refpeeff, “ Summus noftri aevi geometra et
philofophus,” was the principal advocate for the breach
of the lawT of continuity in the collifion of bodies, and
fpoke with fome indignation of thofe who afferted that
this law was univerfal. He of courfe, believed in
the produdlion of motion by impulfe, and in the
immediate contact of bodies. Nowq Bofcovich, as we
have before mentioned, rejects both of thefe fuppofi-
tions, and confequently explains the phenomenon in a
very different manner from Maclaurin, and endeavours
to prove that the law of continuity is univerfal, and
that no inflance of a breach of it is ever obfervable or
pofiible.
Before proceeding to his reafoning on this fubjedt,
w;e fhall explain what is meant by the law of conti¬
nuity, and give one example of it, to which all others
are referable. u
The law of continuity (fays Bofcovich) confiffs in from the
this, that any quantity w'hilff paffmg from one magni-law.ot con4
tude to another, muft pafs through all the intermediate tinultT
magnitudes of the fame kind : or, according to the law
of continuity, all changes in nature are produced by
infenfible and infinitely fmall degrees; fo that no body
can in any cafe pafs from motion to reft, or from reft to
motion, without palling through all pofiible interme¬
diate degrees of motion. Maclaurin’s Newton, b. 1.
c- 4-
Let there be a right line AB (fig. 2.), to which another
line CDE is related ; let AB reprefent the time, and
from any points of it, F, H let there be erecled the
perpendiculars FG, HI, which (ordinates) may re¬
prefent any quantities continually variable, and will
correfpond to the moments of time F, H ; but to
the intermediate moments K, M, other magnitudes
KL, MN, wall correfpond ; and if from the point G
to the point I there goes a continued and finite part of
the line CDE, it is evident that there is no intermedi¬
ate point of the line AB, as K, to which fome ordinate
KL does not correfpond ; and converfely that there is
no ordinate of magnitude intermediate betwixt FG, HI
which does not correfpond to fome point intermediate
betwixt F, H. Now the variable quantity expreffed
by this variable ordinate, changes according to the
law of continuity ; becaufe from the magnitude FG,
which it has in the moment of time F, to the magni¬
tude HI, which it has in the moment of time H, it
BOS [ 43 ] BOS
Bofcovich’s palTes tKrougli all the intermediate magnitudes KL,
correfponding to the intermediate moments K,M,
"Philofophy an(^ to every moment a determinate magnitude cor-
—y-—- refponds.
This then may be fufficient to explain the nature of
the law of continuity, about which we may remark
there can be no ambiguity ; for the terms which ex-
prefs it are precife, it is a matter of faft, and one ex¬
ample of it is enough to give us an adequate idea of
it. We proceed, therefore, to confider on what its
univerfality is founded j and here two queftions natu-
rallv occur : Have we difcovered the univerfality of
this law by a laborious induftion? or does it neceffarily
refult from the nature of continuity ? Bofcovich an¬
swers both of thele queftions in the affirmative.
iz 1. It is difcovered by induftion. Here we beg to
winch is tranfcribe the words of our author, as much more fa-
^°vere.<1 tisfaftory than any thing w^e can give : “ Quin immo
verfal. in motibus ipfis continuitas fervatur etiam in eo, quod
motus omnes in lineis continuis hunt nufquam abruptis.
Plurimos ejufmodi motus videmus. Pianette et co-
metae in lineis continuis curfum peragunt fuum, et om¬
nes retrogradationes hunt paullatim, ac in ftationibus
femper exiguus quidem motus, fed tamen habetur fem-
per, atque hinc etiam dies paullatim per auroram ve¬
rm, per vefpertinum crepufculum abit, folis diameter
non per faltem, fed continue motu fupra horizontem
afeendit, vel defcendit. Gravia itidem oblique pro-
jefta in lineis itidem pariter continuis motus exercent
iiios, nimirum in parabolis feclufa aeris refiftentia, vel
ea confiderata, in orbibus ad hyperbolas potius acce-
dentibus, et quidem femper cum aliqua exigua obliqui-
tate projiciuntur, cum infinities infinitam improbabili-
tatem habeat motus accurate verticalis inter infinities
tnfinitas inclinationes, licet exiguas, et fub fenfum non
cadentes, fortuito obveniens, qui quidem motus in hy-
pothefi telluris motae a parabolicis plurimum dillant,
et curvam continuam exhibent etiam pro cafu projec-
tionis accurate verticalis, quo quiefeente penitus tellure,
et nulla ventorum vi deflettente motum, haberetur
afeenfus reftilineus, vel defeenfus. Immo omnes alii
motus a gravitate pendentes, omnes ab elafticitate, a
vi magnetica, continuitatem itidem fervant, cum earn
fervent vires ill® ipf®, quibus gignuntur. Nam gra-
vitas, cum decrefcat in ratione reciproca duplicata dif-
tantiarum, et diftantiae per faltum mutari non poffint,
mutatur per omnes intermedias magnitudines. Vide¬
mus pariter vim magneticam a diftantiis pendere lege
continua •, vim elaflicam ab inflexione, uti in laminis,
vel a diftantia, ut in particulis aeris compreffi. In iis,
et omnibus ejufmodi viribus, et motibus, quos gig-
nunt, continuitas habetur femper, tam in lineis, quae
deferibuntur, quam in velocitatibus, quae pariter per
cmnes intermedias magnitudines mutantur, ut videre
ell; in pendulis, in afeenfu corporum gravium, et in
aliis mille ejufmodi, in quibus mutationes velocitatis
fiunt gradatim, nec retro curfus refledditur, nifi immi-
nuta velocitate per omnes gradus. Ea diligentiffime
continuitatem fervant omnia. Hinc nec ulli in natura-
libus motibus habentur anguli, fed femper mutatio di-
reftionis fit paullatim, nec vero anguli exa&i habentur
in corporibus ipfis, in quibus utcunque videatur tenuis
acies, vel cufpis, microfcopii faltem ope videri folet
curvatura, quam etiam habent alvei fluviorum femper,
habent afbonnn folia, et frondes, ac rami, habent la-
2
pides quicunque, nifi forte alicubi cufpides continuse Bofcovich’;
occurrant, vel primi generis, quas natura videtur affec- Syftem of
tare in fpinis, vel fecundi generis, quas videtur affeftare
in avium unguibus, et rollro, in quibus tamen ma- ‘ t -
nente in ipfa cufpide unica tangente contir.uitatem fer-
vari videbimus infra. Infinitum eflet fingula perfequi,
in quibus continuitas in natura obfervatur. Satius ell;
generaliter provocare ad exhibendum cafum in natura,
in quo continuitas non fervetur, qui omnino exhiberi
non poterit.” (Theoria, p. 18.)
From thefe and other examples, in which the law of
continuity is manifeftly held, Bofcovich infers, that it
is univerfal; and that in fo far as induction fupports
us, we are at liberty to apply it in the explanation of
phenomena. Nay, we are by the fame principle com¬
pelled to admit it in cafes where obfervation fails us ;
becaufe to imagine that in fuch cafes this law is broken
and fome other is adopted, is to tranfgrefs one of the
fundamental principles of true philofophy : it is to
multiply caufes unneceffarily 5 it is to limit the power
of the Creator by the imperfection of our own fenfes $
and it will plunge us into difficulties which no eftort of
human reafon will remove. Befides this, it is very ea-
fy to conceive that the law is permanent •, and as no
abfurdity, therefore, accompanies the fuppofition, and
no faff can be brought to overthrow it, wffiereas the
contrary is unfupported by any faCl, but is plainly re¬
pugnant to all, it is furely rational to make ufe of it,
and to hold it as the general principle, till fome high¬
er one be difcovered on which it depends. 13
From induftion alone, therefore, we may infer the |•ts.unl'W'■
univerfality of the law ; but Bofcovich has other argu-
ments which he calls pofitive, to fupport and evince it.p0fjt;ve ar-
This leads us to the fecond queltion, Does this univer-gument.
fality neceffarily arife from the nature of continuity ?
The limit which joins the precedent and confequent of
any thing, is common to both, and is therefore indivi-
fible. Thus, a fuperficies feparating two folids, wants
thicknefs, and is that in which a tranfition from the
one to the other occurs j a line dividing two parts of a
continued fuperficies wants breadth \ a point diferimi-
nating two fegments of a continued line wants every
dimenfion. So it is wdth regard to time, for the limit
of two conjunft portions is common to both, and indi-
vifible } and, as every change of a variable quantity
fi'om one magnitude to another muft be made in time,
fo every change muft be influenced by the continuity of
time. But to every moment of time, a certain magni¬
tude of the variable quantity correfponds, and the li¬
mit of two moments of time is common and indivifible ;
therefore, the limit of two magnitudes correfponding
to thefe two moments, muft be common and indivili-
ble. Moreover, it is impoffible for any quantity to
have two magnitudes at the fame time, and when con¬
tinually varying, that it ffiall have the iame magnitude
at different times $ much more itnpoffible, therefore,
that in the limit of two moments of time it fhall have
two magnitudes, the one correfponding to the prece¬
dent, and the other to the confequent moment, or
fhall not have gone through the intermediate magni¬
tudes in the intermediate moments of time. For the
fame reafon, a body cannot have two velocities at the
fame time, and therefore cannot have two velocities in
the limit common to two moments of time j and when
continually changing its velocity, cannot have the
fame
BOS [ 49 1 BOS
BofcovicVs fame velocity In different ^moments of tune, but muff:
^irou§^1 ’•1ne Intermediate velocities in the inter-
Philofophy mediate moments of time. Hence then, in pafling
y - - -i from the magnitude 8 to the magnitude 12, the va¬
riable quantity pafles through the magnitudes 9, 10,
11. In going from the velocity 7 to the velocity i 1,
a body muff: go through the velocities 8, 9, 10. The
increafe of temperature goes on gradually : the mercu¬
ry in the thermometer rifes gradually, going through
every intermediate degree from one to another. Now
as this reafoning is uninfluenced by any confiderations
of the hardnefs, foftnefs, elafticity or other property of
bodies ■, thefe, it is evident, do not influence the uni-
verlality of the law as refulting from the nature of con¬
tinuity.
From thefe arguments, therefore, and from induc¬
tion, Bofcovich concludes, that the law of continuity
b eflentially univerfal, and that a breach of it is meta-
phyfically impoflible. The ufe made of this deduction
14 in explaining the collifion of bodies, muff at once be
aftual01^ underffood by our philofophical readers. If in this
tadl impof- anc* a^ other phenomena, the law of continuity is pre-
fible. ferved, there can no aftual contaft take place amongft
bodies *, and it is from the univerfality of the law fo
eftablifhed that Bofcovich derives this original princi¬
ple of his theory.
To apply this then in the collifion of bodies, we ar¬
gue in the following manner. Since the bodies can¬
not come into immediate contaft with the preceding
velocities, it is neceflary that their refpeftive velocities
be changed before contafl, that either the velocity of
the antecedent body Ihall be augmented, or that the
velocity of the coniequent body (hall be diminiflied, or
that both of thefe changes Ihall occur. Now the
caufe operating betwixt the bodies, fo as to retard the
one, and to accelerate the other, muff be a power,
and muff aft from the bodies, and muff alfo be fuffi-
cient to overcome the greateft velocities with which
the bodies tend to unite, and be mutual, hecaufe ac¬
tion and re-aftion are equal. In fine, this is the inte¬
rior repulfive power according to the definition. This
mode of explaining the phenomenon, we may obferve,
is general, feeing that no hardnefs, foftnefs, or elafti¬
city of the bodies, has any influence on the general
principle from which it is deduced ; but thefe proper¬
ties will influence the particular cafes of the phenome¬
non, and caufe certain modifications, which, however,
do not concern us at prefent.
Repulfive In this manner we derive evidence for the exiftence
power. 0f the interior repulfive power ; but for this we have
alfo the light of induftion to aflift us, as we (hall prove
in the conclufion of our article.
As the repulfive power may be increafed to infinity,
by diminifhing to infinity the diftances betwixt the a-
toms of matter, it is obvious, that no part of matter
can be contiguous to another part; from which it fol¬
lows, that the primary elements of matter are fimple
1(J and uncompounded. From fimilar arguments, and
Inextenfion from others deduced from the abfurdities involved in
of the a- the contrary fuppofition, Bofcovich maintains, that
toms. they are alfo inextended and indivifible.
17 The exiftence of an attraftive power is allowed on
f*ands» we need not therefore enumerate Bofco-
vich’s arguments on the fubjeft. For proofs'of the
Vol. IV. Part I.
tranfitions from one power to another, we are referred Bofcovich’s
to the phenomena of effervefcence, fermentation, co- ^
hefion, &c. ; the confideration of which belongs to x-’hHofophy.
the third part of our fubjeft. ——v 11'
To prove the homogeneity of the atoms, Bofcovich jg
makes ufe of the fame reafons which have been em-Homoge-
ployed by other philofophers ; and he removes the ob- nei1)' d1(>
jeftions made to it by Leibnitz, on the principle ofat0ms'
the fufficient reafon, and the vifible diverfity of bo¬
dies : the former he contends to be falfe, being found¬
ed on that doftrine of neceffity which Leibnitz main¬
tained •, and with refpeft to the latter, he deferibes a
beautiful and ftriking analogy, which wre cannot re¬
frain from tranferibing.
“ Fieri poflent nigricantes literee, non duftu atra-
menti continuo, fed punftulis rotundis nigricantibus,
et ita parum a fe invicem remotis, ut intervalla non
nifi ope microfcopii difeerni poflent, et quidem ipfse
literarum formas pro typis fieri poflent ex ejufmodi ro¬
tundis fibi proximis cufpidibus conftantes. Concipia-
tur ingens quaedam bibliotheca, cujus omnes libri con-
ftarent literis impreflis, ac fit incredibilis in ea multi-
tudo librorum confcriptorum linguis variis, in quibus
omnibus forma charafterum fit eadem. Si quis ferip-
turae hujufmodi et linguarum ignarus circa ejufmodi li~
bros, quos omnes a fe invicem diferepantes intueretur,
obfervationem inftitueret cum diligent! contemplatione,
primo quidem inveniret vocum farraginem quandam,
quae in quibufdam libris occurrerent ftepe, cum in aliis
nufquam apparerent, et inde lexica poflet quaedam
componere totidem numero, quot idiomata funt, in
quibus lingulis omnes ejufdem idiomatis voces reperi-
rentur, quae quidem numero admodum pauca eflent,
diferimine illo ingenti tot, tam variorum librorum re-
dafto ad illud ufque adeo minus diferimen, quod con-
tinerentur lexicis illis, et habereturin vocibus ipfa lexi¬
ca conftituentibus. At inquifitione promota, facile ad-
verteret, omnes illas tam varias voces conffare ex 24
tantummodo diverfis literis, diferimen aliquod inter fe
habentibus in duftu linearum, quibus formantur, qua-
rum combinatio diverfa pareret omnes illas voces tam
varias, ut earum combinatio libros efformaret ufque
adeo magis a fe invicem diferepantes. Et ille quidem
fi aliud quodcunque fine microfcopio examen inffitueret,
nullum aliud inveniret magis adhuc fimile elementorum
genus, ex quibus diverfa ratione combinatis orirentur
ipfm literae j at microfcopio arrepto, intueretur utique
illam ipfam literarum compofitionem e punftis illis ro¬
tundis prorfus homogeneis, quorum fola diverfa pofitio
ac diffributio literas exhiberet. Haec mihi quaedam
imago videtur efle eorum quee cernimus in natura.
Tam multi, tam varii, illi libri corpora funt, et quae ad
diverfa pertinent regna, funt tanquam diverfis confcrip-
ta linguis. Horura omnium chemica analyfis princi-
pia quasdam invenit minus inter fe diffbrmia, quam lint
libri, nimirum voces. Hsec tamen ipfae inter fe ha-
bent diferimen aliquod, ut tam multas oleorum, terra-
rum, falium fpecies emit chemica analyfis e diverfis
corporibus. Ulterior analyfis horum veluti vocum, li¬
teras minus adhuc inter fe diffbrmes inveniret, et
ultima juxta theoriam meam deveniret ad homogenea
punftula, quae ut illi circuli nigri literas, ita ipfa di-
verfas diverforum corporum particulas per folam dif-
pofitionem diverfam effbrmarent: ufque adeo analogia
G -ex
j3ofcov[ch’s ex
Syltem of
Natural
BOS f 5° ]
ipfa naturae confideratione derivata non ad dilTor-
B O S
.19.
Objections
to the the¬
ory obvi¬
ated.
mitatem, fed ad conformitatem elernentorum nos du-
Philofophy. Clt-” . (Theoria, p. 49.)
It is from theie fimple principles which we have
enumerated that Bofcovich deduces analytically the
whole of his fyftem •, and he now proceeds to remove
or explain away the obje&ions made to it.
It has been obje&ed in the firft place to the mutual
' powers, that they are occult qualities, and that they
induce aftion at a diftance. But in reply, fo far from
being occult they are very manifeft, an idea of them
can eafily be formed, their exiftence is evinced by a
pofitive argument, and their efft&s are continually be¬
fore our eyes •, we may add alfo, that the fame objec¬
tion was made to the Newtonian attra&ion, and that
the fame arguments ferve to remove it from both. As
to the mutual powers inducing a&ion at a dillance,
much indeed may be faid, but it is very queftionable if
nil that can be faid will ever clear up the obfcurity
that perpetually involves this inextricable phenomenon.
We referve fome remarks on the commonly received
notions on the fubje£f, for our concluflon $ in the mean
time, we may affirm, that it is as eafy to conceive motion
produced by the powers we have fpoken of, i. e. at a
diftance, as produced by immediate impulfe. We
know, indeed, that till of late, philofophers were ac-
cuftomed to confider the connexion between impulfe
and motion fo effential, and their notions on the fub-
je£I fo clear and fundamental, that whenever they
could reduce any phenomenon to that predicament,
they flattered themfelves every difficulty vanifhed, and
confequently further inveftigation was fuperfluous. But
we alfo know, that till of late, water was held to be a
fimple body, and that when it could be ffiewn to arife
in any chemical experiment, it was cuftomary in che-
mifts to believe it had previoufly exifted in the fubje&s
of their experiment. Do we coincide in this belief in
the prefent day ?
It has been objected, that the theory itfelf admits a
fudden tranfition from one power to another j but a
due infpeftion of the curve, and the explanation of it
which we have given, will convince that this is impof-
fible, for that every change is made by paffing through
every intermediate degree.
The principal objeftions, as might have been ex-
pefled, have been made to the rejection of contaft, to
the inextenfton of the atoms, and to their indivifibility.
But it is allowed, that bodies approach fo near to each
other, as to leave no fenfible dirtance between them ;
and that the refiftance which we experience is made by
the repulfive power which gives us the fame fenfation
as adtual contaft. We can form no idea, it is true,
of an inextended indivifible atom of matter, becaufe all
our ideas of matter are affociated with extenfion and
parts and fo difficult is it to break the alfociation, we
imagine thefe are effential to it. Bofcovich direfts us
to confider the nature of a mathematical point, in
which there is involved no notion of extenfion or
parts, and that from this we can form an idea of an
inextended atom. The notion of an inextended and
fimple atom is not peculiar to the theory of Bofcovich.
Zeno and his followers among the ancients, and the
modern Leibnitzians adopted it. But Bofcovich, by
denying a£lual contact and continued extenfion, gets rid
of the abfurdities which refvftted from their opinions.
Some have afferted that the atoms of this theory do Bofcovich’s
not differ from fpxrits, becaufe they have not extenfion, Syftem of
which is the charafteriftic of matter. Does then ex-pLMa/-Ur|^
tenfion conftitute matter, and the want of it fpirit ? ‘ v- ]
We apprehend not. The difcrimination of matter and
fpirit confifts in thefe two circumftances : the former
is perceptible by our fenfes, and is incapable of thought
and volition j whereas, the latter does not affedi our
fenfes, but can both think and will. But the percep¬
tibility of matter arifes from its impenetrability, not
from continued extenfion. Befides this, the atoms
have repulfive and attradlive powers, though they
do not therefore refemble fpirit. For were we to ad¬
mit the exiftence of a kind of being polfeffed of thefe
adfive powers, conjoined with inertia, and having at the
fame time cogitation and volition ; it would neither be
matter nor fpirit, but a tertium quid, diftinguifhed from
the former by cogitation and volition, and from the
latter by inertia, and by powers which induce impene¬
trability.
Bofcovich treats the other metaphyfical objedlions to
his theory in a fimilar manner j but we think it very
unneceflary to dwell longer on them, and (hall there¬
fore proceed to the fecond part of our fubjedh 20
II. We are obliged to be concife in our account ofApplka-
the application of the theory to mechanics, becaufe t‘on rne"
though very valuable in itfelf, it can hardly be a_ Panics,
bridged, and w'ould prove interefting to thofe only wffio
are verfed in mechanical fcience. There remain, how¬
ever, fome further circumftances of the curve to be
confidered, which are eflential to the fully underftand-
ing the theory itfelf, and the manner in which it is to
be applied either to mechanics or to phyfics. We pro-
pofe to deliver them in this place in conformity with
our author’s plan, though they are equally fuitable to
any of the three parts. 2I
The circumftances we mean are of three kinds. Further re-
iff, The arches of the curve. 2dly, The areas com-marks on
prehended betwixt the axis, and the arches wffiich thetIie curve*
ordinates generate by continually flowing. 3dly, The
points in which the curve cuts the axis. 2a
1. The arches are either repulfive or attra&ive, ac-Arches^
cording as they are fituated on the fame fide of the ax¬
is with the afymptotic limb ED, or on the fide oppo-
lite, and terminate the ordinates exhibiting the repul¬
five or the attractive powers. The arches may bend
towards the axis, and turn again from it without touch¬
ing or cutting it, as in the arch P ef; this bending may
be repeated, and may occur on either fide of the axis,
and it may admit of many varieties in figure and fize,
fo as to exprefs every poffible aCtion and mode of ac¬
tion.
2. The areas may be of any magnitude however Areas.,
great or fmall, or they may be infinite, according as
the arches depart more or lefs from the axis, or become
afymptotical with refpeCI to it. The abfciffes repre-
fent the diftances betwixt the atoms, and the ordinates
the prefent force by w'hich they are aCting : the areas
which the ordinates run through, exprefs the increment or
the decrement of the fquares of the velocities which are
generated. From thefe principles it is eafy to fee in what
manner the doClrine of dynamics may be applied in
the theory. And from this very circumftance it is
clear that this theory does not interfere with principles
in mechanics which are deduced from reafoning ab-
ftraCledly
Bofcovichfs
Syftem of
Natural
Philol'ophy.
. =4
Points.
Limits of
cohefion.
26
Of non-co.
•hdion.
B 0 S . . C. 5
ftraftedly on fpace, velocity, and time, and in which
the nature and properties of matter have no place.
This remark is momentous, becaufe it ferves us in form¬
ing an adequate opinion of the merits of the theory,
and it completely overthrows the fcepticifm concerning
mechanical knowledge into which fome have been led
by imperfe&ly underftanding the object and the prin¬
ciples of Bofcovich. We beg to imprefs this on the
minds of our readers, and to allure them, that though
the theory of Bofcovich be moft fatisfactorily eftablifh-
ed, there will not one fundamental principle in the
fcience of mechanics be overturned. This will no
doubt mortify the ignorant fceptic, but it will animate
the true ftudent to greater exertions, and it may open
to him a field in which glory and fame remain yet to
be reaped. To return, the afymptotic area included
betwixt any afymptote and ordinate may be either in¬
finite, or finite of any magnitude however great or
fmall: or more generally, the area is infinite if the or¬
dinate increafes in the fimple reciprocal ratio j but if
the ratio be lefs in any degree, the area is finite.
3. The points in which the curve cuts the axis are of
two kinds, one where the tranfition is from repulfion to
attrafHon, the other where it is from attraction to re¬
pulfion. Nowr thefe are called limits, and though they
have fomething in common with each other, yet do they
effentially differ. They have this in common, that if
two atoms be placed at the diffance of any limits from
each other, no mutual power is exerted by them j con-
fequently if they are refpeCtively at reft, they continue
fo. But if they be moved from their rcfpeClive reft,
then an effential difference is obfervable betxvixt thefe
two kinds of limits. In the limit of the firft kind, viz.
where the tranfition is from repulfion to attraction, the
atoms refift further feparation, and endeavour to regain
their former diftance by the attractive power then op¬
erating and they refift nearer approach than the limit,
and endeavour to regain their former diftance, by the
repulfive power then operating. This therefore is cal¬
led a hmit of cohefon, feeing that if an atom be any
way removed from it, it endeavours to regain it.
But in the limit of the fecond kind, if the diftance
betxvixt the atoms be in the leaft increafed, then will
thefe atoms tend from each other more and more, by the
repulfive poxver then operating j and if the diftance be¬
twixt them be in the leaft diminifhed, then they wrill
tend to each other more and more, by the attractive
poxver then operating. This therefore is called a lim¬
it of non-cohejian, feeing that if an atom be any way re¬
moved from, it departs more and more from it. Now
the limits of cohefion may be very ftrong or very weak j
for if the curve cuts the axis perpendicularly, it is evi¬
dent that the ordinates on each fide of the limit are
the greateft, and therefore the forces which they ex-
prefs the greateft. On the other hand, if the curve
cuts the axis in a very fmall angle, it is alfo evident
that the ordinates on each fide of the limit are very
fmall, and therefore the forces xvhich they exprefs very
fmall j and thefe in any proportion. Of the limits
of non-cohefion w’e may obferx'e that, in a fimilar man¬
ner, according to the angle formed by the curve in cut¬
ting the axis at the points reprefenting them, the atoms
will recede from,, or accede to each other xvith greater
or fmaller velocity, xvhen their refpe&ive diftance is
changed.
[ ] BOS
The remarks which xve have now made, together EofcovkIA
with the former explanation of the curve, are fufficient
to acquaint our readers xvith the general principles of philofophy.
the theory, and xvill ferve to exhibit the manner in —y'-—
which it may be applied to mechanics and to phyfics.
Of the former, we have already mentioned, it is diffi¬
cult to give even an abridgment $ we propofe then to
employ the remainder of this part in enumerating the
particular fubjefls in mechanics to which our author
has applied his theory, and in giving our opinion of the
degree of iuccefs with which his application is attend¬
ed. . 27
He commences by ftiowing in what manner maffes Combina-
of matter may be formed by the atoms, fuppofing them tion of the
endowed with the poxvers of repulfion and attraction j atomi
and firft of the combination of two atoms, then of three,
and fo to the moft Complicated bodies. He proves
that the maffes fo formed will be poffeffed of different
properties, in confequenceof the difpofitionof the powers
wfirich in certain cafes xviil alxvays attraCt, in others al¬
ways repel, and in others again will do neither, i. e.
will be neutral. From thefe differences will neccffarily
refult peculiarities in the mode of the aCtion of different
mafles, and thefe fo endlefs and diverfified, as to in¬
clude every poffible phenomenon in nature. It is eafy
to conceive that the varieties in figure xvill readily re¬
fult from the pofition of the atoms, and the influence
of the powers in refpeCl to each other. Thus a pyra¬
mid may be formed of four atoms, and a cube of eight ;
thefe fmaller or primary maffes may be combined to 2g
form fecondary, and fo on to any order. Regular and forming dif-
irregular bodies will thence be formed j and yet it may terent
be ftiown that the moft irregular and complicated may bodies>
be reduced to the primary or original forms, from
whence they were conftru&ed. The cryftallization of
falls, for example, may in this manner be accounted for,
and the reduction of them into the primitive forms be
explained on the principles of the theory. Thefe phe¬
nomena imply compofition and equilibrium of forces,
which ftriCtly belong to mechanics ; our author there¬
fore proceeds to confider thefe and other fubjeCts con¬
nected with them : as the centre of graxuty j the equa¬
lity of aCtion and reaction ; the collifion of bodies ; the
centre of equilibrium ; the centre of ofcillation ; the
centre of percuflion. In all @f thefe we may obferve caufing the
his law of the forces is ftri&ly applicable; that by it mechanical
fome very difficult problems are folved, and fome in- phenomena
tricate phenomena explained, with an accuracy and
precifion highly creditable to Bofcovich, and ftrongly
prefumptive of the value of his theory. The formula}
xvhich his inveftigations afford are certainly curious
and interefting to the fpeculative, and may be ufeful to
the practical mechanic. He adds a few remarks on the
preffure and velocity of fluids, which are equally clear,
and in our opinion fatisfaCtory.
HI. We have already anticipated fome of the prin-Apphcatlon
ciples which more properly belong to this part, in which to phyfics.
we confider his application of the theory to phyfics.
This neceffarily comprehends all the general properties
of matter, fome of which have already engaged our at¬
tention when treating of the analytic deduction and
vindication of the theory, but ftill require fome parti¬
cular obfervations.
1 he impenetrability ot the atoms is a neceffary con- Impenetra-
fequence of the interior repulfive power iucreafing as Why.
G 2 the
32
£xtenfion.
33 .
Figurabi-
lity.
BOS [52
Bofcovich’s the diftance dnninirties j but it alfo arifes from the in-
Sgem of extenlion of the atoms, and their indivifibility : becaufe
Philofophy as Aiace infinitely divifible, it is infinitely improbable
i - y - »that any two atoms fhould ever meet in the fame part
of it, though no repulfive power exilted, feeing that
they may move in an infinite number of the parts of
-fpace which are unoccupied. So that, independent of
any repulfive power, it is infinitely improbable that
any compenetration Ihould occur.
Phyfical extenfion neceflarily arifes from the impene¬
trability of the atoms j becaufe by it, no two atoms can
occupy the fame part of fpace, and are therefore kept
without each other 5 but it is not mathematical or con¬
tinued extenfion, feeing that feme fpace mult intervene
betwixt all the atoms. Our fenfes, it is true, cannot
perceive this fpace on account of its fmallnefs j no more
can they perceive the difiances betwixt the particles of
water or other fluid, and yet from certain phenomena
it is demonftrable that fuch difiances exift.
From extenfion arifes Jigurability^ feeing that by the
combination of the atoms certain iorms muft be produ¬
ced : it can be eafily fhown that, on account of the va¬
rious limits of cohefion, there may be very different
quantities of matter under the fame figure j and this
involves the confideration of denfity. The mafs of a
body is the whole quantity of matter pertaining to it,
or the number of atoms which compofe it. But it may
be remarked that our idea of the mafs is very vague,
arbitrary, and confufed, owing to the apparent hetero¬
geneity of bodies.
The inertia of bodies is the confequence of the iner¬
tia of the atoms and of the mutual powers ; and by it
we underfiand the determination to perfevere in the fame
ftate of reft or uniform motion in a right line, unlefs
forced by fomething external to change from it.
Mobility, one of the general properties of bodies, be¬
ing eflential to the atoms, is fo to the mafies formed of
them. It is a confequence of the mutual powers of
the theory. Now all the motion we obferve is merely
relative, either in refpedt of the earth, the planetary
fyftem, or the fyftem of the fixed ftars. From this
perhaps we may derive an argument for the univerfality
of the law of continuity in the cafe of motion, feeing
that the inftances where the law appears to be broken,
muft be explained by the combined influence of mov¬
ing powers which aft continually and gradually 5 and
that there is not one example of abfolute reft in the
univerfe.
Though continued extenfion and divifibility be deni-
1
BOS
34
Inertia.
35
Mobility.
36
Componibi-
lity.
37
Oravity.
ed to the atoms, it is allowed that they may be infi¬
nitely compounded •, and hence componibility is contrafi-
ed with divifibility in the theory.
General gravity, according to the Newtonian prin¬
ciples, is allowed in this theory, as we have before men¬
tioned } and we may now remark, that the objeftion
urged againft it, as tending to produce an aggregate
of all the matter in the univerfe, by drawing the
planets, comets, and fixed ftars, into one portion of
fpace, may be obviated by fuppofing that a repulfive
power fucceeds the attraftive after it has reached to
the comets of our fyftem or that as by the curve, the
limb TpsV ceafes to be afymptotical, arid cuts the
axis fo as to exhibit an arch of repulfion on the oppo-
fite fide.
Of all the general properties of matter, that of co-
hejion is moft fimply and beautifully explained by this Bofcovieh’5
theory ; but as we have already fpoken of its limits S^letmr°^
and their varieties, we need not now enlarge on ^'Philefophy.
We have to confider certain other properties of bodies,
which from not being general have been called fecond- 38
ary. Of thefe the principal are folidity and fluidity. Coheiion.
Fluidity.—Bofcovich imagines that the particles of 39
fluid bodies are fpheiical, and that their forces arerIuidlt>v
more direfted to their centres than to their furfaces:
by which motion is allowed freely when any' force is
applied to them from without *, and that when at reft;
all the particles are in equilibrium in refpeft of each
other, but that the preffure of incumbent bodies, and
containing velfels, always caufes feme deviation from it.
He fays there are three kinds of fluids : one in which
the particles or maffules have no mutual power \ one
in which they have repulfive power, and the other in
which they have an attractive power. Of the firft we
have examples in fand and fine powders j of the fecond
are the elaftic fluids, as air j and of the third, all
liquors, as water, mercury, &c. Now thefe three kinds
are produced by the original differences in the primary
particles which compofe them j and we are able on the
principles of the theory to fpecify the caufes of the di-
verfity in the phenomena which they exhibit. ^
Solidity is the confequence of the irregular figure of Solidity,
the particles and their great deviation from fphericity,by
which free motion among them is prevented, and their
cohefion better fecured. Now the diverfity in folids
arifes from the various degrees of ftrength in the li¬
mits of cohefion ; and the fame principles will give
rife to a clafs of bodies intermediate betwixt folids and
fluids, viz. the vifeous, whofe particles attraft each
other more ftrongly than the fluids, and not fo ftrongly
as the folids.,
If we imagine the particles to be fo formed as to Organiza-
attraft on fome fides, and to repel on others, and to at-t!0n-
traft certain particles fimilarly conftrufted, and to re¬
pel others, we may conceive in what manner the re¬
gular bodies denominated organized are compounded j
and for thefe the varieties admitted in the limits of co¬
hefion, fituation, and combination of atoms, will abun¬
dantly fuffice. Humidity is only relative, feeing that
water, e. g. adheres to our fingers, and may be eafily
fpread out on glafs, wood, &c. whereas it does not
affeft oleaginous and refinous bodies : now this is in
confequence of the partial arrangement of the powers
in different bodies, and the varieties in the combina¬
tion, &c. of the particles.
Of the chemical operations Bofcovich remarks in chemical
general, that they may be all traced to the fame prin- phenomena,
ciple, the law of the forces, and the differences in the
particles which thence arife 5 and that were they fub-
jefted to the obfervation of our fenfes, a general rea-
fon for them would be difeovered 5 but for this there are
requiied an intimate knowledge of the texture of all
the particles, and a power of geometry and analyfis
which far exceeds the human mind. He explains fome
of them in the following manner : And firft of fclution.
The particles of feme folids have a lefs attraftion for
each other than for the particles of fome fluids, and
eonfequently when thefe are applied to each other,
the particles of the former will Separate and combine
with thofe of the latter, fo as to form a mixture in
which the two bodies are fufpended in combination*
But
BOS [53
Bofcovich’s But tfie reparation of the particles of the folid can on-
Syftem or jy p]ace f0 long as the particles of the fluid are
Philofophy ^ie ^P^ere their attra£lion ; and when either of
i t ■ them get beyond it, or when the attraction of the mix¬
ture fo formed, becomes equivalent to the attraction
of the particles of the folid for each other, then no
more folution will take place, and the menitruum is
faid to be faturated. But if into this mixture another
folid, whofe particles have a greater attraction for the
menftruum thaw thofe of the former, be thrown, then
the menitruum will leave the former folid, or its par¬
ticles, and adhere or combine with the latter; in
•which cafe the former folid in the form of powder will
fall to the bottom, or what is called precipitation will
occur. In fhort, he gives pretty nearly the common
explanation of the phenomena ; and on fimilar princi¬
ples he accounts for the mixture of fluids. Now if the
particles of two fluids which are mixed together, come
into the limits of cohefion, a folid will be thereby ge¬
nerated, of which we have fome examples. On the
other hand, two folids triturated together rnay compofe
a fluid, in confequence of the particles of each depart¬
ing from the limits of cohefion.
If we confider that the firft limb of the curve exhi¬
bits impenetrability, the laft gravity, and the interfec-
tions the various kinds of cohefion, we may form fome
notion of the manner in which fermentation, evapora¬
tion, deflagration, &c. are caufed; for whilft atoms
accede to each other with any velocity, they increafe
the velocity in every attractive arch, but they dimi-
nilh it in every repulfive arch j whereas on the contrary,
whilft they recede from each other, they increafe it in
every repulfive arch, and diminifh it in every attrac¬
tive arch, until in the former cafe they arrive at a
repulfive arch, or in the latter an attraCHve one,
which is fufliciently ftrong to extinguilh the whole
velocity. When they do fo, they are reflected in
the fame courfe, and ofcillate backwards and for¬
wards. Befides this, if bodies compofed of particles
which have different properties, in confequence of the
different fituation and combination of the powers, be
mixed together, an agitation among them muft necef-
farily arife in order to attain an equilibrium ; hence of-
cillations, perturbations of various kinds, will follow,
and caufe the great diverfity of phenomena which are
obferved. Now all of thefe take place within the
fphere of general gravity, which does not immediately
influence the operations. Subftances which are dif-
folved may not only be obtained again by precipita¬
tion, but alfo by evaporation of the menftruum in
which they are diffolved. In this latter cafe the bodies
generally affume fome regular forms, denominated
cryftals. Now this arifes from the particles coming
gradually into the fphere of the attraftive power of
each other, and confequently attaining to fome limit
of cohefion by the menftruum, which formerly kept
them afunder, being gradually removed ; whereas in
the former cafe, where we obtain them by precipita¬
tion, the menftruum is fuddenly removed from betwixt
the particles, which are confequently left beyond the
fphere of attraction of each other, and do not therefore
affume any regular form. It will follow from this,
that the more flowly evaporation is performed, the more
regular will be the cryftals which are depoftted j and
this is verified by obfervation.
]
BOS
We profefs not to underftand Bofcovich’s notion of Bofcovieh s
the nature of fire •, but left our readers may require
it, we beg to tranfcribe his own words : “ Ignem ego
arbitror efle quoddam fermentationis genus, quod ac- ....... ^
quirat vel potiflimum, vel etiam fola fulphurea fubjlan- ^
tia, cum qua fermentat materia lucis vehementiffime, pire.
fi in fatis magna copia colleCla fit. Ignem autem vo-
co eum, qui non tantum rarefacit motu luo, fed et ca-
lefacit, et lucet j quee omnia habentur, quando ma¬
teria ilia fulphurea fatis fermentefcit.” And he ob-
ferves in another place, that if fire be excited only by
a fermentation of lulphureous fubftance, where there is
none of this fubftance there is no danger of fire ! 44
Bofcovich retains the Newtonian opinion concerning Light,
light, viz. that it is an effluvium or emiffion from the
fun, propagated with immenfe celerity, and retained iu
certain bodies, from which it may be extricated by cer¬
tain means. He holds the atoms of light to be im¬
menfe, but ftill finite in number, and endeavours on
the principles of his theory to account for the wonder¬
ful properties with which light is endowed. In do¬
ing fo, he makes extenfive ule of the repulfive power,
the varieties in the limits of cohefion, and we may add,
with much plaufibility and fuccefs. Sir Ifaac Newton,
in explaining the reflexion of light, found it neceflary
to admit the exiftence of a repulfive power, for which,
however, he had made no provifion inhisfyflem. The
late experiments in optics by Mr Brougham ferve to
confirm the fuppofition of the exiftence of a repulfive
power in regard of light at leaft. Bofcovich refers his
reader to his differtation De Lutnine for more informa¬
tion concerning the reflexion, refradlion, &c. of light
and colours, and for the application of the principles
of his theory to them.
He proceeds to explain many of our fenfations j Seniations-
but we muft confefs there is very little praileworthy
in his remarks concerning them : indeed we can fee no
reafon why they fhould be introduced at all into a
fyftem of natural philofophy, erebled on fuch or any
other foundation which concerns the external world
only. In the fmall example of the ardour of fyftema-
tic arrangement and application of phyfical principles .
to the intelledfual world, which Bofcovich has given
us, we obferve a ftriking coincidence with the dodfrine
of Hartley ; but our opinion of that dodtrine is not in
the leaft meliorated by fuch coincidence. It is a doc¬
trine which affedls to teach more than it is given to man
to know ; a dodfrine by wdaich we are induced to depart
from the humble but fecure path of obfervation, and to
wander in the boundlefs incomprehenfible field of tranf-
cendentals, and which, howfoever harmlefs its con- •
fequences may be, as it augments the vanity of man,
prevents the employment of his faculties in the inquiry
into familiar truths. ^
Bofcovich adopts Franklin’s hypothefis of ekdlri-Eleclncity^
city, which he defends on the principles of his theory ; anti. mag-
but we muft refer our readers to the work itfelf, for
his reafoning on eledtricity and magnetifm. We would
only remark, that as our knowdedge of thefe curious
phenomena is much augmented even fince the time of
Bofcovich, his theory was applied to them with difad-
vantage 5 but perhaps thefe very phenomena afford the
belt proofs of the truth of fome of its principles.
We have now followed Bofcovich through the con-Conclwdb*-
fideratfon of his theory, and we flatter owrlelves that, remarks. •
hi
BOS [ 54 ] BOS
JJofccmeh's in fo doing, we have given fiich an exhibition of its
^Natm-af peculiar principles as will at leaft excite the curiofity of
Philofophy. °ur readers, though it may not gratify it ; and indeed,
little more could be expedted from us in detailing a
fyftera of fuch magnitude, and affedting to comprehend
fo much. We have however engaged ourfelves to
give fuch obfervations and remarks as may have been
fuggefted to us in the courfe of the work. In confor¬
mity wdth this, we beg the retrofpettion of our readers
to thofe circumftances in the theory which are moll pe¬
culiar to it, and which ferve to fix on it thecharadlerillic
feature of originality. Of thefe the rejedlion of con-
tad!, as it is the moft confpicuous, fo it requires the
moll particular attention, as on it refts the greatdl part
of the reafoning and fabric of the fyllem.
We have feen that Bofcovich fupports this princi¬
ple on the univerfality of the law of continuity, and on
the exiftence of the interior repulfive power. Of the
former we have to obferve, that the mode of proving
it by indudfion is ftridfly philofophical, juft, and con¬
vincing ; but that the metaphyfical or pofitive argu¬
ments ufed for the fame purpofe are by no means fo.
We do not mean to aftert that thefe arguments have
-no tveight, but only that they are not fo far removed
from a confiderable fource of error and mifconception,
as to prevent all fufpicion of their accuracy, and to en¬
title them to an unqualified application to the fubjedf
we confider. It is true indeed, that no appeal to ob-
fervation can diredlly determine the queftion, and there¬
fore, it may be faid, wTe muft have recourfe to fome
other authority. But, to us at leaft, it feems as true,
that the proof by indudlion is the only fatisfadlory one
we can have j and that if we are careful to keep in
view that precept of philofophy which teaches us not
to multiply caufes unneceffarily, and to reafon from
analogy on the fimplicity and fteady uniformity of na¬
ture, there will be no occafion to have recourfe to other
authority.
We are difpofed to believe, that the metaphyfical
arguments which Bofcovich employs may be retorted
on the theory itfelf. Does not the theory feem to ad¬
mit a breach in the law of continuity, when it de¬
nies the continued extenfion of bodies ? Or, as it rejedts
the dxvifibility and extenfion of atoms, muft we not ima¬
gine and believe, on the faith of the law of continuity,
that thefe atoms are mere nuclei of repulfive powers ?
Or ftiall we admit that the law of continuity depends
on fome higher principle not yet difeovered, a princi¬
ple in which extenfion or duration are concerned 5 that
where there is neither extenfion nor duration, the law
does not holdj that confequently, in the cafe of the
atoms and their mode of union, this law fuffers a breach;
i. e. that the metaphyfical arguments do not prove its
univerfality, or that a breach of it is impoHible ? Such
are the myfteries into which we are enveloped, when we
wander from, that path which is afligned to human
reafon.
As to the exiftence of the interior repulfive power,
It may be obferved, that if it be proved or evinced to
us, the impoflibility of contad! muft be admitted. Now
we are of opinion that a power of repulfion does exift
in the neareft vicinity of many bodies j but we pretend
not to know the law by which it operates, or even that
it increafes to infinity on the diminution of the diftance.
We are fatisfied that it occafions many very curious phe-
1
nomena, fome of which have been explained by it jBofcovicDs
and we fincerely believe that the inveftigation of its Syftem of
law's and the extent of its infiuence will fabricate a crown ^f.a,rural
as unfading as that of Newton. But wre are convinced , 1
that were the theory of Bofcovich concerning it tacit¬
ly confided in, fuch a crown could "never be obtained.
Nay we infift further, that though by reafoning it could
be determined that fuch a power does exift, it would
be ufelefs to us, till the moft laborious indudlion be
pradlifed to difeover how* far it influences obfervable
phenomena, and how far it may be fubjedted to human
artifice and ingenuity.
The phenomena which give evidence of the exift¬
ence of a pov'er of repuliion are chiefly optical •, but it
belongs not to this article to explain them. We xn£y
however juft mention that we allude to the experiments
of the objedl-glafles of long telefcopes, the brilliancy
of dew drops w'hile fupported on leaves or rolling on
the furface of water, in which it is demonftrable that a
certain fpace intervenes betwixt bodies which are ap¬
parently in contadl, and that this fpace can be caufed
by repulfive power alone. Sir Ifaac Newton himfelf
virtually admitted the exiftence of fuch a pow'er, as ap¬
pears from the laft queftion of his optics *, indeed it is
very certain that the attradlive power alone will not
produce many of the phenomena of which he fpeaks.
Concerning the other principles of the theory we
have little to remark, feeing that moft of them refult
from thofe wre have now confidered. The tranfitions
of the pow'ers are in our opinion to be afeertained only
by obfervation, and this it muft be confefied is no eafy
matter : the phenomena of fermentation, effervefcence,
&c. to which we are referred for proofs of the ex¬
iftence of thefe tranfitions, feem to be eafily explained
on fuch a fuppofition ; but it is neverthelefs probable
that the fuppofition was prior to the obfervation of the
laws by which thefe phenomena are regulated. It may
be worth while remarking, that if we are able to con¬
ceive thefe tranfitions as exifting, we can alfo conceive
how motion may be produced at a diftance, which was
held up as an abfurdity in the fchools. It muft be
very evident to our readers that the theory of Bofco¬
vich fuppofes this produdlion of motion, and that any
other mode is impoflible, feeing that contadl is fo. But
we are not therefore to believe that the repulfive or at¬
tradlive powers are efficient caufes ; though they cer¬
tainly are phyfical ones, i. e. they are higher principles
than the phenomena which fucceed them, and may
for aught we know depend on fome one more general
principle which this theory does not comprehend. We
do not therefore forefee any dangerous confequences of
the fuppolition of matter adling on matter at a diftance j
nor can we believe that thefe two exprefiions are equi¬
valent or confecutive, viz. if matter adl where it is not,
it may adl when it is not. The one is a reference to
fpace, the other to time, and betwixt thefe we know
no mean of comparifon.
We fee then that the theory of Bofcovich is inti¬
mately connedled with the moft abftrufe metaphyfical
inquiries and dilquifitions that can employ the mind of
man 5 in -particular, that which attempts to difeover the
mode in which our perception of the material world
is carried on. For fuch, we confefs, we hhve not ta¬
lents of inveftigation, and indeed we are convinced that
no inv.elligation has yet been, or ever will be, fuccefs-
BOS [ ?5 J BOS
Bofcovich’s ful; but we are alfo convinced, that if the theory of
^Natural^ ®0^cov^c^ eftabliihed, many prepofterous dogmas
Philofophy. overturned : as fuch we prefer it to any that
w——y—»/ has hitherto been offered to the world. But it is to
be confidered as valid, in fo far only as indu&ion fatis-
fies us of its principles ; that it can be fatisfadlorily ap¬
plied to the folution of many phenomena where other
theories fail us j that it does not in anywife inform us
of the nature, or fuperfede inquiry into the laws of
matter. We are of opinion that it was his very inti¬
mate knowledge of thefe laws, and his diligent inquiry
into matters of faft, that led Bofcovich to the difcove-
ry of the law of continuity and of the forces, and made
him fee the propriety of ere&ing fome new fyftem in
which thefe might bear a part. The merit of Bofco¬
vich confifts not in having difcovered the caufe of mo¬
tion, or on what it depends. He attempted a more
humble (train : he inveftigated familiar operations, and
acquainted himfelf with vulgar things. No myfterious
analogy indeed conducted him either to the harmony
or to the beauty of the fpheres •, but then, no ftupen-
dous vacuum intercepted his path, and no unruly vor¬
tices whirled him from re£titude. That he (topped
not where prudence might have directed, and beyond
which his guide could go no farther, was the failing of
genius elevated by fuccefs, the lot of the refplendent
few who are dazzled by their own luftre. But
it would ill become his followers to attempt conti¬
nuing to the end on that path which he pointed out j
moderate minds (hould accompany him as their friend,
only fo long as they perceive he is dire&ed by a friend
which is greater than him : let them remember that
it is his obfervations alone which are wrluable, the
fimple arrangement of them which they (hould efteem;
it is the plain narrative of the honed traveller which
will a (Tift them, not the pompous fabric of the felf-de-
luded novelid.
The only theory with which we can properly com¬
pare this of Bofcovich, is the Newtonian, and in fo
doing its fuperiority will appear j but for very obvi¬
ous reafons we enter not minutely into the compari-
fon, and will only add that in the Newtonian, we
mud have recourfe to the three principles of gravity, BofcovkhY
cohefion, and fermentation, for the explanation of phe-
nomena \ and even thefe are infufficient in the modern pjjiiofophy,
chemidry : but we learn from the former that thefe are u—y—j
only portions of a more general principle, that they
refult from one fundamental law, and that to this law
may be referred as well the formation of a dew drop,
as the rolling of the fpheres (a).
Some of the admirers of Bofcovich may be furprifed
that we affirm, his theory gives no information of any
one efficient caufe in nature, and that all the difcovery
he has made is, that of fome events which precede the
Newtonian gravity. We have already borne ample
tedimony to the merits of Bofcovich, and we think we
are fecure from any fufpicion that we endeavour to de¬
preciate the value of his theory ; fuch indeed is far
from our thoughts, but we mud fay it is farther from
our thoughts to confider it as the ultimatum in natural
philofophy, or that it difclofes to us the mod fupreme
procefs in nature. We will venture farther ; for we
will maintain, that though all the principles of the
theory were edabliffied on a firm and invariable foun¬
dation, as they are not, it would be impoffible for any
one to determine what (hall be the confequences re-
fulting from them, prior to experience of the regulari¬
ty and the condancy of the conjun&ion of events;
and that of confequence the fame, nay greater, labour
of induction and obfervation i» required in the pheno¬
mena of the material world; greater, becaufe the ob¬
jects are increafed in number by the difcovery which
Bofcovich has made. But this affertion concerns the
laws of nature alone, not the laws of human thought,
of which, in our opinion, Bofcovich has made too free
ufe. He tells us that one confequence of the interior
repulfive power is, the impoffibility of contact, and that
another is the impenetrability of the atoms. Now it
requires no great exertion of underdanding to perceive
that he is difplaying a law of human thought, for thefe
confequences of which he fpeaks are parts of the fame
conception, and that no reafoning a priori is employed
to determine their- connexion j for we cannot poffibly
imagine, that contaft or penetrability of the atoms
(hould
(a) It may be a fatisfa&ion to our readers to know that Sir Ifaac Newton entertained notions very fimilar
to thofe of Bofcovich concerning the caufes of motion at the infenfible didances, though it is to be regretted
that he had made no provifion for them in his fydem. The lad quedion in his optics plainly indicates that he
himfelf was convinced that no law by which an attra&ive force might be fuppofed to aft would be fufficient for
the explanation of certain phenomena which take place in the immediate vicinity of the atoms of matter. “ And
if all thefe things are fo, then all nature will be very fimple, and confident with itfelf, effefting all the great
motions of the heavenly bodies by the attraftion of gravity, which is mutual between all thofe bodies, and almod
all the lefs motions of its particles by another certairr attraftive and repulfive force, which is mutual between
thofe particles. Now it feems that thefe elementary particles not only have in themfelves the vis inertice and
thofe paffive laws of motion which neceffarily arife from that force, but that they likewife perpetually receive a
motion from certain aftive principles 5 fuch as gravity, and the caufe of fermentation, and of the cohefion of bo
dies. And I confider thefe principles, not as occult qualities, which are feigned to flow from the fpecific forms
of things, but as umverfal laws of nature, by which the things themfelves were formed. For that truly fuch
principles exifi, the phenomena of nature (hew, although what may be their caufes has not as yet been explain
ed. 1 o affirm that every fpecies of things is endued with fpecific occult qualities, by which they have a certain
power, is indeed to fay nothing ; but to deduce two or three general principles of motion from the phenomena^
of nature, and then to explain how the properties and aftion of all corporeal things follow from thofe principles
this truly would be to have made a great advancement in philofophy, although the caufes of thofe principles
were not as yet known. \\ herefore I do not hefitate to maintain the above faid principles of motion, feeingr
they extend widely through all nature.” Newton's Optics.
BOS
I 56 1
BOS
-Bmcovich’s fliould occur, If fuch a repulfive power exifts, or that
Syftem of the impoflibility of the former, and impenetrability,
Philolbih fhoulcl be cauled by any thing elfe than fuch a power.
*1 ° °P yl The mod ignorant of the fons of men are as well qua¬
lified to underftand this as the greateft philofophers
who have adorned humanity ; and if it be entitled to
the name of difcovery, it is one in which all mankind
have fhared •, but for having expreffed it in words, and
incorporated it with others which fome kindred genius
-alone could have made, all are indebted to Bofcovich,
and mud acknowledge that in his hands it has ferved
to fabricate a lading monument of genius, indudry,
and fagacity. We are not therefore to confider that
thefe are indances wherein any confequences have been
determined a priori \ and they do not affe£t our afler-
tion, that prior to experience of the regularity and the
condancy of the conjun&ion of events, it would be im-
pofiible for any one to determine a priori what diall
be the confequences refulting from the principles of the
theory. To illudrate our meaning in the a{Tertion,we
diall fuppofe that the tranfitions of the powers have
been difcovered to exid in the conditution of matter 5
and we then alk, if, prior to the knowledge of the phe¬
nomena of fermentation, See. it could have been de¬
termined that thefe phenomena diould neceflarily re-
fult from them : we apprehend it could not, and our
reafon is, that we cannot find any mode of connexion
betwixt any tranfitions of any forces and thefe pheno¬
mena *, for we can conceive the former to exid with¬
out the latter, and this might have been the cafe, for
aught we know to the contrary j and we think we are
authorized in faying, that thefe tranfitions are only
rules or methods obferved in the produdlion of fuch
phenomena, that they are events prior to fermentation,
&c. and remain themfelves to be accounted for. We
may fay the fame of the repulfive and attraddive powers,
and of all the other principles in the theory which are
not laws of human thought. Caufation is infcrutable ,
the labours of every age ferve only to add to its my.
dery, feeing that they conduft us nearer to the boun¬
daries of human obfervation, and difcover to us the de-
lufive glare of every weak meteor which promifed per¬
manent and enlightening ludre.
We have feen that the general properties of matter
may be w-ell explained by the theory*, and fo far there¬
fore we mud admit that the theory is applicable to the
objedts of invedigation, and may be uieful to conned:
together fome general principles. There remains to
us to make one remark concerning one of thefe, viz.
Newtonian gravity. The fuppofition that it terminates
beyond the comets of our fydem, and is fucceeded by
repulfion, appears to us very unneceffary, not to fay
unlikely, though highly worthy the ^ accommodating
genius of Bofcovich. We are of opinion, that the ob-
iedions urged againd Sir Ifaac Newton on this fub-
jed, may be much better and more fimply obviated by a
fuppofition which the modern improvements in adrono-
my have nearly confirmed, viz. that there arc fydems
of funs and revolving planets, fimilar to, and reaching
to the limits of, our own *, and that thofe are fudicient
to counterad the neceffary effeds of univerfal gravity
or attradion. If fuch be the cafe, inequalities in our
fydematic motions, relative to others, may arife from
the varying fituations of the other fydem j and, if we
eb'.ifider' the fixed dars as forming thefe, we may ob-
ferve differences in their pofitions and magnitudes, mEokxmddc
confequence of fuch variations. Our adronomical
readers will perceive that we allude to the apparent
approach of our fun to the condellation Hercules in 1 •
the northern hemifphere, the gradual widening of the
dars in that quarter of the heavens, and the confe¬
quences of it. But without any fuch confirmation it
mud be acknowledged, that our fuppofition is much
more probable, and gives a more elevated notion of the
great Artificer’s {kill than that of Bofcovich, and we are
the more anxious to retain it, that one of the principles
in the theory may not be broken, that the tranfitions
of the powers occur in the infenfible didances. We
requed the attention of our readers to Bofcovich’s
provident fuppofition on another account. Does it
not indicate one of the modes by which his theory w^as
formed ? Does it not plainly drew* us how far genius
will be exerted when obfervation fails ? Does it not
fatisfaftorily demondrate that part of this fplendid
theory is the ofispring of an imagination heated by
fydematic love, and animated by a reconciling enthu-
fiafm ? Indeed when the imagination is the provider,
the reafon can be w^ell fatisfied *, for what is wanting
can be readily fupplied, what is difpleafing can be
eafily reje&ed, what is undrapely can be fafhioned to
conformity, and all can be decorated and adorned, till
at lad there arifes fome fine fabric to pleafe and to
delight. But we require more than delufive orna¬
ment, and yet we expedl not perfe&ion ; w*e know
that every theory of natural philofophy has failed hi¬
therto, not from a deficiency but rather from a luxu-
riancy in grandeur, wdiich, furpading, has eclipfed the
minute gems that glitter below j no one has failed in
explaining the dupendous drudlure and the mighty
rollings of wmrlds, wdiich no eye ever comprehended,
and no hand ever approached j but take it from its god¬
like work to the mean purpofes and the trivial ufes
of man, and behold the airy phantom Ihrink from
our view. It is in explaining familiar circumdances,
or, fo to fpeak, the events of our neighbourhood, that
every one has failed j but it is confoling to mankind
to know, that in every fucceeding one, there is a
greater approximation to perfection, a greater extent
and more facility of application j and we will acknow¬
ledge that this of Bofcovich, though not totally invul¬
nerable, certainly leaves the lead uncovered.
The obfervations which we have now' made feem to
us very proper to introduce thofe we have to offer on
the application of the theory to phyfics. _ We are of
opinion that Bofcovich, in his account of folidity and
fiuidity, has rather given a defeription, and related
fome properties, than propofed an explanation or de¬
duction on the principles of his theory : but in a
fydem of fuch extent, and promifing fo much, we re¬
quire more than this, and it is our opinion that more
may be given. Without pretending that W'e have com¬
plete fuccefs in our attempt, or wilhing to preclude
others, we offer the following as at lead a proba¬
ble one. .
We can imagine, that any number of atoms diall
come into the limits of cohefion of each other in fuch
a manner as that a mafs of fome determined form diall
be produced ; and that the powers on each fide of
thefe limits are fo drong, as to withdand confiderable
divellent force from without. Nov/ in a mafs fo con-
dru&ed
BOS [ S7 ] BOS
Ikncovieli’s ftrucled every atom is retained in its fituation hy
Syftem ot p0Wers 0f the lame kind, afting by the fame laws, and
Philofo'hy which cannot be increafed or diminilhed by any other
, means than varying the diftance betwixt thefe atoms.
The powers fo iniluenced are thofe only which belong
to the particular atoms whofe refpeftive didances are
changed ; for the powers of the atoms wbofe diftances
are not changed remain the fame $ therefore a portion
of the mafs may be feparated, or the whole mafs’ may
be moved, without caufing any relative motion among
the atoms ; for, in the former cafe, a few only, in the
latter, none, of the limits of cohefion are dilturbed.
This then is the ftrufture which the atoms of matter
would form, did fuch laws as we have confidered
cxift •, and it appears to us that it is the natural druc-
ture } for we ourfelves cannot conceive how a fluid
body diould be compofed by -fuch laws, independent
of compofition of them. But admitting compofition,
we would explain fluidity in the following manner :
As in a mafs, fuch as we have delcribed, there are
fpaces betwixt all the atoms; it is poflible that other
atoms may be introduced within it, or that in the va¬
cant intervening fpace the powers of other atoms may
operate. Now, it is eafy to conceive, that in the for¬
mer cafe very various effects will refult in confequence
of the differences in the proximity of the atoms ; for
iome will quit the limits of cohefion in which they
were prior to the introduftion of the adventitious atoms,
and will enter into new ones, and will vibrate from one
to another, if there be a condant addition of atoms
made, or if any of thofe which have been introduced
be removed j and that in the latter cafe, in confe¬
quence of the compofition of forces, very different ef¬
fects will refult, according as the compofition is of
fimilar or different powers afling in the fame or dif¬
ferent dire£lions, and of different intenfities : in either
cafe relative motion among the particles will occur,
and the mafs will yield to the lead extrinfic force j
an equilibrium will fometimes be produced, but it will
be dedroyed very readily in different ways, as by the
addition or fubtraftion of the adventitious atoms, and
by the application of forces to the mafs. We might
fpecify fome of the particular circumdances which
would tend to the produdfion of different fluids did
our limits permit; but as this would be prolix, we
{hall only mention fome of the confequences which
may be deduced from the principles we have dated,
and granting that they are well founded, we {hall con-
fider how far they coincide with the phenomena we
obferve. Every fluid mufl he a compound body. This
will be pretty generally admitted by modern chemids;
for though they well know that the compofition of fe-
veral fliids is not yet difeovered, they will allow that
the rational prefumption from analogy is, that when
our analytical powers are augmented, we (hall be able
to difeover the compofition of all of them ; nor is it
any objedfion to the rationality of the prefumption that
many of the gafeous tiui&s are fimple or elementary,
for it mud be remembered, that all of them are com¬
bined with caloric or the matter of heat. Nay caloric
xtfelf, wdiich we hold to be a fubdance, may, for ought
rve know to the contrary, be a folid body *, it is indeed
almod univerfally believed to be fluid, and eflentially
fo ; but, for this belief wre can find no other reafon
than that it caufes fluidity, and furely that is a very
Vox,. IV. Part I.
unphilofophical one ; for in a fimilar manner, and we EofcovIclA
venture to fay, with as much truth, il matter or its ^‘r‘m
atoms be condrudled in the way Bofcovich deferibes j
and if they poffefs the power of repulfion and attiac- -v_  
tion, then all matter is fluid, for all the atoms of it
will caufe fluidity in certain circumdances. We do
not deny that when it combines in fufficient quantity
with bodies it caufes fluidity ", but we beg to remind
our readers that there are cafes of fluids being gene¬
rated by the trituration of folids together, and furely
they will acknowledge, that what is true in the one
cafe, is at lead poflible in the other •, but we will
even admit, that caloric is the principal caufe of fluidi¬
ty (though wTe are aware that in admitting it, we de¬
part from true philofophy), and yet we do not per¬
ceive, that the lead objection to our fuppofitlon will
thence arife. May not caloric be compofed of the
very fmalleff, or the primary atoms of matter, and
confequently be more eafily infinuated betwixt the
atoms of other bodies which are compofed of the ag¬
gregates of thefe primary atoms ? Do we not find that
it correfponds pretty accurately with the defeription
of thefe atoms which Bofcovich has given ? Does it
not feem in the leaft didances to repel its own parti¬
cles, and at greater didances to be attracted by the par¬
ticles or atoms of other bodies ?
The condant addition of adventitious atoms to the
interdices in a folid body, as we have before mentioned,
will caufe vibrations, and will at lad, by totally feparat-
ing the atoms from the limits of cohefion and the fphere
of the attraflive power, render them fufceptible of the
influence of furrounding bodies, fo that they leave each
other, and combine with thofe which furround them.
When caloric is the body added, the mod general effect
w hich refults from its repeated and conflant addition is
evaporation. Now the particles of an evaporated fluid
will recombine if the fuperabundant caloric which holds
them afunder be withdrawn, provided the bodies with
which they unite do not attract them more powerful¬
ly than they do each other. But it is poflible that fuch
an addition will in certain cafes ftrengtben the combi¬
nation of a folid, i. e. that fluidity will not always be
the confequence of infinuating atoms into the vacant
fuaces, for it is poflible to fpecify circumdances, in
which a body already fluid, may be rendered folid by
interpofing amongfl its particles, the particles of ano¬
ther fluid.
When the adventitious atoms are removed, one of
two confequences will occur, either the atoms of a fo¬
lid which has been rendered fluid by fuch infinuation,
will be left w-ithin their fpheres of attraction, and confe¬
quently will enter into limits of cohefion, and form a
folid again, or they may be left beyond thefe fpheres,
fo as not to enter into limits of cohefion, but to form a
loofe uncombined pulverulent fubdance. It may hap¬
pen that in the latter cafe, the particles being feparated
from each other beyond their fpheres of attraction, will
enter into combinations with other bodies, of whofe in¬
fluence they are now' fufceptible. We have indances
of both of thefe in the fufion of metals : fometimes on
cooling thefe form again into folids; others, having their
atoms too far feparated from each other, cannot fo unite,
but combine wuth other bodies, (generally oxygen) and
form powders which retain no charafteridics of metals;
and fome combine with other metals conftituting alloys.
H ° We
BOS [ 58 ] BO
We recommend the profecution of this fubjeft to the merited much attention, though
Uofcovich’s
Natural P^lo^0phical chemiit ; and though we encounter the
•Philofophy. charge of vanity, we cannot help flattering ourfelves
 with having pointed out a mode by which, though no¬
thing fhould be difcovered, yet to refolve fome ap¬
parently unconnected phenomena into one general prin¬
ciple, and hence to abridge the labour of acquiring the
fcience of chemiftry, and to facilitate the application
of it to the praftical purpofes of life. We are of opi¬
nion that the fads in chemiftry are now fo numerous,
as to require a generalizing fpiiit to reduce them into
fome kind of order, to (hew their connexion in the chain
of nature, and to derive from them by indudion, cer¬
tain principles which may be employed in the fynthe-
tic procefs. Indeed without fuch it will foon be found
that no ordinary memory can retain what may be ule-
ful, but certainly is elegant in the art, and that a great
body of evidence is infufficient to enforce convidion,
if it be huddled together in chaotic confufion : pillars
and porticoes and carved ftones may be colleded, and
may aftonifti us by their grandeur ; but unlefs they be
methodized, conneded, and combined, our aftonifh-
ment will refemble that w'hich we feel, when we con¬
template the prepofterous ftrudure of fome natural mon-
fter, whofe limbs are individually elegant, but ferve by
their elegance to magnify the error of their pofition.
We do not wilh to depreciate the merits of modern
chemifts, but we muft confefs, they appear to us more
fcrupulous about afcertaining the few grains of earth
in fome cockle Jhell, than anxious to ered a temple to
their fcience, and are themfelves too much elevated by
the difcovery of a femi-metal, to be concerned about
the deities which prefide. What we have faid may be
thought mere declamation, if we do not accompany it
^vith fome example of the employment of fuch a ge¬
neralizing fpirit; we know not how far it may become
us to do fo, but as the confideration of the theory of
Hcfcovich, in which we have been engaged, has na¬
turally led us to thofe phenomena which feem beft qua¬
lified to admit of its application, and as therefore, in
fome fort refulting from, or conneded wuth our fubjed,
we ihall attempt to give a fmali fpecimen of it. It is
well known to chemifts, that although certain indivi¬
dual or fingle bodies of the faline clals be very foluble
in water, the compounds formed of them are very in-
foluble in that fluid, i. e. that though alkalies or acids
be fingly very foluble in water, the neutral falts formed
by them are very infoluble ; and that many varieties
in the degrees of folubility are to be met wuth in the
compound bodies or neutral falts, which are contrary
to what we ftiould exped from reafoning on the varie¬
ties of thefe degrees, in the Jtmple or elementary bodies
which compofe them.
For example, the fulphuric acid is very foluble in
water, and fo is the vegetable alkali or potafs j but the
fulphate of potafs, which is a compound of thefe, is fo
difficult of folution, that 16 times its own weight of
\vater, at the temperature of 6o°, is required to effed it.
The acetite of potafs affords another example, though
not fo remarkable, requiring only about 10 times its
own weight of water at the fame temperature. In¬
deed, there are many inftances of a compound or neu¬
tral fait being lefs foluble than either the alkali or the
.acid which enter into its compofition ; but in thofe we
have mentioned, the difference is fo great as to have
w as far as we know, Bofcovich’s
there has not been affigned a reafon for it. Now wre syftem
apprehend the reafon to be, that as both the Ample bo-p^11™1.
dies have an attradion for water, or that as there is. 1
an attradion betwixt water and thefe two bodies, the
degree of attradion will be equal to the difference only
of the feparate attradions betwixt water and the bo¬
dies individually ; or, in other words, the attradion
betwixt water and one of the bodies will be leffened
by the attradion betwuxt water and the other body, fo
that the difterence only of thefe twm will influence.
Now, in certain cafes, this difference will be equal to
nothing, w'hen the attradions are equal 5 but in every
cafe, it is evident, it will be lefs than the greater of the
attradions, and, of confequence, the folubility of the
compound will be lefs than that of the Ample bodies x
which compofe it. Now this confequence is not affed-
ed by the abfolute folubility of the Ample bodies, but
by their folubility in refped to each other, i. e. rela¬
tive alone ; therefore, the compound of Ample bodies,
which themfelves are highly foluble, may be no mere
foluble than the compound of Ample bodies, which
themfelves are very little foluble.
The principle is univerfal. Other confequences
will refult, which are not only curious, but, in our
opinion important; and we do not in the leaft heAtate
to affert, that the principle may be applied to deter¬
mine a prion the degrees of folubility of neutral falts,
provided we are fufficiently acquainted with the rela¬
tive folubility of the Ample bodies which compofe
them. One confequence will be, that a compound
formed of a very foluble and a very infoluble Ample
body will be nearly, or quite, as foluble as the former,
feeing that the attradion betwixt it and wTater will be
little or not at all diminilhed by the attradion betwdxt
the other very infoluble body and water. As a proof
of this, we may take the inftance of the fulphat of
magneAa, which is foluble in its own w eight of wrater
at temperature 60 : Now in this cafe, the magneAa is
foluble to a very fmall amount only j but the acid, it
is well known, is fo'to a great degree *, even the fmall
folubility of the magneAa, however, does in a certain
degree impair the folubility of the compound. The
fame is true of the nitrat and muriat of magneAa $ and,
did our limits permit, we might adduce very many ex¬
amples of the fame : we might ftiew, that the com¬
pounds of very foluble acids with the metallic oxyds
are foluble, if thefe oxyds are not fo ; but if they are,
the folubility of the compound is impaired : and we
might alfo apply the principle to bodies foluble in al¬
cohol and other menftma, where it will be found to
hold. But we leave the profecution of the fubjed to
our chemical readers, confeffing, how’ever, that we
have found exceptions to its univerfality, which as yet
we have not been able to reconcile. Perhaps, a prin¬
ciple ftill more general, and higher in the order of e-
vents, may influence or modify this which wre have fpe-
cified; it may be conneded with fome of thofe varieties
in the compoAtion of forces, which muji take place in
the infenfible diftances, changing the limits of cohefion,
and modifying the poAtion and the adion of the atoms
of matter. We have ventured far in the expoAtion w^e
have given j did we perfevere, there might be imputed
to us temerity.
We have attempted to apply Bofcovich’s theory to
feveral
BOS [
Bofcovidi’s feveral otner chemical phenomena, particularly thofe
^NT-tural^ e^e^*ve attraftion and difpofing affinity ; but though
Philofophy our hiccefs has been fomervhat flattering, we have not
|| been able hitherto to collect and arrange our principles
Bothies- and refults, fo as to prefent them properly to the pub-
. Men’ , lie. At fome future ftage of this work, however, fuch
may be in our power, when we hope to convince our
readers, that the theory is fufficientiy accommodated
to that obje£l, and that it will affift. us in deducing
principles more general, than any yet received in che¬
mical fcience.
It is now time for us to conclude our account of the
theory of Eofcovich •, and in fo doing, it becomes us
to recommend to our readers, that they endeavour to
form a juft and an adequate opinion of its merits, of
the objedls which it has in view, and of the means
which it employs to accomplifti them. Confidered in
refpedl to itfelf only, as the produdtion of a great and
an enlightened mind, no labour to comprehend it can
be in vain or worthlefs, and no one can comprehend it
without receiving the moft elevated pleafure ; but there
is another inducement for us to efleft this purpofe, dif¬
ferent from any we have yet mentioned : we mean the
tendency it will have to modify, and to fubvert, many
of the leading doftrines in the metaphyfics of the day.
Nor ought this to alarm any of our readers, for if thefe
do&rines be true and legitimate, they wall be para¬
mount to all objedlions, and the improvements made
in every other fcience will ferve to confirm them ; but
if they are not fo, furely the fooner they are fubverted
the better it will be for fcience and for us all; at all
events, an inquiry into them is rational, and it may do
good. 'I his, however, we dare not now propofe to
ourfelves, and will therefore recommend our readers
to perufe the Efiays on Perception, by Profelfots Reid
and Stewart, where they will find fentiments which
derive moft of their validity from fome of the Bofco-
vichian principles. They are fentiments in which we
have the honour to agree with thefe true philofophers;
though it is fomewhat mortifying to us to confefs, that
they have convinced us that the phenomenon of which
they treat is inexplicable.
It is indeed very moitifying to humanity to be con¬
vinced, that for many, very many centuries, our fore¬
fathers have been unceafingly attempting to explain
phenomena intelledlual and material by a nullity, on
principles which do not exift ; but it would be ftill
more mortifying to find, that though there is ground
for fuch conviftions, men calling themfelves philo¬
fophers ftiould perfevere ftedfaftly in the fame invaria¬
ble courfe of error and abfurdity. In our own days, a
light, clear and authoritative, has arifen to diredt and
to animate us in the fearch after truth ; it is our own
faults if we ftmt our eyes againft its fplendour, and fuf-
fer the interior man to be dark and unenlightened. Of
this light the theory of Bofcovich forms a part : it has
fucceeded and furpafled that of Newton ; it wall be the
parent of a greater than either ; it profeffes to condudl
us to the interior veil of the temple of nature *, but it
has failed in this very fublime attempt, failed, how¬
ever, only after it has condudled us beyond Defcartes,
Leibnitz, and Newton.
BOSEA, golden-rod tree. See Botany In¬
dex.
BOSHIES-MEN, a fpecies of Hottentots, fo call-
59 ] BOS
ed, according to Dr Sparrman, from their dwelling in Boflne;
woody or mountainous places. They are fworn ena- Meiu
mies to a paftoral life.. Some of their maxims are, to "" • “*
live on hunting and plunder, and never to keep any
animal alive for the fpace of one night. By this means
they render themfelves odious to the reft of the inhabi¬
tants of the Cape *, and are purfued and exterminated
like the wild beafts, whofe manners they have affumed.
Others of them again are kept alive, and made Haves
of. Their weapons are poifoned arrows, which fliot
out of a fmall bow will fly to the diftance of 200 paces,
and will hit a mark with a tolerable degree of certain¬
ty at the diftance of 50 or even 100 paces. From this
diftance they can by Health, as it were, convey death
to the game they hunt for food, as well as to their
foes, and even to fo large and tremendous a beaft as
the lion j this noble animal thus falling by a weapon
which perhaps it defpifed, or even did not take notice
of. The Hottentot, in the mean time, concealed and
fafe in his ambufli, is abfolutely certain of the opera¬
tion of his poifon, which he always culls of the moft
virulent kind ; and it is faid he has only to wait a few
minutes in order to fee the wild beaft languilh and die.
The dwellings of thefe foes to a paftoral life are gene ¬
rally not more agreeable than their maxims and man¬
ners. Like the wild beafts, bullies and clifts in rocks
by turns ferve them inftead of houfes ^ and fome of
them are faid to be fo far worfe than beafts, that their
foil has been found clofe by their habitations. A great
many of them are entirely naked *, but fuch as have
been able to procure the fkin of any fort of animal,
great or fmall, cover their bodies with it from the
ftioulders downwards as far as it will reach, wearing it
till it falls off their backs in rags. As ignorant of a-
griculture as apes and monkies, like them they are o~
bliged to wander about over hills and dales after cer¬
tain wild roots, berries, and plants (which they eat
raw), in order to fuftain a life that this miferable food
would foon extinguilh and deftroy were they ufed to
better fare. Their table, however, is fometimes com-
pofed of feveral other difties, among which may be
reckoned the larvee of infects, or that kind of cater¬
pillars from which butterflies are generated ; and in
like manner a fort of white ants (the termes), graffiop-
pers, fnakes, and fome forts of fpiders. With all thefe
changes of diet, the Bofhies-man is neverthelefs fre¬
quently in w'ant, and famithed to fuch a degree as to
wafte almoft to a fliadow. “ It was with no fmall a-
ftonilhment (fays Dr Sparrman), that I for the firft
time faw in Lange Kloof a lad belonging to this race
of men with his face, arms, legs, and body, fo mon-
ftroufly fmall and withered, that I could not have been
induced to fuppofe but that he had been brought to
that ftate by the fever that was epidemic in thofe parts
had I not feen him at the fame time run like a lapwing.
It required but a few wrecks to bring one of thefe
ftarvelings to a thriving ftate, and even to make him
fat ; their ftomachs being ftrong enough to digeft the
great quantity of food with which they are crammed,
as they may rather be faid to bolt than eat. It fome¬
times happens indeed that they cannot long retain what
they have taken in ; but this circumftance, it is faid,
does not hinder them from beginning again upon a new
fcore.”
The capture of flaves from among this race of men
H3 is
BOS [ ] BOS
is by no means difficult; and is effc&ed (Dr Sparrman
informs us) in the following manner. “ Several far¬
mers that are in want of fervants join together and
take a journey to that part of the country where the
Bolhies-men live. They themfelves, as w’ell as their
Lego-Hottentots, or elfe fuch Bofhies-men as have
been caught fome time before, and have been trained
up to fidelity in their fervice, endeavour to fpy out
where the wild Bofinies-men have their haunts. "This
is belt difcovered by the fmoke of their fires. They
are found in focieties from 10 to 15 and 100, reckon¬
ing great and fmall together. Notwithftanding this,
the farmers will venture in a dark night to fet upon
them with fix or eight people, -which they contrive to
do by previoufiy ftationing themfelves at fome diftance
round about the craal. They then give the alarm by
firing a gun or two. By this means there is fuch a
eonfternation fpread ever the whole body of thefe fa-
vages, that it is only the moft bold and intelligent a-
mong them that have the courage to break through
the circle and Ileal off. Thefe the captors are glad
enough to get rid of at fo eafy a rate ; being better
pleafed with thofe that are ftupid, timorous, and ilruck
with amazement, and who confequently allow them¬
felves to be taken and carried into bondage. They are
however, at firlt treated by gentle methods ; that is,
the vidlors intermix the faireft promifes with their
threats, and endeavour, if poffible, to (hoot fome of
the larger kinds of game for their prifoners, fuch as
buffaloes, fea-cows, and the like. Such agreeable baits,
together w ith a little tobacco, foon induce them, con¬
tinually cockered and feaffed as they are, to go with
a tolerable degree of cheerfulnefs to the colonift’s place
of abode. There this luxurious junketting upon meat
and fat is exchanged for more moderate portions, con-
fifting for the moft part of butter-milk, frumenty, and
hafty-pudding. This diet, neverthelefs, makes the Bo-
fhies-man fat in a few^ weeks. However, he foon finds
his good living embittered by the maundering and
grumbling of his mafter and miftrefs. The words
t'guxeri and t'gaunatji, which perhaps are belt tranf-
lated by thofe of “ young forcerer” and “ imp,” are
expreffions which he muft frequently put up with, and
fometimes a few curfes and blows into the bargain ;
and this for negleft, remiflhefs, or idlenefs: which laft
failure, if it cannot be laid to be born with him, is
however in a manner naturalized in him. So that,
both by nature and cuftom detefting all manner of la¬
bour, and now from his greater corpulency becoming
ftill more flothful, and having befides been ufed to a
wandering life fubjeft to no controul, he moft fenfibly
feels the want of his liberty. No wonder, then, that
he generally endeavours to regain it by making his e-
fcape : but what is really a fubjeft for wonder is, that
when one of thefe poor devils runs away from his fer¬
vice, or more properly bondage, he never takes with
him any thing that does not belong to him. This is
an inftance of moderation in the favages towards their
tyrants which is univerfally attefted, and at the fame
time praifed and admired by the colonifts themfelves j
which, however, I cannot eafily reconcile with what
I have learned of the human heart/ Is it in confe-
quence of their fearing to meet with harder ufage in
cafe they fhould be retaken ? This far, however, is
certain, that none of this fpecies of Hottentots are
2
much given to violence or revenge. Free from many
wants and defires that torment the reft of mankind,
they are little, if at all, addicted to thieving, if we
except brandy, vidtuals, and tobacco. It is not im¬
probable likewile, that the advantages accruing from
a theft may be overlooked by them, when their thoughts
are taken up with regaining their liberty, the greateft;
of all treafures. It is neceffary to obferve here, that
fome of the Hottentots or Eclhies-men, who are thus
forced into the fervice of the colonifts, live in fmall
focieties peaceably and quietly in defert tra£b, where
the colonifts cannot eafily come at them, and are fome¬
times in the poffeftion of a few cows. Thefe people
probably originate from Bolhies-men who have run
away from the colonifts fervice.
“ I muft confels (continues our author), that the
Bofhies-men in fome hufbandmen’s fervice are treated
in the gentleft manner, and perhaps even without ever
having a harfh word given them ; live very well with
regard to provifions ; are well clad, relatively to their
condition in life } and are very comfortably lodged, in
comparifon of what others are, in their own ftraw cot¬
tages. The chief of their bufinefs perhaps confifts in
tending a herd of cattle or flock of fheep during the
heat of the day, when they have an opportunity of
getting into a gentle ftate of intoxication by fmoking
tobacco j a ftate wdrich excites in them fenfations of ax
agreeable a nature as the frenzy produced by fpirituous
liquors and opium feems to afford to many others, wTho
are never at eafe but when they can procure to them¬
felves this delicious pleafure. And yet, though they
may thus agreeably pafs away the otherwife tedious
hours of their lives in fmoking and fieep, they never-
thelefs generally run away. The colonifts wonder at
this, as a procedure entirely devoid of reafon ; with¬
out perceiving, that in fo doing they fuppofe the Hot¬
tentots not endued with a defire, which has its imme¬
diate foundation in nature, and which is common to
the human race, and even to moft brute animals, viz.
an earneft longing after their birthplace and families.,
and efpecially after their liberty.
“ The Have bufinefs, that violent outrage to the
natural rights of mankind, always in itfelf a crime,
and which leads to all manner of mifdemeanors and
wickednefs, is exercifed by the colonifts in general with
a cruelty towards the nation of Bofhies-men which
merits the abhorrence of every one •, though I have
been told that they pique themfelves upon it: and not
only is the capture of thofe Hottentots confidered by
them merely as a party of pleafure, but in cold blood
they deftroy the bands which nature has knit between
hufbands and their wives and children. Not content,
for inftance, with having torn an unhappy woman from
the embraces of her hufband, her only prateffion and
comfort, they endeavour all they can, and that chiefly
at night, to deprive her likewife of her infants; fcr
it has been obferved, that the mothers can feldom per-
fuade themfelves to flee from their tender offspring.
The amiable tendernefs of the mother, which perhaps
glow's with a more lively flame in the breaft of this
poor heathen than in thofe of her Chriftian tyrants,,
is the very circumftance laid hold on by their perfecu-
tors in order to rivet the chains of this wretched fe¬
male fo much the fafter. There are fome mothers,
however, that fet themfelves free, when they have loft
all
BOS [ <
. iofTia- all hopes of faving their children. After having made
ferago efc.ape, they fometimes keep fecretly about the
Bofquets. neighbourhood, in hopes of finding fome opportunity
* v—i > of recovering their infants again.”
BOSNA-serago, a large and ftrong town of Tur¬
key in Europe, and capital of the province of Bofnia.
E. Long. 18. 57. N. Lat. 44. 40.
BOSNIA, a province of Turkey in Europe, feated
between Sclavonia and Dalmatia. It belongs entirely
to the Turks j but they were on the point of being
expelled from it by the Chriftians, when the Spaniards
invaded Sicily, and obliged the emperor to conclude
the peace of Paffarowitz in 1718, by which he gave up
Bofnia to the Turks. It is 200 miles in length, and
75 in breadth. It is a barren country, and but little
cultivated : the principal revenue arifing chiefly from
the filver mines. Among the game thrre are falcons,
which are held in great efteem.
BOSPllORUS, or Bosporus, in Geography, a
long and narrow fea, which it is fuppofed a bullock
may fwim over. In a more general fenfe, it is a long
narrow fea running in between two lands, or feparating
two continents, and by which twro feas, or a gulf and
a iea, are made to communicate with each other : In
which fenfe, bofphorus amounts to the fame wuth wrhat
we otherwife call an arm of the fea, channel, or ftrait;
the Italians,yizro; the luT&vns, fretum; and the French,
pas, manche. The word is Greek, fioa-Trogos, formed
, from /Sag, “ bullock,” and “ paflage.”
The name bofphorus, is chiefly confined to two
ftraits in the Mediterranean fea, viz. the bofphorus of
Thrace, commonly called the f rails of Conjlantinople,
or channel of the Black fea ; and the Cimmerian or
Scythian bofphorus, fo called, it feems, from its refem-
blance to the Thracian ; now more commonly the
Jlraits of Kapha, or Kiderleri, from two cities Handing
on it.
The origin of the name is better agreed on than the
reafon why it was firfi: given to the Thracian bofpho¬
rus. Nymphius tells us, on the authority of Accari-
on, that the Phrygians, defiring to pafs the Thracian
ftrait, built a veffel, on whofe prow was the figure of
a bullock 5 and which . w’as hence called /Ss?, “ bul¬
lock ; and ferved them for a ferry-boat. Dionyfius,
Vallerius Flaccus, Callimachus, Apollodorus, Marcel-
linus, &c.. fay, that lo, being transformed into a cow
by Juno, paired this flrait fwimming, which hence W’as
called bofphorus. Arrian tells us, that the Phrygians
were enjoined by the oracle, to follow the rout which
a bullock Ihould mark out to them ; and that, upon
llirring one up, it jumped into the fea to avoid their
purfuit, and fwam oyer this ftrait. Others fay, that
an ox, tormented by a gad-fly, threw itfelf in, and
fwam over : and others, that anciently the inhabitants
of thefe coafls, when they would pafs over, joined lit¬
tle boats together, and had them drawn over by bul¬
locks, &c.
BOSQUETS, in Gardening, groves fo called from
hofchetta, an Italian word which fignifies a little wood.
They are compartments in gardens formed by branches
of trees difpofed either regularly in rows, or wildly and
irregularly, according to the fancy of the owmer. A
bofquet is either a plot of ground enclofed with pali-
fadoes of horn-beam, the middle of it being filled with
tall trees, .as elm or the like, the tops of which make
rt 1 BOS
a tuft or plume ; or it confifts of only high trees, as Eoffage
horfe-chefnut, elm, &c. The ground fliould be kept
very fmooth and rolled, or elfe covered with grafs, after ,
the manner of green plots. In planting bofquets, care
fliould be taken to mix the trees which produce their
leaves of different fliapes, and various (hades of green,
and hoary or mealy leaves, fo as to afford an agreeable
profpedt. Bofquets are only proper for fpacious gar¬
dens, and require a great expence to keep them up.
BOSSAGE, in archite&ure, a term ufed for any
ftone that has a projefture, and is laid rough in a build¬
ing, to be aftenvards carved into mouldings, capitals,
coats of arms, &c. Boffage is alfo that which is other-
wife called rufic-work ; and confifts of ftones which ad¬
vance beyond the naked or level of the building, by
reafon of indentures or channels left in the joinings.
Thefe are chiefly ufed in the corners of edifices, and
thence called rujlic quoins. The cavities or indentures
are fometimes round, fometimes chain-framed, or bevel¬
led, fometimes in a diamond form, fometimes enclofed
with a cavetto, and fometimes with a liltel.
BOSSE, Abraham, an able engraver, born at
Tours, was well fkilled in perfpeftive and architecture.
He wrote two treatifes, which are efteemed j the one
on the manner of defigning, and the other upon en¬
graving.
BOSSINEY, or Boss-castle, a town of Corn¬
wall, in England, which fends two members to parlia¬
ment. W. Long. 5. o. N. Lat. 50. 40.
BOSSU, Rene le, born at Paris in 1631, was ad¬
mitted a canon regular in the abbey of St Genevive,
in 1649 ; and after a year’s probation, took the habit.
He taught polite literature wuth great fuccefs in feveral
religious houfes for 12 years, when he gave up the talk
for retirement. He then pu-blifhed a parallel betwixt
the principles of Ariftotle’s natural philbfophy and
thofe of Des Cartes, with a view to reconcile- them }
which wras-but indiffierendy received. His next trea-
tife was on epic poetry y.whick Boileau declared one
of the beft compofitions on that fubjeCl in. the French
language, and w'hich produced a great friendfliip be¬
tween them. He died in 1680, arid left a great num¬
ber of MSS. which are. kept iiv the abbey of St John
de Chartres-.
BOSSUET, James Benigne, bifliop of Meux,
w7as born at Dijon, on the 27th of September, 1627..
He diftinguilhed himfelf by his preaching, and the
zeal he difcovered in his endeavours to bring over the
Proteftants of France to the Romifti church j by his ■
oppofition to quietifm ; and by his numerous wri.
tings both in French and Latin, which have been col¬
lected together, and printed at Paris in 17 vols 4to.
This famous divine died at Paris, in 1704, aged 77.
BOSSUPT, a town: of the Auftrian Netherlands,
in the province of Brabant. E. Long. 4. 30. N. Lat.
5°* 52i
BOSSUS,.Matthew, diftinguilhed by his virtue
and his learning,.w'as born in 1427. He devoted, him-
felf to the ecclefiaflieal ftate in 1451, in the congrega¬
tion of regular canons of Lateran, and. afterwards
taught divinity at Padua. His orations, his fermons,
and his letters, have been often printed. He alfo
wrote a fort of an apology for Phalaris, and other
works. He died at Padua in 1502, aged 75.
BQST, a very ftrong town of Perlia, and capital.of
the
BOS [ 62
Boflangis, the province ofZableftan. E. Long. 64, 15. N. Lat.
. Bofton- 31. 50.
u,-v- -■ BOSTANGIS, in the Turkifti affairs, perfons em¬
ployed in the garden of the feraglio, out of whofe num¬
ber are colle&ed thofe that are to row in the Grand
Signior’s brigantines, when he has a mind to divert
himfelf with fifhing, or to take the air upon the canal.
They who row on the left hand are only capable of
mean employments in the gardens : but they who row
on the right hand may be promoted to the charge of
boftangi-bachi, who has the general intendency of all
the grand fignior’s gardens, and commands above
10,000 boftangis.
BOSTON, a corporation town of Lincolnlhire in
England, which fends two members, to parliament.
It is commodioufly feated on both fides the river Wi-
tham, over which it has a handfome high wooden
bridge ; and, being near the fea, enjoys a good trade.
It has a fpacious market-place, and the largeft parifh
church without crofs aifles in Europe, the fteeple of
which ferves for a land-mark to failors. Bofton is a
barony in the Irby family. E. Long. o. 15. N. Lat.
S3- 3-
Boston, the capital of New England in North A-
merica, built in 1630, in a peninfula of about four
miles in circumference, at the bottom of Maffachufets
bay, in a very convenient fituation for trade. The fol¬
lowing is a defcription of this capital before the com¬
mencement of the late American war. “ The town
ftands in W. Long. 71.5. N. Lat. 42. 24. about nine
miles from the mouth of the bay. At the entrance of
this bay are feveral fmall rocks which appear above
water, and upwards of a dozen of fmall iflands, fome
of which are inhabited. There is but one fafe channel
to approach the harbour ; and that'fo narrow, that two
Ihips can hardly fail through abreaft ; but within the
harbour there is room for 500 fail to lie at anchor in
a good depth of water. On one of the if ands of the
bay ftands Fort William, the moft regular fortrefs in
Britifti America. This caftle is defended by 100 guns,
20 of which lie on a platform level with the water, fo
that it is fcarce poflible for an enemy to pafs the caftle.
To prevent furprife, they have a guard placed on one of
the rocks, at two leagues diftance, from whence they
] EOT
make fignals to the caftle when any fhips come near it. Bofwonli,
There is alfo a battery of guns at each end of the town. Botallns.
At the bottom of the bay is a noble pier near 2000 feet
in length $ along which on the north fide extends a
row of warehoufes for the merchants y and to this pier
{hips of the greateft burden may come and unload
without the help of boats. The greateft part of the
town lies round the harbour in the form of a half moon,
the country beyond it riling gradually and affording
a delightful profpeft. The neck of land which joins
the peninfula to the continent is but 40 yards over;
which fituation, if properly improved, might render the
town impregnable on the land fide. Bofton contains
only about 18,000 inhabitants. They were more nu¬
merous 50 years ago; but the furprifing increafe of
Newbury port, Salem, Marble-head, Cape Ann, Ply-
mouth, Dartmouth, and the illand of Nantucket, check¬
ed the growth and trade of the capital. The trade of
Bofton, howrever, was fo confiderable, that, in 1768,
1300 fail entered and cleared at the cuftom-houfe
there. The predominant religion is the Independent y
though there are other perfuafions, and ten churches
ferve for them all, but the Independents have fix.”
Bofton has frequently fuffered by fire, but the houfes
that were thus deftroyed have always been rebuilt to
advantage. The late American war began here by
the attack at Bunker’s-hill, when many brave men
loft their lives.”
BOSWORTH, a town of Leicefterftiire in Eng¬
land, fituated in W. Long. 1. 24. N. Lat. 52. 25. It
has a lofty fituation on a hill, and the country about
it is fertile in corn and grafs. It is memorable for the
decifive battle fought near it between Richard III. and
the earl of Richmond, afterwards Henry VII. where¬
in the former loft his crown and life.
BOTALLUS, Leonard, phyfician to the duke
of Alen5on, and to Henry III. wras born at Afti in
Piedmont. He introduced at Paris the praftice of
frequent letting of blood y which was condemned by
the faculty •, but foon after his death it came into
pradlice with all the phyficians. He publiftied feveral
books in phyfic and furgery *, and the beft edition of his
works is that of Leyden in 1660, oftavo.
BOTANY
TS that fcience which arranges, diftinguilhes, and names
all plants or vegetables, to enable us to ftudy their
properties and ufes.
Vegetables confift of an innumerable fucceflion of
individuals which it is impoflible to examine, and
would be ufelefs if it were poflible. It is therefore
neceffary to ditninifti the labour by forming them into
groups or claffes, that the fame name may apply to a
great number of individuals. Now certain individual
plants have fo clofe a refemblance to others in their
flower, fruit, leaves, and general appearance, that al-
moft every man at firft fight would give them the
fame name. Thus every man who has feen the com¬
mon daify once, and knows its name, will probably
apply the fame name without miftake to every other
individual of the fame fpecies. This forms the firft
ftep in botany, or what is called arranging and naming
plants according to their fpecies. Nor is it only the
firft, but the eafieft ftep in botany. It is alfo the moft
important; for all the individuals of the fame fpecies
muft in fimilar circumftances poffefs the fame qualities.
For example, we have no reafon to doubt that each
individual plant of common hemlock, or of foxglove,
poffeffes the fame medical qualities, though from their
place of growth thefe qualities may differ in degree.
It is therefore the individuals of the fpecies alone that
are ufeful y and the whole value of any arrangement
confifts in enabling the botanift to diftmguilh and name
the individuals, with the greateft eafe and accuracy.
If the number qf fpecies were fmall, definitions, or de-
fcriptions
B O T
felements. fcriptions of them would alone be fufficient ; but as
they amount perhaps to 40,000 or 50,000 or more, to
fearch for every fingle fpecles amid fuch a multitude
would be a talk for which neither human patience nor
human life would be fufficient.
To fhorten the labour, it has been found very ex¬
pedient to arrange plants into various divifions ; firft
into fome very general divifions which may reduce
them into a fmall compafs, then to fubdivide thefe ge¬
neral divifions into others lefs compiehenfive, and thefe
into others, till we arrive at the particular fpecies which
we are in fearch of. Thus the arrangement defcends
from a general divifion of all plants to every parti¬
cular fpecies.
Many plans of this kind have been attempted by
various botanifts, but the arrangement of the celebra¬
ted Linnaeus is incomparably the moft ingenious, moft
accurate, as well as the fimpleft and eafieft. That il-
luftrious botanift divided all plants into clafies, the
claffes into orders, the orders into genera, and the ge¬
nera into fpecies. The orders too, and the fpecies,
when numerous, he frequently fubdivided into feftions.
Objections have been made to the arrangement of
Linnaeus, becaufe it admits divifions which do not ap¬
pear natural. But fuch perfons, though diltinguifhed
botanifts, feem to us to have mifunderftood the ufe and
intention of that arrangement. It is not, and ought
not to be, its objeCt to give what has been called a na¬
tural arrangement; for nature does not clafs her pro¬
ductions. She places before us innumerable indivi¬
duals, and leaves us to claftify them according to the
purpofe which we have in view. If nature had formed
plants into clafTes, orders, and genera, the botanift would
have nothing to do but to ftudy thefe. But in none
of her wmrks has nature done this. Clafiification is the
work of man j and it is neceflary for man merely on ac¬
count of the limited nature of the faculties of his mind.
Claftification enables us to accomplifti by feveral fteps
or operations what we cannot accomplifh by one.
But were our faculties much more exalted, were our
penetration much more acute, and our memories per¬
fectly retentive ; could we at once furvey all the qua¬
lities of objefts, difcern their relations to one another,
and retain the remembrance of thefe accurately, we
ftieuld have no occafion to generalize at all. As ge¬
neralization or claffification is neceffary to aid our li-
ELEMENTS
The parts of a plant which it is neceflary for the
young botanift firft to know, are the flower, and fruit.
Thefe include feven; the calyx, corolla, ftamen, piftil,
pericarp or feed-veffel, feed and receptacle. We will
defcribe thefe in the order which will make them moft
eafily diftinguifhed.
1. The corolla, which in common language is call¬
ed the flower, and in fruit-trees the bloflbm, is the part
which is moft beautifully coloured, wdiich is of the fin-
eft texture, and is often odorous. It is to be found of
every colour, except green, a hue wdrich it very fel-
dom aflumes. It is white, as in the blofibms of the
cherry, yellow as in the primrofe and ranunculus or
butter-cup, red as in the rofe, blue as in the violet.
It is fometimes of one piece, and fometimes divided in-
A N Y. 63
mited faculties, the beft claftification is that which Elements,
leads us without error, and by the eafieft procefs, to the
particular objeft which we have occafion to inveftigate.
The arrangement of Linnaeus is therefore the beft :
It is, however, not fo perfeft in fome of its parts as it
may yet be rendered. This is the cafe in fome of the
genera which are diftinguiihed by marks that are too
minute. But when we confider the indefatigable mind
of that illuftrious man, the chaos in which he found bo¬
tany, and the beautiful arrangement which he gave to
it, we may juftly inroll the name of Linnaeus in the
fame lift with Bacon, and Newton, and Locke.
A botanical fvftem is a dictionary by which a per-
fon who has ftudied the rudiments of the fcience may
find out the name of every plant which lie meets with.
This diftionary has been much enlarged by the labours
of the great many eminent botanifts of the prefent
time. We (hall therefore point out the method of
confulting it, after giving a very concife view of the
principles upon which it is founded. We will give a
concile view, becaufe we think moft or perhaps all the
elementary books of this fcience tend to confound and
difguft beginners by phyfiological definitions, and by
the multiplicity of terms which they require to be
ftudied at the very firft outfet. Their plan is juft as
if a teacher of Latin was to require his pupils firft to
make themfelves mafters of a Latin dictionary before
he allowed them to tranflate. Our plan is to require
of a beginner no more elementary knowledge than
what is fufficient to enable him to confult the fyftem as
he would do a dictionary. The meaning of the reft
of the botanical terms we think can beft be learned by
having recourfe to an explanation in an alphabetical
form, as they occur in the inveftigation. This we in¬
tend to add to the prefent article. And we wifh fin-
cerely that every man who publifhes a fyftem of bo¬
tany would do the fame j for we have ftrong reafons
to believe that different writers ufe the fame words in
different fenfes from one another. Linnaeus, indeed,
has defined his botanical terms; but in his two works,
Delineatio Plantarum and Phii’ofophia Botanica, he
fometimes defines the fame word differently. Now we
ought to know which of his definitions fuccceding
botanifts have adopted. Befides almoft every botanift:
introduces terms of his own which we fhall look for in
vain in the definitions of Linnaeus.
OF BOTANY.
to diftinCt pieces, called petals. When the corolla con-
fifts of one petal, the outer or upper part which is
broad is named the /imb or border; and the lower part
which is narrow and hollow, by which it is fixed, is
called the tube. When the corolla confifts of more
than one petal, the lower part is called a c/aw, and
the upper lamina.
In the corolla it is neceffary to attend to its form,
its divifions, the number of its petals, its colour and
the part to which it is attached. See Plate XCV.
Fig. 11. a corolla of one petal: a, the tube ; b, the lami-
nas. Fig. 13. a corolla of more than one petal : a, the
claw ; b b, the laminas.
2. The calyx is fituated on the outfide of the co¬
rolla, and enclofing it commonly at the bafe. It is ge¬
nerally
4 B O T
Elements, nerally ot a greenilh colour and of a coarfer texture
tjian t|ie corolla. It confifts of one part, or of two,
three, &c. and is then laid to be one-leaved, two¬
leaved, three-leaved, many-leaved. The calyx is of
various fhapes, tubular, globular, inflated, &c.
There are icven fpecies of calyx, perianth, involu¬
cre, glume, ament, fpatbe, calyptre, and volve. For
explanation of thefe confult the vocabulary and Plate
XCV. Fig. 18. <7, the calyx.
3. The piftil, or piltils, commonly appear in the
centre of the corolla, from which they rife like fo many
columns. There are from one to twelve in the fame
flower, and fometimes more.
A piftil confiits of three parts, the fligma, the ftyle,
and the germen. I. The ttigma is the higheft part of
the piftil} which is fometimes globular, fometimes cleft,
fometimes crofs-fhaped, &cc. 2. The ftyle is the pillar
or thread which fupports the ftigma. 3. The germen is
the pedeftai or bafe of the piftil, moft commonly of a
roundifh or globular fhape j but fometimes long and
flender. Sometimes there are feveral germens together.
Sec Plate XCV. fig. 12. c. the ftigma} b, the ftyle, <7,
- the germen.
4. The ftamens, which refemble threads or pillars,
ufually Hand between the corolla and the piftil, are
placed in regular order round the piftils, or alternate
with the petals. They are in number on one flowTer
from one to feveral hundreds. Butdt is not neceffary to
count them when they are more than twenty.
A ftamen confifts of two parts, the anther and the
filament. 1. The anther is the fummit of the ftamen,
containing a mealy or powdery fubftance called pollen,
and is generally of a different colour from the filament.
They are of different forms, globular, horned*, &c.
2. The filaments are the threads or pillars which fup-
port the anthers. The ftamens are attached to the
corolla, to the calyx, to the receptacle, or to the ftyle.
See Plate XCV. fig. 18. Filaments marked by e, e, e, ef
e,e. Anthers/,/,/,//,/
5. The pericarp, or feed-veffel, is the cafe or cover¬
ing of the feed, and is the external part of the germen
come to maturity. It is of various ftiapes} globular, as
in the poppy; long, as in the pod of the common gar¬
den or field pea: it is pulpy with a ftone in the mid¬
dle, as in the plum; pulpy, containing feeds enclofed in
a cafe, as in the pear; juicy, and containing feeds which
have only an external cafe, as the currant and goofe-
berry.
There are eight fpecies of pericarp; capfule, filiqne,
legume, follicle, drupe, pome, berry, and ftrobile. A
defcription of thefe will be given in the vocabulary.
Confult alfo Plate XCV. fig. 23. to 30.
6. The feeds are fo wTell known, that they require
no defcription in the elements of the fcience.
7. The receptacle is a point, line, or broad bafe, to
which fome or all of the fix parts now defcribed are
attached. When it is the bafe of all thefe parts, it is
called the receptacle of the fruttification. When the
calyx, corolla, and ftamens only are attached to it, it
is called the receptacle of the flower* When the ger¬
men together with the piftil only is fixed to it, it is
called the receptacle of the fruit. It is called proper
when only one flower with its fruit is inferted into it.
It is called common when many flowers are attached to
A N Y.
it, as in the common dailies, dandelion. See Plate XCV. Elements.'
Fig. 13. c, a proper receptacle. Fig. 9. 10. a com-' _v'.'
mon receptacle.
Attention to the receptacle is moft neceffary chiefly
in claffes tlth, 13th, and 19th.
Befides thefe feven, which are called the parts of fruc¬
tification, becaufe when they exift together, they are
fuppofed neceffary for producing proper fruit, there is
another part which Linnaeus calls the nectary, that re¬
quires attention, as it is the foundation of fome genera.
It is difficult for beginners to diftinguifti it, as it varies
much in its appearance, and is not Very difcernible in
a great many fpecies. It is fometimes the name of
a fmall gland ; fometimes of a fcale or a number of
fcales; fometimes of a cup; fometimes of a horn or
fpur on the corolla, as in larkfpur and violet ; fome¬
times of a groove or excavation. In Ihort, it appears
to be a name for any Angular or irregular appearance
of any of the parts of the flower. In all accurate
and perfpicuous fyftems, it is fo well defcribed that it
c m be eafily found out. If this be done the name may
be admitted, but if not it muft lead to ambiguity and
want of precifion.
OF THE CLASSES.
The defcriptions now given are fufficient to ena¬
ble the young botanift to underftand the claffes and
orders.
All plants are arranged into 24 divifions, called
claffes. In 23 of thefe claffes, the flowers, or the pif¬
tils and ftamens, or at leaft the ftigmas and anthers,
are evident. The 24th clafs comprehends all plants
in which the flowers are invifible to the naked eye, as
moffes, ferns, mufhrooms.
The principles upon which the claffes are formed are
few, Ample, and beautiful. All plants which have on¬
ly one ftamen, are of the firft clafs ; thole that have
only two, are of the fecond ; thofe that have only
three, are of the third : and fo on, the number of fta¬
mens being the fame with the number of the clafs in
the firft ten claffes. See Plate XCIV. fig. 1, 2, 3, 4,
5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10.
In the next three claffes, the place to which the fta¬
mens are fixed muft be attended to as well as the num¬
ber of the ftamens. Thus the 11th contains thofe
plants which have from 12 to 19 ftamens inclufive, fix¬
ed to the receptacle. The 12th thofe that have 20
ftamens fixed to the infide of the calyx. In this clafs
the place of infertion is more to be relied on than the
number of the ftamens, for they are fometimes lefs than
20, often more. The 13th clafs comprehends thofe
that have more than 20 ftamens attached to the recep¬
tacle. See Plate XCIV. fig. 11, 12, 13. For an ex¬
ample of the 1 2th clafs a rofe may be examined, and
for an example of the 13th a poppy, or a ranuncu
lus.
The 14th and 15th claffes depend upon the number
and proportion of the ftamens. When there are four
ftamens in a flowTer, of which two are longer, it be¬
longs to the 14th clafs. When there are fix ftamens,
of which four are longer, it belongs to the f 5th clafs.
For an example of the 14th clafs the flowers of the
dead nettle, mint, thyme, or fox-glove, may be exa¬
mined ;
B O T
dements, mined, and for a fpecimen of the 15th clafs, infpeft
the flowers of ftiepherds purfe, or mudard. See alfo
Plate XClV. lig. 14. and 15.
The 16th, 17 th, 18th, and 19th claffes depend upon
the manner in which the ftamens are connefted, whe¬
ther they be joined by their filaments into one fet, or
two fets, or more than twoj or be united by the an¬
thers into a cylinder.
In the 16th clafs the ftamens are united by their fila¬
ments into one fet, forming a cafe round the lowter part
of the piftils, but feparating at the top. A geranium
forms a fpecimen of this clafs. In the 17th the corollas
are papilionaceous, like the bloflom of a bean; the fta¬
mens are connected by their filaments, but divided into
two fets or parcels, one of which is thicker and forms
a cafe round the piftilj the other is fmaller and leans
towards the piftil. Specimens of thefe may be found
in the flow’ers of peas and beans. In the 18th clafs,
the ftamens are united by their filaments into mere
than twro fets, or parcels. See Plate XCIV. fig. 18.
The 19th clafs is difficult to a beginner. It confifts
of compound flowers, as the common daify, dandelion.
They are called compound, becaufe each Angle flowrer
'Confifts of a colleftion of little fkwers or florets, at¬
tached to the fame broad receptacle, and contained
within one calyx. Each floret confifts of a corollet,
or little corolla, five ftamens united by their anthers
into a hollow or tubular cylinder, and a piftil which
pafles up through the tube of the cylinder. See J’late
XCIV. fig. 19. and examine a dandelion, or thiftle, or
common groundfel, or a fun-flowrer. See alfo the
beginning of the 19th clafs in the fyftem, where a ful¬
ler account will be given of this clafs.
In the 20th clafs, the ftamens are attached to the
piftil. An orchis will afford a fpecimen of this. See
alfo Plate XCIV. fig. 20.
In the three next claffes, the piftils and ftamens are
fituated on feparate flowers, or diftinft plants, or on
plants which bear flowrers with piftils and ftamens,
others with ftamens or with piftils, or flowers of both
kinds.
The 21 ft clafs contains thofe plants which have
flowers of different kinds on the fame plant, fome
bearing piftils, and others bearing ftamens only. The
flowers with piftils we fliall call pijtillar or Jh'grnate, and
thofe with ftamens Jlaminal or authored. The birch
affords an example of this clafs. See alfo fig. 21.
The 22d clafs confifts of thofe fpecies which have
ftamens on one plant and piftils on another. Inftances
of this may be found in the willow', poplar, and juni¬
per. See fig. 22.
The 23d clafs comprehends thofe plants which have
at leaft twm and fometimes three kinds of flow'ers.
i. Some anther-ftigmate, or with piftils and ftamens
on the fame flow'er. 2. Others having piftils only, or
ftamens only. 3. Or having flowers with piftils only,
or flow'ers with ftamens only. This may be expreffed
more concifely. Some having flow'ers anther-ftigmate,
fome ftigmate, or fome anthered, or having both an-
thered flowers and ftigmate flow'ers. The common afh
tree may be examined for a fpecimen of this clafs. See
alfo fig. 23.
The names of the claffes are formed from Greek
words, and exprefs the chara&eriftic of each clafs.
The firft ten claffes are named from the Greek im-
Vol. IV. Part I.
A N Y. Gj-
merals and the word nndna, which the botaruft mu ft Elements,
confider as fynonymous with ftamens.
1. Mon -andria.
2. Di -andria.
3. Tri -andria.
4. Tetr -andria.
5. Pent -andria.
6. Hex -andria.
7. Hept -andria.
8. Off -andria.
9. Enne -andria.
10. Uec -andria.
11. Dodec-andria, 12 ftamens,
13. Icos -andria, 20 ftamens.
14. Di -dynamia, 2 powers.
15. Tetra-dynamia, 4 powers.
16. Mon -adelphia, one brotherhood.
17. Di -adelphia, two brotherhoods,
18. Poly -adelphia, many brotherhoods.
19. Syn -genefia means origin or produiftion together*
fo called from the ftamens being united by the
anthers.
20. Gyn -andria, piftils and ftamens together.
21. Mon-cecia, one houfe.
22. Di -oecia, tw'o houfes.
23. Poly-gamia, many kinds of flowers. The etymo-
logy here w'ould throw no light upon the clafs
to a beginner j nor does it throw any on the
next clafs.
24. Crypto-gamia, therefore, is to be underftood to mean
invijible flowers.
OF THE ORDERS.
The formation of the orders is as ingenious and
fimple as that of the claffes. In the firft thirteen claffes,
the names and characters are taken from the number
of piftils or ftyles j when thefe are wanting, from the
number of ftigmas. Thus :
Mono -gynia, I ftyle.
Dia -gynia, 2 ftyles.
Tri -gynia. 3 ftyles.
Tetra -gynia, 4 ftyles.
Penta -gynia, 5 ftyles.
Hexa -gynia, 6 ftyles.
Hepta -gynia, 7 ftyles.
Deca -gynia, 10 ftyles.
Dodeca-gynia, 12 ftyles.
Poly -gynia, many ftyles.
In the 14th clafs Didynamia there are only two or¬
ders, which depend on the prefence or abfence of the
pericarp or feed-veffel.
1. Gymnospermia. Four naked feeds in the bottom
of the calyx \ as in mint, dead-nettle, thyme.
2. Angiosperm 1 a. Seeds enclofed in a pericarp} as
in fox-glove, eye-bright, toad-flax, fig-wort.
In the 15th clafs, tetradynamia, there are alfo two
orders, which are taken from the form of the pericarp.
I. SilicuLosa. Seeds enclofed in a filicle or round-
ilh leed-veffel, confifting of two pieces called
valves, and the feeds fixed to both edges or fu¬
tures, as in Ihepherds purfe, feurvy-grafs.
I 2. SiLIQUOSA.
66
Elements. 2. SiliquosA.
v feed-vefl’el:
Seeds enclofed
as in murtard.
13 O T
in a filique or long
In the 16th, 17th, and 18th claiTes, the names and
charafters of the orders are taken from the number of
flamens.
In the 19th clafs there are fix orders, which it is
difficult at firfl: to diflinguifh accurately.
1. Polygamia JEoualis. Florets anther-ftigmate,
or having both ftamens and piftils in the fame
floret j as in dandelion, thiftle, fow-thiftle, arti¬
choke.
2. Polygamia Superfi.ua. When the flower is
compofed of two parts, a difk or central part,
and rays projefting outwards ; as in corn-mary-
gold, tanfy, daily, golden-rod, groundfel, chamo¬
mile, milfoil. The florets of the dilk are an¬
ther-ftigmate ; thole of the ray ftigmate.
3. Polygamia Frustranea. Florets of the dilk
anther-ftigmate ; thofe of the rays with ftyles but
no ftigmas; as blue-bottle, knapweed.
4. Polygamia Necessaria. Florets of the difk an-
ther-ftyled, without ftigmas thofe of the rays
ftigmate. Garden marygold will afford a fpeci-
men.
5. Polygamia Segregata. When each of the flo¬
rets has a calyx, befides the common or general
calyx of the flower. Specimens of this can only
be found in botanic gardens.
6. Monogamia. When the flower is not compound
but Angle, and the anthers united. This or¬
der ought to be transferred to the clafs pentan-
dria, as, indeed, has been done in fome very va¬
luable fyftems. Examples of it may be found in
the violet.
In the claffes gynandria, monoecia, and dioecia, the
orders are formed from the number of ftamens, with
three of a different kind, monadelphia, fyngenefia, and
gynandria, in the claffes monoecia and dioecia.
In the 23d clafs there are three orders.
:i. Monoecia. When the flowers are anther-ftigmate
and anthered ; or anther-ftigmate and ftigmate,
on the fame individual plant.
2. Dioecia. Wrhen the flowers are anther-ftigmate
and anthered, or anther-ftigmate and ftigmate, on
two different individual plants.
3. Trioecia. When the flowers of one individual
plant of the fame fpecies are anther-ftigmate; up¬
on a fecond individual plant, anthered j and upon
a third individual plant, ftigmate.
The orders into which the 24th clafs, cryptogamia,
>s divided, will be explained in the introdu&ion to that
clafs.
OF THE SECTIONS.
The orders are generally fubdivided into what may
be called ye^/onj-. Thefe may vary in number, ac¬
cording as the fyftem is partial or univerfal; but they
are almoft as well eftablifhed as the claffes and orders.
Sections are not employed in the 1 ith, 1 2th, 16th, 18th,
39th, 2oth, 21ft, 22d, 23d claffes. The principles
on, which they are formed are few and very fimple.
A 1 N Y.
In the firft ten clafles they depend upon the follow- Elements,
ing circumftances j on the flower being fuperior or in- y-—
ferior or naked, complete or incomplete, calycled, en¬
clofed in a fpathe or glume, aggregate, umbelled, in-
volucred ; on the number of petals, the feeds being na¬
ked or encloled ; on the number of feeds, and the num¬
ber of cells in the capfule or feed veffel, or number of
berries.
The flower is faid to be fuperior when the recepta¬
cle of the flower is above the germen, and inferior
when the receptacle is below the germen. A flower
is faid to be naked when the calyx is abfent ; it is call¬
ed complete when it has both a calyx and corolla, and
incomplete when either of thefe is wanting. It is faid
to be calycled when the calyx has a fmall calyx or ca-
lyclet at the bafe. An aggregate flower, is a flower
compofed of florets Handing on footftalks, attached to
a broad receptacle.
An umbelled plant, is one which fends out towards
the top, from the fame point or centre, a number of
branches like the fpokes of an umbrella, and bearing
flowers on the top. All the fpokes, with their flow¬
ers, form a univerfal umbel. Ou the top of each
fpoke arifes an umbellet, or partial umbel. At the
bafe of the fpokes of the umbel, or univerfal umbel, is
a fort of calyx, called an involucre, or univerfal invo¬
lucre 5 and at the bafe of the fpokes of the umbellet
is a partial involucre, or an involucret. This will fuf-
fice for explaining the fe&ions of the firrt ten claffes.
The fe&ions of the 13th depend on the number of
petals.
In the 14th clafs, didynamia, the feftions depend up¬
on the calyx j which is faid to be cleft when it is cut
or divided into fo many parts, and two-lipped when
its mouth has a refemblance to two lips.
In the 15th clafs the fedions depend on the filicle
and calyx. The filicle in one fedion is notched at
the point, and in another unnotched or entire. In the
firfl; fedion of the order Jthquofa, the calyx is clofed
by its own leaflets. In the fecond it is not doled, and
the leaflets are feparated at the upper end.
In the 17th clals, diadelphia, and the order decan-
dria, there are fix fedions. 1. The firrt comprehends-
thofe flowers which have their ftamens all united as iu
the clafs monadelphia, and therefore forms an excep¬
tion to the regularity of the clafs. 2. In the fecond,
the ftigma is pubefeent or hairy. The flamens not..
3. The feed-veflel or legume, has two cells, without
the conneded marks of the former fedions. 4. The
legume contains only one feed, without the marks of
the former three fedions. 5. The legume is fome-
what jointed, without the marks of the former. 6. The
legume has only one apartment, but many feeds, with¬
out the marks already mentioned.
The only remaining clafs, whofe orders are divided
into fedions, is the 19th, fyngenefia. j. In the firft;
ledion of the firft order, the conflicts are ligulate, that,
is, flat towards the exterior or upper end,, and tubular
only at the bafe. 2. Capitate or headed, when the;
flowers grow in globular forms 5 as the thiftle. 3. Dif-
coid, when the corollets are all tubular, not ligulate.
In the order polygamia fuperflua are two fedions,.
1. Difcoid corollets. 2. Rayed or radiate, when all
the corollets are ligulate.
Wc
B O T
Wo will now prefent a conne&ed view of the Claffes
and Orders in a Table.
I. Monandria, l flamen.
x. Monogynia, I flyle.
2. Digynia, 2 flyles.
II. Djandria, 2 flamens.
1. Monogynia, I ftyle.
2. Digynia, 2 ftyles.
3. Trigynia, 3 ftyles.
III. TrianDria, 3 ftamens.
1. Monogynia, x ftyle.
2. Digynia, 2 ftyles.
3. Trigynia, 3 ftyles.
IV. Tetrandria, 4 ftamens. If the two neareft fta¬
mens be fhorter, the plant belongs to clafs 14th.
1. Monogynia, 1 ftyle.
2. Digynia, 2 ftyles.
3. Tetragynia, 4 ftyles.
V. Pentandria, 5 ftamens.
1. Monogynia, I ftyle.
2. Digynia, 2 ftyles.
3. Trigynia, 3 ftyles.
4. Tetragynia, 4 ftyles.
5. Pentagynia, 5 ftyles.
6. Polygynia, more than 5.
VI. Hexa ndria, 6 ftamens. If the two oppofite fta-
mens be {hotter, the plant is of the 15th clafs.
1. Monogynia, 1 ftyle.
2. Digynia, 2 ftyles.
3. Tetragynia, 4 ftyles.
4. Polygynia, more than 4.
VII. Heptandria, 7 ftamens.
1. Monogynia, x ftyle.
2. Digynia, 2 ftyles.
3. Tetragynia, 4 ftyles.
4. Heptagynia, 7 ftyles.
VIII. OCTAN dria, 8 ftamens.
1. Monogynia, 1 ftyle.
2. Digynia, 2 ftyles.
3. Trigynia, 3 ftyles.
4. Tetragynia, 4 ftyles.
IX. Enn eandria, 9 ftamens.
1. Monogynia, 1 ftyle.
2. Trigynia, 3 ftyles.
3. Hexagynia, 6 ftyles.
X. Decandria, 10 ftamens.
1. Monogynia, 1 ftyle.
2. Digynia, 2 ftyles.
3. Trigynia, 3 ftyles.
4. Pentagynia, 5 ftyles.
5. Decagynia, 10 ftyles.
XI. Dodecandria, 12 to 19 ftamens, inferted in the
receptacle.
1. Monogynia, x ftyle.
2. Digynia, 2 ftyles.
3. Trigynia, 3 ftyles.
4. Pentagynia, 5 ftyles.
5. Dodecagynia, 12 ftyles.
ANY. 67
XII. Icosandria, 20 ftamens or more faftened to the Elements,
infide of the calyx. ' " v 1 ^
1. Monogynia, 1 ftyle.
2. Digynia, 2 ftyles.
3. Trigynia, 3 ftyles.
4. Pentagynia, 5 ftyles.
5. Polygynia, more than 5 ftyles.
XIII. Polyandria, more than 20 ftamens faftened
to the receptacle.
x. Monogynia, I ftyle.
2. Digynia, 2 ftyles.
3. Trigynia, 3 ftyles.
4. Tetragynia, 4 ftyles.
5. Pentagynia, ? ftyles.
6. Hexagynia, 6 ftyles.
7. Polygynia, more than 6 ftyles.
XIV. Didynamia, 4 ftamens, 2 longer than the reft.
1. Gymnofpermia, 4 naked feeds in the bottom of
the calyx.
2. Angiofpermia, feeds enclofed in a feed-veflel.
XV. Tetradynamia, 6 ftamens, 4 longer than the
reft.
1. Siliculofa, feeds contained in afilicle or round-
ifti feed-veflel.
2. Siliquofa, feeds contained in a filique or long
feed-velfel.
XVI. Monadelphia, ftamens united by their fila¬
ments into one fet or body.
1. Triandria, 3 ftamens.
2. Pentandria, 5 ftamens. .
3. Oftandria, 8 ftamens.
4. Enneandria, 9 ftamens.
5. Decandria, 10 ftamens.
6. Endecandria, 11 ftamens.
7. Dodecandria, 12 ftamens.
8. Polyandria, more than 12 ftamens.
XVII. Diadelphia, ftamens united by their fila¬
ments into two bodies.
1. Pentandria, 5 ftamens.
2. Hexandria, 6 ftamens.
3. O&andria, 8 ftamens.
4. Decandria, 10 ftamens.
XVIII. Polyadelphia, filaments united and divided
into more than two fets.
1. Pentandria, 5 ftamens.
2. Icofandria, 20 ftamens.
3. Polyandria, more than 20 ftamens.
XIX. Syngenesia, anthers united into a cylinder.
1. Polygamia sequalis, florets all anther-ftigmate.
2. Polygamia fuperflua, florets of the difk anther-
ftigmate ; florets of the ray ftigmate.
3. Polygamia fruftranea, florets of the diik an¬
ther-ftigmate j florets of the ray ftyled, but
not ftigmate.
4. Polygamia neceflaria, florets of the dilk anther-
ftyled ; florets of the ray anther-ftigmate.
5. Polygamia fegregata, feveral calyclets in one
calyx.
6. Monogamia, flowers Angle, not compound,
with anthers united.
I 2 XX,
€8
B O T
Elements.
XX. GynAndria, flamens faftcned to the piftils.
1. Diandria, 2 ftamens.
2. Triandria, 3 ftamens.
3. Tetrandria, 4 ftamens.
4. Pentandria, 5 ftamens.
5. Hexandria, 6 ftamens.
6. Decandria 10 ftamens.
'7. Dodecandria, 12 ftamens.
8. Polyandria, more than 12 ftamens.
XXI. Monoecia, ftamens and piftils not in the fame
flowers, but in the fame plant.
1. Monandria, 1 ftamen.
2. Decandria, 2 ftamens.
3. Triandria, 3 ftamens.
4. Tetrandria, 4 ftamens.
5. Pentandria, 5 ftamens.
6. Hexandria, 6 ftamens.
7. Heptandria, 7 ftamens.
8. Polyandria, more than 7.
9. Monadelphia, filaments united.
10. Syngenefia, anthers united.
11. Gynandria, ftamens fixed to piftils.
XXII. Dioecia, ftamens and piftils on different
plants.
1. Monandria, I ftamen.
2. Diandria, 2 ftamens.
3. Triandria.
4. Tetrandria.
5. Pentandria.
6. Hexandria.
7. O&andria.
8. Enneandria.
9. Decandria.
10. Dodecandria.
11. Polyandria.
12. Monadelphia.
13. Syngenefia.
14. Gynandria. *
XXIII. PoLYGAMIA.
1. Monoecia, anther-ftigmate and ftigmate, or
anthered in the fame plant.
2. Dioecia, anther-ftigmate and ftigmate, or an¬
thered in two plants.
3. Trioecia, anther-ftigmate in one plant, ftig¬
mate, in a fecond, and anthered in a third.
XXIV. Cryptogamia.
1. Filices, or ferns.
2. Moffes.
3. Algae, or fea-weeds.
4. Fungufes.
OF THE GENERA.
Having now (hewn how plants are arranged into
claffes, orders, and fettions, we come to the next di-
vifion called genera. The charafteriftic marks of the
genera are derived from the flower and fruit. A ge¬
nus confifts of a certain number of fpecies, which re-
femble one another in fome parts of the flower or of
the fruit, or both. By way of illuftrating the princi¬
ples on which the formation and diftindftion of genera
are founded, we ftiall run over the Britiilr genera in
each clafs.
A N Y.
I. In the firft clafs, Order I. fe<ff. 1. the calyx is Element*,
one-leaved or indiftinft, corolla abfent. Se£l. 2. the ' v -,J
berry contains many feeds, the fpadix contains many
flowers, and the capfule is one-feeded. Order II. ge¬
nus 5. calyx wanting, two petals prefent j feeds, four,
not enclofed in a feed-veffel.
II. In the 2d clafs, Diandria, Order I. the genera
depend upon the figure of the corolla, which is divid¬
ed, wheel-fhaped, ringent, furniihed with a fpur, or
two-petaled ; on the calyx being cleft or being two¬
leaved on the number of feeds which the berry con¬
tains ; on the drape of the capfule, and the number of
feeds enclofed in it; on the ftamens being diftant, or
Handing on a footftalk.
In the 2d order, the only genus is a grafs, the ca¬
lyx and corolla of which are called glumes.
III. In the 3d clafs, Triandria, Order I. fe<5!. 1.
the diftinftion of the genera depends on the number of
divifions of the calyx and Angularities of the ftigma.
In left. 8. the genera are diftinguiftred by the peculia¬
rities of the glumes and feeds.
In the 2d order, Digynia, feel. 1, 2, 3, and 4, the
genera are diftinguilhed,
1. By the number of valves or pieces of which the
glumes or corolla and calyx confift.
2\ By the peculiarities of thefe valves.
3. By the number of flowers contained in the ca¬
lyx.
4. By the peculiarities of the ftigma and feed.
5. By the form of the fpikelets, and
6. By the peculiarities of the fpine or thread, or
form of the receptacle.
In the 3d order, trigynia, the genera are diftin-
guifhed,
1. By the number of leaves of which the calyx is
compofed.
2. By the number of petals.
3. By the form of the capfule, the number of valves
compofing it, and feeds contained in it.
IV. In the 4th clafs, Tetrandria, Order I. the
genera are determined,
^ Seft. 1.
1. By the peculiarities of the common and par¬
tial calyx, or of the calyx and calyclet.
2. By the corolla being fuperior.
Sea. 2. and 3.
1. By the form of the corolla.
2. By the peculiarities of the fruit.
Sea. 4.
1. By the number and the peculiarities of the
neaaries.
2. By their abfence.
3. By the nature of the feed-veffel; by its situa¬
tion and the number of cells or feeds it con¬
tains.
Sea. 5.
By the peculiarities of the calyx and feed.
Digynia and Trigynia, Order I. and II.
1. By the number of petals, and by their ab¬
fence.
2. By the nature of the pericarp, and by the num¬
ber of its valves and cells, and feeds.
V. In the 5th clafs, Pentandria, Order I. the ge¬
nera are diftinguilhed,
Sea*
B O T
Elements.
Sc£. !»
1. By the fliape of the corolla, by the peculiari¬
ties of its throat.
2. By the fliape of the calyx, and the number of
its diviflons.
7,. By the peculiarities of the feeds.
Seft. 2, 3, 4, and 5.
1. By the number of valves and cells of the
feed-veffel, and other peculiarities.
2. By the fliape and divifions of the corolla.
3. By the fituation and figure of the ftamens and
peculiarities of the anther.
4. By the divifions and fliape of the ftigma.
5. By the fliape of the calyx and number of its
divifions.
Seft. 6.
1. By the number of feeds and fituation of the
capfule.
2. By the number of divifions of the calyx, and
its relation to the ftamens.
Digynia, the genera are diftinguiftied,
Se6f. I, 2, and 3.
1. By the nature and fhape of the capfule, and
the number of cells and feeds it contains.
2. By the fhape of the corolla and the abfence or
prefence of pores.
3. By the fhape, number, and fituation of the
feeds.
Se£f. 4. comprehending the umbelled plants, is
formed into three fubdivifions :
1. Plants that have an involucre and involucret.
2. Thofe that have only involucrets.
3. Thofe that have neither, or only a fmall invo¬
lucre.
The genera are aiftinguiflied,
1. By the flowers being formed into heads.
2. By the flowers being tubular, by being radiate
or rayed, that is, fome tubular and fome flat,
by their being fertile or abortive, producing
feed or not producing it.
3. By the form of the petals.
4. By the calyx being entire or divided, or indi-
diftinff.
5. By the peculiarities of the involucres or invo-
lucrets.
6. By the peculiarities of the ftigmas and fruit..
The other orders have nothing peculiar.
VI. Hexandria, the genera are diftinguifhed,
r. By the number of petals, fliape, divifions, and
fituation of the corolla.
2. By the number of leaves, form, and fituation
of the calyx.
3. By the number of cells and feeds of the feed-
veflel, and fhape of the feed-
4. By the peculiarities of the ftamens.
5. By the form and number of the ftigmas.
The next feven clafles form their genera in fo fimilar
a manner to thofe already defcribed, that we omit
them.
XIV. In the 14th clafs, Dibynamia, Order I.
Gymnofpermia, the genera are determined,
1. By peculiarities of the anthers and filaments.
2. By peculiarities of the lips and throat of
the corolla.
3. By peculiarities of the calyx...
ANY. 69
Order II. Angiofpermia. Elements.
1. By the number of cells and directions of the ^
partitions of the capfule or feed-veflel.
2. By the form and number of the feeds.
3. And by other marks of the calyx and corolla,
which require no explanation.
XV. Tetradynamia.
I. Siliculofa, the genera are diftinguifhed,
I. By the filicle or ftiort roundifh feed-veffel, by
the fliape and pofition of its valves or pieces,
by its being entire or notched, and the num¬
ber of feeds it contains.
II. Siliquofa. The genera are diftinguiftied,
1. By the fliape of the filique or long feed-veffel,
which is compofed of two valves or pieces, with
the feeds faftened to both futures, or joinings
of the valves; by the manner in which the fi
lique opens.
2. By peculiar glands.
3. By the calyx being open or fpreading.
4. By the pofition of the petals. '
5. By the ftigma being notched or entire.
XVI. In the 16th clafs, Monadelphia, the ge¬
nera are diftinguiflied,
1. By the number of ftyles.
2. By the divifions of the outer calyx.
, 3. By the pofition of the capfules and number of
feeds contained in each.
4. By the feeds being beaked fpirailyor backwards.
XVII. Diadklphia. Here it is neceffary to de-
feribe the corolla, which is called papilionaceous, or
pea-bloffomed, and ufually copfifts of four petals. The
lower petal, fhaped like a boat, is called the keel; the
upper petal, which fpreads and rifes upwards, is called
the ftandard, and the two fide petals are called the
wings. The feed-veffel is called a /egi/me, and con-
fills of two pieces or valves, and the feeds are fixed to
one of the futures or joinings.
In the order Decandria, the genera are diftin¬
guiflied,
1. By the form and divifions of the calyx.
2. By the form and roughnefs of the ftyle and
ftigma.
3. By the peculiarities of the ftandard, keel, and
wings.
4. By the legume ; its form, length, and the
number of feeds it contains.
XIX. In the 19th clafs, Syngenesia, the genera
are diftinguiflied,
1. By the nature and form of the receptacle, by
its fmoothnefs or roughnefs, its being dotted, or
like a honeycomb.
2. By the nature of the pappus, which is the fea¬
thery or flying, or winged crown of the feed
by which it flies.
3. By the peculiarities of the calyx, its refembling
tiles, being double, accompanied with feales,
&c.
4. By the number of florets in the ray.
XX. Gynandria, Diandria, the genera are di¬
ftinguiftied,
By the form of the ne£lary, which is the lower*
lip of the corolla.
XXI. In the 21 ft clafs, Monoecia, the genera
are diftinguifhed,
By
B O T
1. By peculiarities in the male or anthered flower
of the calyx and corolla.
2. By fimilar peculiarities in the female or ftig-
mate flowers.
3. By the form of the ament. The ament is a
fpecies of flower confifting of a thread form re¬
ceptacle, to which a number of chaffy fcales
are attached. A fpecimen of it may be feen in
the flowers of the fir, birch, hazel, beech, and
oak.
XXII. XXIII. In the 22d and 23d claffes, Dioe-
cia and Polygamia, the genera are diftinguifhed in
a manner fimilar to thofe already defcribed. We
Iiave only to remark, that what in other fyftems is
called hermaphrodite flowers, in the clafs Polygamia
tve call anther-ftigmate, or pifiil-ftaminal, that is,
flowers having both anthers and ftigmas, or piftils and
ftamens.
OF THE SPECIES.
The fpecies confifl of fuch groups or colledtions of
plants as have certain refemblances, which render it
convenient to clafs them under one genus. The fpecies
are diftinguifhed from one another, either by marking,
in a few words the moft ftriking differences, or by giv¬
ing a minute defcription of each fpecies. In the foreign
plants, we have adopted the firft method for the fake
of brevity. But in the Britifh, which it is of confequence
we fhould ftudy more perfeflly, we have adopted the
fecond. The firft is a tranflation of Wildenow’s Spe¬
cies Plantarum, the moft complete fyftem hitherto pub-
lifhed, and the fecond, or the defcription of the Britifh
plants, is a tranflation from Dr Smith’s Flora Britannica.
which we have no hefitation in faying is a model of
botanical defcription. For precifion it is worthy of
Linnaeus, and is fo minute that nothing peculiar to any
fpecies feems to have efcaped the author.
The fpecies when numerous are formed into fubdi-
vifions. This we think fhould always be done, when
it can be done with propriety. There are fome emi¬
nent botanifts who difapprove of this pra&ice, becaufe,
fay they, it feparates fpecies that have the clofeft re-
femblance to one another. This however, is of no con¬
fequence •, for it is not the objeft of botanical arrange¬
ment to place thefe plants next one another, which are
moft like j but to point out the fpecies, and moft cer¬
tain method of difcovering the names of fuch plants as
we have occafion to examine. We cannot help regret¬
ting therefore, that Mr Salifbury in his new arrange¬
ment of Erica, a genus confifting of more than 240
fpecies, fhould, in order to clafs them according to
their affinities, have neglefted to form them into fub-
divifions : the fubdivifion of the fpecies diminifhes the
unneceffary labours of the botanift, and tends to in-
creafe the precifion of inquiry. For example, 32 fpe¬
cies of the campanula, have leaves fmooth polifhed, and
the reft have leaves rough to the touch. This circum-
ftance forms a very convenient fubdivifion. Again, 44
fpecies of the folanum have neither prickles nor thorns,
39 are prickled, and one is thorny or fpinous. Thus
in examining a folanum, we can have no occafion to
run over 84 fpecies ; we are required only to go over
44, or 39, or one. There is as much propriety in form¬
ing the numerous fpecies of a genus into fubdivifions,
2
A N Y.
as there is in feparating plants that have a clofe refem- Elements,
blance into different genera. Who would have fuppofed V—
that the bc/tanift who has feparated the Erica vulgaris
or common heath, from the genus to which it has hither¬
to belonged, would have thought it improper to arrange
fo extenfive a genus into fubdivifions. We can only
account for it by fuppofing that an eminent botanift
may fometimes forget the principles of the Linnean
claflification, to feek after a natural claflification j a
thing which we fufpedl is like the government of Uto¬
pia, that exifts only in the mind of the inventor.
OF VARIETIES.
Every part of a plant is fubjeft to variation from
climate, foil, cultivation, and difeafes, or injuries pro¬
duced by infers, winds, &c. The corolla and leaves
are moft liable to change. Variations arifing from fuch
accidents are not permanent; they may indeed be pro¬
pagated by flips, but vanifh in thofe plants which are
raifed from feeds. It is by rearing plants from feeds
that we can determine whether a plant be a variety or
a diftinfl fpecies.
Rules for directing the young Botanist in
investigating a Plant.
After the young botanift underftands the princi¬
ples upon which the claflification is formed, he ought
immediately to proceed to the examination of plants.
1. I. The botanift ought to feledl: flow’ers in different
ftates, fome expanded, Tome unopened, and if poflible,
fome that are ripened into fruit.
2. If the flower contain both ftamens and piftils, it
belongs to fome one of the firft 20 claffes. If either
the piftils or ftamens be wanting, it belongs to the 2xft,
22d, or 23d. To this rule there are a few exceptions,
which if the young botanift cannot overcome, he may
pafs them over till he has made fome progrefs in the
art of inveftigation.
3. He muft next examine whether the ftamens be
connected or feparate, and whether two of them be
uniformly fhorter than the reft. If the ftamens be not
connedted, and two of them be not uniformly fhorter,
the plant belongs to one of the 13 firft claffes. If the
ftameris do not amount to 12, the number of the fta¬
mens and number of the clafs is the fame. If the fta¬
mens be 12 or more, then, befides counting them, it is
neceffary to obferve whether they be fixed at the lower
end to the calyx or receptacle. This may be beft
known by tearing off the calyx ; if the ftamens do not
come away with the calyx, the plant belongs to the
clafs dodecandria. If the ftamens be about 20, lefs
or more, and fixed to the calyx, the plant belongs to
icofandria. If 20 or more, and attached to the calyx,
the clafs is polyandria.
In all thefe claffes the orders may be known by
ing the piftils.
4. If the ftamens be four or fix, and two fhorter than
the reft, the plant belongs to didynamia or tetrady-
namia. The corolla in didynamious plants is one petal
divided into two lips j and the corolla of tetradynami-
ous plants confifts always of four petals, placed fome-
what in the form of a crofs : hence called cruciform.
The orders of the clafs didynamia may be known
by obferving whether the feeds be enclofed in a feed-
veffel,
B O T
Elements, veffel, be four in number, and naked in the bottom of
the calyx.
In tetradynamia, the orders are diftinguilhed by the
form of the feed-veffel. If long, the order is filiquofa j
if roundilh it is filicu;-/a.
5. If the ftamens be connedled by the filaments into
one fet round the p ftil, but feparated at the top, and
the petals five, the clafs is monadelphia. If the ftamens
be formed into two lets, and the corolla like the blofi-
fom of a pea or bean, the clafs is diadelphia, and if
formed into more than two fets, the clafs is polyadel-
phia. The orders depend upon the number of the
ftamens.
6. If the flower be compound, that is, if one calyx
contain a great many corollets, each of which has five
ftamens united to a cylinder at the anthers, the flower
belongs to the clafs fyngenefia.
The orders are to be determined by examining the
florets, that is, the corollets of the difk and ray, in or¬
der to know whether they both contain piftils and fta¬
mens, or anthers and ftigmas, or otherwife. 1. If all the
florets contain ftamens and a piftil, the order is polyga-
mia sequalis. 2. If the dilk or central part have flo¬
rets with a piftil and ftamens, but the rays contain on¬
ly a piftil, the order is polygamia fuperflua. 3. If the
florets of the dilk have ftamens, and piftils, or be an-
ther-ftigmate, but thofe of the rays have only a ftyle,
the order is polygamia fruftranea. 4. If the florets
of the dilk have ftamens and ftyles, but no ftigmas,
and thofe of the rays a piftil only, the order is polyga¬
mia neceflaria. 5. When each of the florets has a
fmall calyx, the order is the polygamia fegregata.
6. And when the flower is not compound, but Angle
with anthers united, the order is monogamia. But fuch
plants are commonly now added to the clafs pentandria.
7. If the ftamens be fixed to the piftil, the clafs is
gynandria. The flo-wer has fomething of a monftrous
or irregular appearance. The petals are five, the ftyle
grows from the inner petal of the low'er lip of the co¬
rolla, fo as fcarcely to be diftinguilhable.
The orders are determined by the number of the
ftamens.
8. When the flowers are imperfect, that is, when fome
in the fame individual plant have ©nly piftils and fome
only ftamens, the plant belongs to the clafs monoecia.
When the piftils are in one plant, and the ftamens on
another, the clafs is dicecia ; and when perfeft and
imperfeft flowers occur on the fame plant, or on two
or three different plants, the clafs is polygamia.
The orders of monoecia and dioecia, are known by
the number of ftamens j and in polygamia, if imperfect
and perfeft flowers, that is, anther-ftigmate and ftig-
mate or anthered, be found on the fame plant, the or¬
der is monoecia j if on two plants, the order is dioecia j
and if anther-ftigmate flowers be on one plant, ftig-
mate on another, and anthered on a third, the order is
trioecia.
9. Different flowTers ihould be examined, and efpecially
thofe that are unopened, if the number of ftamens and
piftils fhould vary. And if after this examination, dif¬
ferent unopened or unexpanded flowers fhould vary, a
preference ftiould be given to the flowers that termi-
jiate the ftalk. We ought always, therefore, to com¬
pare different flowers before we inquire after the clafs
jor orders.
ANY.
9
II. I. After determining the clafs and order, the bo- Elements,
tanift ought to compare wdth the flower which he is "" i
inveftigating the different fedlions of the order when it
is divided into fe&ions. He may then proceed to ex¬
amine the genus.
2. In the beginning of each clafs he will find all the
genera arranged as they agree and differ in fome ef-
fential charafters of the flower and fruit. But they
are numbered in that order which brings thofe that
have the clofeft refemblance next to one another. Af¬
ter the feftion is determined, then the flower muft be
compared with each of the genera of that feftion, or of
the order when it is not divided into fe&ions.
3. If none of the effential charadters agree with the
flower and fruit of the plant wdiich is examined, then
the plants which are named at the end of the orders
are to be fought for and examined.
In this fyftem we have firft given the eflential marks
of all the genera at the beginning of each clafs in La¬
tin, and alfo in Englifli.
4. After determining the genus, the plant may be
compared with the defeription of the fpecies. In
foreign plants w^e have in general given only the ef¬
fential charatter of the fpecies. But in fome Britifli
plants we have added alfo, from Dr Smith’s Flora Bri-
tannica, a minuter and fuller account, as an example
of botanical defeription.
We have not referred to thofe books wdiich give
plates of the fpecies, becaufe they are acceflible but to
very few, and becaufe we do not think that a man will
ever be a botanift whofe knowledge is indebted to
plates. It is much better to confult an experienced
botanift than a book of plates. Thofe, however, w'ho
wilh to confult plates may do fo from this fyftem as
wTell as from any other, after afeertaining the clafs and
order.
As to the language which is employed in the fol¬
lowing fyftem, we need fay very little. We have en¬
deavoured to make it as much Englifli as poffible. We
have always preferred words of Englifli origin when
wre thought them fufficiently accurate ; but when we
had reafon to believe that fuch wrords were fo vague
that they might lead into error, wTe thought it better
to adopt the Linnean terms, and to give them an Eng-
lifti termination. In a few cafes wre have retained the
Linnean terms unaltered, as corolla, braftea, ftipula,
becaufe we thought any fuch change W’ould be un-
pleafant to the ear, as corol, braifte, ftipule. Be-
fides it would be no difadvantage to the harmony of
our language to have more words ending with
vowels.
We once intended to have given Englifli names to
many of the genera, and to all the fpecies, and had done
fo through the firft four or five claffes j but it wTas objec¬
ted, that this would increafe the fynonymes, which are
already too numerous; and confequently would oftener
tend to miflead than to be ufeful. It would certainly
be much better that plants were known in all nations
by the fame name.
Of the Method of forming an Herbarium or Hortus
Siccus.
Every man wdio wifties to be a complete botanift will
find it neceffary to preferve and to form into a collec¬
tion the plants which he has examined.
The
Pages 7i-~».74 to be cancelled, and this and the following leaf inferted in their place,
72 B G T
Elements. The belt method of preferring them is by drying
them : fpecimens ought to be collefted when dry, and
carried home in a tin box. Plants may be dried by
preffing, in a box of fand, or with a hot fmoothing-
ron. Each of thefe has its advantages.
i. If preffure be employed, a botanical prefs may be
procured. The prefs is made of two fmooth boards of
hard wood, 18 inches long, 12 broad, and two thick.
Screws muft be fixed to each corner with nuts. If a
prefs cannot eafily be had, books may be employed.
Next, fome quires of unfized bloflbm blotting paper
muft be provided. The fpecimens when taken out of
the tin box muft be carefully fpread on a piece of pafte-
board covered with a fingle fheet of the bloflbm paper
quite dry j then place three or four fheets of the fame
paper above the plant, to imbibe the moifture as it is
prefled out j it is then to be put into the prefs. As many
plants as the prefs will hold may be piled up in this
manner. At firfl they ought to be prefled gently.
After being prefled for twenty-four hours or fo, the
plants ought to be examined, that any leaves or petals
which have been folded may be fpread out, and
dry Iheets of paper laid over them. They may now
be replaced in the prefs, and a greater degree of pref¬
fure applied. The prefs ought to Hand near a fire, or
in the funfhine. After remaining two days in this
fituation, they fhould be again examined, and dry Iheets
of paper be hid over them. The preflure then ought to
be confiderably increafed. After remaining three days
longer in the prefs, the plants may be taken out, and
inch as are fufficiently dry may be put in a dry fheet
of writing paper. Thofe plants which .are fucculent
may require more preflure, and the bloflbm paper again
renewed.
Plants which dry very quickly, ought to be prefled
with confiderable force when firft put into the prefs ;
and if delicate, the bloflbm paper fhould be changed
every day. When the Hem is woody it may be thin¬
ned with a knife, and if the flower be thick or globu¬
lar as the thiftle, one fide of it may be cut away j as all
that is neceflary, in a fpecimen, is to preferve the cha-
rafter of the clafs, order, genus and fpecies.
2. Plants may be dried in a box of fand in a more
expeditious manner, and this method preferves the co¬
lour of fome plants better. The fpecimens after being
prefled for ten or twelve hours, mult be laid within a
ftieet of bloflbm paper. The box mult contain an inch
deep of fine dry fand, on which the fheet is to be placed,
and then covered with fand an inch thick ; another
fheet may then be depofited in the fame manner, and
fo on, till the box be full. The box muft be placed
near a fire for two or three days. Then the fand muft
be carefully removed, and the plants examined. If not
iufficiently dried, they may again be replaced in the
fame manner for a day or two.
3. In drying plants wTith a hot fmoothing iron, they
mult be placed within feveral fheets of blotting paper,
and ironed till they become fufficiently dry. This me¬
thod anfwers belt for drying fucculent and mucilaginous
plants.
4. When properly dried, the fpecimens fhould be
placed in fheets of writing paper, and may be flightly
laftened by making the top and bottom of the ftalk
pafs through a flip of the paper, cut neatly for the pur-
A N Y.
pofe. Then the name of the genus and fpecies fhould Elements,
be written down, the place where it was found, nature —y——
of the foil, and the feafon of the year. Thefe fpecimens
may be collefled into genera, orders, and clafles, and
titled and preferved in a portfolio or cabinet. The
method of preferving many of the cryptogamous plants
is more difficult, on account of the greater quantity of
moifture which they contain, and the greater delicacy
of their texture.
We will now conclude this introduftion with par¬
ticular references to the plates.
EXPLANATION of the PLATES.
Plate XCIV. exhibits the 24 CLASSES j fig. 1. re-
prefenting the firll clafs, or Monandria ; fig. 2. the
fecond clafs, or Diandria 5 fig. 3. the third clafs, or
Triandria ; and fo on, according to the enumeration
in the table.
Plate XCV. reprefents the parts of a plant upon
which the inveftigation of the GENUS depends.
Parts of the Flower.—Fig. 1. Spathe. Fig. 2.
Spadix. Fig. 3. G/uma, or glume ; b b, anjla, or awn.
Fig. 4. Umbella and invclucrum : a, Umbella univer-
falis, or univerfal umbel; b, partialis> or partial um¬
bel : c, Involucrum univerfale, univerfal involucre ; d,
partialey or partial involucre. Fig. 5. Calyptra, calyp-
tre, or veil; a, capitulum; b, operculum; parts of
mofles. Fig. 6. Amentum. Fig. 7. Strobilus, ffrobile.
Fig. 8. a, Pileus, cap; b, volva ; c, Jlipes; parts of
fungi or mufhrooms. Fig. 9, a, Rcceptaculum commune
nudum, the common receptacle, or bafe of the flower
when the flamina, piftillum, capfule, &c. are taken off.
Fig. 10. Rcceptaculum commune paleis imhr'catvrn, or
common receptacle imbricated with paleae or membra¬
naceous lamellae. Fig. j 1. a the tube, b the edge or
margin, of a one-petaled corolla. Fig. 12. is a flower
laid in a proper pofition for fhowing its different parts,
a, Germetiy which includes the feeds and capfule in
which they are enclofed ; b,Jlyle, a continuation of
the germen ; c,JIigma, or top of the ftylus ; d d d d d d,
Jilamerits, or threads ; e e e e e, anthers ; f f f f f, petals.
Fig. 13. a, the claws, b, the lamince or plates, of a
many-petaled corolla. Fig. 14. a, Bell fhaped nec¬
tary of the narciffus. Fig. 15. Horned nedlaries of
monkshood. Fig. 16. Horned neftary in the calyx of
the tropceolum. Fig. 17. a a a a, The neftaries of the
parnaffia grafs, five in number, each of which has
13 ftyles, with round buttons on their tops.
Parts of Fructification.—Fig. 18. a, Peri¬
anth ; b, germen ; c, Jlyle ; d,Jligma ; e e, filaments ;
f f, anthers, fome fliedding the pollen or dull; g, the
appearance of the anther before it Iheds the pollen.
Fig. 19. a, the f lament, and b, the anther, feparated
from the flower. Fig. 20. a, one grain of the pollen
magnified by a microfcope ; b, an elaflic aura fuppofed
to be neceflary for impregnating the feeds. Fig. 21.
a, Germen; b, fyle; c c, figma. Fig. 22. Follicle:
The feeds not adhering to the future, are enclofed in a
particular receptacle, a. Fig. 23. Legume, or a double-
valved pericarp, having the feeds fixed only to one of
the futures a a. Fig. 24. Silique, or a double-valved
pericarp, with the feeds fixed to both futures or mar¬
gins, a b. Fig. 25. Pome, ora flelhy pericarp, contain-
•-A ' ■
Throrv of BOSCO VIC'H .
riat c xriv.
PI at e XC VI
t .
BO TANY.
f
a-C.tJ .
Hate XCVll
/&&..
, eM £? f/e/es‘m/'/tsv/t&rt .
r
Tlale XCYIU
B O T
ing a capfule in which the feeds are enclofed, as in the
apple, &c.; a, the pericarp ; b, the or feed-cafe.
Fig. 26. a, Drupe, or pericarp containing a nut or
ftone, and having no valve, b, The nucleus, or ftone.
Fig. 27. Bacca or berry, a pericarp containing naked
feeds difperfed through the pulpy part* Fig. 28. A
capfule opening at the top to allow the feeds to fall
out. Fig. 29. Four capfules included in a common
pericarp, a a, The valves ; b b, the diffepiment, or
partition which feparates the different feed-capfules
from one another j c, columella, or central column, by
which the capfules are connedled. Fig. 30. A capfule
cut open longitudinally, to Ihow the receptacle of the
feeds. Fig. 31. Pappus, or down ; a, long-haired } b,
feathered \ c, feed ; d,Jlipe.
Peduncuh or Footjla/ks of Flowers.—Fig. 32.
Corymb. 33. Raceme. 34. Spike. 35. Verticil. 36.
Panicle.
Plates XCVI. XCVII. XCVIII. contain delinea¬
tions relative to the SPECIES of plants.
1. Leaves as to figure. A, Simple.—Yig. 37.
Orbicular, of a circular figure. Fig. 38. Subrotun-
dum, roundiih or nearly circular. Fig. 39. Ovate.
Fig. 40. Oval or elliptical. Fig. 41. Oblong. Fig. 42.
Lanceolate. Fig. 43. Linear. Fig. 44. Subulate, or
awl-ihaped. Fig. 45. Reniform, or kidney-lhaped. Fig.
46. Cordate, or heart-lhaped Fig. 47. Lunulated, or
crefcent form. Fig. 48. Triangular. Fig. 49. Sagittate.
* 5<?* Cordato-fagittate, heart-lhaped behind, and
iharp like the point of an arrow before. Fig. 51. Haft-
ate, or halbert-lhaped. Fig. 52. Cleft. Fig. 53.
1'hree-lobed, or having three (55) lobes. Fig. 54.
Preemorfe, fore-bitten. Fig. 55. Lobed. Fig. 56.
Quinquangular, or five-angled. Fig. 57. Eroded. Fig.
58. Palmate. Fig. 59. Pinnated. Fig. 60. Laciniate.
Fig. 61. Sinuate. Fig. 62. Dent-finuate. Fig. 63. Sinu¬
ate backwards. Fig. 64. Partite or parted. Fig. 65.
Repand, or fcolloped. Fig. 66. Dentated, or dent-
ed. Fig. 67. Serrated or fawed. Fig. 68. Doubly fer-
rated. Fig. 69. Doubly notched. Fig. 70. Cartilagi¬
nous. Fig. 71. Acutely notched. Fig. 72. Obtufely
notched. Fig. 73. Plaited. Fig. 74. Crenate, notch-
ed. Fig. 75. Curled. Fig. 76. Blunt or obtufe. Fig.
77- Acute. Fig. 78. Acuminate, or awl-pointed. Fig.
79. Obtufe with an acumen, blunt with a (harp point
iuperadded. Fig. 80. Acutely emarginated. Fig. 81.
Cuneiform emarginate, wedgeform and notched at the
end. Fig. 82. Retufe. Fig. 83. Long-haired. Fig.
84. Tomentofe, or cottony. Fig. 85. Hifpid, or briftle-
haired. Fjg. 86. Ciliated, big. 87. Rugofe or wrink-
ly. Fig. 88. Veined. Fig. 89. Nerved/ Fig. 90. Pa-
pillous. Fig. 91. Linguiform or tongue-lhaped. Fig.
92. Scimitar-lhaped. Fig. 93. Hatchet-ihaped. Fig.
94. Deltoid. Fig. 93. Three-fided or triquetrous. Fig.
96. Channelled. Fig. 97. Furrowed. Fig. 98. Cylin¬
drical. B. Compound Leaves. Fig. 99. Three-lobed.
Fig. 100. Binate. Fig. 101. Ternate. Fig. 102. Digi¬
tate, or fingered. Fig. 103. Pedate. Fig. 104. Pin¬
nated with an odd leaflet. Fig. 105. Abruptly pinnated,
big. 106. Pinnated alternately. Fig. 107. Abruptly
pinnated. Fig. 108. pinnated with a cirrhus. Fig.
109. Pinnated with only two leaflets. Fig. no. Pin¬
nated decurfively. Fig. in. Pinnated jointedly. Fig.
in. Lyre-lhaped. Fig. 113. Biternate, or duplico-ter-
Vol. IV. Part I.
A N Y. 73
nate, biternate, (10&), or doubly ternate, or having Elements-
three ternate (too) leaves upon one petiole. Fig. 114.
Bipinnate or doubly pinnate, i. e. having the primary
pinnae pinnated again a fecond time. Fig. n^.Triter-
nate, or triple ternate, or confifting of three biternate
(113) leaves, big. n6. Triple pinnated without an odd
leaflet, or having the fecondary p'inrue pinnated again,
and thefe laft pinner not terminated by an odd leaflet.
Fig. 11 7. Triple-pinnated with an odd leaflet.
2. Leaves, as to determination.—Fig. 118. Incur-
vated. Fig 119. Ere6L Fig, 120. Patent or fpreading.
Fig. 121. Horizontal. Fig. 122. Reclined or reflex.
Fig. 123. Revolute or rolled back. Fig. 124. Seminal
leaves, or feed-leaves. Fig. 125. Cauline or ftem-leaf.
Fig. 126. A branch-leaf. Fig. 127. Floral; leaf next
the flower j alfo termed a braBca. Fig. 1 28. Peltate,
or target-fhaped. Fig. 129. On a leaf-ffalk. Fig. 130.
Seflile. Fig. 131. Decurrent. Fig. 132. Stem-clafping.
Fig. 133. Perfoliate. Fig. 134. Connate, or united at
the bafe. Fig. 135. Sheathing. Fig. 136. Articula¬
ted or jointed. Fig. 137. Stellate, or verticilled.
13^; ^uaterna, quma, fena, &c. denote diffe¬
rent fpecies of ftellated or verticilled leaves, w’hen
there are. four, five, or fix, &c. leaves in one verticil or
whirl. Fig. 139. Oppofite. Fig. 140. Alternate. Fig.
141. Linear and perfifting. Fig. 142. Imbricated, or
tiled. Fig. 143 bafcicled. Fig. 144- Frond; a fpe¬
cies of ftalK or trunk, confifting of branches and leaves,
and fometimes the fruftification, all united together;
peculiar to the Filices or Ferns, and the Palmse.
x45- (Sauv.) Spatulate, or roundilh above, with
a long linear bafe. Fig. 146. Parabolical j having its
longitudinal diameter longer than the tranfverfe, and
growing narrower from the bafe till it terminate fome-
what like an oval.
3. Caules, or Stems.—Fig. 147. A fcaly culm or
ftalk. Fig. 148. Caulis repens, a repent or creeping
ftalk or ftem; appropriated to herbaceous plants.
Fig- 149; Scape. Fig. 150. A jointed culm (147)01-
ftalk. Fig. 151. A twining ftem. Fig. 152. A dicho¬
tomous or two-forked ftem. Fig. 153. Brachiated.
4 Fulcra, or Supports—Fig. 154. a A clafper
or tendril j b, Stipulas, the little feales at the bafe of
the foot-ftalk of the leaf, or at the bafe of the flower-
llalk } c, fmall hollow glands for the feexetion of fome
particular fluid. Fig. 155. a, Small glands. Fig. 156.
a, BraBea ; on footftalk, or differing from the other
leaves of the plant. Fig. 137. a, A fimple or one-
pointed fpine. b, A triple or three pointed fpine. Fig.
158. A triple or three-pointed prick. Fig. 160. Oppo¬
fite leaves 5 a, the axil, or angle betwixt the leaf and
the ftalk.
5. Roots.-—Fig. 161. A fcaly bulb. Fig. 162.
A folid bulb. Fig. 163. A tunicated or coated bulb!
big. 164. A tuberous root. Fig. 165. Fufiform or
fpindle-fliaped. Fig. 166. A branchy root. Fig. ib-.
a repent or creeping root.
EXPLANATION OF SIGNS.
{© Annual.
8 Biennial.
% Perennial.
Magnitude. h Tree or fhrub.
Time on I. II. HI. January, February, March, &c.
flowering. J
K CLASSIFICATION,
74
botany,
Monandria*
CLASSIFICATION.
CLASSIS I.
MONANDRIA.
OrdoI. MONOGYNIA.
Sett. I. Scitamineje, FruElu infero uni vel
triloculari.
12. KjCmpfema. Cal. obfoletus. Cor. 6-partita:
laciniis 3 majoribus patulis, unica bipartita. Stigma
bilamellatum.
3. Renealmia. Cal. i-phyllus rumpens. Cor. 3-
fida insequalis. Ne£tar. oblongum bail utrinque uni-
dentatum. Bacca.
2. Hellenia. Cal. fpathiformis. Cor. limbus du¬
plex : exterior lubtrifidus. Ne6t. diphyllum f. bifidum.
6. Hedychium. Cal. t-phvllus rumpens. Cor. tu¬
bus longifiimus j limbus duplex 3-partitus. Nett. 2-
phyilum.
11. Curcuma. Cal. 2-fidus. Cor. 4-partita. Ne£t.
3-lobum. Anth. bafi bicalcarata.
5. Hornstedtia. Cal. 2-fidus. Cor. tubus longus
filiformis j limbus duplex, exterior tripartitus. Nett,
tubulofum.
8. Alpinia. Cal. 3-dentatus sequalis tubulofus.
Cor. 3-partita aequalis. Nett. 2-labiatum : labio infe-
riore patente.
4. Amomum. Cal. 3-fidus inaequalis cylindricus.
Cor. 3-partita insequalis patens. Nett. 2-labiatum
erettiufculum.
7. Costus. Cal. 3-fidus gibbus. Cor. 3-partita
ringens. Nett. 2-labiatum, labio inferiore maximo
trilobo.
10. Maranta. Cal. 3-pbyllus. Cor. 3-fida. Nett.
3-partitum: lacinia tertia fuperiore latere antherifera.
1. Canna. Cal. 3-pliyllus. Cor. 6-partita. Nett.
2-partitum. Capf. 3-locularis.
14. Phrynium. Cal. 3-phyllus. Cor. 3-petala tubo
nettarii adnata. Nett, tubo filiformi, limbo 4-partito.
Capf. 3-locul. Nuces 3.
13. Thalia. Cal. 3-pbyilus. Cor. 5-petala : duo
interiora minora. Nett, lanceolatum concavum. Drupa
nuce unilocul.
9. Myrosma. Cal. duplex: exterior 3-phyllus:
interior 3-partitus. Cor. 5-partita irregularis.
Sett. II. Fruchi itifero quadriloculari.
j8. Lopezia. Cal. 4-phyll. Cor. 5-petala inae-
«fualis. Gapl. 4-locul. 4-valvis polyfperma.
Sett. III. FruElu fupero.
15. Phylidrum. Spatha 1-flora. Cal. o. Cor. 4-
petala irregularis. Capf. 3-locul. polyfperma.
CLASS I.
MONANDRIA.
Order I. MONOGYNIA.
Sett. I. Scitamine.® or Spicy Plants. The Germen
Inferior, and 1 or ^-celled.
12. KiEMPFERiA. Cal. indiltintt. Cor. 6-parted,
the three greater fegments open in two-parted ftigmasr
bilamellated.
3. Renealmia. Cal. i-leaved, burfting. Cor. 3-
cleft, unequal. Nett, oblong, one tooth on each fide
of the bafe. A berry.
2. Hellenia. Cal. fpathiform. Cor. limb double,
exterior one fubtrifid. Nett, two-leaved, or bifid.
6. Hedychium. Cal. i-leaved, burfting. Cor.
tube very long, limb double, 3-parted. Nett, diphyl-
lous.
11. Curcuma. Cal. 2-cleft. Cor. 4-parted. Anth.
two horns at the bafe. Nett. 3-lobed.
5. Hornstedtia. Cal. 2-cleft. Cor. long, filiform j
limb double, the exterior one 3-parted. Nett, tubu-
lous.
8. Alpinia. Cal. 3-dented, equal. Cor. 3-parted,
equal. Nett. 2-lipped, inferior lip fpreading.
4. Amomum. Cal. 3-cleft, unequal. Cor. 3-partr
ed, unequal. Nett. 2-lipped, fomewhat erett.
7. Costus. Cal. 3-cleft, gibbous. Cor. 3-paited,
ringent. Nett. 2-lipped, inferior lip greateft, and 3-
lobed.
10. Maranta. Cal. 3-leaved. Cor. 3-cleft. Nett.
3-parted, third fegment on the higher fide anther¬
bearing.
I. Canna. Cal. 3-leaved. Cor. 6-parted. Nett.
2-parted. Capf. 3-celled.
14. Phrynium. Cal. 3-leaved. Cor. 3-petaled.
Nett, tube filiform. Limb 4-parted. Capf. 3-celled.
Nuts 3. /
13. Thalia. Cal. 3-leaved. Cor. 5-petaled, two
interior pet. lefs. Nett, lanceolate, concave. Drupe
I cell.
9. Myrosma. Cal. double; exterior one 3-leaved,
interior 3-parted. Cor. 5-parted, iregular.
Sect. II. Germen inferior, and four-celled.
18. Lopezia. Cal. 4-leaved. Cor. 5-petals, une¬
qual. Capf. 4 cells, 4 valves, many feeds.
Se£t. III. Germen fuperior.
15. Phylidrum. Spathe one flower. Cal. none.
Cor. 4 petals irregular. Capf. 3 cells, many feeds.
l6. CUCULLARIA.
Monandria. B . O T
16. CuCULLARiA. Cal. 4-partitus. Cor. 4-petala
inaequalis calcarata. Fil. petaliforme. Anth. loculis
difcretis !
17. QUALEA. Cal. 4-partitus. Cor. dipetala
19. UsteriA. Cal. 4-dentatus,lacinia unica reliquis
multomajore! Cor. infundibuliformis 4-dentata. Capf.
l-locul. z-fperma.
f Mangifera Indica. Yradefcantia monandra.
Se£t. IV. Monospermy.
20. Boerhaavia. Cal. fuperus margo integerri-
mus. Cor. i-petala campanulata.
* 23.H1PPURIS. Cal. fuperus margobilobus. Cor. o.
22. Salicornia. Cal. i-phyllus ventricofus. Cor. o,
21. Pollichia. Cal. I-phyllus ^ dentatus. Cor. o.
Sem. 1 receptaculi fquamis 2 baccatis teftum.
24. Mithridatea. Recep. multiflorum 4-fidum.
Cal. o. Cor. o. Sem. folitaria recept. carnofo immerfa.
* Char a. Cal. o. Cor. o. Anth. feffilis. Styl. o.
Stigma 5-fidum. Sem. plura.
* Zostera. Spadix linearis, altera latere fruflifero.
Cal. o. Cor. o. Stam. alterna. Sem. folitar. alterna.
f Valeriana rubra, anguft folia, Calcitrapa. Scirpi et
Cyperi nonnullce fpecies. Alchemilla Aphanes, mo¬
nandra. Polycnemum monandrum.
Ordo II. DIGYNIA.
Se£):. I. Planty.
25. Lacistema. Cal. amend fquama. Cor. 4-par¬
tita. Fil. 2-fid. Bac. pedicellata monofperma.
26. Corispermum. Cal. o. Cor. 2-petala. Sem. 1.
27. Callitriche. Cal. o. Cor. 2-petala. Capf. 2-
locularis.
28. Blitum. Cal. 3-fidus baccatus. Cor. o.
Sem. 1.
29. Mniarum. Cal. 4-partitus fuperus. Cor. o.
Sem. 1.
Se£t. II. Graminey.
^ 3° Cinna. Cal. gluma i-llora. Cor. gluma. 2-val-
vis.
f Leerjia Monandra.
ANY.
16. Cucullaria. Cal. 4-parted. Cor. 4 petals
unequal, fpur-fhaped. Fil. petal lhaped.
17. Qualea. Cal.4 parted. Cor. 2 petals. A berry.
19. Usteria. Cal. 4-dented, one fegment greater
than the relt. Cor. funnel-fhaped, 4-dentate. Capf.
I cell, 1 feed.
f Mangifera Indica. Pradefcantia Monandra.
Sed. IV. Monospermy, or having one Seed.
20. Boerhaavia. Cal. fuperior, margin very en¬
tire. Cor. 1. petal, campanulated or bell-ihaped.
* 23. Bippuris. Cal. fuperior, margin two lobed,
Cor. none.
22. Salicornia. Cal. r-phyllous, ventricofe. Cor.o.
21. Pollichia. Cal. i-phyllous, 5-dented. Cor.o.
Seed 1. flelhy, fcaly, inclofing the germen.
24. Mithridatea. Cal. none. Cor. none. Recep,
fleiliy, having many flowers.
* Char a. Cal. o. Cor. o. Anth. feflile. o. Style
O. Berry many feeds.
* Zostera. Spadix linear Iheathed by the leaves,
fruit-bearing. Cal. o. Cor. o. Seeds folitary alternate.
f Va/enana rubra, angujl folia. Calcitrapa. Several
fpecies of Scirpus and Cyperus, Alchetnilla Aphanes,
monandra. Polycnemum monandrurn.
Order. II. DIGYNIA.
Sed. I. Plants.
25. Lacistema. Cal. fcale of an ament. Cor. 4-
parted. ^ Fil. 2-cleft, berry on a footllalk, 1 feed.
26. Corispermum. Cal. none. Cor. 2 petals, feed I,
* 27. Callitriche. Cal. none. Cor. 2 petals.
Capf. 2 cells.
28. Blitum. Cal. 3-cleft, enclofing a berry. Cor.
none, feed 1.
29. Mniarum. Cal. 4-parted, fuperior. Cor. none,
feed 1.
Sed. II. Grasses.
30. Cinna. Cal. glume, 1-flowered. Cor. glume.
2-valved.
f Leerfa Monandra.
I. Canna, Flowering Reed.
Cor.6-parted, ered.^ Ned. 2-parted, rolled back. Style
lanceolate, adhering to the corolla. Cal. 3-leaved.
indica. 1. Can. leaves ovate, acuminate ribbed.
rubra. * Can. whole flower reddifh, leaves ellipfe-ovate.
lutea. /3 Can. interior petals ered and yellowq the fegments
of the nedary rolled back and fprinkled with reddifh
lines ; leaves ovate elliptical.
coccinea. y Can. interior petals ered. fcarlet, the fegments of
the nedary rolled back, yellow fprinkled with red
lines, leaves ovate elliptical.
patens. 2 Can. interior petals refleded, fcarlet leaves lanceo¬
late oblong. Between the tropics.
2. Can. leaves lanceolate on footftalks, ribbed. Smallanvu/lifo*
tlowering reed. America. pf
3. Can. leaves lanceol. petiol. glaucous beneath,
without ribs. Carolina.
^4. Can. leaves linear, ribbed. Rufhyflowering reed, juncea.
2. Hellenia.
Limb of the cor. double, the outer one commonly 3-
cleft. Ned. 2-leaved or 2-cleft. Capf. 3-celled,
coriaceous, inflated, fubglobofe. Cal. fpathiform,
campanulated, 2-cleft.
1. Hel. Ned. 2-leaved. Capf. fubfpongious, leaves
entire. Ceylon.
K 2
2. Hel.
76
alba.
chlnenjis.
aquatica.
exaltata.
Zingiber.
%erurn et.
%edoarla.
JyheJlre.
viloga.
cnptijlifo-
lium.
cardamo-
mum.
villofum.
echinatum
repens.
granum
paradiju
B O T
■2. Hel. Neel:, diphyiious. Capf. ftriated, leaves
entire. China.
3. Hel. Neft. 2-leaved, leaves ciliated. China.
4. Hel. Nect. l-leaved, 2-cleft,leaves denticulated.
India.
3. Renealmia.
Cor. trifid. Neff, oblong. Cal. l-leaved, having
two or three irregular dents. Anth. feffile, oppofite
to the nedlary. Berry flelhy.
I. R en. High or tall reneatmia. It is a tree which
grows 20 feet high j the leaves are lanceolated, and 5
or 6 feet long. Surinam.
4. Amomum, Ginger.
Cal. 3-cleft, unequal, cylindrical. Cor. 5-parted, un¬
equal, fpreading. Ne£l. bilabiate, almoil eredl.
1. Am. Scape naked, fpike and feales ovate, leaves
lanceolate, ciliated on the margin near the apex.
2£. Eaft Indies, and Jamaica. This plant grows to
the height only of two or three feet. It is valued
chiefly on account of its root which is tuberous, of
the thicknels of a finger, white or reddifh within
and pale or yellow without. Ginger is reckoned a
good ftomachic. It is much ufed by the Indians
by way of feafoning. It grows in Malabar, Cey¬
lon, Amboina, and China, and is cultivated in the
Weft Indies. As it is very plentiful on the mountains
of Gingi, fome fuppofe that from this circumftance the
name Gingiber or Zingiber was derived.
2. Am. Scape naked; fpike oblong, obtufe; feales
roundilli ; leaves ovate, fmooth on the margin. 2£.
Eaft Indies.
3. Am. fcape naked; fpike loofe, cylindrical, trunca¬
ted; leaves ovate acuminate. 2/. India.
4. Am. fcape naked, fpike elongated, bradleas oblong
ventricofe, leaves broad-lanceolate. %. Jamaica.
5. Am. fcape very fhort, capfule ovate, leaves fword-
form and acute. If.. Japan.
6. Am. fcape naked very (hort, fpike headed, leaves
linear-lanceolate. If. Madagafcar.
7. Am. fpike radical felfile obovate, leaves obovate-
elliptical and cufpidate. If. India.
8. Am. fcape fheathed very ftiort, fpike roundifh;
bradleas lanceolate, longer than the flower. 2f. In¬
dia.
9. Am. fpike radical, fomewhat globular, capfules
furrowed, echinate and globular. If. India.
10. Am. fcape branchy, decumbent; leaves lanceo¬
late. 2£. Malabar.
11. Am. fcape branched loofe, leaves ovate. If.
Madagalcar, Guinea and Ceylon. The frelh leaves
of this plant, which grows to the height of 10 or 12
feet, have a ftrong aromatic tafte, but fomewhat bit¬
ter. Its grains have the fame qualities in a higher
degree. The Indians mix them with betel, in order
to promote digeftion. Their tafte is very agreeable ;
when fqueezed in the mouth, they produce a plea-
fant coolnefs. They are an objedl of commerce on
the Malabar coaft.
5. Hornstedtia.
Cal. bifid. Tube of the corolla long filiform ; border
double, outer one three-parted. Nedl. tubular;
capfule three-celled, oblong.
A N Y. Mofiandria.
1. Hor. leaves tomentofe beneath. If, Malacca.feyphus.
2. Hor. leaves fmooth ciliated. 7f. Malacca. lepninus.
6. Hedychium.
Cal. I leaved, burfting. Coivwuth a very long tube;
border double, three-parted. Nedt. 2-leaved.
1. Hed. If- India. corona*
7. Costus. tium.
Cal. trifid, gibbous. Cor. 3-parted, ringent. Nedl.
2- lipped, the inferior lip largeft, 3-lobed..
t. Cos. leaves fmooth on both fides, fpike with (cw arabicus,
flowers, feales leaf-like at the apex, the higheft ones
faftigiate. If. America.
2. Cos. leaves fmboth on both fides ; fpike vnany-fpicatus.
flowered, fomewhat ovate, clofely imbricated, feales
ovate Ample. %. Brafil and the Caribee iflands.
3. Cos. leaves covered beneath with a filky xc\\et.fpeciofus,
down. If- Eaft Indies.
8. Alpinia.
Cal. 3-dented, equal, tubular. Cor. 3-parted, equal.
Nedf. bilabiate, lower lip fpreading.
1. A lp. the raceme or clufter terminating fpiked,
flowers alternate, lip of the nedlary 3-cleft; leaves ob¬
long acuminate. If. America.
2. Alp. the clufter terminating loofe with flowers al-galanga,
ternate, lip of the nedlary emarginated, leaves lanceo¬
late. If. Eaft Indies.
3. Alp. fpike terminating hairy, bradleas longer than cowo/h,
the flower, coloured leaves, oblong-ovate pubefeent.
If. America.
4. Alp. clufter radical, compound, eredh; ne&ary e- occidenta*
marginate at the apex, capfules 3-celled, leaves lanceo-Z/j-.
late-ovate and very fmooth. Swartz prod. 11. If.
Jamaica and St Domingo.
9. Myrosma.
Cor. 5-parted, irregular. Cal. double, the outer part
3- leaved, the inner 3-parted. Capf. 3-angled, 3-
celled with many feeds.
1. Myr. b • Surinam. canneefor*
_ T wis.
, 10. Maranta.
Cal. 3-leaved. Cor. 3-cleft. Nedl. 3-parted, the third
being a fegment, the fuperior fide anther-bearing.
1. Mar. culm-branched and herbaceous, leaves ovate- arundine-
lanceolate, fomewhat hairy beneath. If. America, cea.
2. Mar. culm-branched, fhrub-like, leaves oyatc tonchat.
fmooth. b • Cochin-China.
3. Mar. culm Ample, leaves oblong, on footftalks, HI-ma/accen-
ky, pubefeent beneath. If. Malacca. This fpeciesyfr.
has not yet been accurately examined.
4. Mar. ftemlefs fcape; naked, fpiked, hairy, the leaf- comoja.
lets of the hair refledled. If. Surinam. It is uncertain
whether this plant may not belong to an unformed
genus ; at any rate, it is very different from the other
fpecies of maranta already mentioned.
11. Curcuma.
Cal. bifid. Cor. quadripartite. Ne£I. 3-lobed. Anth.
with two fpurs at the bafe.
1. Cur. leaves lanceolate ovate, ribs or nerves lateral, rotunda.
very few. 7f. India.
2. Cur.
77
Monandria. B O T
hv.ga, 2. Cur. leaves lanceolate, ribs lateral and very nume¬
rous. If. India,
12. K^mpferia.
Cal. indill in 61. Cor. 6-parted, the three greater feg-
ments a little expanded, one two-parted. Stigma
bilamellated.
galanga,
rotunda.
1. Kjemp. leaves ovate feffile. Galangale. If. India.
2. Kjemp. leaves lanceolate on footltalks. If. India.
13. Thalia.
Cor. 5-petaled the two inner petals lefs. Ne61. lan¬
ceolate concave. Neel, one cell. Cal. 3-leaved.
geniculata. i.Th. Cor. 5-petaled. Ne61. lanceolate. If. South
America.
cannafor- 2. Th. Cor. 6-petaled. Ne£l. 2-cleft, ere6t. If.
mis. New Hebrides.
14. Phrynium.
Cal. 3-leaved. Petals three, equal, adhering to the
tube of the neftary. Ne6f. 1-leaved, tube filiform,
border four-parted. Capf. three-celled. Nuts 3.
capitatum. I. Phr. if. Malabar, Cochinchina, and China.
15. Phylidrum.
Spathe one flower. Cal. none. Cor. 4-petaled, irre¬
gular. Capf. 3-celled, with many feeds.
lanugino- T. Phyl. if. Cochinchina, and China.
fum. s n
J TO. CuCULLARIA.
Cal. 4-parted. Cor. 4-petaleJ unequal, with a fpur.
Fil. petaliform.
excelfa. 1. Cue. Guiana. A lofty tree, with leaves oppofite,
obovate acute veined j racemes terminating, flowers
yellow.
17. Qualea-
Cal. 4-parted. Cor. 2-petaled.
rofea. 1. Qua. Guiana.
ccerulea. 2. Qua. petals emarginate, leaves acute. Guiana.
18. Lopezia.
Cal. 4-leaved. Cor. 5-petaled unequal. Capf. 4-cel-
led, 4-valved, many feeds.
tnexicana. 1. Top. ©. Mexico. The Lopc%ia hii'futa of Jac-
quin is only a variety.
19. Usteria.
Cal. 4-dented, one dent much larger than the reft.
Cor. funnel-fhaped, 4-dented. Capf. one cell, 2
feeds. Seeds arilled.
guineenjis.
1. Usr. Guinea, b with oppofite branches; leaves
oppofite, roundifh, ovate, entire. Fkwers panicled
terminating.
20. Boerhaavia.
Cal. margin quite entire. Cor. 1 petal, campanula-
ted, plaited. Seed 1, naked, inferior.
creBa, I* Boerh. Item 4-angled fmooth, the internodes
ANY.
vifeous, flowers corymbous-panicled. If. VeraCruz,
and Jamaica. The ftamens are twTo in number.
2. Boerh. leaves oblong-ovate, a little fleihy, flowers afeendens*
panicled, fruitflalks, with two flowers, ftem afeen-
ding or riling like an arch. Guinea.
3. Boerh. ftem tapering pubefeent, floxvers capitate
corymbous. %. ' South America. The leaves are
whitilh beneath. Flowers purple, with one ftamen.
4. Boerh. ftem a little tapering, hirfute flowers
capitate. If. Jamaica. The ftem is a foot long, the
flowers blood-coloured, the ftamens two.
5. Boerh. leaves nearly heart lhaped,orbicular-acute,
pubefeent beneath, flowers umbellated. Of. Spain.ginra.
The corolla is of a pale rofe hue, the ftamens three,
the fruit top-lhaped and ftriated.
6. Boerh. ftem ereft, flowers umbellated biftaminal,ycY?;7</<?«.rJ
leaves heart-lhaped. W eft Indies. h feet high,
ere£t, fmooth. The branches alternate, the umbels
green, bearing fix ftourers, the involucre 5-leaved.
. 7. Boerh. ftem eredl, leaves inferior heart-lhaped o- excelfa.
vate, the higheft leaves ovate, flowers umbellated, 3-fta-
mined. h . The corolla is purple, the ftamens three.
8. Boerh. ftem ereft, leaves heart-lhaped repando- repanda
finuated, flowers umbellated, 3-ftamined. China.
9. Boerh. leaves bipinnatifid, dented, flowers nm-checro-
bellated and 3-ftamined. Valeriana Chxrophylloidcs ofphylloidcs.
Dr Smith. 0. Chancay in Peru.
10. Boerh.'ftem creeping, if. Nubia. repens.
1 [. Boerh. leaves linear and acute. angufifoL
12. Boerh. ftem creeping, flowers 4-ftamined. So- tetrandra.
ciety iflands.
Several fpecies of Boerhaavia referable the Valeriana.
21. Pollichia.
Cal. 1-leaved, 5-dented. Cor. none. Seed 1. Re-
cept. including the fruit within its feales.
1. Pol. $. Cape of Good Hope. campefris,
22. Salicornia, Samphire*
Cal. ventricofe, entire. No petals. Stam. 1 or 2.
Seed i. covered with the calyx.
* 1. Sal. Knees comprefled, emarginate, internodes
obconical, fpikes on footftalks tapering towards tho
apex. Europe.
ct, Sal. European j fmall jointed glafswort.
(Z Sal. ere&a, leaves Ihort 5 woody-jointed.
y Sal. myofuroides, procumbent ihoots very long.
3 More branched, procumbent, leaves Ihort, purplilh.
Marf) famphire, jointed glafswort, or Jah wort.
Frequent on the lea Ihores in muddy or fandy places.
Q or Flowers VIII. and IX.
The root is fibrous, fraall. Stem commonly ere61,
fubdivided at the bafe, branched above. Branches op¬
pofite, Ample eredf, very fucculent, without leaves j
kneed, knees compreffed, dilated at the fummit, emar-
ginated. Spikes oppofite terminating with a large odd-
one, on footftalks, tapering gradually towards the fum¬
mit, fomewhat pointed, jointed. Flowers oppofite,
three commonly on each fide.
/3 Has a more ^branched ftem, fpikes longer and
thicker.
Notey The genera and fpecies of plants found in Britain are marked with an afterilk.
78 B O T
thicker, y A diffufe item, fpikes very long. 5 A
ftem very much branched, fpikes fmall purplifh. s A
ftem very much branched, firmer, fpikes ihorter, green.
fruticofa. * 2. Sal. Knees cylindrical, entire, internodes equal,
fpikes fubfefiile cylindrical obtufe. Shrubby famphire
or jointedg/afswort. Is found in fea marlhes. Tj.
Flowers in VIII. and IX. The root is woody and
perennial, the ftem fomewhat ihrubby, afcending, very
much branched, the branches and branchlets oppofite.
All the internodes commonly cylindrical. The fpikes
generally feflile, cylindrical obtufe, many-flowered,
joints very Ihort.
peremans. 3. Sal. kneescompreffed emarginate, fpikes axillary,
three together on fruitftalks, fcales acute, root peren¬
nial. Siberia.
Jlrpbilacea. 4. Sal. ftem proftrate fhrubby, genicles truncated al¬
ternately bearing fpikes ; fpikes naked, very fhort op-
polite. b . Near the Cafpian fea.
virginica. 5. Sal. ered, branches very Ample. Virginia.
arabica. 6. Sal. leaves alternate, ftieathing, obtufe dehifcent.
b. Arabia.
foliata. 7. Sal. leaves linear, alternate, ftem-clafping decur¬
rent. Siberia. b •
amplexi- 8. Sal. leaves heart-lhaped, ftem clafping. Tunis, b •
caulis. 9. Sal. genicles cylindrical, fpikes filiform. Shores
cflfpica. of the Cafpian and Mediterranean, b •
23. Hippuris.
Cal. indiftinft, entire. Cor. none. Stigma Ample.
Seed 1. inferior.
vulgaris. * 1. Hip. with leaves verticilled and linear. In ditches
and muddy ftagnant pools, but not common. Near
Hornfey and Lynn: alfo in the King’s park at Edin¬
burgh. H.. Flowers in V. The root is compofed
of long verticilled fibres j the ftem very fimple, ereft,
often kneed, immcrfed and leaflefs to the middle, leafy
above. The leaves verticilled, from 8 to 12, fpread-
ing, linear, acute, very entire, fmooth. Flowers axil¬
lary, folitary, feflile.
tetraphyl- 2. Hip. leaves inferior in fours, higher leaves fix to-
/us. gether obtufe. Sweden. %.
24. Mithridatea.
Recep. has many flowers, and is 4-cleft. Cal. none.
Cor. none. Seeds folitary, immerfed in a fleftiy re¬
ceptacle.
quadnjida. i.Mith. b* Madagafcar, Mauritius, and Bour¬
bon. It has oppofite branches, leaves on footftalks
oppofite, elliptical obtufe, entire, venous j flowers
folitary on footftalks, four-cleft, lateral on the older
branches. The fruit is flelhy, and of the fize of an
apple.
Chara.
Cal. none. Cor. none. Anth. feflile. Style none.
Berry many feeds.
vulgaris. * 1. Ch. without prickles ftriated, leaves awl-ftiaped,
jointed. Common Chara.
/i Ch. minor, with ftems and leaves very flender.
Frequent in muddy waters. /3 in water more pure.
0. Flowers in VII. 1 he whole plant immerfed, fe¬
tid, brittle, and commonly incrufted with a whitilh cal¬
careous gritty fubftance. The ftem is 1 foot long, fili¬
form, branchy, leafy, ftriated, twifted. The leaves ver-
A N Y. Monandria.
ticilled, about 8-fubulate, acute, jointed, ftriated, chan¬
nelled above, flower-bearing. The anther naked, feflile,
deprefled, flelhy, rimofe. The germen furrounded with
four leaflets, near the anther, ovate, ftriated fpirally, 5-
dented at the fummit. The berry corticated, and many
feeds. No ftigma is vifible.
* 2. Ch. furrowed, the leaves fubulateand jointed, ^athifpida,
leaflets verticilled, the prickles on the ftem briftly and
deflefted.
yS Ch. major, brittle and fomewhat afli-coloured.
Prickly Chara. Grows in pools and ditches. North of
England j in Guillon Loch, Eaft Lothian. ©.
Flowers in VII. and VIII. The habit of this fpecies
the fame as the former, but larger, the ftem being five
times thicker, furrowed rather than ftriated, very prick¬
ly above, the higher prickles all defle&ed, the lower
ones varying in dire&ion. The leaflets verticilled. The
flowers referable thofe of the vulgaris.
Variety /3 is chiefly diftinguilhed by its ftem being
prickly only under the higher verticils.
* 3. Ch. without prickles, fmooth, diaphanous, leavesyfe#//^
cylindrical obtufe, a little dagger-pointed. Englijh
Smooth Chara. Grow-s in ditches and lakes. ©.
Flowers in VII. and VIII. Green, pellucid, fmooth,
not ftriated. Stem round, branched, equal. Leaves
verticilled, cylindrical, filiform, obtufe, mucronulate,
often jointed and branched j hence might be called
branchlets : the flower-bearing ones are aggregate, ter¬
minating ftiorter.
Zostera, Grafs-wrack.
Spadix linear Iheathed by the leaves, flower-bearing.
Cal. none. Cor. none. Anth. feflile oppofite to
the germen. Stigmas two, linear. Capf. 1 feed.
* 1. Zost. with feflile pericarps. Englijh Grafs-wrack. maringj.
On the fea-lhore in fait marlhes and ditches. 1$..
Fkwers in VIII. and IX. The root is fibrous. Stems
tapering, fmooth geniculated, decumbent at their bafe,
ftriking root; partly floating, leafy, fomewhat branched
and a little compreffed. The leaves alternate, on leaf-
ftalks, linear, a little obtufe, entire, fmooth, opening
a little above the fame into a longitudinal chink, and
exhibiting a fpadix plane and linear flower-bearing on
one fide. The anther oblong, feflile at the fide of the
germen. The germen feflile, oblong. Stigmas 2, linear,
acute^ fomewhat fpreading. Capfule elliptical, pendu¬
lous, one-feeded.
Order II. DIGYNIA.
25. Lacistema.
Cal. fcale of an ament. Cor. 4-parted. Fil. 2-cleft.
Berry on a fruitftalklet, 1 feed.
1. Lac. Jamaica and Surinam. h • myricoides
26. Corispermum, Tickfeed. ,
Cal. none. Petals 2. Seed 1. oval naked.
1. Cor. fpikes terminal, leaves linear, riblefs, zvin-hy/fopifo*
lefs. Ruflia, Tartary, and South of France. 0. Hum.
2. Cor. fpikes axillary, fquarrofe, leaves lanceolate-/yzn7rro-<
acuminate, pungent, nerved, or ribbed. Banks oifum.
the Wolga and the deferts of the Coffacs. ©.
27. Callitriche.
Cal. none. Petals two. Stigmas acute. Seeds 4,
compreffed,
Diandria. B O T
compreffed, naked, with a membranous margin on
one fide. Some flowers are monoecious,
aquatica, * I. Cal. commonly called
P> Ste/Iaria minor, creeping,
y Cal. autumnalis.
Knglifh Water Star-wort. Flowers from IV. to X.
The whole plant floats in fpring, and after the feafon
of flowering finks a little. Roots fibrous Ample. Stems
filiform, branched, leafy, fmooth. Leaves oppofite
fpatulate, obtufe, entire, triple, nerved, pellucid, fniooth.
Lower leaves linear, with one nerve, emarginate.
Flowers axillary, folitary, feflile, fmall, wdiite, herma¬
phrodite or anther-ftigmate, the piftils and ftamens fome-
times intermingled. Fruit fmall, feflile, with four keels.
The variety y which has been called Ca/. Autumna-
hs, and confidered as a dillindl fpecies, is entirely im-
merfed, all the leaves uniform, linear, emarginate j all
the flowers anther-ftigmate. It flowers in the begin¬
ning of fummer.
28. Blitum.
Cal. 3-cleft. Petals none. Seed 1, in a berried calyx.
ANY. 7£
1. Bl. little heads fpiked, terminal. South of Eu-tapitatum.
rope, efpecially of the Tyrol, Switzerland. 0.
2. Bl. little heads fcattered and lateral. virgeitum,
/3. Bl. chenopodioides, little heads verticilled and
juicelefs. 1'artary, Spain, and France. ©. ‘
29. Mniarum.
Cal. 4-parted, fuperior. Cor. none. Seed 1.
1. Mn. New Zealand and Terra del Fuego. % • bijloruni,
This plant very much refembles the genus Minuartia in
the 3d clafs.
30. Cinna.
Cal. a glume 2-valved, one flow^er. Cor. a glume 2-
valved.
1. Cin. Canada. %. This plant feems to be aarundina*
fpecies of agrojlis, though evidently diftintt from Ac-retf.
rostis Cinna.
In the clafs Monandria are
30 Genera; and 84 fpecies, 8 of which are Britifli,
CLASSIS II.
DIANDRIA.
' Ordo I. MONOGYNIA.
Seth. I. Flores inferi, monopetali, regnlares.
36. Olea. Cor. 4-fida: laciniis fubovatis. Drupa
monofperma.
37. Chionanthus. Cor. 4-fida: laciniis longifli-
mis. Drupa monofperma, nuce ftriata.
35. Phillyrea. Cor. 4-fida. Bacca monofperma.
* 34* Ligustrum. Cor. 4-fida. Bacca tetrafperma.
4a Pimelea. Cor. 4-fida. Cal. nullus. Stam.
fauci inferta. Nux corticata unilocularisv
38. Syringa. Cor. 4-fida. Capf. bilocularis.
41. Eranthemum. Cor. 5-fida : laciniis obovatis
planis. Capfula.
31. Nyctanthes. Cor. 4-fida: laciniis truncatis.
Capf. 2-locularis marginata. Sem. folitaria.
32. Jasminum. Cor. 5-8-fida. Baccadicocca. Sem.
folitaria ariilata.
33 Galipea. Cor. 4-5-fida. Stam. 4-duo fterih'a
Capfula ?
CLASS II.
DIANDRIA.
Order I. MONOGYNIA.
Sect. I. Flowers inferior.
36. Olea. Cor. 4-cleft, fegments fubovate. Drupe
I feed.
37. Chionanthus. Cor. 4-cleft, fegments very long.
Drupe 1 feed. Nut ftriated.
35. Phillyrea. Cor. 4-cleft. Berry x feed.
* 34- Ligustrum. Cor. 4-cleft. Berry with 4
feeds.
40. Pimelea. Cor. 4-cleft. Cal. o. Stam. infer-
ted into the throat. Nut.
38. Syringa. Cor. 4-cleft. Capfule corticated x-
celled.
41. Eranthemum. Cor. 5-cleft, fegments obovate,
plane.
31. Nyctanthes. Cor. 4-cleft, fegments trunca¬
ted. Capf. 2-celled, rparginate. Seeds folitary.
32. Jasminum. Cor. 5-8-cleft. Berry 2-grained.
Seeds folitary, arillate.
23. Galipea. Cor. 4-5-cleft. Stamens 4, 2 barren.
Seel. II. Fiores inferi, monopetali, irregulares. Fruc- SecL II.
tus capfnlaris.
Flowers inferior, one-petaled, irregular.
Fruit capfular.
45. Pa:derota. Cor. 4-fida, fauce glabra. Cal.
5-partitus. Capf. 2-locul.
46Wulfenia. Cor. 4-fida, fauce barbata. Cal. g-
partitus. Capf. 2-locul.
* 44 Veronica. Cor. 4-fida, limbo planiufculo; la-
ciuia inferiore anguftiore. Capf. 2-locul.
2
45. P/Ederota. Cor. 4-cleft, fhroat bare. Cal. c-
parted. Capf. z-celled.
46. Wulfenia. Cor. 4-cleft, throat bearded. CaL
5-parted. Capf. 2 celled.
* -44* Veronica. Cor. limb 4-parted, lower fegment
narrowed:.
49. Gratiola,
B O T
49. Gratiola. Cor. 4-fida bilabiata refupinata.
Stamina 4 : duo fterilia. Capf. 2-locul.
50. Schwenkia. Cor. fubasqualis: ore plicato-ftel-
lato glandulofo. Stam. 5 : 3 fterilia. Capf. ■2-locul.
48. Justicia. Cor. irregularis. Capf. 2-locul. ungue
elaftico difliliens: Diflepimentum contrarium adnatum.
47. Cyrtandra. Cor. irregularis, Stam. 4: 2 fte¬
rilia. Dacca 2-locularis.
* 53. Pinguicula. Cor. ringens: calcarata. Cal. 5-
fidus. Capf. i-locul,
51. Calceolaria. Cor. ringens inflata. Cal. 4-fi-
dus. Capf. 2-locul. 4-valvis.
52. Baea. Cor. ringens. Cal. 5-partitus. Capf. 2-
locul. 4-valvis.
*. 54. Utricularia. Cor. ringens calcarata. Cal. 2-
pbyllus. Capf. i-locularis.
55. G mini A. Cor. ringens. Cal. 5-ariftatus. Nux
carnofa 4-locul.
66. Sciuris. Cor. ringens. Stam. 5 : 3 fterilia.
Capf. 5 coalitte.
7- Hemimeris fab u lof a, (Uffufa, moniana. Bignonia
Catalpa, longijfima.
A N Y. Diandria,
49. Gratiola. Cor. 4-cleft, bilabiate, refupinate.
Stam. 4, 2 barren. Capf. 2-celled.
50. Schwenkia. Cor. fubequal, mouth plaited-ftel-
late glandular. Stam. 5, 3 barren. Capf. 2-celled.
48. Justicia. Cor. irregular. Capf. 2-celled, burft-
ing, with an elaftic claw.
47. Cyrtandra. Cor. irregular. 4 ftamens, 2 bar¬
ren. Berry.
* 53. Pinguicula. Cor. ringent, fpurred. Cal. 5-
clelt, 1-celled.
51. Calceolaria. Cor. ringent, inflated. Cal. 4-
cleft. Capf. 2-celled, 4-valved.
52. Baea. Cor. ringent. Cal. 5-parted. Capf. 2-
celled, 4-valved.
* 54. Utricularia. Cor. ringent, fpurred. Cal. 2-
leaved. Capl. 1-celled.
55. Ghinia. Cor. ringent. Cal. 5-awned. Nut
fleftiy, 4-cclled.
66. Sciuris. Cor. ringent. 5. Stam. 3, barren.
Capf. 5, united.
Plants apt to be confounded with thofe are,
Hemimeris fabulofa, diffufa montana. Bignonia catalpa,
longijjima.
Seel. III. Flores inferi monopetali, irregulares. Fruc-
tus gymnofpermu
Soft. III. Flowers inferior, one-petaled, irregular.
Seeds naked.
* 56. Verbena. Cor. fubaequalis. Cal. lacinia fupre- * 56. Verbena. Cor. febequal. Cal. higheft fegment
ma breviore. ftrorter.
* 57. Lycopus. Cor. 4-fida fubaequalis ; lacinia unica * 57. Lycopus. Cor. fubequal. Stamens diftant.
emarginata. Stam. diftantia.
58. Amethystea. Cor. 5-fida fubaequalisj lacinia 58. Amethystea. Cor. 4-cleft fubequal, longeft;
infima concava. Stam. approximata. fegment concave cleft. Stamens near.
60. Ziziphora. Cor. ringens: galea reflexa. Cal. 60. Ziziphora. Cor. ringent, helmet refledled. Cal.
filiformis. filiform.
6/. Monarda. Cor. ringens: galea linear! obvol- 6i.Monarda. Cor. ringent, helmet linear covering
vente genitalia. the piftils and ftamens.
62. Rosmarinus. Cor. ringens : galea fornicata 62. Rosmarinus. Cor. ringent, helmet arched, 2-
bifida. Stam. curva cum dente. cleft. Stam. crooked.
* 63. Salvia. Cor. ringens. Fil. tranfverfe pedi- * 63. Salvia. Cor. ringent. Fil. on a tranfverfe foot-
cellata. ftalk, with a dent.
59. Cunila. Cor. ringens galea plana. Stam. 4 : 59. Cunila. Cor. ringent, helmet plane. 4 Stam.
2 fterilia. ^ 2 barren.
64. Collinsonia. Cor. fubringens: labio capillari 64. Collinsonia. Cor. fubringent, lip capillary
multifido. many cleft.
Se6l. IV. Flores inferi polypetali.
Se£t. IV. Flowers inferior, many-petaled.
42. Fontanesia. Cor. 2-petala. Cal. 4-partitu«.
Capf. 2-locul. non dehifeens.
68. Lithophila. Cor. 3-petala. Cal. 3-phyllus.
Peric. 2-locul.
69. Linociera. Cor. 4-petala. Cal. 4-dentatus.
Bacca 2-locul.
39. Dialium. Cor. 5-petala. Cal. nullus.
f Polycnemwn fclerofpermum.
Se£l. V. Flores fuperi.
42. Fontanesia. Cor. 2-petaled. Cal. 4-parted.
Capf. 2-celled, not dehifeent.
68. Lithophila. Cor. 3-petaled. Cal. 3-leaved.
Peric. 2 cells.
69. Linociera. Cor. 4-petaled. Cal. 4-dented. Ber¬
ry 2 cells.
39. Dialium. Cor. 5-petaled. Cal. none.
Flower fometimes Diandrous.
Polycnemum fclerofpermum.
Seel. V. Flowers Superior.
65. Momna. Cal. fructus dentato-ariftatus; floris
bifidus.
1
65. Morina. Cal. double, that of the fruit dented,
that of the flower 2-cleft.
*43. ClRCjEA,
Diandria. B O T
* 43* Circ^a. Cal. 2-pliylluss Cor. 2-petala obeor-
data.
67. Gloeba. Cal. 3-fidus. Cor. 3-fida. Capf. 3-
locularis.
Flowers fometimes Diandrous, refembling tbofe
of Seft. V.
f T aleriana C ornucop'uv. Boerhaavia erect a, hirfuta
fcandens.
Se£t. VI. Flores apetali.
70. Ancistrum. Cal. 4-phyllus. Drupa exfucca
hifpida i-locul.
71. Aruna. Cal. j-partitus. Bacca i-locularis.
Ordo II. DIGYNIA.
* 72* Anthox:anthum. Cal. gluma 2-valvis 1-flora.
Cor. gluma 2-valvis acuminata ariftata.
73. Crypsis. Cal. gluma 2-valvis i-flora. Cor.
gluma 2-valvis mutica.
Flower relembling thefe.
Saccharum cylindricum, Thunbergi:,
Ordo III. TRIGYNIA.
74* Piper. Cal. o. Cor. o. Bacca i-fperma.
ANY. gi
43. Circ^a. Cal, 2-leaved. Cor. 2-petaled.
67. Geobba. Cal. 3-cleft. Cor. 3-cleft. Capf, 3-
celled.
Se£l. VI. Flowers without Petals.
. 7p. Ancistrum. Cal. 4-leaved. Drupe juicelefs,
hifpid 1-celled.
71. Aruna. Cal. 5-parted, Berry i-cell.
Order II. DIGYNIA.
72. Anthoxanthum. Cal. a 2-valved glume, 1
flower. Cor. a 2-valved glume,^acuminate awned.
73. Crypsis. Cal. a 2-valved glume, 1 flower.
Cor. a 2-valved glume, awnlefs.
Order III. TRIGYNIA.
74* Piper. Cal. none. Cor. none. Berry 1 feed.
31. Nyctanthes.
^or. falver-fhaped, the fegments truncated. Capf. 2-
celled marginate. Seeds folitary.
^ I* Nyct. with a ftem four-cornered, leaves ovate
tnjlis. iharp-pointed, feed-veflels membranaceous and flatten¬
ed. . Fall Indies.
32. Jasminum, Jafniine.
Cor. falver-fliaped from five to eight-cleft. Berry 2-
grained. Seeds folitary in a leed-coat.
Subdiv. I. Leaves Jimple.
famcac. 1. Jas. with leaves Ample, oppofite elliptical ovate,
membranaceous and opake; the branchlets and foot-
flalks pubefcent, the fegments of the calyx awl-lha-
ped. India. F?.
With a Ample flower.
/3 With a multiplied flower, fegments oblong acute
fliorter than the tube.
V WIth full flowers, fegments roundilh, longer than
t e tube.
2. Jas. with leaves ovate, (harp-pointed a little wa-
ved, the branches columnar. Malabar. b-
hirfutum. . 3. Jas. with leafftalks and fruitftalks villous. In¬
dia. F? .
angujlifo- 4. Jas. with leaves blunt, lanceolate and ovate. In-
hum. dia. b.
vimineum. 5. Jas. with leaves oppofite, ovate dagger-pointed,
fruitflalks axdlarv,one flowered, thofe terminating three
Vcl. IV. Part I.
florvered. b • Java and Malabar. Has a great affini¬
ty to the preceding.
6. Jas. with leaves oppofite ovate, heart-ffiaped ^n-pubefcent.
befcent on both Aides. b • Calcutta.
7. Jas. with leaves oppofite, fimple, ovate-oblong,
tapering; panicles right-angled; fegments of the calyx
briftle-lhaped bent back. Bengal.
8. Jas. with leaves heart-ftiaped, lanceolate, acute,
and long; branches columnar. Nyfianthes elo/igata oi
Linn. Suppl. Eaft Indies.
9. Jas. with leaves oppofite, fimple, lanceolate, glofiy, glaucum.
the legments of the calyx awl-fliaped. NySlanthes
glauca of Linn. Suppl. b • Cape of Good Hope.
10. Jas. with leaves oppofite, fimple, ovate, tapering, trinerve.
three-nerved ; footflalks axillary and commonly one-
flowered. Java.
^ .II,JAS-with leaves oppofite ovate-lanceolate fimxAe.jimplicifb-
Friendly Iflands. J
Subdiv. II. Leaves ter note.
12. Jas. with leaves ternate oppofite, leaflets ovate,angulare.
blunt; branchlets angular and leafflalks villous, fruit¬
ftalks axillary, three flowered. Jaf/mnum capenfe oi
Thunberg. Cape of Good Hope.
13. Jas. with leaves oppofite ternate, leaves oi auricula-
the flower bearing branchlets fimple ; the calyxes ao-tum.
gled, the branches columnar and pubefcent. Mala¬
bar.
14. Jas. fmooth with leaves ternate and oppofite,yfearf/V,
Item climbing, branches columnar. Eaft Indies.
L 15. Jas.
82
didymum.
cczoricum.
frutlcans.
bumile.
ochraiijfi-
tnum.
officinale.
grandijlo-
rum.
trjoliata.
Vulgare.
japonleum.
media.
tnguflifo-
Ua.
B O T
75. Jas. fmooth with leaves ternate, oppofite, leaflets
ovate-lanceolate, branches axillary. Society lllands.
16. Jas. with leaves ternate, oppofite, leaflets ovate
and a little heart-fliaped waved, branches fmooth, co¬
lumnar, the fegments of the calyx equal to the tube.
Azores.
17. Jas. with leaves ternate and alternate, leaflets ob-
ovate, wedge-lhaped and blunt, branches angled, feg¬
ments of the calyx awl-fhaped. South of Europe, and
the Levant.
a 8. Jas. with leaves ternate, alternate acute pinnated,
branches angled, the fegments of the calyx very (hort.
ObJ'. Pinnated leaves are feldom found in this fpecies.
19. Jas. with leaves ternate, alternate bluntilh and
pinnated, branches columnar, fegments of the calyx
very fnort. Madeira.
Subdiv. III. Leaves pinnated.
20. Jas. with leaves oppofite and pinnated, leaflets
iharp-pointed, the buds a little ereft. India and Swit¬
zerland.
21. Jas. with leaves oppofite and pinnated, leaflets
bluntiih, buds horizontal. Eaft Indies.
33. Galipea.
Cal. four or five-cornered four or five-toothed. Cor.
falver-fliaped four or five parted. Stamens four, two
barren.
1. Gal. Gr.iana. h 6 feet high with leaves alter¬
nate on footftalks ternate, leaflets feflile, lanceolate
fliarp-pointed entire. The flowers fmall, grow in a
cyme.
34. Lieu strum, Privet.
Cor. 4-cleft, berry fuperior, 2-celled, with four feeds.
* 1. Lie. leaves ellipfe-lanceolate obtufe mucronu-
lated. Privet, Print or Prim-print. Grows in woods,
thickets, and hedges, efpecially in a gravelly moiil
foil. Europe. h • Flowers in V. and VI. The
branches are wand-like. The leaves oppofite fubfef-
lile, dark green, fmooth, lanceolate) fometimes el¬
liptical, entire, pointed like a dagger, but not very
fharp, fometimes continuing through the winter •, pa¬
nicles terminating and crowded with flowers. Flowers
milky, ftrong fmelled. Berries black, very bitter, as
are alfo the leaves and bark. This plant is not injur-
red by the fmoke of towns.
2. Lig. with leaves ovate, {harp-pointed} panicle
obtufe-angled. Japan.
35. Phillyrea.
Cor. 4-cleft. Berry one feed.
j. Phil, with leaves oblong-lanceolate, ferrated.
cc Phil, ligujlrifolia with leaves oblong-lanceolate.
ji Pif-fi. virgata, with leaves lanceolate, branches e-
reft and wand-like.
y Phil, pendula, with leaves lanceolate, branches
obtiife-angled, hanging.
§ Phil, olecefolia, with leaves oblong-lanceolate,
branches nearly ereft.
t Phil, buxifclia, with leaves oval-oblong and blunt-
ifh. South of Europe.
2. Phil, with leaves linear-lanceolate and very en¬
tire.
ANY. Diandria,
a Phil, lanceolata, with lanceolate leaves, andftraight
branches.
/3 Phil, rofmartnifolia, with leaves lanceolate awl-
fhaped, long, branches ftraight.
7 Phil, bracbiata, with leaves oblong-lanceolate
fliorter, branches obtule-angled. South of Europe.
3. Phil, with leaves ovate-heartfhaped, ferrated. latifolia.
u Phil, lavis, with leaves ovate, plane, indiftinflly
ferrated.
Phil, fpinofa, with leaves ovate-oblong acute,
fliarply ierrated and plane.
7 Phil, obliqua, with leaves lanceolate-oblong, acute,
ferrated, bending obliquely. South of Europe.
36. Ole a, Olive.
Cor. 4-cleft, fegments nearly ovate. Drupe one feed.
1. Ol. with leaves lanceolate very entire, racemes
axillary and condenled.
u. Ol. communis, with leaves lanceolate plane, hoary
beneath.
/3 Ol. verrucofa, with leaves lanceolate, plane, whit-
ifh beneath, branches w-arted.
7. Ol longifclia, with leaves linear-lanceolate, plane,
filvery beneath.
£ Ol. latifolia, leaves oblong plane, hoary beneath.
g Ol. ferruginea, leaves lanceolate, rufty beneath.
£ Ol. obliqua, leaves oblong bending obliquely, pale
beneath.
>} Ol. buxifolia, leaves oblong-oval. Common olive.
h . South of Europe, and north of Africa. /3 Cape
of Good Hope.
2. Ol. wdth leaves ovate very entire, branches -pa- capnfis.
nicled obtufe-angled.
ot Ol. coriacea, leaves ovate-oblong lliflf plane, with
red leafstalks.
/3 Ol. undulata, leaves elliptical waved, leafstalks
green. Cape olive. h • Cape of Good Hope.
3. Ol. with leaves lanceolate-elliptical very entire, americana.
racemes narrow, all the bra£leas permanent, connate
and fmall. Carolina and Florida.
4. On.with leaves oblong lanceolate very blunt} xti- cernua.
cemes axillary, Ample } flowers drooping. Madagaf-
car. h.
5. Ol. with leaves elliptical, flowers racemous with-apetala.
out petals. New Zealand.
6. Ol. wuth leaves elliptical acute, bra&eas excelfa.
liate } the loweft cup-lhaped permanent} the higher
leafy, large, deciduous. Madeira.
7. Ol. with leaves lanceolate and ferrated, leafstalksy'/YJgran.r.
lateral, aggregate, bearing one flower. Cochinchina,
China, and Japan.
37. Chionanthus, Fringe-tree.
Cor. 4-cleft, fegments very long. The kernel of the
drupe ftriated.
1. Chio. with a panicle terminating 3-cleft, fruit*virginica.
flalks bearing three flowers, the leaves acute. North
America.
a Chio. latifolia, with leaves ovate-elliptical.
/8 Chio. angujlifolia, with leaves lanceolate. Obf.
The corolla varies with 4, 5 or 6 fegments, and 4 fta-
mens.
2. Chio. with a panicle terminating trichotomous,
footftalks bearing three flowers, leaves blunt. Ceylon.
3. Chio.
Diandn
ccmpafia.
zeylanlca.
sncrajfata.
Vulgaris.
Indicum.
guineenjis.
linifolia.
gnidia.
pilofa.
prnjlrata.
tapetife.
angujljo-
lium.
parvifo-
lium.
falfoloides.
a. B O T
3. Chio. with panicles trichotomous, the laft flowers
almofl head-fhaped, the calyxes villous, the leaves lan¬
ceolate oblong, the anthers fharp-pointed. Caribees.
4. Chio. the branches of the axillary panicle oppo-
llte, flowers almoft feflile. b • Ceylon.
?. Chio. with panicles axillary trichotomous, all the
flowers feparate, the anthers blunt. Guiana and Ja¬
maica. v
f »
38. Syringa, Lilac.
Cor. 4-cleft. Capf. 2-celled.
1. Syr. with leaves ovate heart-lhaped. Common li¬
lac. h . Perfia.
ot Str. c&rulea, with blue flowers. Blue lilac.
SrR. violacea, with violet flowers. Violet lilac,
y SrR. alba, with white flowers. White lilac.
1. Syr. with leaves ovats lanceolate, b* China.
3. Syr. with leaves lanceolate. Perfia.
« with leaves lanceolate entire.
fl Syr. laciniata, leaves pinnatifid.
y Syr. ccerulea, with leaves Ample, flowers blue.
£ Syr. alba ; leaves Ample, flowers white.
4. Syr. with leaves ovate ferrated and ternate. Japan.
39. Dialium.
Cor. 5-petaled. Cal. o. Stam. on the higher flde.
1. Dial, with a panicle Ample and nodding. b •
India.
2. Dial, with a panicle, more than doubly com¬
pound, and eredf. Guinea.
40. Pimelea.
Cal. none. Cor. 4-cleft. Stam. inferted into the throat.
The nut corticated and 1-celled.
1. Pim. with leaves linear-lanceolate, heads termi¬
nating involucredj corolla villous on the outAde. New
Holland.
2. Pim. with leaves oblong-lanceolate acute, very
fmooth, corolla villous on the outflde. New Zealand.
Bankjia gnidia of Forfter. PaJJerina gnidia of Lin.
Suppl.
3. Pim. hairy, 'with leaves linear blunt. New Zea¬
land. Banhfia toinentofa of Forfter. Banhjia pilofa,
Bofferina pilofa of Lin. Suppl.
4. Pim. hairy, leaves ovate feflile flefhy. New Zea¬
land. Bankfia profrata of Forfter. Pajferina pro-
frata of Lin. Suppl.
41. Eranthemum.
Cor. 5-cleft, tube thread-fhaped. Anth. without the
the tube. Stigma Ample.
1. Er. with leaves lanceolate-ovate on footftalks.
Ethiopia.
2. Er. with leaves linear remote acute-angled to the
ftem. Ethiopia.
3. Er. with leaves ovate-linear imbricated. Cape
of Good Hope.
4. Er. fhrubby, leaves flefliy fomewhat tapering linear
very fmooth^ racemes axillary and the calyxes pubef-
cent, tube bowed downwards.
42. Fontanesia.
Cor. 2-petaled. Cal. 4-parted inferior. Capf. mem¬
branaceous, not opening, 2-celled j cells contain one
feed.
ANY,
1. Font. Syria.
43. Fraxinus, the Ajh.
Cal. none or 4-parted. Cor. none or 4-parted. Capf.
fuperior, 2-celled, leafy above, comprefied. Seeds fb-
litary, pendulous. Some of the flowers have piftils
only.
* Frax. with leaflets ferrated, flowers deftitute of aexcelfior-
calyx and corolla. Common Afh Tree. There is a
variety with pendulous branches, called •weeping afj.
b • Flowers in IV. and V. and thrives beft in calca¬
reous foils on mountains. It is a very lofty and Weu«
tiful tree, its bark is of the colour of wood-afhes, its
buds are large and black. The flowers grow in loofe
panicles piftoftaminal, intermixed with piftils fome-
times very numerous. The anthers are large, dark-
purple. When thefe fall off, the leaves unfold them-
felves. This is the lateft of all our native trees of
coming into leaf. The leaves are pinnate terminated
by an odd one, ferrated, fometimes Ample, very eaii-
ly injured by froft in autumn. The capfules foon fall
The feeds are flat.
44. Circjea, Enchanter's night fade.
Cor. 2-petaled. Cal. 2-leaved, fuperior. Capf. 2-cel¬
led. Seeds Angle.
* 1. Circ. with ftem upright, leaves egg-{haped,/«fr/Lrnj.
edged with fmall teeth, opaque, pubefcent. Common
enchanter's nightfhade. Grows in (hady moift places.
Europe and North America, if. Flowers in VI. and
VII. The root creeps, and can fcarcely be eradicated.
The ftem is ere£t, not much branched, having com¬
monly but one raceme, which is terminal. The leaves
when full grown are egg-fliaped, faintly green, pubef¬
cent, opaque, fomewhat repand, edged with fmall teeth
not ferrated. The calyx not membranaceous.
* 2. Circ. with a ftem afcending, leaves heart-lha-
ped, ferrated, and glofly, the calyx membranaceous.
Mountain enchanter's nightfhade. Grows in fliady
moift places in mountains and rocks 5 in Lancalhire,
Weftmorland, and Cumberland, at the foot of the
mountains $ about Loch Broom, Rofslhire, and in Ha¬
milton Wood, Scotland j and in the cold countries of
Europe. %. Flowers in VII. and VIII. The root
creeps, and the whole plant is lefs pubefcent than the
former. The ftalk is fhort, fpreading at the bafe ; the
knee-joints red, the leaves tender, pale-green, gloflfy,
heart-fhaped, tooth-ferrated, the leaf-ftalks edged with
a membrane.
45. Veronica, Speedwell.
Cor. 4-cleft, wheel-fhaped, the lovveft fegment leaft.
Capf. fuperior, 2 celled.
Subdiv. x. Spiked. BRITISH
species,
* 1. Ver. with a terminating fpike the leaves oypo-fpicata.
Ate, bluntifh, notched-ferrulated, very entire at the ex¬
tremity •, the ftalk afcending, very Ample. Spikedfpeed-
•well. Grows in meadows and calcareous foils. On
Newmarket heath and Gogmagog hills; on Cavenham
heath near Bury ; and near Penny-bridge, Lancalhire.
Flowers in VII. and often continues in flower till IX.
The ftalks are feven inches high, afcending. Ample,
L 2 fomewhat
s
phillyreco:
des.
84 EOT
round, leafy, fomewliat woody, pubefcent. The leaves
oppofite, commonly blunt, fometimes a little Iharp-
pointed, crenate-ferrulated, entire at the extremity,
hairy. Spike ereft, many flowered. The flowers are
of a deep blue, the throat of the corolla bearded. This
fpecies varies, with leaves linear and almoft entire.
hybrid#. * 2. Ver. with fpikes terminating, leaves oppofite, el¬
liptical, blunt, unequally crenate-ferrated, the ftalk
fomewhat erefh We/Jh fpeedwell. Grows on the Tides
of mountains, but is very rare. It is found on Craig
Wreidhin, Montgomerylhire, and at Cartmel Wells,
Lancaftiire. %. Flowers in VII. Nearly allied to
tue preceding, but twice as large in every part j the
fpikes generally numerous } the ftalk and leaves more
rugged above, and more deeply ferrated: the leaf-
ftalk in the former is oftener found winged.
tfJicinaVis. * 3. V er. with lateral ipikes on footltalks, leaves op¬
pofite, fcabrous, ftalk procumbent. Europe. Male or
common fpeedwel/. Grows commonly in barren fandy
paftures. Flowers in V. and VI. The ftalk has wide
fpreading branches 5 the leaves pale, a little ftiff and
roughifh j the fpjkes axillary, folitary, on footftalks, ma¬
ny-flowered, hairy, longer than the ftalk ) the flowers
of a faint blue, with deeper veins.
✓
Subdiv. 2. Corymb racemous.
Jaxatilis. * 4* Ver. with a corymb terminating and bearing few
flowers, the leaves elliptical, ftalks fpreading, capfule
egg-fhaped, 4-waived. Blue rock fpeedwell Grows on
Ben Lawers, Perth (hire; and on the Alps. %.
Flowers in \TI. The ftalks decumbent at the bafe,
fomewhat fhrubby branched, the branches afcending,
Ample, leafy ; the leaves oppofite, fmall, elliptical, or
elliptical-lanceolate, blunt, very entire, fometimes but
feldom ferrated on the middle, light green, fome¬
what flefhy, fmooth, crowded at the bafe of the branch¬
es, more diftant above ; the flowers three or five in a
terminating corymb, on footftalks which are three or
four times longer than the floral leaf or braflea, large,
beautiful, of a blue-violet hue, the throat red. The ca¬
lyx 4-cleft, almoft equal, blunt, pubefcent; the capfule
pubefcent, egg-fhaped, 4-valved. It duffers from the
fruticulofa in having generally broader leaves, ftalks
more fpreading, in having a larger corolla, which is
blue and not flefh-coloured j and is ftill more diftinguifh-
ed by having longer footftalks, fewer, and in being
corymbous, not fpiked.
fruticulofa.* 5. Ver. with a corymb terminating many-flotv-
ered, fpiked, leaves elliptico-lanceolate, ftalks ereft,
capfule egg-fhaped, 4-valved. Flejh-coloured Jhrub-
hy fpeedwell. Grows in Cruachan, Argylefhire,
and Ben Lawers, Perthfhire. Alfo on the Alps
Pyrenees. %. Flowers in VII. The ftalks are
branched at the bafe, twifted, lying upon the ground,
a little fhrubby, afterwards becoming ere&, ftiff,
and ftraight, feven inches long, firaple leafy, round,
a little pubefcent. i he leaves are oppofite, el-
bptico-lanceoiate, moft commonly entire, fometimes
ferrated, pale green, hollowifh, and a little (bag¬
gy on the edge.. i he corymb is terminating, pubef¬
cent, a little fpiked, and afterwards extended into a
long leafy raceme. I he flower-bearing footftalks are
of the fame length with the brafteas, and thofe which
bear the nuit half as long again. The calyx is four-
Cieft, almoft equal, blunt, fhaggy. The corolla of a
^ N Y, Diandria.
pale flefh colour, with purple lines lefs than the pre¬
ceding. The capfule egg-fhaped, fhaggy, four-valv-
ed.
* 6. Ver. with a corymb terminating, a little fpiked,
leaves oval, fmooth, (lightly ferrated, the calyx ciliater
ftem afcending and Ample. Alpine fpeedwell. Grows
on wet fpongy places, on mountains about Garway-
moor, on Ben Nevis, and on the mountains of Ba-
denoch, and on the Alps. %. Flowers in VII. and
\ III. '1 he (talks are a finger long, afcending, Am¬
ple, leafy, rooting at the bafe. The leaves oppofite,
elliptic-oval, thin, (lightly fhaggy, often entire, fome¬
times notched, commonly three-nerved, pale-green,
fhming. The flowers are fmall, blue, on a fmall co¬
rymb, wdiich afterwards extends into a flrort raceme.
1 he fruitftalks are of the fame proportion as in the
preceding. The calyx ?» nearly equal, bluntifh, ci-
liate, and often fhaggy. The hairs jointed like the
pubefcence of the leaves. The capfule elliptical, emar-
ginate, two-valved, pubefcent, terminated with a ftiort
perfifting ftyle.
* 7. Ver. with a raceme terminating approaching to zferpylUfo*
fpike ; the leaves oval, a little notched, three-nerved,
fmooth •, the capfule obcordate, (horter than the ftyle.
Europe and N. America.
/3 Vkr. Humifufa. Smooth Speedwell, or Paul’s Betony.
The firft variety grows in meadows and paftures $
the fecond on the higheft mountains in Scotland, un¬
der wet fhady rocks. %. Flowers in V. and VI.
The plant is fhining, fomewdiat flefhy ; in moift pla¬
ces fmooth, in mountains rough-haired. The ftalks
decumbent and taking root, leafy ; the branches com¬
monly erefl. The leaves on footftalks oval or round-
ifli, more or lefs crenated, three-nerved. The raceme
terminating, long, loofe, many-flowered, oftener pu¬
befcent. The brafteas elliptical. The fegments of
the calyx are obovate-elliptical, fmoothifli, equal. The
corolla of a blue or flefn-coloured whitifh colour, with
violet ftreaks. The capfule obcordate, double, of the
length of the ftyle or a little fhorter.
I he variety called humifufa, has a procumbent ftem
wdth a fhorter raceme.
* 8. Ver. with racemes lateral, leaves elliptical andheccalunga
plane, and ftalk creeping. Brooklimc. Europe. Grows
frequently in rivulets and ditches containing clear wa¬
ter. 7;. Flowers in VI. and VII. The plant is very
fmooth and glofiy. The ftalks decumbent or fwira-
ming, columnate. The leaves on flrort footftalks, el¬
liptical, broad pointed, indiftindlly ferrated, of a
beautiful green, fomewhat flefhy. The racemes axil¬
lary, oppofite, on footftalks many-flowered. The
bratfteas linear lanceolate, (horter than the fruitftalks.
The fegments of the calyx (harp-pointed. The corol¬
la blue. The capfule almoft double.
'* 9- Ver. with racemes lateral and oppofite, leavtsanaga!lisa.
lanceolate and ferrated, ftalk ere ft. JVater fpeedwell,
or long-leaved brookhme. Europe and the Levant.
Grows in ditches and marftres.. %. Flowers in VII.
It is diftinguifiied from the former by leaves lanceolate,
longer, a little ovate or elliptical, and by an ereft
ftalk. The racemes are longer and more pointed.
* Ver. wdth racemes lateral and alternate, fruit-fcutellatity
ftalklets divaricate, leaves linear and denticulate.
l\arrow-leaved marjh fpeedwell. Europe. Grows in
marflies and places that have been overflowed with
water
Diandria.
B O
water in a fandy foil. % . Flowers in VII. and VIII.
7 he idalks are feeble and have fpreading branches.
The leaves are linear lanceolate, feldom very entire,
often dentletted, fometimes ferrated. The racemes are
axillary, folitary, alternate, never oppofite, loofe, di¬
varicate, varying in length. The dowers are fmall,
of a blue flelh colour, ftreaked. The capfule approach¬
ing to double. Sometimes its tlalk and leaves are pu-
belcent.
Montana. * u. Ver. with racemes lateral, long, thread-fhaped,
few-flowered ; leaves ovate, ferrated, on footftalks, the
flalk hairy on all fides. Mountain fpeedwell, or moun¬
tain madwort. Italy, Switzerland, and Germany.
Grows in woods, in moiif (hady places, and beflde
hedges in a calcareous foil. It is found in Charlton
wood, Kent 5 in the Devil’s ditch, Newmarket heath j
at Linton, in Gamlingay park and Kingfton wood,
near Worcefter, near Virginia water, about Kirkftal
abbey near Leeds, at Shortwood, Pucklechurch, Glou-
cefterihire ; and is very common in Yorkihire. Alfo in
the woods at Dunglafs, near the river, Berwicklhire,
and on the banks of the Elk near Rodin, Mid¬
lothian. %. Flowers in V. and VI. The root is
fibrous. The tlalks decumbent, feeble, hairy on all
fides, leafy. The leaves grow on footftalks ovate,
ferrated with teeth of unequal fize, llender, gloffy,
fomewhat hairy. The racemes axillary, alternate,
flaccid, few-flowered. The flowers light blue, di-
verfified with purple. The capfule circular, double,
flat, acutely edged, ciliated.
flanuedrys.* 12. Ver. with lateral racemes, leaves ovate, feflile,
wrinked, inched, ferrated; the ftalk hairy on two fides.
Europe. Germander fpeedwell, or wild germander.
Grows in meadows and paftures, and under hedges,
and is very common. %. Flowers in V. The ftalks
form an acute angle with the branches, are decumbent,
and have a longitudinal line of hair on each fide.
1 he leaves are feflile, ovate, ferrated with unequal
teeth, the edge, very hairy. The racemes are axil¬
lary, oppofite, many-flowered, longer than the ftalk.
The flowers are large, beautiful, of a fine blue colour
in the infide, and flefti-coloured on the outfide. The
capfule is obcordate and fmall,
Subdiv. 3. Flowers Solitary.
Ggrejlis. * 13. Ver. with flowers folitary, leaves ovate, incifed,
ferrated, fhorter than the flower-ftalk, ftalk procum¬
bent, feeds pitcher-ftiaped. Procumbent fpeedwell, or
germander chick weed. Grows in cultivated grounds,
and among rubbiflk ©. Flowers from IV. to ix!
The ftalks are feveral, procumbent, fimple towards the
top. The leaves fcattered, almoft feflile, heartftraped-
ovate, widely ferrated. Footftalks axillary, folitary,
one-flowered, of the length of the leaves or longer ;
the fruitftalks curved downwards. The fegments of
the calyx ovate-lanceolate, broad at the points, ci¬
liated. The corolla fmall, and of a bright blue co¬
lour. The capfule double, fwelling in the middle,
rough-haired. The feeds fixfold on each fide, dimpled
and wrinkled.
Kirvenfis. * 14. Ver. with flowers {blitary, leaves ovate, incifed-
ferrated ; flowers lanceolate, longer than the leafstalk,
ftalk ere£L Europe. Wall fpeedwell, or fpeedwell
chickweed. Grows frequently in dry cultivated grounds,
on walls, and among, rubbiftt, ©. Flowers in V,.
A N Y. g
The ftalk is often branchy at the bafe, ereeft, (even
inches high. The flowers are feflile, ilfuing from the
axils of lanceolate brafleas, which are quite diflimilar
to the leaves. For which reafon, this fpecies might
have been arranged among the Spiked Veronicas, wmre
it not for its affinity to the preceding and following
Ipecies. The fegments of the calyx are lanceolate, un¬
equal and acute. I he corolla is pale blue. The cap¬
fule is feflile, ered, obcordate, flattened. The feeds
are elliptical, plane and furrowed in the middle.
* 15. Ver, with flowers folitary, leaves heart-lhaped,hedcrifolia*
plane five-lobed, the fegments of the calyx heart-
lhaped, the feeds pitcher-lhapcd. Europe. Ivy-leaved
fpeedwell, ox fmall henbit. Grows in cultivated "grounds
and among rubbifli. ©. Flowers from IV. to IX.
The ftalks are procumbent and unbranched. The
leaves alternate on longer footftalks, kidney-heart-
ftiaped, five-lobed, the central lobe being largeft. The
fruitftalks are longer than the leaves. The fegments
of the calyx are widely heart-lhaped, acute, ciliate.
The corona is pale blue. 1 he capfule is double, and
fwelling in the middle. The feeds are large, two on
each fide, dimpled, wrinkled.
16. Ver. with folitary flowers, fuperior leaves dlwiA-tnphyllos.-
ed to the bafe, fruitftalks longer than the calyx, feeds
flattened. Europe.^ Fingered fpeedwell, or upright
chickweed. Grows in fandy cultivated grounds, but
rare. It is found on the borders of Norfolk and Suf¬
folk, near Bury, and near Roflington, Yorkihire. ©.
Flowers in IV. The ftalk commonly branchy, flexuofe.
The loweft leaves entire, feldom lobed, the higher al¬
moft feflile, three-parted, the central lobe largeft, obo-
vate, the lateral lobes commonly two-parted. The
flowers on long footftalks and ere&, as well as the
fruit. The fegments of the calyx are obovate-oblongy
blunt, ciiiate, unequal. The corolla a deep blue. The
capfule circular emarginate, flattened. The feeds nu¬
merous, obovate-flattened. The plant becomes black-
i!h wThen dried.
* 17. \ er. with flowers folitary, leaves deeply AWid-verncu
ed, the fruitftalks fhorter than the calyx; the ftalk
ftift and ftraight. Germany, Sweden, and Spain, Ver-
nal fpeedwell. GrowTs in dry fandy cultivated fields.
Is found near Bury, and at Foulden, Norfolk. ©.
blowers in I\'. It refembles the arvenjis in its habit,
in the figure of its feeds and fituation of its flowers;
but is of a pale colour, and never growTs blackifh when
dried. It is fufficiently diftinguifhed by leaves deeply
divided, by the central lobe being obovate ; the floral
leaves are three-parted. The ftalk is fcarcely a finger
length, ftift and ftraight, often branchy. The fegments •
of the calyx are lanceolate acute, nearly equal. The
capfule obcordate flattened.
Subdiv. 1. Spiked. foreigh'
18. Ver. with fpikes terminating, leaves in k\tx\sftbirica.
verticilled, ftem a little fhaggy. Dauria. 2£_.
19* Ver.. with fpikes terminating, leaves in foursvlrginlca,
or fives. Virginia and Japan.
20. Ver. with fpikes terminating, leaves lanceolate,/Wi*
equally ferrated.- South of Europe, of Siberia, and
Thuringia. If.
21. Ver. with fpikes terminating, leaves nearly heart-maritime.
lanceolate, unequally ferrated. Var. with broader
leaves. European fea-coafts.
22. Ver.,
86
longifolia.
ineana.
pinnata.
1 aciniata.
incifa.
calarraihs.
elliptic a.
macrocar-
pa.
falicifolia.
parviflora.
allionil.
decujfata.
aphylla.
lellidoides.
gentianoi-
des.
pone.
integrifo-
lia.
tenclla.
teucrium.
pilofa.
i
B O T
2 2. Ver. with fpikes terminating, leaves lanceolate
{harp-pointed 1’errated. Tartary, Auitria, and Swe¬
den. %.
23. Ver. with fpikes terminating, leaves oppollte,
crenated blunt, flem ereft, downy. Native of the Uk-
rain, Samara. 2/. Obf. It varies with a white flower.
24. Ver. with fpike terminating, leaves linear, pin-
natifid, bunched ; fegments thread-lhaped, forming an
obtufe angle. Siberia, if..
25. Ver. with a raceme approaching to a fpike,
and terminating, leaves pinnatifid, jagged. Siberia. 2{:.
26. Ver. with fpikes terminating, leaves lanceolate,
cut into irregular fegments, pinnatifid, fmootb, Sibe¬
ria. %.
27. Ver. with racemes terminating flexuofe, flem
fomewhat fhrubby, leaves lanceolate, ferrated. New'
Zealand. b •
28. Ver. with racemes lateral, ftem fhrubby, leaves
elliptical, very entire. New Zealand. b •
29. Ver. with racemes almofl terminating ere£f,
leaves lanceolate, very entire, fmooth, plain, ftem
fhrubby. Newr Zealand. b •
3c. Ver. -with racemes lateral nodding, leaves lan¬
ceolate, very entire, ftem fhrubby. New Zealand, b •
31. Ver. with racemes almolt terminating, leaves
linear-lanceolate, very entir^, fmooth, dagger-pointed,
flem fhrubby. New Zealand. b •
32. Ver. with fpikes lateral, on footftalks, leaves
oppofite, roundifh, gloffy, rigid; ftalk fmooth, creeping.
The Alps. b •
33. Ver. with racemes axillary, few-flow^ered, leaves
elliptical, perennial, very entire; ftem fhrubby. Falk¬
land iflands. b •
ANY. » Diandria,
42. Ver. with racemes lateral, leaves oblong, ovate,projlrata,
and ferrated, ftalks procumbent. Germany, Italy, and
Switzerland. 2£.
43. Ver. with racemes lateral, leafy, leaves oblong,peSinata.
comblike-ferrated, items procumbent. Conftantinople.
44. Ver. with racemes lateral, leaves pinnatifid, onen/a/w.
fmooth, acute, tapering at the bafe ; the calyxes un¬
equal, the footftalks capillary, and longer than the
bra£tea. Armenia. 2/.
45. Ver. with racemes lateral, leaves many-part-
ed, fegments pinnatifid, lobes decurrent, footftalks
fhort, calyx very fmooth, ftalk villous. Siberia. %.
46. Ver. with racemes lateral; leaves a little ba\xy,aujlriaca»
linear, pinnatifid, lowed fegments longer; the calyxes
a little hairy, the foetitalks fhorter than the braftea.
Auftria, Silefia, and Carniola. 2£.
47. Ver. with racemes lateral, leaves a little hairy, t auric a.
linear, undivided, and pinnatifid, denticulate; foot¬
ftalks longer than the bractea, the calyx four-cleft,
fmooth. Tauria. 2/.
48. Ver. with racemes lateral, leaves heart-fhaped, wr/zVz/i?*
feflile, fharply ferrated, fharp-pointed, ftem ft iff and//a.
flraight, the leaflets of the calyx in fours. Switzer¬
land, Bithynia, Auitria, and Bavaria. 2f.
49. Ver. with racemes lateral, leaves heart-fhaped,
feffile, wrinkled, bluntly ferrated, ftem ftiff and ftraight,
leaflets of the calyx in fives. Auftria and Switzer¬
land. 24.
50. Ver. with racemes lateral and very long, leavespaniculata.
lanceolate, in threes, ferrated, Item afeending. Tar¬
tary and Bohemia. Veronica dentata of Schmidt. '4.
Subdiv. 3. Fruitflalhs hearing one Flower.
Subdiv. 2. Corymb-racemous.
34. Ver. with a corymb terminating, and naked ftem.
u, Ver. Kamtchalka, rough-haired, raceme three-
flowered, long, lateral, and without leaves; leaves ovate,
oblong, ferrated, rough-haired, hairs jointed. The
Alps and north of Alia.
35. Ver. with a corymb terminating, ftem afeending,
two-leaved; leaves obtufe, crenated; calyx fhaggy.
Pyrenees and Alps of Switzerland. b •
36. Ver. with a corymb terminating, ftem afeend¬
ing, leaves lanceolate, cartilaginous on the edge, the
lower leaves connate, fheathing. Cappadocia and Ar¬
menia. %.
37. Ver. with a raceme terminating, ftem very little
branched, leaves heart-ovate, dented, feflile. Var. 1.
Pumi/a, with unbranched ftem, terminating with a
bunch of flowers; leaves ovate, acute, dented. Native
of the Pyrenees, the var. pumila on the top of the
Piedmontefe Alps.
38. Ver. with a corymb terminating, leaves oppofite,
elliptical, blunt, very entire, calyxes hairy. The
Alps. %.
39. Ver. with leaves oblong, crenated, Items creep-
ing, calyxes villous. Pyrenees and Piedmontefe
Alps.' %.
40. Ver. -with racemes lateral, and very long, leaves
ovate, wrinkly, dented, bluntifh ftalks, procumbent.
Oh/'. This is a doubtful fpecies.
41. "V er. with racemes axillary, leaves ovate, blunt,
plaited, deeply dented, ftalk procumbent, hairy on both
Tides. Auftria. Obf. Dr Smith fufpe£ts that this is
only a variety of the latifolia.
l
51. Ver. with flowers folitary, leaves heart-lanceo-
late, dented, the fegments of the calyx equal, ovate,
fharp pointed, three-nerved. Cappadocia. ©.
52. Ver. with flowers folitary, leaves hean-lbaped,JUijbrmis.
crenated, fhorter than the fruitilalk, fegments of the
calyx lanceolate. Levant. Q
53. Ver. with flowers folitary, feflile, all the leaves digilata.
finger-parted, Item ftiff and ftraight. Bohemia, Mont¬
pelier, and Spain. ©
54. Ver. with flowers on footftalks folitary, leavesafinifolia*
ovate, fmooth, crenated, ftem cre£t, a little hairy.
a. Ver. romana of Allionius and Schmidt. Warm
climes of Europe. ©
55. Ver. with flowers feflile and folitary; leaves per egrina.
lanceolate-linear, fmooth, blunt, very entire, item
eredt. North of Europe. ©
56. Ver. writh flowers folitary, on footftalks, leaveslellardi.
linear, very entire, rough haired, longer than the
flower, ftalk very little branched, eredt. Pied¬
mont. ©
57. Ver. with flowers folitary, feflile, leaves Ym.ear,marilandi~
items with fpreadxng branches. Virginia. ca.
45. PiEDEROTA.
Cor. ringent, four-cleft, the throat naked. Cal.
5-parted. Capf. 2-celled.
1. Pjed. with leaves fharply pointed, helmet of theageria.
corollas two-cleft. Paderota lutea of Lin. Suppl.
Carniola and Italy. % .
2. P;en. with leaves roundifh-ovate, the helmet oibonarata*
the corollas entire. Alps. X. Pcederota Ccerulea
of Linn. Suppl.
3. P^D.
Dlandrla*
B O T
minimus. 3. P^d. with leaves oblong, entire, oppofite, flowers
axillary, oppolke, teeth of the calyx hairy within. India.
46. Wulfenia.
Cor. ringent, upper lip fhort, entire j the inferior
three-parted; throat bearded. Cal. 5-parted. Capf.
2-celled.
carinthia- I. Wulf. Pcederota. Wulfchii of Lamarck. Cil¬
ea. rinthian Wulfenia. Highelt mountains of Carin-
thia. %
47. CvRTANDRA.
Cor. five-cleft, irregular. Cal. five-dented, almoft 2-
lipped. Stamens four, two of them barren. Berry
2-celled.
liflora. 1. Cyrt. with fruitftalks fomewhat branched, leaves
elliptical, almoft quite entire, fmooth. Otaheite.
cymofa. 2. Cyrt. with fruitftalks nearly cymous, leaves
ovate, crenated, oblique at the bafe, pubefeent beneath.
Tanna.
fajlucfa.
Forjkdtlei.
purpurea.
verticHla-
ris.
Orijlata.
ehinenfs.
trflora.
fulcata.
bicalycula-
ta.
hivalvis.
falcata.
fexangula-
ris>
48. JuSTICIA.
Cal. fimple, fometimes double. Cor. of one petal, ir¬
regular. Capl. burfting by means of an elaftic claw,
the partition oppofite, and adhering to the valves.
Subdiv. 1. Calyx double, one anther.
1. Ju. with thyrfes terminating, pointing one w-ay,
leaves lance-elliptical. Tranquebar. b
2. Ju. with thyrfes axillary, terminating, leaves
ovate, (harp-pointed. Arabia Felix and India. b .
JuJliciii paniculata of Forfkael.
3. Ju. rvith fpikes axillary, and terminating, brac-
teas lanceolate, imooth, branches pubefeent. China.
4. Ju. villous, with flowers axillary, verticilled, ex¬
terior calyxes awnlefs, leaves ovate. Cape of Good
Hope.
5. Ju. villous, with flowers axillary and verticilled,
exterior calyxes awned, leaves ovate. Cape of Good
Hope.
6. Ju. with fruitftalks axillary, verticilled, three-
cleft, bra&eas ovate, dagger-pointed, coloured at the
bafe. China and Arabia Felix.
7. Ju. with fruitftalks axillary, long, three-dowered,
brasfteas linear-lanceolate. Arabia Felix.
Subdiv. 2. Calyx double, anthers two.
8. Ju. with fpikes terminating, dowers verticilled,
leaves ovate, heart-draped. Arabia Felix.
9. Ju. with panicles axillary and dichotomous. J. li-
gulata of Lamarck. Dianther a Malabarica of Lin.
Suppl. Dianther a bicalyculata of Retz. Dianther a
paniculata of Forfkael. JuJlicia Malabarica of Aiton.
Malabar and Arabia Felix. 0
10. Ju. with fruitftalks axillary, three-cleft, fruit-
ftalklets lateral, two-dowered, bracleas ovate, awned,
nerved. Arabia and India. Tj
12. Ju. with dowers axillary, nearly fedile, leaves
ovate-lanceolate. Mauritius. Tj
Subdiv. 3. Calyx Jingle, corollas 2-lipped, lips undivided.
13. Ju. rvith fruitftalks bearing three dowers, brac-
teas wedge-fhaped, leaves ovate, branches fix-angled.
Vera Cruz, and Jamaica. ©
' A NT Y. S7
14. Ju. with fpikes axillary, arched doAvmt’ards.yrorprWa.
leaves lanceolate-ovate, lhaggy, feflile. Vera Cruz, b
15. Ju. with racemes terminating, axillary andgangetica.
fimple, flowers alternate, pointing one wTay, bradteas in-
diftiucl. India.
16. Ju. Avith fpikes axillary, terminating, branched,
dowers alternate, bradteas linear. Jamaica and Santa
Cruz.
Subdiv. 4. Calyx Jingle, corollas 2-lipped, lips divided.
One anther.
17. Ju. ftemlefs, leaves crenated, veins villous be.-acaulit.
neath. Tranquebar i;.
Var. 1. with leaves lyre-pinnatifid, veins fmooth.
Obf. It is doubtful Avhether the var. 1. be not a diftindt
fpecies.
18. Ju. Avith fruitftalks terminating, many-dow'ered,Zif/pLhr.
fegments of the calyx and bradleas linear arvl-ftiaped,
ciliated, leaves oblong-lanceolate, branches hifpid-pu-
befeent. Sierra Leona. b
19. Ju. with fpikes terminating, four-cornered, brac-rrW;wtf?,»
teas ovate, imbricated, ciliated, dagger-pointed j the
helmet of the corollas linear, and bent back. Arabia,
Malabar, and Ceylon. h • JuJlicia viridis of For-'
fkael.
20. Ju. with fpikes terminating, four-cornered; brae- tttragontf*
teas ovate, imbricated, keel-fhaped, ciliated; leaves
crenate and fmooth. Cayenne. b
21. Ju. wdth fpikes terminating, leaves and bsaCteascoccinea.
elliptical, bare on the edge, the helmet of the corollas
lanceolate, bent back at the apex. Cayenne. L
22. Ju. with fpikes terminating and axillary, brae-pulcberri-
teas oA'ate, imbricated, ciliated, and awnlefs, helmet oima.
the corollas lanceolate, eredf. South America. Tj
23. Ju. with fpikes axillary, terminating four-corner-
ed, bradleas oblong, imbricated, ciliated. Carthagena
and Martinico.
24. Ju. with fpikes axillary, terminating four-corner-^zV/«/d.
ed, bradleas ovate, imbricated, hirfute, leaves dented.
Java.
25. Ju. with fpikes axillary, oppofite, double on eachJpherofper-
fide, .bradleas linear, lengthened, feeds globular, andma.
fhining. Caribbees.
26. Ju. with fpikes terminating, leafy, flowers xtrdi-gendarvjfa.
cilled, leaves lanceolate, lengthened. Ceylon, Java,
and Malabar. Tj
27. Ju. with fpikes axillary, terminating, calyxes oiprocum-
four fegments, ciliated, bracleas of the length of the bens.
calyx, leaves lanceolate. Ceylon. %
28. Ju. Avith fpikes axillary and terminating, ca-dijfufa.
lyxes of four fegments, fmooth, bradteas fhorter than
the calyx, leaves elliptical. India. Tj
29* Judith fpikes axillary, oppofite, pointing one echloides.
waya, Lending, linear, rough with hair. Malabar and
Ceylon. %.
3°. Ju. with fpikes axillary, double, oppofite, point-longifolia*
ing one way, leaves lanceolate, long. Make.
31. Ju. with fpikes terminating, a little branched, in-latifolia,
ferior leaves verticilled, leaves ovate, lharp-pointed.
F.aft Indies. Tj*
32. Ju. Avith racemes axillary, and terminating,//^,
flowers verticilled, leaves ovate and coloured. Alia. L.
33- Ju- with racemes terminating, a little branched,nitida,
flowers commonly verticilled, leaves lance-ellipti¬
cal,
88
B O T
cal, tapering. Martinico, Santa Cruz, and Guada-
loupe. Tj.
variegata. 34. Ju. with fpikes terminating, axillary fimple,
flo’ivers oppofite, calyxes hilpid, leaves ovate and feffile.
Jlrifta. 35. Ju. with racemes axillary, two-parted, flowers
pointing one way, leaves lance-elliptical, filaments
fmootb. Malabar.
paniculata. 36. Ju. with panicles axillary, terminating, dichoto¬
mous, flowers pointing one w-ay, filaments hirfute, cap-
fules flattened, leaves lanceolate. Eaft Indies.
nutans. 37. Ju. wdth racemes terminating, nodding at the
apex, flowers reverfed, leaves dented. Java.
nafuta. 38. Ju. with fruitflalks axillary, and dichotomous,
leaves elliptical, and very entire. India. T?.
fcandens. 39. Ju. with fruitftalks axillary, trichotomous, obtufe
angled, leaves ovate, (harp-pointed, fomewhat repand,
the branches villous. Malabar. Tj.
dliarls. 40. Ju. with flowers axillary, oppofite, leaves lan¬
ceolate. Q.
Subdiv. 5. Calyx Jingle, corollas two-lipped, the lips divi¬
ded. Anthers two.
Jecunda. 41. Ju. with racemes terminating, compound ra-
cemelets pointing one way, leaves ovate-lanceolate,
(harp-pointed. Trinity ifland.
deiidis. 42. Ju. with fpikes axillary and terminating, brafteas
ovate, imbricated, and ciliated. Arabia Felix. b •
violaeea. 43. Ju. with fpikes terminating, brafteas lanceolate,
imbricated, ciliated, leaves lanceolate. Arabia Felix.
Dianther a violac.ea of Vahl. Fj
brafleolatc* 44. Ju. with a raceme terminating, fruitftalks three-
flowered, leaves tapering oblong, Item four-cornered,
■edge fcabrqus. Caraccas. b-
rohrii. 45. Ju. with fpikes terminating, compound, imbrica¬
ted, pubefeent, bradleas ovate, leaves elliptical, very
entire. Cayenne.
polyjlachia. 46. Ju. with fpikes axillary, oppolite, pointing one
wTay, brafteas ovate, hirfute, leaves lanceol-ovate.
Cayenne.
retufa. 47. Ju. wnth fpikes terminating, bradleas obovate,
commonly retufe, imbricated, leaves ovate, (harp-
pointed. Santa Cruz.
Jlava. 48. Ju. with fpikes terminating, flowers in pairs,
bradleas lanceolated, blunt, leaves lanceol-oblong. A-
rabia Felix. b • Dianthera Jlava of Vahl. D. A-
mericana Jlava of Forlkael.
americana. 49. Ju. with fpikes axillary, flowers crow'ded, fruit¬
ftalks long, alternate, leaves lanceolate. Virginia and
Florida.
punctata. 5c. Ju. with fpikes terminating, flowers diftant, com¬
monly verticilled, bradleas lanceolate, (harp-pointed,
leaves lanceol-ovate. Arabia Felix. Dianthera punc¬
tata of Vahl. D. Americana alba of Forlkael.
eujlachia- 51. Ju. with fpikes axillary and terminating, flowers
na. in pairs below, above folitary, bradleas Wedge-ftiaped.
St Euftatius. b •
caracafma 52. Ju. with (pikes axillary and terminating, brac-
teas (harp-pointed, (liorter than the calyx, leaves o-
vate, (harp-pointed, waved, pubefeent. Caraccas. T? .
peSoretliS'. 33. Ju. with a panicle terminating, dichotomous.
St Domingo and Martinico. -4.
comata. 54. Ju. with fpikes terminating, thread-ftiaped, fpike-
let verticilled. Jamaica. If. Dianthera comata.
undulata. 55. ju. with fruitftalks terminating, umbeiltd, fim-
A N Y. Diandria,
pie, three-cleft, leaves lanceolate, undulated, Java
and Malabar.
56. Ju. with utnbels axillary, compound, on \QVig.frondofa.
footllalks, bradleas obovate, rhomboid, blunt, fmooth.
Otaheite.
57. Ju. with fruitftalks axillary, oppofite, four-flower-^K^f/2-,f«>f,
ed, on fruitftalklets, bradleas ovate, roundifti, dagger-
pointed, pubefeent. Botany ifland. Dianthera Gcerulea
of Forlkael.
58. Ju. with fruitftalks axillary, oppofite, bt'A.xmglcevigata,
three flowTers on fruitftalklets, bradleas oblong, dag¬
ger-pointed, pubefeent. Java. Tj.
59. Ju. with fruitftalks axillary, verticilled, bva.TxwQcufpidatct.
commonly three flowers on fruitftalklets, bradteas
wedge-fhaped, awned, anthers double. Arabia Felix.
Dianthera VerticiUata of Forfkael.
60. Ju. with fruitftalks axillary, verticilled, hcaxlngUtbo/per-
one flower, bradleas linear-lanceolate, leaves oblong,
fcabrous. If •
61. Ju. with fruitftalks axillary, twTo-fiowTered; leaves <7.
ovate, equal, bradleas awl-(haped. Eaft Indies. Tj.
62. Ju. with flowers axillary, folitary, and {tSAe.feJJUts,
leaves ovate and crenated. St Euftatius. Tj.
Subdiv. 6. Calyx Jingle, corollas ringent ; one anther.
63. Ju. with fpikes axillary, and oppofite braReas,adhatodai
ovate, acute, nerved. Ceylon. Tj. Malabar Nut.
64. Ju. with fpikes terminating, bradleas ovate, Huax^-betonica.
pointed, vein-netted, coloured. India. Tj.
65. Ju. with fpikes axillary, terminating, and fmooth,r^rnr.
bradleas dorfal, pointing two ways, membranaceous at
the edge. If. 'Ceylon,
66 .Ju. with fruitftalks axillary, folitary, bearing cx\tfanguine-
flowTer, alternate, leaves oblong, ftalk creeping. Ceylon.
Obf. The whole plant is of a blood colour.
Subdiv. 7. Calyx fngle, corollas ringent; two anthers.
67. Ju. with fpikes axillary and terminating, peruviana.
ovate and acute. Lima. % .
68. Ju. with fruitftalks axillary, alternate, common-
ly bearing four flowers on fruitftalklets, bradleas lan¬
ceolate, ciliated. Japan. ©. Dianthera Japonic a oi
Thunberg.
69. Ju. with fruitftalks axillary, ufually bearing daxzztrifulca.
flowers, flowers feflile, leaves oblong, blunt. Arabia
Felix. "b •
70. Ju. with fruitftalks axillary, generally bearing
one flower, leaves lanceolate, blunt. Canaries. . lia.
71. Ju. with flowers axillary, folitary, almoft {ett\\z,periploci-
leaves ovate, ftiarp-pointed. Caraccas. Obf. It is xxx\-folia.
certain whether this be a diftindl fpecies or a variety of
the peruviana.
72. Ju. with fruitftalks one-flowered, axillary, leavesorrZi/G/l&r.
lanceolate, rigid, acute. Cape of Good Hope. Fj.
73. Ju. with fruitftalks axillary one-flowered, \z2cMz%madurenfts
oblong and dented. F?. Madeira.
74. Ju. with flowers axillary, folitary, and izfi\\e,cuneata.
leaves obovate emarginate. Cape of Good Hope. I? . *
75. Ju. with flowers axillary, folitary, feflile, \zavzstranquela-
obovate, branches hoary. Tranquebar. F? . Juficianenfu.
Parvifoha of Lamarck.
76. Ju. with flowers axillary, feflile, oppofite, leavesor/ora,
roundifti, branches fmooth. Arabia Felix. Dian¬
thera Odora of Forlkael.
Subdiv.
Diandria.
B O
T
89
iafundilu-
lif or mis.
finuata.
‘u'meoides.
fpin of a.
Subd. 8. Calyx Jingle % corollas almojl equal.
77. Ju. with fpikes terminating, leaves lanceol-ovate,
in fours. India. b .
78. Ju. with fruitllalks axillary, trifid, leaves linear,
finu-pinnifid. Tanna. h • J- longifolia of Forlkael,
79. Ju, with fruitftalks axillary, generally bearing
one flower, leaves ovate, llalk unarmed. Madagaf-
car. b .
80. Ju. with fruitftalks beating one flower, leaves ob¬
long, fpikes axillary. South America. b •
Subdiv. 9. Species indeterminate in the calyx and corolla.
repanda. Sn Ju. fttrubby, leaves ovate repand, fruitftalks axil¬
lary, trifid. Tanna. b •
armata. 82. Ju. Ihrubby, prickly, leaves oblong emarginate,
ftiff like leather, gloffy. Jamaica. b •
■acicularis. 83. Ju. ftirubby, branches fpreading, thorny, thorns
briftle-fhaped, flowers on footftalks axillary and foli-
tary. Jamaica. b •
parviflora. 84. Ju. with branches fpreading, leaves ovate, en¬
tire, fpikes pointing one way, bradleas lanceolate, an¬
terior, winged. Calcutta. If.
remsrfa. 85* Ju. with a ftalk herbaceous, four-cornered, a lit¬
tle eredt, leaves ovate-lanceolate, fpikes ovate. Ja¬
maica and Hifpaniola. %.
japonica. 86. Ju. herbaceous, with leaves ovate and ferrated,
fpikes terminating, bradleas briftle-ftiaped, Item form¬
ing an acute angle. Japan.
iancea. 87. Ju. with flowers verticil-aggregate, leaves entire,
lanceolate. Japan. ©.
reptans. 88. Ju. twro-anthered, ftalk herbaceous creeping,
leaves blunt, fpike terminating and undivided. St
Domingo. ©.
humifufa. 89. Ju. two-anthered, ftalk herbaceous decumbent,
leaves ovate and heart-fhaped, fpikes umbelled. Ja¬
maica. ©.
officinalis.
monnieria.
rtpens.
rotundi-
folia.
lucida.
veronici-
folia.
hyffopioides
lebelioidcs.
trijida.
49. Gratiola.
Cor. irregular, reverfed. Stam. two, barren. Capf.
two-celled. Calyx of feven fegments, the two outer
fegments fpreading.
1. Grat. with leaves lanceolate and ferrated,
flowers on footftalks. South of Europe.
a. Gkat. alpina.
2. Grat. rvith leaves oblong entire, fruitftalks
bearing one flowrer, leaves longer, ftem bending.
Antilles. %.
3. Grat. with leaves ovate, ftalk creeping, calyx
five-leaved, ftyle bifid. Jamaica.
4. Grat. with leaves ovate, three-nerved. Mala¬
bar.
5. Grat. with a ftalk branched, fpreading, taking
root, leaves heart-ovate, dented 5 fruitftalks axillary,
longer than the leaves. Malabar, Amboina, and
China.
6. Grat. with a ftalk creeping, leaves ovate-lanceo¬
late acutely ferrated, flowers terminating, oppofite, ca¬
lyx 5-leaved. India. 0.
7. Grat. with leaves lanceolate, fomewhat ferrated,
ftiorter than the ftem joint. Tranquebar. ©.
8. Grat. with ftem almoft naked, ftipulated, leaves
oblong, very entire, panicle dichotomous, capfules a
little globular. India. ©.
9. Grat. with leaves linear lanceolate, in fours, dent-
Vol. IV. Part I.
A N Y.
ed at the apex, trifid, capfules hairy, Malabar. ®.
Gratiola chamaedrifolia of Lamarck.
10. Grat. with leaves lanceolate, blunt, a little dent- virginica.
ed. Virginia.
n. Grat. with flowers almoft fefl'de. Peru. peruviana.
12. Grat. with ftalks decumbent, leaves ovate, its-grandijlora
rated, fruitftalks oppofite, capfules awl-lhaped. Tran¬
quebar, Madras, Siam, Malacca.
13. Grat. with ftem afeending, leaves lanceolate,
ferrated, fruitftalks oppofite to the leaves. Tranque-folia.
bar.
14. Grat. with ftem very little branched, Xeawespuftlla.
ovate, notched, acute, fruitftalks axillary, bearing one
flower, longer than the leaves. India. ©.
50. SCHWENKIA.
Cor. nearly equal, throat plaited, glandular. Sta¬
mens three, barren. Capf. 2-celled, with many feeds.
1. Schwenkia. Berbice. $. americatut,
51. Calceolaria.
Cor. ringent, inflated. Capf. 2-celled, 2-valved. Cal,
4-pa:ted, equal.
1. Calc, with leaves pinnated. pinnata.
Var. wuth pinnas of the leaves fewer and broader.
Peru. ©.
2. Calc, with leaves lanceolate, wrinkled, integrifolia
flowers panicled and terminating. Peru.
3. Calc, with a branched ftem, leaves ovate znA ovata.
crenated. Peru. ©. Calceolaria dichotoma of La¬
marck. C. integrifolia of Lin. Suppl.
4. Calc, with ftem perfoliate, leaves fagittate, vi\-perfoliata.
lous on both fides. New Grenada and Peru.
5. Calc, wuth leaves feflile oblong, acute, crenated; crfHote.
flowers cymous, terminating the ftalk and branches.
Peru.
6. Calc, with leaves linear, very entire, bent hack, rofmarini-
at the edge, downy below, ftem fmooth. Peru. folia.
7. Calc, with leaves battledore-fnaped, very tx\Xhe,fotbergillii,
fruitftalks fcape-like, bearing one flower. Falkland
iflands. $.
8. Calc, wuth fcapes bearing few flowers, leavesplantagintd
rhombous and ferrated. Calceol. biflora of Lamarck.
S. America near the Straits of Magellan, if..
9. Calc, with fcapes bearing one flower, leaves
ovate and very entire. Calceol. unflora of Lamarck.
S. America near the Straits of Magellan. % .
52. Baea.
Cor. ringent, tube very fliort, upper lip plane, 3-dented,
the lower lip plane and 2-lobed. Cal. 2-celled, 4-
valved, contorted. Capf. 5-parted, and equal.
1. Baea. Near the Straits of Magellan. %. magellanico
53. Pinguicula, Bulterwort.
Cor. ringent, fpur-ihaped. Cal. 2-lipped 5-cleft.
Capf. 1-cell.
* I. Prsc. with a blunt ne&ary fhorter than the pe-A/fta/uVtf,
tal, the fcape villous, the capfule globular. Synon.
Pinguic. villofa. Viola pahflris. Pale Bulterwort.
It grows on the fides of marlhes and bog's. % . Flowers
in VI. and VII.
* 2. Ping, with a cylindrical neftary, acute, and vulgaris.
of the length of the petal, the capfule ovate* Com-
M > mon
9°
B O T
tnon buttervuorty or TorkJljire fanicle. Grows in fpongy
marfhes. Europe. % . Flowers in V. and VI.
The inhabitants of Lapland and of the north of
Sweden, give to milk the confidence of cream, by-
pouring it when warm from the cow upon the leaves
of this plant. They then drain it, and lay it afide for
two or three days, till it becomes a little acid. In
this date they are extremely fond of it.
grandiflora 3. Ping, nedlary awl-draped, draight, upper lip
fpreading, emarginate. Alps. %.
alpina. 4. Ping, nedlary awl-draped, bent down, drorter than
the petals. Lapland, Switzerland, and Audria. %.
•villofa. 5. Ping, fcape fliff draight and pubefcentj nedlary
verydrort; leaves nerved. Lapland and Siberia. X •
54. Utricularia.
The corolla is ringent and fpur-fhaped. The calyx
has two equal fegments. The capfule fuperior and
one-celled.
vuJgarit.
minor.
alpina.
foliofa.
cbtufa.
fubulata.
gibba.
bifida.
capillacea.
carulea.
fiellaris.
* 1. Utr. with a conical nedlary, and a fcape with
few dowers. Lentibularia of Ray. Common bladder-
ivorty or hooded milfoil. Grows in dagnant waters.
Europe. %. Flowers in VI.
* a. Utr. with a nedlary, keel-draped, very fhort
and blunt. Lentibularia minor of Ray. Lefs-hooded
milfoil. Grows in ditches and tnarfhes, but rarely. Eu¬
rope "4. Flowers in VI.
3. Utr. with an awl-draped nedlary, leaves ovate
and very entire. Martinico.
4. Utr.. with a conical neftary, fruits drooping,
rootlets without any bottle or bladder. S. America.
5. Utr. with neftary bent inwaids, blunt, fome-
what emarginate. Jamaica.
6. Utr. with awl-draped neflary. Virginia. Obf.
The leaves are like hairs, the dowers white.
7. Utr. with gibbous nedlary. Virginia.
8. Utr. w-ith a fcape naked and bifid. China.
9. Utr. feape naked, capillary, commonly bearing
three nodding dowers, capfule awl-draped. India.
10. Utr. with a naked fcape, feales alternate, Mat¬
tered, awl-diaped. Ceylon.
11. Utr. verticilIq utriculario braciearum ciliari
Lin. Suppl. India.
5£. Ghinia.
Cal. 5-awned. Cor. ringent, limb 5-cleft. Nut defhy,
4-celled. Seeds folitary.
fpinofa, 1. Ghin. with fruits having 4 fpines or thorns,
leaves fmooth. Verbena curajfavica. Antigua and
the Caribbee idands. Q.
mutica. 2.Ghin. with fruits awmlefs, leaves downy. Guiana.©.
56. \erbena, Vervain.
Cor. funnel-draped, almoft equal, curved. C3I. with
one dent, truncated. Seeds two or four naked.
Subdiv. 1. Diandrous, two anthers, and two feeds.
orubica. . 1. \ erb. with fpikes very long and leafy. Oruba
in North America.
indica. 2. Verb, fpikes long, defhy, naked, leaves lanceol-
ovate, obliquely dented, ftalk polifhed. Ceylon. ©.
jamaiccnfs. 3. Verb, fpikes defhy, naked, leaves battledore-o¬
vate, ferrated ; dem rough with hair. Caribbees.
mutabilis. 4. Verb, fpikes defhy, naked j leaves ovate, long at
A N Y. Diandria.
the bafe, dented, downy beneath,'ftalk fhrubby. South
America. b.
5. Verb, fpikes loofe, calyxes alternate, prifmatica,
truncated, awned, leaves ovate, blunt. Jamaica. ©.
6. Verb, fpikes loofe, calyxes of the fruit turned wx/Vuna.
downwards,v rounded and double, hifpid. Mexico, of..
7. Verb, fpikes ovate, leaves lanceolate ferrate-plait-y?oec/ta^//V'
ed, ftem fhrubby. Jamaica. lia.
Subdiv. 2. *1 etrandrous, or fpecies with fourfiamens.
8. Verb, fpikes globular, leaves lanceolate, crenated^/o^fonr.
Wrinkled j fcabrous, ftem flrrubby. South America. Tj •
9. Verb, fpikes cylindrical, leaves rhomb-ovate cxe-javanica.
nated, ftem ereft. Java.
10. Verb, fpikes capitate-conical, leaves wedge-flia-HoJi/foryx,
ped, dented) ftalk creeping. Naples, Sicily, E. and
W. Indies, and Virginia. % .
11. Verb, fpikes fafcicled, leaves lanceolate, Hitm-lonarienfis,
clafping. Buenos Ayres. %.
12. Verb, fpikes long, {harp-pointed) leaves haftate.
Canada. %.
13. Verb, flowers panicled, leaves in threes, Remtriphy/la.
fhrubby. Chili. .
14. Verb, calyxes fruit-bearing, roundifli, inflated, lappulacea.
feeds echinated. Caribbee iflands.
15. Verb, the calyxes fruit-bearing, roundifh, beak-fofkaelei.
ed-fharp-pointed, feeds rounded, wrinkly. Arabia Felix.
16. Verb, fpikes thread-fhaped, leaves undivided, carolinia-
lanceolate-ferrated, feflile. North America. %. na.
17. Verb, fpikes panicled, leaves undivided, ovate, urticifolia.
ferrated, on footftalks. Virginia and Canada. X •
18. Verb, fpikes loofe, folitary, leaves trifid, incifl-aubktia.
ed. Virginia. ©.
19. Verb, fpikes thread-fhaped, leaves multifid-la-^wfir.
ciniated, ftems numerous. Canada and Virginia.
20. Verb, fpikes thread-fhaped, panicled, leaves officinalis.
multifid-laciniated, ftem folitary. Common vervain.
Europe. ©.
21. Verb, fpikes thread-lhaped, folitary, leavesy«^/«a.
doubly-pinnatifid.
57. Lycopus.
Cor. four-cleft, one fegment emarginate. Stamens
diftant. Seeds four, retufe.
* 1. Lyc. with finuate-ferrated leaves. L.palufirisgla- europaus.
her of Ray. Marrubium aquaticum of Gerhard. Water
horehound, ox gypjywort. Banks of rivers and lakes, Eu¬
rope. %. Flowers in VII. and VIII.
2. Lyc. leaves pinnatifid-ferrated at the bafe. Italy, exaltatus.
Obf. The ftem is about the height of a man.
3*.Lyc. with leaves equally but {lightly bexxattd.virginicusl
Virginia. %.
58. Amethystea.
Cor. five-cleft, lowed: fegment more fpreading.
Stamens near. Cal. almoft bell-fhaped. Seeds four,
gibbous.
Amet. Siberia. ©. carulea,
59. Cunila.
Cor. ringent, upper lip ereft, plane. Filaments
two, without anthers. Seeds four.
1. Cun. with leaves linear, rolled back, downy be-fruticofa,
neath, flowers axillary, ftem fhrubby. New Hol¬
land.
Diandria. B O T
land. Tj. Obf. This fpecies is not probably well af-
certained.
capitata. 2. Cun. with leaves ovate, flowers terminating, um¬
bel roundifli. Siberia.
tnariana. 3. Cun. with leaves ovate, ferrated, corymbs termi¬
nating and dichotomous. Virginia. %.
pulegiaides, 4. Cun. with leaves oblong, having two dents,
flowers verticilled. Virginia and Canada. ©.
thymoldes. 5. Cun. with leaves oval, very entire, flowers verti¬
cilled, ftem four-cornered. Montpelier. 0.
Capitata.
hifpanica.
tenuior.
acinoidet.
60. ZlZIPHORA.
Cor. ringent, upper lip bent back, entire. Cal.
thread-fliaped. Seeds four.
1. Ziz. with fafcicles terminating, leaves ovate.
Syria, Armenia, and Siberia. ©.
2. Ziz. wuth leaves ovate, flowers raceme-fpiked,
bra&eas obovate, nerved, acute. Spain. 0.
3. Ziz. with flowers lateral, and leaves lanceo¬
late. 0.
4. Ziz. with flowers lateral, leaves ovate. Siberia.
©•
6i. Monarda.
Cor. unequal, upper lip linear, wrapping the fila¬
ments. Seeds four.
JiJulofa. 1. Mon. with leaves oblong-lanceolate, heart-lha-
ped, villous, plane. Canada. 0;.
oblongata. 2. Mon. leaves oblong-lanceolate, rounded, and ta¬
pering at the bafe, villous, plane. N. America, if.
didyma. 3- Mon. with leaves ovate fmooth, heads verticil-
led, flowers approaching to the didynamious, the ftem
acute-angled. Pennfylvania and New York. if.
rugofa. 4. Mon. with leaves ovate-lanceolate, heart-ftiaped,
fmooth, wrinkled. North America, if.
-clinopodla. 5. Mon. with leaves ovate-lanceolate, rounded at
the bafe, unequal, fmooth. Virginia, if. Obf. This
refembles the preceding, but it bears leaves like C/i-
nopodr.’m. Its fpike is not red but purple, and its
leaves very fmooth.
pundata. 6. Mon. with flowers verticilled, corollas dotted,
brafteas coloured. Obf. The corollas are yellow with
purple dots.
jciliata. 7. Mon. with flowers verticilled, corollas longer
than the involucre. Virginia.
62. Rosmarinus.
Cor. unequal, upper lip two-parted. Filaments
long, curved, Ample with a dent.
■cJUcinalis. I. Rosm. with feflile leaves. S. of Europe. .
ibilenfts. 2. Rosm. with leaves on footftalks. Chili. ^ •
Obf. This plant has not been properly examined.
63. Salvia, Sage.
Cor. unequal. Filaments tw-o, very fliort, fupport-
ing two others fixed tranfverfely upon them almoft
by the middle. Seeds four, and naked.
pratenfs. * I. Sal. with leaves heartlhaped oblong and crenated,
the higheft ftem-clafping. The verticils commonly
without leaves, the corollas glutinous in the upper lip.
Meadow Clary. In dried meadow's and under hedges,
but rarely. Europe, if. Flowers in VII. This is
a beautiful fpecies, with large corollas of a blue violet
colour, arched.
ANY.
91
* 2. Salv. with leaves ferrated, finuated and fmoothiih, verbena*
the corollas narrower than the calyx. Wild Englifhcea.
clary. Grows in meadow's and paftures. Europe, if.
Flowers from VI. to X.
3. Salv. with leaves lanceolate, {lightly ^tx\\.tA.agyptiaca.
flowers on footftalks. Mclijfa perennis of Forfkael.
Egypt and the Canaries. 0. Obf. The flowers are
often tetrandrous.
4. Salv. with leaves linear-oblong, dent-pinnatifid,</r«ta/tf.
verticils two-fiowrered, fegments of the calyx blunt.
Cape of Good Hope. h .
5. Salv. with leaves linear-lanceolate, flowers 'Withcretica,
two piftils, calyxes of tw'O fegments. Crete. •
Obf This feems to be a variety of the Salvia officinalis.
6. Salv. with root leaves lyrated, dented, the hel-lyrata.
met of the corollas very fhort.
Var. 2. Horminum virginicum, with leaves wredge-
oblong, ftem with two leaves. N. America, if.
7. Salv. with leaves linear-lanceolate, (lightly ere-leucantha,
nated, wrinkled, flowers verticil-fpiked, calyxes
downy. Mexico, if.
8. Salv. with leaves linear, very entire, pubefeenthalli%iana.
feflfde, flowers verticil-fpiked, brafleas ovate, awl-
pointed. Taurea. if. This is a beautiful plant.
_ 9- Salv. leaves lanceol-ovate, (lightlycrenated, werlx-officinalis.
cils few-flowered, calyx dagger-pointed. S. of Europe.
10. Salv. with leaves heart-oblong, crenated, \tr~grandifio*
ticils many flowered, calyxes acute. h . ra.
11. Salv. dowmy, leaves on footftalks very wrinkly,triloba.
three-lobed, the middle lobe oblong and extended, the
fide lobes ovate and blunt. Crete and Syria. F? •
. !2. Salv. with leaves heart-elliptical, blunt, doveny,pomifera.
(lightly crenate-wTaved on the margin, verticils crow'd-
ed, calyxes trifid, blunt. Crete and Syria. b •
13. Salv. with leaves ovate-oblong, doubly (erra-urticifolia.
ted, calyxes three-dented, higheft fegment three-
dented. Virginia and Florida, if. Obf. The co¬
rollas are (mall, the upper lip fliort, the piftil longer
than the upper lip.
14. Salv. with leaves ovate, ferrated, fpikes flexible, orrri&n/a-
brafteas heart-ftiaped, commonly with three flowers.//x.
Caribbees. if.
15. Salv. with leaves heart-fhaped, wrinkled, ere*tiliafalia.
nated, and equally ferrated, acute, calyxes fmoothifti,
awned. if.
16. Salv. with leaves heart-ftiaped, ferrated, foft ferotina.
flowers raceme-fpiked, corollas fcarcely longer than
the calyx.
17. Salv. with leaves heart-(haped, ftalk thread-tenella.
(haped, creeping, fpikes afeending. Jamaica. ©.
18. Salv. with leaves oblong crenated, helmet ofviridis.
the corollas femicircular, calyxes fruit-bearing, turned
back. Italy. ©.
19. Salv. with leaves blunt, crenated, the h\ghe&horminum.
bracteas barren and coloured, and larger. Greece. ©.
20. Salv. with leaves oblong, heart-ftiaped, wrin-virgata.
kled, crenated, hairs of the ftem and calyx glandular
at the apex. Armenia, if.
21. Salv. leaves heart-ftiaped, wrinkled, twice ferra-fylvejlris.
ted ; bra&eas coloured, (horter than the flower, awi-point-
ed, hairs of the ftem amhcalyx Ample. Europe, if .
22. Salv. with leaves heart-ftiaped, lanceolate, {er-nemorofa.
rated and plane, bradeas coloured, the lowed lip of
the corolla turned b^ck. Auftria and Tartary. if .
23. Salv. with leaves neart-fliaped and dented, va-fyriaca,
M 2 ferior
92
vifcofa.
hamatodes.
bicolor.
indica,
dominica.
Jcalra.
runcinata.
clandeJUna.
auftriacd*
pyrenaica.
difennas.
rugofa.
nubia.
nilotica.
mexicana.
amethyjii-
na.
fulgent.
formofa.
iubijlora.
hngiflora.
'coccinca.
pfeudococ-
cinea.
bifpamca.-
B O T
ferior leaves repand, bra&eas heart-fhaped, fliort, acute,
calyxes downy. The Levant. .
24. Salt, with leaves oblong, obtufe, erofe crena-
ted, vilcid, flowers in verticils, bra&eas heart-fhaped,
acute. Italy. %.
25. Salv. with leaves heart-ovate, wrinkled, downy,
calyxes hilpid, root knobby. Italy and Iftria. %.
26. Salv. with leaves ovate erofe-dented, flowers
nodding, the middle fegment of the lower lip of the
corolla hollow. Barbary. if..
27. Salv. with leaves heart-lhaped, lateral, a little
lobed, the higheft leaves feflile, the verticils almofl na¬
ked and very remote. India. If.
28. Salv. with, leaves heart-fhaped, blunt, crena-
ted, and fomewhat downy, the corolla narrower than
the calyx. Ealt Indies. if.
29. Salv. fcabrous, with leaves lyrated, dented and
wrinkled, Item panicle-branched. C. of G. Hope, b •
30. Salv. fcabrous, leaves runcina-pinnatifid and
dented, tlowrers fpiked and verticilled. C. of G. Hope.
31. Salv. with leaves ferrated, pinnatifid, and very
much wrinkled, fpike blunt, the corollas narrower than
the calyx. Italy and Africa. $ .
32. Salv. with leaves ovate, heart-fhaped, erofe-
finuated, the root leaves on footftalks, ftem almoft
leaflefs, the flamens double the corolla in length. Au-
ftria, Hungary, and Moldavia, of.
33. Salv. leaves blunt and erofe, ftamens twice the
corolla in length, Pyrenees.
34. Salv. leaves heart-oblong erofe, the flamens
equalling the corolla. Syria.
35. Salv. leaves heart-fhaped, oblong-lanceolate,
erole' crenated, wrinkled, a little hairy, the ftamens
Ihorter than the corolla. Cape of Good Hope, f?.
36. Salv. leaves oblong, nearly heart-fhaped, the
fides unequal, wrinkled, crenated. Africa, of.
37. Salv. leaves ftnuate, angled, crenate-dented,
the dents of the calyx fpinous, the angles and edge
of the throat ciliated. Egypt, if.
38. Salv. leaves ovate, awl-pointed, ferrated. Mex¬
ico. h •
39. Salv. leaves heart-fhaped, acute, ferrated, wool¬
ly beneath, verticils naked, calyxes tritid, corollas pu-
befeent. New Granada. h •
40. Salv. with leaves heart-fhaped, acute, crenated,
wrinkled, downy beneath, verticils naked, calyxes tri¬
fid, helmet of the corollas villous. Mexico, if .
41. Salv. leaves fomewhat heart-fhaped, the helmet
of the corollas bearded, the calyxes three-lobed, ftem
becoming fhrubby. Peru. F? .
42. Salv. leaves heart-fhaped, crenated, fomewhat
hairy, calyxes tridd, corollas very long and tubular,
ftamens protruded. Lima. Fj .
43. Salv. leaves ovate, acute, ferrated, pubefeent,
calyxes trifid, corollas very long, tubular, pubefeent,
ftamens of the length of the corolla. Mexico, 'll-.
Obf. The corolla of this and the preceding is fcarlet.
44. Salv. leaves heart-ftiaped, acute, downy, and
lerrated ; the corollas double the length of the calyx,
but narrower. Florida, h •
45. Salv. leaves ovate, acute, ferrated, unequal at
the bafe, ftem hairy, corollas double the length of the
calyx. South America. F?.
46. Salv. leaves ovate, leaf-ftalks dagger-pointed,
A N Y. Diandria*
fpikes four-cornered, imbricated, calyxes trifid. 0.
Italy.
47. Salv. kuver leaves lyrated, higheft heart-ihz-abyj/inica,
ped, flow'ers verticilled, the calyxes dagger-pointed and
ciliated.' Africa. if..
48. Salv. leaves heart-ftiaped, crenate-dented, ver-
ticils almoft naked, ftyle of the corolla leaning upon/v?.
the lower lip. Germany and Switzerland, if.
49. Salv. leaves heart-fhaped, crenate-dented, napifolia.
lower ones haftate and lyrated, verticils almoft; naked,
upper lip fhorter. Italy and France.
50. Salv. leaves heart-fagittate, ferrated, and 3-QViX.e.glutinofa.
Europe. If. Obf. The calyx is three-lobed, the co¬
rolla fickle-fhaped, yellow, dotted with brown, the
middle lobe of the lower lip crenated.
51. Salv. leaves unequally dented, awi-pointed, barrelieri,
heart-fhaped, angle-haftate at the bafe, verticils almoft
naked. Spain, if.
52. Salv. leaves haftate-triangular, oblong, crenz-canarien-
ted, blunt. Canaries. F2. Jis.
53. Salv. villous, with leaves ovate, dented, ezr-aurita.
fhaped, flowers verticil-fpiked. Cape of Good Hope.
54. Salv. leaves roundifh, ferrated, truncated zt \.\ie africana.
bafe and dented. Cape of Good Hope. Fj.
55. Salv. leaves roundifh and very entire, trunca-awe*?,
ted at the bafe and dented. Cape of Good Hope. if.
56. Salv. leaves elliptical, almoft quite entire,co/ora/a.
downy, the limb of the calyx membranaceous and co¬
loured. Cape of Good Hope, if .
57. Salv. leaves obovate-wedge-fhaped, flightlypaniculata.
dented, and naked, ftem fhrubby. Africa. h .
58. Salv. leaves obovate and dented, calyxes acetabulo*
fliaped, forming an acute angle, hairy, ftem fhrubby.yi?.
Levant. F?.
59. Salv. leaves oblong and repand, calyxes ‘Dzoxwj '^fpinofa.
braffteas heart-ftiaped, dagger-pointed, hollow\ E-
gypt. if. __
60. Salv. leaves heart-fhaped, erofe-dented, calyxes tingitana.
thorny, brafleas very entire, heart-fhaped, dagger-
pointed, hollowq ciliated. Africa. Fj. Smell very
fetid.
61. Salv. leaves wrinkled, heart-ftiaped, cAAoxx^flarea.
villous, ferrated ; floral bra&eas longer than the ca¬
lyx, hollow, awl-pointed. Syria and Italy. .
62. Salv. leaves ovate-lanceolate, ferrated, flowersinvolucra*
fpiked, terminating, the largeft brafteas coloured, ta.
Mexico. If. Obf This is a very beautiful plant in the
number and magnitude of its flowers.
63. Salv. leaves wrinkled, pinnatifid, wmolly, thecerato*
higheft verticils barren. Perfia. $. phylla.
64. Salv. leaves oblong, gnawed, woolly, verticils
wmolly, brafteas arched downwards, a little thorny.
V. 2. wdth laciniated leaves. Greece, Africa, and
France. $ . The lower lip coheres on the fore part,
and forms a fack.
65. Salv. leaves lanceolate, almoft entire, ftemphlomoi-
woolly-vifcous. Spain. des.
66. Salv. leaves oblong, dent-angled, woolly, high-argentea,
eft verticils barren, brafteas hollown Crete. %.
This fpecies connefts the fclarea and cethiops.
67. Salv. leaves pinnated and very entire, the Xzx- yulnera*
minating leaflet greateft. Levant. F2 . rifolia.
68. Salv. leaves pinnated, pinnas gnawed. CveXzpinnata.
and the Levant. $.
69. Salv.
Diandna.
B O
ro cejoiia.
japonica.
hqjlata.
incarnata. 69. Salv. leaves pinnated and ferrated, (talks pro¬
cumbent and hirfute. Levant. !{.. 0^ 1 he (tem is qua¬
drangular •, the inferior leaves are pinnated, the fupe-
rior ternate.
70. Salv. leaves pinnated, hoary, leaflets ferrated,
calyxes ringent. Armenia. %
71. Salv. leaves twice pinnated and fmooth. Ja-
pan. ©.
cerato- 72. Salv. leaves pinnatifid, wrinkled, villous; (tem
phyl/oides. panicled, much branched. Sicily and Egypt. $ .
fcrjkaelii. 73. Salv. leaves lyre-earfhaped, ftem almoft leaflefs,
the helmet of the corolla half bifid. The Eaft. .
nutans. 74. Salv. leaves heart-fliaped, indiftindtly 5-lobed
gnawed, (tern roundifh, racemes nodding. Ruflia. it.
75. Salv. leaves hallate-lanceolate, crenated, (talk
almoft naked, racemes drooping. Suppofed a native
of Ruflia.
betonica. 76. Salv. leaves lanceolate crenated, ftem almoft
naked, racemes drooping. Ruflia ?
64. Collinsonia.
Cor. unequal, the lower lip multifid, hair-like. Seed
one, perfeft.
canadenjxs 1. Col. leaves ovate, and ftems fmooth. %. North
America.
2. Col. leaves ovate, and fomewhat heart-draped,
and a little hairy ; ftem a little hairy and fcabrous.
Florida, if..
65. Morina.
Cor. unequal. Cal. of the fruit 1-leaved, dented.
Calyx of the flower bifid. Seed one crowned with
the calyx of the flow'er.
1. Morina. Perfia. if..
66. Sciuris.
Cor. unequal, upper lip trifid, inferior bifid and (hott¬
er. Stamens are five, but three of them are without
anthers. Capf. five, united into one body, with one
cell and one feed.
Guiana.
fcabriuf-
cula.
pirjica.
aromatic a. 1. Sciuris.
h •
67. Globba.
Cor. equal, trifid. Cal. fuperior, trifid. Capf. 3-ceI-
led. Seeds many.
marantina. 1. Glob. Eaft Indies, if.. The ftalk is Ample,
herbaceous. The leaves alternate on footftalks, wThich
are membranaceous (heathing, the (heaths truncated
at the apex.
nutans. 2. Glob, fpike terminating and pendulous, leaves
ellipfe-lanceolate. Eaft Indies.
japonica. 3. Glob, raceme terminating and drooping, leaves
fword-fliaped entire, japan.
uviformis. 4. Glob, with a lateral fpike. Eaft Indies, if:.
68. Lithophila.
Cal. three fegments. Cor. 3-petaled. Neftary two
fegments. Seed-veffel, 2-celled.
tiujcoides. 1. Lith. Navaza.
69. Linociera.
Cal. four-dented. Cor. four-petaled. Anth. con-
nefting the two oppofite petals to the bafe. Berry
2-celled, cells 2-feeded.
ANY. 93
i. Lin. Thouinia ligujlrina of Swartz. Privet-ligujlrina*
like Linociera. Jamaica and Hifpaniola. Fj.
70. Ancistrum.
Cal. four fegments. Cor. none. Stigma many part¬
ed. Drupe juicelefs hifpid, i-celled.
1. Anc. ftems decumbent, leaflets obovate z<\wa\\yfangui-
dented, filky-pubefcent below, fpikes globular. Newforbce.
Zealand, if,
2. Anc. (talks commonly below water, fruitftalkslucidum.
fcapeform, fpikes ovate ; leaflets oblong, very entire,
acute, ufually fafcicled. Falkland iflands. if.
3. Anc. ftems immerfed, fruitftalks fcapeform, fpikes
long, leaflets oblong, cut, villous, fruits armed on all (ides.
C of G. Hope, if. Andjlrum decumbcns of Thunberg.
71. Aruna.
Cal. 5-partcd, fegments turned back. Cor, none.
Berry 1-celled, with one or two feeds.
1. Aru. Guiana. F2 • divaricata-,
Order II. DIGYNIA.
72. Anthoxanthum.
Cal. is a glume of two valves, and contains one flower.
Cor. a tvvo-valved awned glume. Seed one.
* 1. Anth. with a fpike ovate oblong, the florets on odor atum^
little fruitftalklets longer than the awn. Sweet-fcented
vernal grafs. Grows in meadows and paftures, very
common, if . Flowers in V. Obf. This grafs gives
the fragrance to hay.
2. Anth. a linear fpike, florets feflile longer thanindicutn,
the awn. India. It approaches neareft to the genus
of anthoxanthum, though very different in appearance;
and the number of ftamens do not agree.
3. Anth. a panicle preffed together, awns \trycrinitum.
long. New Zealand. A tall fmooth grafs, the corol-
line glume awned.
4. Anth. fpike pointing one way, calyxes hairy,avenaceum
florets with a long twilled awn. Malabar. It has
every appearance of an oat ftalk except the two fta¬
mens.
73. Crypsis.
Cal. a two-valved glume wuth one flower. Cor. a
two-valved awnlefs glume.
I .Cry. Anthoxanthum acu lea turn of Lin. Su^l.Phleum aculeata,
fchcenoides of Jacquin. Phalaris vaginijlora of Forflcael.
V. 2. Phleum fchcenoides, with fpikes ovate obvolute,
leaves very ftiort dagger-pointed, ftem clafping. Si¬
beria, Spain, Sicily. 0.
Order III. TIWGYNIA.
74. Piper, Pepper.
Cal. none. Cor. none. Berry one feed.
1. Pip. leaves ovate, about 7-nerved fmooth, fruit-
ftalks very fimple. India. Fj .
2. Pip. leaves ovate oblongifh, awl-pointed, pnem-belle.
ed, fruitftalks 2-dented. India. fy.
3. Pip. leaves obliquely ovate or oblong, veinedcubeba,
acute, fpike folitary on footftalks, oppofite to the leaves
fruits on fruitftalks. Java and Guinea Fj.
4* Pip.
94
clu/iafo-
hum.
capenfe.
malamiris
(life alar.
medium.
am a/ago.
firtboa.
excelfum.
hngum.
tnethy-
ficutn.
latifolium
decuma-
num.
reticula-
tum.
aduncum.
macro-
phyllum.
genicula-
tum.
verruco->
fum.
hifpidum.
nitidum.
pellucidum
alpinum.
hifpidu-
lum.
tenellum.
acumina¬
tum.
blandum.
b o T
4. Pir. leaves obovate, blunt veined, fpike fingle ter¬
minating. Weft Indies. b .
5. Pip. leaves ovate, nerved awl-pointed, nerves
villous. Cape of Good Hope.
6. Pip. leaves ovate, fomewhat (harp, fcabrous be¬
neath, 5-nerves railed beneath. E. and W. Indies.
7. Pip. leaves broad-ovate with 5 nerves very
fmooth, of different colours behind, fpikes flexible, flo¬
rets remote. Jamaica. b •
8. Pip. with leaves ovate, awl-pointed oblique, a
little heart-ftiaped at the bafe, 5-nerved, fpikes axillary
nodding. b.
9. Pir. leaves lanceol-ovate, 5-nerved, wrinkled.
Jamaica and Hifpaniola. b •
10. Pip. leaves heart-ftiaped, having about 7-nerves,
veined. India. b •
11. Pip. leaves circular-heart-ftiaped, having about
feven nerves, fruitftalks terminating Angle, 2-cleft,
ftem woody. New Zealand. b •
12. Pip. leaves heart-ftiaped, on footftalks feffile.
India. b •
13. Pip. leaves heart-ftiaped, awl-pointed many-
nerved, fpikes axillary, fingle, very ftiort on footftalks
fpreading very much. S. Sea iflands. b •
14. Pip. leaves circular-heart-fliaped, nine-nerved;
fpikes axillary, aggregate, on footftalks. S. Seaiflands. b •
15. Pip. leaves heart-ftiaped, 9-nerved, netted. Mar-
tinico and Caraccas. b • It feems a variety of the re-
ticulatum.
16. Pip. leaves heart-ftiaped, feven nerved, netted.
Martinico, Brafil, and Hifpaniola. b •
17. Pip. leaves oblong-ovate, awl-pointed, unequal
at the bafe, veined; fpikes fingle axillary, hooked at the
end. Jamaica. b •
18. Pip. leaves ellipfe-ovate, awl-pointed, fmooth,
unequal at the bafe, veined, leaf-ftalks appendicu-
late, fpikes axillary and fingle. Jamaica and Martinico.
h-
19. Pip. leaves oblong awft-pointed, oblique, many
nerved or veined, fmooth, ftem and branches kneed.
Jamaica. b •
20. Pip. firft herbaceous, then woody; leaves oblong
awl-pointed, oblique, many nerved or veined, fmooth,
coriaceous, ftem and branches warted. P. tubercula¬
tum of Jacquin. Jamaica and Guiana. b •
21. Pip. leaves ovate, awl-pointed, oblique, hirfute
wrinkled ; nerves (or veins,) alternate, fpikes eredh
Jamaica. b •
22. Pip. leaves lanceol-ovate, oblique at the bafe,
fmooth, glofly. Jamaica. b •
23. Pip. leaves heart-ftiaped, on footftalks, ftem her¬
baceous. S. America.
24. Pip. herbaceous, ftem ereft, and a little fimple;
leaves ovate-roundifti acute, without veins beneath,
fpikes axillary. Jamaica. %.
25. Pip. herbaceous, fomewfttat ereft, leaves round-
ifti on very flender leaf-ftalks, rough haired above.
26. Pip. herbaceous, fimple decumbent, leaves 2-
ranked, ovate, veinlefs, ciliated on the margin, fpike
afeending. Jamaica. ©.
27* Pip. herbaceous, leaves lanceol-ovate, nerved
flefhy, ftem a little eredl. S. America. %.
28. Pip. leaves in threes, lanceolate, awl-pointed,
3-nerved, ciliated, dotted below. Caraccas. %.
A ^ Diandria,
29. Pip. fub-herbaceous, leaves lanceol-ovate, fttm- amp/exi-
clafping, nerved, flefliy; ftem erea, fimple. Eaft In-cau/e.
dies. %.
30. Pip. leaves alternate, obovate, commonly 5-pallidum.
nerved, lipikes fingle, ufually terminating. Society
iflands.
31. Pip. with leaves obovate and nervelefs. South
America.
32. Pip. leaves obovate and retufe. Cape of Goodretufum.
Hope.
33. Pip. herbaceous, with leaves ovate, glabellum.
ed ; ftem declining, taking root, much branched. Ja¬
maica.
34. Pip. herbaceous, with leaves ovate, acute; ftemfeandens^
taking root, fimple, afeending. Jamaica.
35. Pip. herbaceous, with leaves roundifh-acutey£;y5eff,r.
plane, of different colours, ftem creeping. Jamaica.
36. Pip. herbaceous, with leaves inverfely heaxt-cordifo-
ftiaped, plano-convex, flefhy; ftem creeping. Jamaica.
37. Pip. herbaceous, with leaves circular, convtx-nummula-
concave ; ftem threadlike, creeping, taking root. ]&-rifolium.
maica.
38. Pip. herbaceous, with leaves roundifh, fiwci&rotundi-
fleihy, ftem threadlike and creeping. S. America. folium.
39. hip. leaves target-fliaped ovate. St Domingo, maculofum
40. Pip. leaves target-fliaped, circular heart-ftiaped,/Wito/aw.
blunt repand, fpikes umbelled. St Domingo. 7;.
41. Pip. leaves fomewhat target-ftiaped, cucxAzr-fubpelta- ]
heart-fliaped, awl-pointed, fpikes umbelled. Am- turn.
boyna. %.
42. Pip. leaves ovate, awl-pointed, fpikes conju-diftachyon*
gate, ftem taking root. S. America. %.
43* PIp* leaves circular heart-ftiaped, aw\-ipo'mted umbella-
veined,fpikes umbelled; ftem ere£t, furrowed, pubefeent. turn.
Eaft Indies. ^ .
44* Pip* leaves in threes and roundifti. America, trifolium.
. 45- Pip* leaves verticilled in threes or fours, t\\\p-perefkiafo-
tical, three-nerved, fmooth; fpike terminating fingle,Hum.
ftem fpotted. %. Venezuela.
46. Pip. leaves vcrticilled, rhomb-ovate very tn-poly/la-
tire on footftalks, three-nerved, pubefeent. Jamaica, %.cbion.
47* Pip* leaves in fours, wedge-fhaped, ohovattquadrifo-
emarginate aim oft feflile, ftem eretf. S. America. Hum.
48* Pip. leaves verticilled in fours, elliptical, hYxint^verticilla-
3-nerved. Jamaica. ©. ‘ turn.
49. Pip. leaves verticilled, commonly in fours ob-fellatum,
long, awl-pointed, 3-nerved. Jamaica. %. Obf.
This fpecies differs from the verticillatum in having
leaves awl-pointed, and fpikes three times longer.
50. Pip. leaves in fours, rhombous flefhy, turned refexurn.
back and fpreading, ftem creeping. E. Indies. Cape
of Good Hope. Piper tetraphyllum of Forfter.
51* Pip* leaves in fours, almoft feflile oblong, utixt-pulchellum
lefs, very entire, fpikes terminating. Jamaica. %.
52. Pip. herbaceous, with leaves linear blunt, thefiliforme.
higheft verticilled, the ftem threadlike and creeping.
Jamaica. Obf. It is remarkable that of the 52 fpecies
of piper here deferibed, 21 fpecies are natives of Ja¬
maica.
In the clafs Diandria are
39 Genera, which include 299 Species ; 29 fpecies
are found in Britain.
CLASSES
Triandria.
BOTANY,
95
CLASSIS III. s CLASS m
TRLVNDRIA. TRIANDRIA.
Ordo I. MONOGYNIA.
Seel. I. Floresfuperi.
* 75* Valeriana. Cor. 5-fida bail gibba. Sem. u-
nicum.
. 84. Melothria. Cor. 5-fida rotata. Bacca tri-
locularis.
* 92. Crocus. Cor. 6-partita, ereflo-patula. Stig.
convoluta colorata.
95. Antholyza. Cor. 6-flda tubulofa recurvata :
laciniis inaequalibus.
94. Gladiolus. Cor. 6-partita tubulofa: laciniis
fubaequalibus, fuperioribus convergentibus.
* 97. Iris. Cor. 6-partita j laciniis alternis reflexis.
Stig. petaloideum.
93. Ixia. Cor. 6-partita patens. Stig. tria fim-
plicia.
.96.. Aristea. Cor. 6-petala. Styl. declinatus.
Stig. infundibuliforme hians.
98. Mor^a. Cor. 6-petala 5 petalis alternis inse-
qualibus patentibus.
100. Dilatris. Cor. 6-petala hirfuta. Fil. ter-
tium reliquis minus. Stigma fimplex.
Seel. II. Flores injeri.
101. Wit sen 1 a. Cor. 6-partita cylindrica. Stig.
emarginatum. Cal. o.
99. Marica. Cor. 6-partita : laciniis alternis du-
plo minoribus. Stigma petaloideum trifidum laciniis
indivills. Cal. o.
103. Wachendorfia. Cor. 6-petala insequalis.
Cal. o.
H^modorum. Cor. 6-petala, tria interiora fupra
medium ftaminifera. Stigma obtufum. Capf. infera
trilocularis.
102. Xiphidium. Cor. 6-petala aequalis. Cal. o.
104. Commelina. Cor. 6-petala: Petal, 3 f. 4 ca-
lyciformibus. Ne£t. cruciata pedicellata.
76. Oxybaphus. Cor. 5-dentata infundibuliformis.
Cal. 5-fid. Nux 5-gona calyce alata !
78. Macrolobium. Cor. 5-petala insequalis. Cal.
duplex: exterior 2-phyll. inter. 5-dentatus. Legumen.
79. Rohr 1 a. Cor. 5-petala inaequalis. Cal. 5-par-
titus. Stig. 3 revoluta. Capf.
89. Hippocratea. Cor. 5-petala. Cal. 5-partit.
Capf. 3, bivalves.
Order I. MONOGYNIA.
Seel. I. The Flowers inferted above the Germen.
* 75. \ aleriana. Cor. 5-cleft, gibbous at the bafe.
Seed 1.
84. Melothria. Cor. 5-cleft, wheel-ftiaped. Ber¬
ry 3-celled.
* 92. Crocus. Cor. 6-parted equal. Stigma con¬
volute.
95. Antholyza. Cor. 6-cleft tubular, arched
downwards j the fegments unequal.
94. Gladiolus. Cor. 6-parted and tubular; the
fegments nearly equal, the higher fegments converging.
* 97. Iris. Cor. 6-parted, petals alternate, turned
back. Stigma petaliform.
93. Ixia. Cor. 6-parted and fpreading. The llig-
mas three and fimple.
g6. Aristea. Cor. 6-petaled. Style declining.
Stigma funnel-fhaped and gaping.
93. Morzea. Cor. 6-petaled ; the petals alternate,
unequal and fpreading.
100. Dilatris. Cor. 6-petaled and hirfute. The
third filament lefs than the reft. Stigma fimple.
Plants refembling thefe belonging to other clalfes.
I. Boerbaavia excclfa, repanda chcerophylloides, plum-
baginea. VI. Pontederia limofa.
Se£l. II. The Flowers inferted below the Germen.
101. V itsenia. Cor. 6-parted and cylindrical.
Stigma emarginated. Cal. none.
99. Marica. Cor. 6-parted ; the alternate feg¬
ments half the fize of the reft. Stigma petal-fhaped,
3-cleft, the fegments not divided. Cal. none.
103. Wachendorfia. Cor. 6-petaled, unequal.
Cal. o.
Hjemodorum. Cor. 6-petaled, the three interior
petals ftaminiferous above the middle. Stigma obtufe.
Capf. inferior and 3-celled.
102. Xiphidum. Cor. 6-petaled, equal. Cal. o.
104. Commelina. Cor. 6-petaled; petals 3 or 4
calyxform. Nedl. cruciform and on a fruitftalklet.
76. Oxybaphus. Cor. 5-dented, funnel-lhaped.
Cal. 5-cleft. Nut 5-angled, winged at the calyx.
78. Macrolobium. Cor 5-petaled, unequal. Cal.
double, the exterior calyx 2-leaved, the interior one
5-dented. A legume.
79. Rohria. Cor. 5-petaled, unequal, Cal. 5-
parted. Stigmas three, rolled back.
89. Hippocratea. Cor. 5-petaled. Cal. 5-parted.
Capf. three, 2-valved.
90. Tonsella.
96 B O T
90. T0NSELLA. Cor. 5-petala. Cal. 5-partit. Ne£l.
urceolatum. Bacca i-locul. 4*lperma*
87. Loeflingia. Cor. 5-petala. Cal. 5-phyllus.
Capf. i-locularis
83. Willichia. Cor. 4-fida. Cal. 4-fidus. Capf.
2- locularis.
105. CallisiA. Cor. 3-petala. Cal. '3-pliyllus.
Capf. 2-locularis.
106. Syena. Cor. 3-petala. Cal. 3-pliyllus. Capf.
3- valvis unilocularis.
80. Rump hi a. Cor. 3-petala. Cal. 3-fidus. Dru-
pa nuce 3-loculari.
91. Fissilia. Cor. 3-petala cohaerens: petalis 2,
bifidls. Cal. urceolatus integer. Stam. 8 j quorum
5 fterilia. Nux i-fperma.
81. Cneorum. Cor. 3-petala. Cal. 3-dentatus.
Bacca 3-cocca.
107. Xytis. Cor. 3-petala. Cal. 2-valvis. Capf.
3-locularis.
82. Comocladia. Cor. 4-partita. Cal. 3-partitus.
Stylus o. Drupa.
77. Olax. Cor. 3-fida. Cal. integer. Gians.
85. Rotala. Cor. o. Cal. 3-dentatus. Capf. 3-
locul.
86. Ortegia. Cor o. Cal. 5-pliyil. Capf. 1-
iocul.
88. Polycnemum. Cor. o. CaL 5-phyll. fubtus
3-phyll. Sem. 1.
Becl. III. Flores gramtnei; valvulis glunue calycina.
* x 11. Schoenus. Cor. o. Cal. paleis fafciculatis.
Sem. fubrotundum.
* 112. Cyperus. Cor. o. Cal. paleis diftiebis. Sem.
nudum.
* 113. Scirpus. Cor. o. Cal. paleis imbricatis.
Sem. nudum.
* 115. Eriophorum. Cor. o. Col. paleis imbrica¬
tis. Sem. lana cinftum.
no. Mapania. Cor. o. Cal. 6-valvis. Involucre.
triphyllum.
117. Nardus. Cor. bivalvis. Cal. o. Scm. tec¬
tum.
114. Miegia* Cor. 2-valvis. Cal. 2-valvis. Ne£I.
1- valve germen involvens.
109. Kyllingia. Cor. 2-valvis. Cal. 2-valvis.
Ament imbricatum.
119. Cenchrus. Cor. 2-valvis. Cal. 2-valvis.
Involucr. 3 f. 4-florum laciniatum echinatum.
118. Lyceum. Cor. 3-valvis. Cal. fpatlia. Nux
2- locularis.
116. Pommereulia. Cor. 3^4 bivalvis arifta-
tae. Cal. turbinatus bivalvis.
108. Fuirena. Cor. 3-valvis. Cal. o. Ament
imbricat, fquamis ariftatis.
Ordo II. DIGYNIA.
127. Panicum. Cal. 3-valvis 5 tertio dorfali mi-
aoru
ANY- Triandna.
90. Ton sella. Cor. 5-petaled. Cal. 5-parted.
Ne6l. pitcher-fhaped. Berry 1-celled, and 4-feeded.
87. Loeflingia. Cor. 5-petaled. Cal. 5-leaved.
Capf. 1-celled.
83. Willichia. Cor. 4-cleft. Capf. 2-ceiled.
105. Callisia. Cor. 3-petaled. Cal. 3-leaved.
Capf, 2-celled.
106. Syena. Cor. 3-petaled. Cal. 3-leaved. Capf.
i-celled, 3-vpdved.
80. Rumphia. Cor. 3-petaled. Cal. 3-cleft. Drupe
with nut, 3-celled.
91. Fissilia. Cor. three petals coheringj two pe¬
tals 2-cleft. Cal. pitcher-lhaped, entire. Stam. eight,
of which 5 are barren ; the nut i-feeded.
81. Cneorum. Cor. 3-petaled. Cal. 3-dented.
Berry 3-grained.
107. Xyris. Cor. 2-petalled. Cal. 2-valved. Capf.
3-celled.
82. Comocladia. Cor. 3-parted. Cal. 3-parted.
Style none. A drupe.
77. Olax. Cor. 3-cleft. Cal. entire.
8 Rotala. Cor. none. Cal. 3-dented. Capf.
3-celled.
86. Ortegia. Cor. none. Cal. 5-leaves. Capf.
1-celled.
88. Polycnemum. Cor. none. Cal. 5-leaved.
Seed one.
Plants of other clalfes refembling thefe are thus clafled.
•J- VI. Fradefcantia multijlora. V. Hirtella tnandra.
IV. Fagara fpin of a, acuminata.
Seel. III. Grajfcs. The glumes of the calyx valved.
* 111. Schoenus. Glumes chaffy, crowded, the ex¬
terior one barren. Seeds roundifh.
* 112. Cyperus. Glumes chaffy, tiled in two ranks.
* 113. Scirpus. Glumes chaffy, tiled on all fides.
* 115. Eriophorum. Glumes chaffy, tiled on all
fades, Seed furrounded with very long wool.
no. Mapania. Cor. o. Cal. 6-valved. Invo¬
lucre 3-leaved.
117. Nardus. Cor. a 2-valved glume. Cor. o.
114. Miega. Cor. 2-valved. Neel, i-valved in-
cloiing the germen.
109. Kyllingia. Cor. 2-valved. Cal. 2-valved.
Ament imbricated.
119. Cenchrus. Cor. 2-valved. Cal. 2-valved.
3 or 4-flowered, laciniated and echinated.
118. Lyceum. Cor. 2-valved. Cal. a fpathe. Nut
2-celled.
116. Pommereulia. Cor. 3 or 4 bivalve, avvned.
Cal. top-fliaped bivalve.
108. Fuirena. Cor. 3-valve. Cal. o. Ament,
imbricated, the feales awned.
Order. II. DIGYNIA.
127. Panicum. Cal. I-valved, the third valve
Icafl.
120. Cornucopia.
Triandria.
97
B ' O T
120. Cornucopia. Cal. 2-valvis. Cor. i-valvis.
Involucrum commune l-phyllum multiflorum.
146. Ar 1 st 1 da. Cal. 2-valvis. Cor. i-valvis, apice
ariflis tribus.
* 129. Alopecurus. Cal. 2-valvis. Cor. i-valvis
apice fimplici.
* 128. Phleum. Cal. 2-valvis, truncatus, mucrona-
tus, fefiilis.
* 125. Phalaris. Cal. 2-valvis: valvis carinatis ae-
qualibus, corollam includentibus.
126. Paspalum. Cal. 2-valvis: valvis fubrotundis
figura corollae.
* 130. Milium. Cal. 2-valvis: valvis ventricofis co¬
rolla majoribus, fubcequalibus.
^ 131. Agrostis. Cal. 2-valvis: valvis acutis co¬
rolla brevioribus.
* 137, Dactylis. Cal. 2-valvis: valva majore lon-
giore comprefla carinata.
* 141. Stipa. Cal. 2-valvis. Cor. arifta terminali
inarticulata.
143. La gurus. Cal. 2-valvis villofus. Cor. ariftis
2 terminalibus et 1 dorfali.
122. Saccharum. Cal. 2-valvis, lanugine extus
veftitus. Cor. 2-valvis.
1 21. Muhlenbergia. Cab i-valvis. Cor. 2-val-
\is.
123. PEROTIS. Cal. o. Cor. 2-valvis, lanugine ex¬
tus veftita.
J24. Leersia. Cal. o. Cor. 2-valvis claufa.
Sedt. II. Fiores biflori, vagi.
* 132. Aira. Cal. bivalvis. Flofculi abfque rudi-
mento tertii.
* 133. MelicA. Cal. 2-valvis. Rudimentum tertii
inter flofculos.
Holcus. Cab 2-valvis. Cor. ariftata.
Se£t. III. Flonven multiflori, vagi.
136. Uniola. Cal. multivalvis, carinatus.
* 135. Briza. Cal. 2-valvis. Cor. cordata : valvis
ventricofis.
* I ^4. Poa. Cal. 2-valvis. Cor. ovata : valvis acu-
tiufculis.
* 139. Festuca. Cal. 2-valvis. Cor. oblonga: val¬
vis mucronatis.
* 140. Bromus. Cab 2-valvis. Cor. oblonga: val¬
vis fub apice ariftatis.
■* 142. Avena. Cal. 2-valvis. Cor. oblonga : valvis
dorfo arifta contorta.
'* 144. Arundo. Cal. 2-valvis. Cor. bafi lanata,
mutica.
145. Pappophorum. Cal. 2-valvis. Cor. 2-val¬
vis multi-ariflata.
Yol. IV. Part I.
ANY.
120. Cornucopias. Cal. 2-valved. Cor. i-valved.
Common involucre 1-leaved, many flowered.
146. Aristida. Cal. 2-valved. Cor. i-valved, 3
awns at the apex.
* 129. Alopecurus. Cab 2-valved. Cor. i-valved,
the apex fimple.
* 128. Phleum. Cal. 2-valved, truncated, dagger-
pointed and feflile.
* 125. Phalaris. Cal. 2-valved; the valves keeled,
equal, enclofing the corolla.
126. Paspalum. Cal. 2-valved; the valves round-
ifti, of the figure of the corolla.
* 130. Milium. Cal. 2 valved ; the valves ventri-
cofe, greater than the corolla, nearly equal.
* 131. Agrostis. Cab 2-valved ; valves acute,
fhorter than the corolla. Stigmas feathered.
* 137. Dactylis. Cal. 2-valved, flattened; the
greater valve keel-lhaped.
* 141. Stipa. Cal. 2-valved. Cor. with termina¬
ting awn, jointed at the bafe.
143. Lagurus. Cal. 2-valved, awns villous.
122. Saccharum. Cal. 2-valved, covered with
down on the outfide. Cor. 2-valved.
121. Muhlenbergia. Cal. i-valved. Cor. 2-
valved.
123. Perotis. Cal. o. Cor. 2-valved, covered
with down on the outfide.
124. Leersia. Cal. o. Cor. 2-valved, {hut.
Plants belonging to the third Seft. of this order re-
fembling thefe.
Arundo epigeios, calamagrq/Hs, arenaria.
Se£L II. Flovuers fcattered, 2 in each calyx.
* 132. Aira. Cal. 2-valved. Florets without the
rudiments of a third.
* J33.MELICA. Cal. 2-valved commonly 2-flowered,
with the rudiment of a third.
Holcus. Cal. 2-valved. Cor. awned.
Plant refembling thefe.
Fripfacum hermaphroditum.
Se£t. III. Flowers fcattered, many in each calyx.
136. Uniola. Cal. many-valved, keeled.
* 135. Briza. Cal. 2-valved. Cor. bellied, valves
heart-fiiaped, blunt. Seed adhering to the corolla.
* 134. Poa. Cal. 2-valved. Cor. valves ovate, a
little fharp, awnlefs.
* 139. Festuca. Cal. 2-valved. Spikelet oblong,
glumes fharp-pointed.
* 140. Bromus. Cal. 2-valved. Spikelet oblong,
glumes awned under the apex, the inner one ciliated.
* 142. Avena. Cal. 2-valved. Cor. a glume round-
ifli awned on the back. Awn contorted.
* 144. Arundo. Cal. 2-valved. Florets furrounded
by permanent wool. Awnlefs.
145. Pappophorum. Cal. 2-valved. Cor. 2-val¬
ved with many awns.
N 153. Lappagcl
98
Triandria;
zulra.
ANY,
153. Lappago.
DaBylis glomerata.
Sc£t. IV. Flowers /piked on an awl-JIoaped receptacle.
* 148. Rottboellia. Cal. i-flowered preffed to the
fpine.
* 150. Secale. Cal. 2-flowered.
* I52- Triticum. Cal. 2-valved, folitary, many-
flowered. Spine toothed.
* iji.Hordeum. Cal. 2-valved, 3-fold, i-flowered.
* 149. Ely mu s. Cal. 2-valved. aggregate many-
flowered.
* 147. Lolium. Cal. i-leaved, fixed, many-flowered.
* 138. Cynosurus. Cal. -2-valved. Partial recep¬
tacle on one fide, leafy.
B o T
15:3. Lappago. Cal, fubtrivalvis. Cor. 2-valvis
refupinata.
Se£l. IV. Spicatij receptaculo fubulato.
* 148. Rottboellia. Cal. i-florus rachi adprefifus.
* 150. Secale. Cal. biflorus.
* 152. Triticum. Cal. multiflorus.
* 151. Hordeum. Involucr. hexaphyllum triflorum.
Flos fimplex.
* 149. Elymus. Involucr. tetraphyllum biflorura.
Flos compofitus.
* 147. Lolium. Involucr. monophyllum, uniflorum.
Flos compofitus.
* 138. Cynosurus. Involucr. monophyllum, late-
rale. Flos compofitus.
Ordo III. TRIGYNIA.
Sect. I. Flores inferi.
* 157. Holosteum. Cor. 5-petala. Cal. 5-phyllus.
Capf. apice dehifcens.
* 159. Polycarpon. Cor. 5-petala. Cal. 5-phyl¬
lus. Capf. 3-valvis.
164. Lechea. Cor. 3-petala. Cal. 5-phyllus.
Capf. 3-cocca.
* 154. Eriocaulon. Cor. 3-petala. Cal. compofit.
Sem. 1, coronatum.
* 155. Montia. Cor. i-petala. Cal. 2-phyllus.
Capf. 3-valvis, 3-fperma.
161. Mollugo. Cor. nulla. Cal. 5-phyllus. Capf.
3-locularis.
162. Minuartia. Cor. nulla. Cal. 5-phyllus.
Capf. i-locularis, polyfperma.
163. Queria. Cor. nulla. Cal. 5-phyllus. Capf.
i-celled.
158. Koenigia. Cor. nulla. Cal. 3-phyllus. Sem.
J, ovatum. ^
Sect. II. Flores fuperi.
160. Donatia. Cor. polypetala. Cal. 3-phyllus.
15^’Lroserpinaca. Cor. nulla. Cal. 3-partitus.
Sem. 1, triloculare.
Order III. TRIGYNIA.
Se£t. I. Flowers inferted below the germen.
* 157. Holosteum. Cal. 5-leaved. Petals 5-gnawed;
Capf. almoii cylindrical, opening.
* 159. Polycarpon. Cal. 5-leaved. Petals 5.
Capl. 3-valved, many-feeded.
164. Lechea. Cal. 5-leaved. Cor. of 3 petals.
Capf. 3-celled.
* 154. Eriocaulon. Cor. of 3 equal petals. Sta¬
mens above the germen.
* 155. Montia. Cal. 2-leaved. Cor. i-petaled.
Capf. 3-valved and 3-fided.
161. Mollugo. Cor. none. Cal. c-leaved. Capf.
3-celled.
162. Minuartia. Cor.none. Cal. 5-leaved. Capf.
I-celled, many-feeded.
163. Queria. Cor. none. Cal. 5-leaved. Capf.
I-celled.
158. Koenigia. Cor.none. Cal. 3-leayed. Seed
t, ovate.
Plant refembling
Fill a; a.
Sect. II. Flowers inferted above the germen.
160. Donatia. Cor. many-petaled. Cal. 3-leaved.
156. Proserpinaca. Cor. none. Cal. 3-parted.
Seed 1, 3 celled.
S31
Order I. MONOGYNIA.
Valeriana, or Valerian.
No calyx.. Cor. monopetalous, hence bulging at the
bafe. Superior.
1. V. with tailed flowers j leaves fpear-fhaped, very
entire. 14-
2. V. tailed flowers ; leaves very entire ftrap-fliaped.
S. of Europe. % . i‘t/ J J
3. V. monandrous flowers j leaves with winged c\d\.s.calcitrapa
Portugal and the Eaft. ©. ^
* 4. V. flowers ftaminiferous and piftilliferous on diffe- dioica.
rent plants, with very entire winged leaves, if.
5. V. triandrous flowers, with leaves winged, capen/is.
florets oval toothed. C. of G. Hope.
6. V.
Triandria.
B O T
officinalis. * 6. V. leaves all winged and toothed. It is this fpe-
cies which is in fo much repute as a medicine. The
root has a tlrong, but not an agreeable fmell. Its
tafte is warm, bitteriih, and fubacrid. It communi¬
cates its properties to wine, water, and fpirit j but it
is bell in fubftance, and may be taken from half a
drachm to two drachms for a dofe. There is no doubt
of its pofleflxng antifpalmodic virtues in an eminent de¬
gree. It is often prefcribed with advantage in hylteri-
cal cafes, and inftances are not wanting where it ap¬
pears to have removed fome obftinate epileplies. In
habitual coftivenefs it is an excellent medicine, and fre¬
quently loofens the bow'els when other ftronger purga¬
tives have been tried in vain. Cows eat the leaves.
Sheep are not fond of them. Cats are greatly delighted
with the roots. Rats are faid to be equally fond of
them, and that the rat-catchers employ them to draw
the rats together.
phu. 7- V. with ftem leaves winged, thofe iffuing from the
root undivided. Europe. If.
tnpterts. 8. V. toothed leaves, thofe riling from the root un¬
divided j thofe of the Hem in threes, oval-oblong. Alps,
it.
montana. 9. V. leaves oval-oblong, nearly tootli-lhaped with
an undivided ftem.
celtica. 10. V. leaves oval-oblong, obtufe very entire. The
Alps. %.
tuberofa. 11. V. root leaves fpear-fhaped, very entire $ the reft
winged, cleft. S. of Europe, at.
faxatilis. 12. V. leaves nearly toothed 5 the root leaves oval $
the ftem leaves ftrap-fpear-lhaped. S. of Europe. %.
elongata. 13. V. radical leaves oval5 ftem leaves heart-lhaped
fitting, fnipt nearly, halbert-lhaped. S. of Europe. X .
pyrenaica. 14. V. ftem leaves heart-lhaped, toothed, having leaf-
ftalks; the higheft in threes. Pyrenees. % .
fcandens. 15. V. leaves in threes, the ftem climbing.
mixta. 16. V. ftem. 4-cleft, the loweft leaves double-wing¬
ed cleft, with a feathery down.
fupina. 17. V. fmall involucrums 5-leafed, 3-flowered j the
leaves entire. Alps, at.
•uillofa. 18. V. inferior leaves ear-lhaped, the fuperior leaves
v toothed, woolly. Japan.
polyjlachya 19. V. winged leaves, with a compound fpike in
whirls.
fibirica. 20. V. winged cleft leaves; feeds connected with an
oval chaff. Siberia. 0.
ruthenica. 21. V. leaves oval, flelhy, winged cleft, toothed ;
feeds connefted with an oval chaff. Siberia, at.
carnofa. 22. V. oval, toothed, flelby, hoary leaves.
cornucopia. 23. V. fldwers diandrous, leaves oval fitting. S. of
Europe. ©.
echinata. 24. V. toothed leaves, fruit ftrap-fhaped 3-toothed ;
the outward larger and bent back. S. of Europe. 0.
olitoria. 25. V. forked ftem; leaves fpear-fhaped, very entire;
fruit naked. Europe. ©.
denial a. 26. V. ftem forked; leaves fpear-fhaped entire; fruit
3-toothed; 2 teeth very fliort. Europe. ©.
'veficaria. 27. V. ftem forked, leaves fpear-fhaped, toothed ;
fruit inflated globular. Crete. ©.
coronata. 28. V. ftem forked; leaves fpear-ftiaped, toothed;
fruit 6-toothed. Portugal. ©.
difeoidea. 29. V. ftem forked, leaves fpear-fhaped, toothed ;
fruit 12-toothed with hooked teeth.
radiata. 30. V. ftem forked, leaves oblong-obtufe, little heads
with involucrums.
a n y. 99
31. V. forked ftem, the lowet leaves toothed, \\\Gputmla.
higheft ftrap-fhaped, many-cleft.
As we have already given to our readers an example
of the mode in which the different fpecies of plants are
diferiminated by botanifts, and as fuch extreme minute-
nefs might feem inconfiftent with the nature of our
work, we fhall avoid purfuing it, unlefs where the pe¬
culiar nature of any fpecies may appear to require fuch
a degree of attention, either as an objedl of fcientific
curiofity, or of general utility. At the commence¬
ment of the fucceeding clafs, how-ever, wre fhall give
a further example, taken from the extenfive genus Pro¬
tea, of the manner in which the fpecies of plants ought
to be defined. With this exception, however, we fhall
confine ourfelves to the definition of the more impor-*
tant plants. At the fame time that our work may be
as complete as its nature wdll permit, we fhall ftate the
names of all the fpecies included under every genus,
(excepting the almoft boundlefs clafs of Cryptogamiee')
taking care to diftinguifh the foreign from the Britifh
plants, by affixing to the latter the ufual mark (*).
Thus there will be exhibited to the reader, nearly a
complete enumeration of the objects contained under
this extenfive and curious branch of fcience ; together
with an account of whatever it contains moft intereft-
ing or ufeful.
76. OXYBAPHUS
Contains one fpecies ; viz. vifeofus.
77. Olax.
One fpecies ; viz. zeylanica. Ceylon.
78. Macrolobium.
Three fpecies; viz. pinnatum, hymenaeoides, fphae-
rocarpum.
79. Rohria.
One fpecies ; viz. petioliflora. Cape, Japan, Weft:
Indies.
80. Rumphia.
One fpecies; viz. amboinenfis. Amboyna.
81. Cneorum, Widow zeal/.
One fpecies ; viz. tricoccon. S. Europe.
82. Comocladia, or Maiden-plume.
Four fpecies ; viz. integrifolia, dentata, ilicifolia, am
gulofa. Jamaica, S. America.
83. Willichia.
One fpecies ; viz. repens. Mexico.)
84. Melothria, or fmall creeping cucumber.
One fpecies ; viz. pendula. N. America.
85. Rotala.
One fpecies; viz. verticillaris. E. Indies.
86. Ortegia.
Two fpecies; viz. hifpanica, dichotoma. S. Europe,
87. Loeflingia.
Two fpecies; viz. hifpanica, indica. India, Spain.
88. PoLYCNEMUM.
Five fpecies ; viz. monandrum, fclerofpermum, ar-
venfe, falfum, oppofitifolium. S. Europe.
N 2 89.
100
fatlvus.
i
pjeudaco-
B 0 T
§9. Hippocratea.
Three fpeciesj viz. volubilis, indica, comofa. S. Am.
90. Tonsella.
Two fpecies ; viz. fcandens, africana. Guiana.
91. Fissilia.
One fpecies \ viz. pfittacorum. Ifle Bourbon.
92. Crocus, or Saffron.
Two fpecies j viz. *fativus, *vernus.
* C. (heath one valve riling from the root; tube of the
bloflbm very long.—The fummits of the piltils of the
Cr. officinalis carefully collefted, and moderately dried,
are the faffron of the (hops. That collefted in Eng¬
land is preferred to all other. It affords a beautiful
colour to water, wine, or fpirit, and gives out the whole
of its virtues to them. It has been held in high re¬
pute as a cordial •, but modern praflice pays no great
attention to it, fince it has been found to produce no
fenfible effe&, even when given in dofes greatly larger
than thofe generally prefcribed.
93. IxiA.
47 Species; viz.fruticofa, minuta, rofea, chloroleuca,
*bulbocodium, cruciata, fragrans, humilis, pilofa, hir-
ta, fecunda, villofa, rubrocyanea, pumicea, purpurea,
crifpa, cinnamomea, corymbofa, heterophylla, anemo-
naeflora, cceleftina, fpicata, plantaginea, linearis, incar-
nata, patens, capillaris, flexuofa, angufla, radiata, vir-
gata, longiflora, fcillaris, ariftata, pendula, bulbifera,
leucantha, ere<ffa, maculata, deutta, crocata, fqualida,
lancea, pentandra, aulica, falcata, excifa. Alps, Afri¬
ca, China, Magellan.
94. Gladiolus, or Corn-flag.
50 Species; viz. montanus, parviflorus, flexuofus, re-
curvus, falcatus, biflorus, tenellus, dichotomus, ftriatus,
crifpus, cufpidatus, triftis, albidus, hyalinus, gracilis,
carinatus, galeatus, imbricatus, brevifolius, commu¬
nis, carneus, hirfutus, watfonius, mevanellus, merianus,
laccatus, iridifolius, refradlus, alatus, bicolor, anceps,
feffifolius, filenoides, rofeus, junceus, fetifolius, mar-
ginatus, auguftus, undulatus, flarus, fecuriger, tubi-
florus, tubatus, floribundus, blandus, plicatus, ftriftus,
mucronatus, fpathaceus, gramineus. Europe, Africa.
95. Antholvza.
Six fpecies; viz. lucidior, sethiopica, nervofa, cuno-
nia, ringens, plicata. Perfia, Africa.
96. Aristea.
One fpecies; viz. cyanea. Cape of Good Hope.
97. Iris
Contains 54 fpecies ; viz. the following : ciliata,
minuta, pvtmiia, lutefeens, criilata, fufiana, floren-
tina, flaviffima, hiftora, aphylla, variegata, fqualens,
japonica, fambucina, lurida, germanica, pallida, com-
preffa, dichotcma, tripetala, tricufpis, * xiphium,
xiphioides, * pfeud-acorus, * foetida, virginica, verfi-
color, halophilae, ochroleuca, fpathacea, ramofa, (ify-
rinchium, verna, perfica, juncea, augufta, fetacea,
tenuifolia, ventricofa, graminea, enfata, fpuria, orien-
talis, fibirica, martinicenfis, pavionia, crifpa, papilio-
nacea, edulis, triftis, polyftachya, vifearia, bituminofa,
luberofa. Europe, Barbary, Perfia, N. America. Of
thefe the following deferve notice.
I. Every other fegment of the cor. orbloffom fmall-
er than the fummit. The juice of the frelh fruit of
ANY. Trlandria.
this fpecies is very acrid, and has been found to pro¬
duce plentiful evacuations from the bowels, after other
powerful means had failed. It may be given for this
purpofe in dofes of 80 drops every hour or two : but
the degree of its acrimony is fo uncertain that it can
hardly ever come into general ufe. In fome cafes it
proves diuretic. The frefti roots have been mixed
with the food of fwine bitten by a mad dog; and they
efcaped the difeafe when others bitten by the fame dog
died raving mad. The root loles moft of its acrimony
by drying. Goats eat the leaves when frefti ; but
cowrs, horfes, and fwine refufe them : cows will eat
them when dry. The roots are ufed in the iftand of
Jura to dye black.
I. Stem with one angle. The juice of the root ffatida^.
both of this and the preceding fpecies is fometimes
ufed to excite fneezing ; but it is an unfafe pradlice.
Violent convulfions have fometimes been the confe-
quence. Neither horfes, (lieep, nor cows eat it. The
fcarlet feeds difplayed by the opening capfules give the
hedge banks in England a gay appearance in autumn.
The leaves when bruifed fmell like rancid bacon.
98. Mor^a.
This genus chiefly inhabits the C. of G. Hope, and
has 17 fpecies; viz. melaleuca, fpiralis, pufilla, magel-
lanica, gladiata, aphylla, filiformis, fpathacea, flexuofa,
polyanthos, cserulea, plicata, umbellata, crifpa, irio-
petala, iridioides, chinenfis. Africa.
99. Marica
Has one fpecies; viz. marica paludofa. Guiana.
100. Dilatris
Has three fpecies; viz. corymbofa, vifeofa, panicula-
ta. C. of G. Hope.
101. Witsenia
Has one fpecies; viz. witfenia maura. C. of G, -
Hope.
102. Xiphidium
Has twm fpecies; viz. album, caeruleum. Guiana.
103. Wachendorfia
Has five fpecies; viz. thyrfiflora, paniculata, hirfuta,
tenella, graminea. C. of G. Hope.
104. Commelina, or Day-flower^
Has 13 fpecies; viz. communis of America, africa¬
na, benghalenfis, erefta, virginica, longicaulis, mollis,
tuberofa, vaginata, nudiflora, cucullata, japonica, fpi-
rata ; chiefly Indian, unlefs otherwife denoted by the
name.
105. Callisia
Has one fpecies ; viz. callifia repens. S. America.
106. Syena
Has one fpecies; viz. fyena ftuviatilis. Guiana.
107. Xyris
Has four fpecies; viz. indica, pauciflora of Malabar,
americana, capenfis.
108. Fuirena
Has one fpecies ; viz. fuirena umbellata. Surinam.
109. Kyllingia
Has eight fpecies; viz. monocephala, brevifolia, tri¬
ceps, panicea, filiformis, umbellata, cyperina, incom-
pleta. Surinam, India E. 8t W.
110,
Tnandria.
O T
10!
B
no. Mapania
Has one fpecles 5 viz. mapania fylvatica. Guiana.
in. Schoenus, or Bafe Cyprefs,
Has 39 fpecies ; viz. marifcus, junceus, mucronatus,
pilofus, filiformis, ftriatus, capitellum, fcarioi'us, nigri¬
cans, ferruginous, fufcus, triftachyos, cufpidatus, arilla-
tus, compar, flexuofus, capillaceus, uftulatus, fpicatus,
bobartife, ftellatus, bulbofus, inanis, cephalotes, cy-
peroides, cymofus, glomeratus, cladium, effufus, refti-
oides, furinamenfis, thermalis, kevis, lanceus, albus,
gracilis, fetaceus, pufillus, capillaris. Chiefly tropical.
1 12. Cyperus, or Greater Galanga/e,
Has 76 fpecies •, viz. minimus, fetaceus, arenarius,
prolifer, effufus, articulatus, marginatus, complanatus,
texilis, compaflus, monoffachyos, diflachyos, triflorus,
nanus, filiformis, dubius, capitatus, niveus, pannonicus
of Aultria, mucronatus, laevigatus, fquarroius, nitens,
polyftachyos, conglomeratus, cruentus, ariflatus, luzu-
lae, confertus, vifcofus, ligularis, glomeratus, imbrica-
tus, maderas-patanus, calianeus, elegans, furinamenfis,
flavidus, flavefcens, fufcus, virefcens, difformis, jemeni-
cus, rtrigofus, tenuis, tuberofus, pumilus, ftoloniferus,
compreffus, pulcher, vegetus, albidus, rotundus, glaber,
odoratus, efculentus, tenuiflorus, pangorei, denudatus,
lanceus, longus, faftigiatus, canaliculatus, monti, iria,
fantonici, corymbofus, racemofus, hafpan, elatus, dif-
tans, diphyllus, papyrus, flabelliformis, alternifolius,
fpathaceus. Chiefly Arabia, C. of G. Hope, S. of
.Europe, and tropical.
113. Scirpus, or RuJ/j-grafs,
Has 70 fpecies j viz. mutatus, fpiralis, articulatus,
plantagineus, nutans, * paluftris, geniculatus, caricis,
* casfpitofus, brethryon, campeftris, capitatus, ovatus,
aftropurpureus, polytrichoides, * acicularis, * fluitans,
*lacuftris, glomeratus, arvenfis, truncatus, laciniatus,
membranaceus, pilofus, hyftrix, * holofchoenus, auf-
tralis, * romanus, nodofus, radiatus, * fetaceus, fupi-
nus, natans, vaginatus, triftachyos, uncinatus, ariftatus,
autumnalis, diphyllus, faftigiatus, globulofus, globife-
rus, capillaris, trifpicatus, lateralis, * triqueter, mucro¬
natus, dichotomus, echinatus, retrofraftus, ferruginous,
fpadicens, anomalus, miliaceus, * maritimus, groffus,
luzulm, * fylvaticus, corymbofus, aeftivalis, fquarrofus,
dipfaecus, junciformis, micheliamus, ciliaris, hottento-
tus, antardicus, argenteus, menander, cephalotes. S.
Europe, E. & W. Indies, America. Of thefe S. LacuJIris
is worthy of notice. It is thus defcribed : Straw cylin¬
drical, naked, fpikes feveral, egg lhaped on fruit-ftalks,
terminating; calyx fringed, 3-cleft, middle fegment awl-
Ihaped. When fodder is exhaufted, cattle will live upon
this fpecies. Cottages are fometimes thatched, and pack-
faddles fluffed with it. Bottoms of chairs are very com¬
monly made of this rulh. If cut at one year old it makes
the fine bottoms. Coarfe bottoms are made of it at two
years old ; and fuch as are ftill older, mixed with the
leaves of the iris pfeudacorus, make the coarfeft bottoms
of all. Mats are likewife made either of the fcirpus la-
cuftris alone, or mixed with the aforefaid leaves. Goats
and fwine eat it, cows and ftieep refufe it.
114. Miegia
Has one fpecies; viz. miegia maritima. Cayenne.
115. Eriophorum, or Cotton-grafs,
Has fix fpecies 3 viz. vaginatum, polyftachyon, an-
ANY.
guftifolium, virginicum, cyparinum, lypmum. Euro¬
pean, except the fpecies called virgmica.
116. Pommereullia
Has one fpecies 3 viz. pommereullia cornucopiae. In¬
dia.
117. Nardus, or
Bias four fpecies 3 viz. ftricta, ariftata, indica, ciliaris.
Two firft, Europe 3 two laft, India.
n8. Lyceum
Bias one fpecies 3 viz. lygeum fpartum. Spain.
119. Cenchrus, or Hedgehog-graft.
Has ten fpecies, viz. lappaceus, capitatus, echinatus,
tribuloides, ciliaris, fetofus, geniculatus, hordeiformis,
purpurefcens, frutefcens. Generally hot climates.
Order II. DIGYNIA.
It is highly worthy of being remarked, that under
this fecond order of the clafs of triandria in the Lin-
naean fyftem are included a confiderable number of the
plants that are very valuable in agriculture, efpecially
the graffes. This branch of botany, therefore, deferves
the attention of thofe engaged in the culture of artifi¬
cial graffes, and even of all perfons in any way engaged
in the cultivation of the foil. Several advantages re-
fult from being able to difcriminate the particular graf¬
fes that naturally rife upon a field, and the name which
they bear. A farmer or other cultivator of lands may
thus, in the firft place, be enabled to derive greater
benefit from the perufal of publications upon the art in
which he is engaged. In the next place, it is to be
remarked, that fome graffes rifing fpontaneoufly upon a
foil indicate that it is of bad quality, or that it has
been impoverifhed by fevere cropping 3 whereas there
are other graffes, which demonftrate, by their fponta-
neous growth, that the land is in excellent condition.
It is of obvious utility to be able to difcriminate fuch
plants. It is alfo of importance, when artificial graffes
have fprung up to be able to difcern the kinds to which
they belong, and confequently to know whether the
proper forts of feed have been fown, and which of the
forts may have failed to fpring up. For thefe and
other reafons we (hall give the botanical defcription in
as concife terms as poflible of a confiderable number of
the fpecies of this order.
120. Cornucopije, or Horn-of-plenty Grafs,
Includes two fpecies 3 * cucullatum, with an awnlels
fpike, and a fcolloped cone; and * alopecuroides, with
anawned fpike received in a hemifpherical cone.
121. Muhlenbergia
Has one fpecies, viz. diffufa.
122. Saccharum, or the Sugar Cane,
Contains eleven fpecies, viz. teneriffae, fpontaneum,
japonicum, officinarum, polyftachyon, arundinaceum,
benghalenfe, repens, ravennae, cylindricum, thunbergii.
Tropical.
123. Perotis
Has two fpecies 3 viz. latifolia, and polyftachyle.
Tropical.
124. Leersia.
Four fpecies; viz. orizoides, virginica, monandra,
hexandra. Tropical.
12 jh
102
BOX
125. Ph A laris, or Canary-grafs,
Cal. 2. valves, heeled, equal in length including the
corolla.
zanarien- * 1. P. An awnlefs panicle nearly oval, fpiked, boat-
Jis. Ihaped, entire. Cor. 4-valved ; the exterior valves
fpear-lhaped and fmooth ; the interior woolly. Culti¬
vated for its feeds, with which canary birds are fed. Q.
aquatica. 2. P. panicle awnlefs, cylindrical, fpike-formed.
Chaff boat-fhiped, (lightly toothed. Cor. 3 ; valves,
the interior woolly, the exterior (mail, awl-fhaped.
Egypt and Italy.
capenjis. 3. P. panicle fpiked, oval, hulks entire ; the draw
knee-jointed, decumbent. C. of G. Hope. ©.
bnlbofa. * 4. P. panicle awnlefs, cylindrical, fpike-formed,
hulks boat-fhaped, toothed. Cor. 2, valves fmooth }
roots bulbous. %. Spain.
tiodofa. * 5. P. panicle oblong, leaves rigid.
dentata. 6. P. fpike panicled, cylindrical, hulks ferrated,
ftraw knee-jointed. 0. C. of G. Hope.
phleoides. * 7. P. panicle awnlefs, cylindrical, fpike-formed ;
hulks heeled, entire, rough like a file. Cor. 2, valves
fmooth ilh. 0.
arenaria. * 8. P. panicle awnlefs, cylindrical, fpike-formed,
hulks heeled, entire, fringed. Stem branched. ©.
afpera. 9. P. panicle awnlefs, cylindrical, fpike-formed,
hulk heeled, bulging above. Cor. 2, valves fmooth. ©.
utriculata. 1 o. P. panicle oval, fpike-formed, hulks boat-draped,
the back dilated, the awn longer than the chaff.
Italy. ©.
paradoxa. iz. P. panicle awnlefs, oblong, fpike-formed, hulk
boat-draped, one-toothed. Cor. 2, valves fmooth,
fmall dowsers as if bitten off below. India. ©.
bifpida. 12. P. fpikes finger-like, chaff rough like a file,
leaves oval. Japan.
126. Paspalum,
hilteen fpecies, viz. diffeftum, fcrobiculatum, villo-
fum, virgatum, paniculatum, ftoloniferum, repens,
hirfutum, kora, longidorum, didichum, conjugatum,
vaginatum, filiforme, decumbens. S. America & E.
Indies.
127. Panicum, or PflflzAgrq/r,
Cor. with 3 valves ; the third valve very fmall. It is
thus defined by Withering. Cal. 2-valved, 2-dower-
ed.
polyjlachy- 1. P. with tapering fpikes, fmall envelopes of one
on. dower, in fafcicules bridly, the draw ereft above,
branchy. India. £.
fericeum. 2. P. a tapering fpike, covering bridly, hairy, Angle
dowers, leaves plain. W. Indies. ©.
verticilla- * 3. P. Ipike cylindrical, rough when droked down-
tum. wrards, partial irrvolucrunrs with 2 bridles, and 1 flo¬
ret.
helvolum. 4. P. fpike tapering, fmall involucrums, fingle
dowers, in bridly bunches. Seeds fibrous. ©.
glancum. 5. P. fpike tapering, fmall involucrums, double
dowers, with hairy fafcicules. Seeds with undulated
wrinkles. 0.
vit'ide. * 6. P. fpike cylindrical, foft to the touch, partial
involucrums, with 3 bridles and 1 doret.
germam- 7. P. a comprefied compound fpike, fpicule con-
cum. gregated, fmall involucrums bridle-diaped, longer than
the dower, fpike-dalk diaggy. ©.
italicum. 8. P. a compound fpike with an interrupted nodding
A N Y. Tnandria.
bafe. Small fpikes congregated. Small involucrums
much longer than the dower. Cottony fpike-dalk. ©.
* 9. P. fpikes alternate and in pairs-, little fpikes crus gall i.
fubdivided; hulks awned and rough drong hairs.
Spike dalked, with 5 angles.
* 10. P. fpikes finger-like, knotty on the infide 0$fanguinalc*
the bafe, dowers in pairs, without awns ; (heath of the
leaves dotted.
* 11. P. fpikes fingered, expanding, foft hairs on in- dadyhn.
files of the bafe, dowers lolitary, roots with creeping
runners.
To thefe are to be added the dollowing fpe¬
cies \ fetofum, * lanceolatum, daguinum, crus corvi,
fetigerum, colonum, duitans, davidum, dimidiatum,
burmanni, hirtellum, pilofum, molle, falciculatum,
chartaginenfe, conglomeratum, interruptum, umbro-
fum, filiforme, mgyptiacum, ciliare, lineare, cimicinuni,
didachyon, fquarrofum, hifpidulum, compofitum, ela-
tius,dichotomum, ramofum, deudum, coloratura, repens,
ifchaemoides, remotum, aridatum, miliaceum, antido-
tale, notatum, muricatum, capillare, dexuofum, grolfa-
zium, acuminatum, rigens, fufcum, laxum, latifolium,
davefcens, diffufum, oryzoides, clandedinum, arboref-
cens, curvatum, virgatum, patens, trigonum, pallens,
lanatus, arundinaceum, polygamum, glutinofum, brevi-
folium, radicans, trichoides, and divaricatum. Chiedy
hot climates.
128. Phleum, or Cats-tail Grafs.
Cal. 2 -valved, fitting, drap-diaped, lopped, ending
in 2 dagger points enclofing the cor.
1. P. fpike egg-diaped, fringed 5 draw branched. arenarium^
2. P. panicle cylindrical, fpike-like 5 hulks naked
draw fometimes branched. turn.
3. P. fpike cylindrical, very long; calyx inngtdpratenfe.
and awned ; draw upright.—This grafs is reprefented
by all travellers in America as the great fupport of
cattle, &c. wherever meadows are found. It is there
called timothy-grafs. It is bed adapted to clayey foils,
moid loam, and eipecially peat. The feeds are to be
had very clean dreffed, at about one guinea a budiel.
4. P. fpike cylindrical; draw amending; leaveskoz/o/z/w.
danting; root bulbous.
5. P. fpike egg cylindrical. alpinum.
129. Alopegurus, or Foxtail Grafs.
Cal. 2-valved. Cor. 1 valve. Ned:, none. Some
kinds of this grafs are very valuable.
1. P. fpiked, draw upright. Cal. hairy. Cor. pratenfis. x
ed. This grafs (meadow foxtail) has fcarcely a fupe-
rior for the ufe of the farmer. It is very early, and
abides on the farm, when fown, for many years. It
produces few feed-dalks. It is didkuit to procure the
feed in any degree of plenty, on account of an infed
that feeds upon it and dedroys it.
* 2. P. fpiked draw, upright; calyx not hairy ; its agref is
hulks united at the bafe.
* 3. P. draw upright; fpike cylindrical; root bul-lulbofus.
bous.
* 4. P. fpiked ; draw knee jointed. geniculatus.
* 5* P. panicle fpike-like. Cal. rough. Cor aw-ned.
* 6. P. panicle fnike-like. Cal. fet wuth foft hairs.yfr.
Cor. awned. To thefe may be added the following
fpecies, viz. indicus, capenfis, and echinatu^ being all
foreign plants.
I29.
Triandria.
B O
130. Milium, or Millet.
Cal. 2-valved, 1 floxvered ; valves nearly equal.
Cor. very fhort: fummits pencil-fhaped.
lendigerum. I. M. panicle fpike-like ; flowers with awns.
ejfufum. 2. M. flowers in panicles fcattered ; awnlefs. The
foreign fpecies are, capenfe, punftuatura, compreffum,
digitatum, panicum, confertum, globofum, paradoxum,
villofura, and ramofum. Globoi'um is found in Japan.
The reft tropical.
131. Agrostis, or Bent-grafs.
Cal. 2-valved, 1 flowered, rather fmaller than the
cor. ; outer petal fmooth; fummits fet lengthways,
with ftiffifh hairs.
It is otherwife defcribed thus : Cal. i-flowered, 2-
valved, fpear-fhaped, acute, generally rough on the
heel; longer than the cor. Cor. 2-valved; fummits
hairy.
Of the Britifh fpecies the following have awns :
* !• A- cal. hulks nearly equal; cor. valves equal;
awn twice the length of the cal. fixed juft beneath
its point.
* 2. A. Cal. hulks equal. Cor. outer valve twice the
length and breadth of the inner awn ftiorter than the
cor. fixed juft beneath its point.
* 3. A. cal. hulks nearly equal ; cor. valves very
unequal. Awn twice as long as the cor. fixed juft be¬
neath its middle.
* 4. A. cal. hulks equal; cor. valves nearly equal;
awn as long as the cor. fixed juft beneath its middle.
* 5. A. cal. hulks unequal ; cor. inner valve hair¬
like, very Ihort; awn rather longer than the cor. fix¬
ed beneath its middle.
* 6. A. cal. hulks unequal; cor. without hairs at
the bafe; awn twice the length of the bloffom fixed
near its bafe.
* 7. A. panicle fpike-like ; cal. awned.
1 he following Britilh plants have no awns :
* 8. A. panicle large fpreading ; cal. both valves
ferrulated on the heel.
fficaventi.
palujlris.
canina.
vine alls,
pallida.
alpina.
littoralis.
alba.
nigra.
fiolonifera
* 9. A. panicle fcattered, branches bare at the bafe ;
florets few ; cal. inner valve fmooth.
* iO- A. panicle compaft ; branches fltort, ftiff, denfe-
ly crowded with florets at the bafe ; cal. inner valve
fmooth ; outer only ferrated upwards.—This is a w a¬
ter grafs and a very noxious plant. It grows upon poor
wret loams and clays. When it is found in meadows
or pafture lands, it is a proof that the foil is either na-
tui ally poor, or has been rendered fo by fcourgmg
crops.
•maritima. * 11. A. panicle large, rather fpreading ; longer
branches naked at the bafe, Ihorter crowded with flo¬
rets ; cal. inner valve fmooth, outer ferrulated up¬
wards.
Vulgaris. * 12.. A. panicle fpreading; branches bare at the
bafe ; florets numerous; cal. inner valve fmooth, outer
ferrulated upwards; cor. inner valve but half the
fize of the outer ; deciduous.
minima. * 13* A. cal. hulks equal, blunt, fmooth. To thofe
are to be added the Hollowing foreign fpecies; viz. in-
terrupta,. fpicaeformis, and hirfuta, panicea, milia-
cea, tenuiflora, bromoides, arundinacea, calamagroftis,
feratina, rubra, ftridta, ovata, matrella, rupeftris, com-
preffa, capillaris, hifpida, fcabra, anomala, diandra,
A N Y. ,03
fylvatica, pumila, ciliata, capcnfis, tremula, virginica,
pungens, fpicata, mexicana, verticillata, coromandelina,
tenaciffima, purpurefcens, indica, procera, linearis,
lenta, ftellata. Chiefly of Japan, India, America, and
S. of Europe.
132. Aira, or Hair-grafs.
Cal. 2-valved, 2-flowered w-ithout any intervening
fubftance between the florets.
* 1. A. florets awnlefs; panicle expanding, fmooth,
longer than the calyx ; leaves flat.
* 2* leaves flat ; panicle expanding ; petals wool- cafpitofa,
ly and awned at the bafe ; awm ftraight, Ihort.
o* A. leaves like bnftles ; draws almoft naked ; 'QR-jlexuoJ'u.
nicies diverging ; fruitftalks zigzag.
4* A. leaves like bullies ; panicle fiender and com- montana.
padl; florets hairy and awned at the bafe ; awn
twilled and longer.
* 5. A. leaves like briftles; Iheaths rough ; i\.ov>zxsin canefcens,
a panicle ; awn not longer than the cal.
* 6. A. leaves like briftles; llieaths fmooth, angular,
with furrows ; panicle fpike-like ; awn taller than the
cal.
* 7* A. leaves like briftles; Iheaths fmoothilh, far-caryophyl*
rowed ; panicle wide fpreading when ripe ; awns tal- lea.
ler than the cal.
To thefe add the fpecies called arundinacea, minuta,
involucrata, pubefeens, of N. of Europe : fubfpicata
and alpina, of the Alps: antar£lica of N. Zealand :
chinenfis, of China : fetacea.
133. Me Lie A or Me Lie, or Rope-grafs.
Cal. 2-valved, 2-flowered, with a little fubftance on
a. pedicle betwixt the florets; nefl. 1 leaf; ftamens
dilated at the bafe.
* 1* M. petals not fringed; panicle drooping, undi- nutans.
vided.
* 2. M. panicle compact ; flowers cylindrical; ftraw rarru/erf.
without knots.
* 3. M.. panicle thinly fet; cal. with 2 florets, 1 hex-uniflora.
maphrodite, the other neutral. Add to thefe ciliata,
gigantea, geniculata, decumbens, racemofa, ramofa, ca~
penfis, minuta, papilionacea, altiflima. Chiefly of Cape
of Good Hope.
134. Poa, or Meadow-grafs.
Cal. 2-valved, many flowered; fpikets egg-fliaped;
valves fliining at the edge, rather acute.
* 1. P. panicle fpreading; fpikets ftrap-fliaped, 6-aquatica.
flowered.
* 2- P- panicles with fubdivided branches; fpiketsdijlans.
5-flow7ered ; florets diftant, blunt; cal. valve very un¬
equal.
* 3. P. panicle fpreading ; fpikets 5-flow7ered, fmooth
ftraw cylindrical ; upright (heath ; fcale fliort and J
blunt. This is an excellent grafs, w'hen fown upon
rich loams.
* 4. P. panicle fpreading, very much branched ; fpi- alpina.
kets 6-flowered, heart-ftiaped.
* 5. P. panicle fpreading; fpikets 4-flowered, pubef-
cent; ftraw cylindrical, upright ; root-leaves doubled lia.
together, very (lender; (heaths fmooth, (heath-fcale
(hort, lopped.
* 6. P. little fpikes egg-fliaped ; florets fmoothifti. bulbofa.
acute ; ftraw upright, bulbous at bottom.
"* 7* P- panicle fpreading horizontally ; branches in annua,
pairs;
104
trivialls.
cnjlata.
nemoralis.
minima,
rigid a.
B O T
pairs; fpikets moilly 4-florvcred j leaves fiat; {heath s
fmooth.
* 8. P. panicle fpeading j fpikets flowered, woody at
the bafe ; ftraw upright, rough ; flreath-fcale tapering
to a point. It is laid that Mr Boys of Betihanger in
Kent has been the largefl: cultivator of this fpecies in
the kingdom, and fold large quantities of the feed $
but gave it up for want of a demand. It is an excel¬
lent grafs on good and found and moifl loams. It is
accounted in Lombardy “the queen of meadow plants”
{/a retina dell erbe) whether for dry paftures or water
meadows; multiplying itfelf much by feed and little
by the root ; fo that if attention be not paid to per¬
mit fome feed to fall, its quantity will fenfibly dimi-
nifh. Excellent for all forts of cattle.
* 9. P. panicle fpike-like. Cal. hulks rather hairy,
2 or 3 (rarely) 4-flowered, longer than the little fruit-
ftalk •, petals awned, awn-pointed.
* 10. P. panicle (lender, open when in flower 5 fpikets
moftly 2-flowered, pointed, rough j ftraw feeble.
* 11. P. cal. 1-flowered.
* 12. P. panicle fpear-fhaped, fomewhat branched j
branches alternate, pointing one way j fruit-ftalk bor¬
dered.
rupejlrls. * 13. P. panicle fpear-fhaped, branches alternate 5
cal/ribbed, 3 or 4 flowered j ftraw* knee-jointed.
maritlma. * 14. P- panicle compact, branched j branches in
pairs; fpikes oblong j florets blunt; leaves (harp, edges
rolled in 5 ftraw cylindrical, flanting.
comprejfa. * 15. P. panicle compact} ftraw* flanting, comprefled.
decumbens. * 16. P. panicle clofe j outer petal hairy at the edge >
ftraw lying down.
glauca. * 17. P* panicle open j fpikets moftly 3-flowered j
florets tapering to a point; woolly at the bafe j leaves
awd-fhaped.
To thefe add the fpecies called laxa of Europe 5
biflora, of India •, hirta and ferruginea, of Japan ; cili-
anenfis, nervata, trinervata, fudetica, rubens, anceps,
(lava, barbata, pilofa, paluftris, glutinofa, prolifera,
amabilis, eragroftis, badenfis, cynofuroides, unioloides,
racemofa, cyperoides, verticillata, abyflinica, capillaris,
japonica, malabarica, chinenfis, punftata, nutans, te-
nella, fpinofa, farmentofa, ftriata, amboynenfis, vif-
eofa, contrafta, filiformis, difticha, bifaria, bromoides,
fpicata, divaricata, peruviana, glomerata, ciliaris, (ilu-
mofa. Chi fly of the warmer climates.
minor.
media.
135. Briza, or Quaking-grafs.
Cal. 2-valved, many-flowmred j fpiket 2-rowed *,
valves heart-lhaped, blunt j the inner minute.
* 1. B. fpikets triangular j cal. longer than the flo¬
rets.
* 2. B. fpikets egg-fliaped, forming a bunch.
Add virens, of S. Europe ; geniculata and capenfis,
of C. of Good Hope •, and eragroftis, of S. Europe.
136. Unjola, or Sea-Jide Oats of Carolina,
Has three fpecies, viz. paniculata, mucronata, fpi¬
cata, of America or India.
JlrlSa.
137. Dactylis, or Cocksfoot Grafs.
Cal. 2-valved, many-flowered j valves broader on
one (ide. Cor. 2-valved, inclofing the feed. Nec¬
taries 2.
1. D. fpikes terminating fometimes in pairs ; florets
not expanding; ftraw and leaves ftiff and ttraight.
ANY. Triandria.
* 2. D. panicle crowded, pointing one way. TDdisglomerata.
grafs is cultivated to advantage on wet loams on a
clayey marl bottom, upon which the finer grafles are
apt to give way to the indigenous produce. If fuffer-
ed to rife high, it is very coarfe j but, when fed clofe,
is a very valuable fheep-pafture. Vr omen and chil¬
dren are faid to make good earnings in gathering the
feed at 4s. a bufhel. Upon an Englilh acre two bu-
ftiels may be fown, with ten pounds of common red
clover. When the clover wears out, the grafs covers
the land, and abides well in it. It grows well in win¬
ter.
Add the fpecies cynofuroides, cefpitofa, littoralis,
loevis, villofa, ferrata, ciliaris, hifpida, geniculata,
brevifolia, lagopoides, pungens, of America, India, and
Africa.
138. Cynosurus, or Dogs-tail Grafs.
Cal. 2-valved, many flowered, equal 3 cor. 2-valved j
1 valve concave, longer. Neft. 2-leaved.
* 1. C. floral leaves, with winged clefts. _ The crefted crifatus.
dogs-tail is highly fpoken of in the Milanefe. I he
Rev. Arthur Young fpeaks thus of it: “ To judge CcmmunUa-
from the appearance of the bents of this grafs, in poor*'™
upland but moift paftures, a man would think it a very iuref‘soi
unpromifing plant 3 but the rich marfhes of Bridge-
water and Bofton 3 the famous pafturages of Paniton in
Devonftiire, and thofe clofe to Mr Buller’s caftle near
Lelkeard in Cornwall 3 Mr Thorne’s bullock ground,
on Dun (lone bottom, near Taviftock 3 Mrs William’s at
Little Malvern in Worcefterftiire, (which are among
the richeft paftures in the kingdom) all abound very
greatly in this grafs 3 in fome of them it is the predo¬
minant herbage. Mr Marfhal places it as the moft
prevailing plant in the beft grafs meadows of the vale
of Pickering 3 fome of which will feed a large cow
from Mayday to Michaelmas. Very fortunately it
abounds much with feed 3 fo that I have had many
bufliels gethered in a feafon by poor women and chil¬
dren, at is. a pound, and laid down many acres of it
fuccefsfully. Attention (hould be paid to its being
ripe 3 for I once ordered eight buftiels to be fown on
eight acres, and it failed from deficiency in ripenefs.”
2. C. floral, leaves winged, fegments awned. echlnatus.
3. C. floral leaves entire 3 fpike nearly egg-ftiaped.r<rru/«/x.
The remaining fpecies are the following, calcatus, of
C. of Good Hope 3 crucreformis, of Europe; pani-
culatus, of C. of G. Hope 3 lima, of Spain 3 ohuus, of
Europe 3 retroflexus, fphserocephalus, uniolse, filifor¬
mis, monoftachyos, coracanus, floccifolius, penicillatus,
pafpaloides, segyptius, indicus, virgatus, aureus.
139. Eestuca, or Ftfcue-grafs.
Cal. 2. valved 3 fpikes oblong, roundifti 3 hulks ta¬
pering to a point, or terminating in an awn.
* 1. H. fpikes upright, fmooth. Cal, valves, one tn-lromoidef.
tire, the other tapering to an awn-like point.
* 2. H. panicle fpike-like, drooping. Cal. (mailer, wywn/x*
valve very minute 3 florets rough, awns very long.
* 3. H. panicle compadl, awned 3 draw four corner-
ed, almoft naked 3 leaves briftle-lhaped. It flouriflies
beft in a dry fandy foil: cows, horfes, and goats will
eat it; but it is the favourite food of (beep 3 they pre¬
fer it before all other grafs, and are faid fooneft to
grow fat upon it 3 for, though fmall, it is lucculerst.
The Tartars, who lead a wandering life, tending their
flocks
Triandria,
B O
flocks and herds, always choofe thofe fpots where this
grafs abounds. Such may be its juft character in the
uncultivated wilds of nature j and, as it prefers a dry
foil, its growth is an indubitable indication of the falu-
brity of fuch places for flocks of flieep: but in a more
rich and cultivated country, it is faid to be of little
value as a pafture grafs, being extremely diminutive ;
nor will it remain long in the ground if fown, but will
foon give place to more luxuriant grafles.
rubra. * 4. F. panicle rough $ fpikets 6-flowered, awned $
floret at the end awnlefs 3 ftraw femi-cylindrical.
durlufcula. * 5. F. panicle oblong 3 fpikes oblong, fmooth 3 leaves
briftle-fliaped. A very excellent grafs for the agri-
culturift, as fpringing very early, being produ&ive,
and grateful to all kinds of cattle, and is found in moft
good meadows and paftures.
dlmidorum. * 6. F. panicle fpike-like, pubefcent 3 leaves thread-
ftiaped.
glabra. * 7. F. panicle branched, upright, compaft 3 fpikets
avvl-ftiaped, 3-flowered, awned, fmooth.
cambrica. * 8. F. panicle oblong, upright, branched j fpikets
awned, fmooth 3 leaves flat, naked.
ienuifolia. * 9. F. leaves like briftles, rather long, upright 3
ftraw naked, fpikets rough,
elatior. * 10. F. panicle upright; fpikets fcarcely awned,
the outer ones cylindrical. It makes an exellent pa-
fture, but requires a rich foil. Horfes, cows, ftieep,
and goats eat it.
jluitans. * 11. F. panicle branched, upright 3 fpikets nearly
fitting, cylindrical, awnlefs. The feeds are fmall, but
very fweet and nouriftiing. They are colleCled in fe-
^ veral parts of Germany and Poland under the name of
manna feeds ; and are efteemed a delicacy in foups and
gruels, on account of their nutritious quality and excel¬
lent flavour. When ground to meal, they make bread
very little inferior to that in common ufe from wheat.
The bran, feparated in preparing the meal, is given to
horfes*that have the worms; but they muft be kept
from water for fome hours afterwards. Geefe are very
fond of the feeds, and well know where to look for
them. The plant affords nourifhment to the phalcena
fejlucce. Horfes and fwine wull run rilks to get at it.
loitaeca. * 12. F. fpiked; fpikets alternate, fitting, comprefled,
awnlefs.
decumbens.* 13. F. panicle upright: fpikets nearly egg-fhaped,
awnlefs 3 cal. larger than the florets 3 ftraw lying down.
pmnata. * 14. F. fpikets fitting ; ftraw undivided 3 awn fhor-
ter than the bloffoms.
fylvatlca. 15. F. fpikets fitting, ftraw undivided, awn as long
as the blcffom. To thefe add the following fpeeies j
viz. tenella, pumila, amethyftina, reptatrix, hetero-
phylla, fciuroides, mioglumis, fpadicea, fcabra, fufca,
pauciflora, criftata, mifera, indica, calycina, pungens.
Mild climates.
140. Bromus, or Brome-grafs.
Cal. 2. valved : fpikets oblong, cylindrical, 2 row¬
ed 3 awn beneath the point. This genus includes 33
fpecies 3 viz. fecalinus, multiflorus, mollis, peftinatus,
lanceolatus, alopecurus, fquarrofus, japonicus, bifidus,
purgans, catharticus, inermis, afper, littoreus, ciliatus,
fterilis, arvenfis, geniculatus, tedftorum, giganteus,
rubens, feoparius, rlgens, racemofus, triflorus, rpadri-
tenfis, rigidus, ramofus, gracilis, pinnatus, criftatus,
diftachyos, ftipoides. Chiefly European. The follow¬
ing are thus deferibed.
Vol. IV, Part I.
A N Y. 105
* B. panicle expanding 3 fpikets egg-fliaped ; awn pofymor-
ftraight. Its merit or demerit in an agricultural view phus.
does not feem fufficiently afeertained. It is (aid to be
difliked by farmers, as being in corn fields a trouble-
fome weed, and in paftures and mowing grounds of lit¬
tle value, fince it has generally (lied its feed by the
time of mowing, and produces very few root-leaves.
* B. panicle drooping 3 fpikets egg (haped; wxrifquarrofus
ftraddling 3 panicle imbranched.
* B. panicle upright, ending abruptly 3 fpikets ob-craffar.
long, hairy, awned, about 5 florets in each 3 ftraws
upright 3 leaves hard. A coarfe grafs difliked by cat¬
tle, as are all the bromes. Properly a fefeue, but has
the habit of a brome.
* B. panicle diffufe, upright but open 3 fpikets ftrap- madriten*
ftiaped, the middlemoft in pairs 3 pedicles thickeft atfs.
the top.
* B. panicle drooping, rough 3 fpikets hairy, awned 3 <7$>er.
leaves rough.
* B. panicle fpreading 3 fpikets oblong 3 florets two-flerilis.
rowed 3 cal. taper-pointed. Awns very long,
* P. panicle drooping 3 fpikets egg-oblong. arvenfis.
* B. panicle drooping; fpikets four-flowered, ft\or\.zxgiganteus.
than the awns.
* B. ftraw undivided; fpikets alternate, nearly hx\vc\<g\pinnatus.
cylindrical, fomewhat awned.
141. Sr 1 pa, or Yeather-grafs.
Cal. 2-valved, I-flowered. Cor. outer valve ending
in an awn : awn jointed at the bafe. This genus in¬
cludes 11 fpecies; viz. pennata, juncea, capillata, arif-
tella, paleacea, tenaciflima, capenfis, fpicata, bicolor,
avenacea, membranacea. Europe, and Cape of Good
Hope. The following is thus deferibed.
* S. awns woolly. Pemata'
142. Avena, or Oats.
Cal. 2-valved, many flowTered. Awn from the back
of the cor. twifted. ThisJ genus includes 34 fpecies;
viz. fibirica, elatior, ftipiformis, ariftidoides, triftata,
pallida, penfylvanica, loeflingiana, brevis, alba, ftri-
gofa, orientalis, fativa, forlkaeli, nuda, fatua, elephan-
tina, fequitertia, lutea, tenuis, pubefeens, fterilis,
flavefeens, lupulina, purpurea, antar&a, fragilis, hif-
pida, pratenfis, verficolor, diftichophylla, filiformis,
fpica, bromoides, chiefly Cape of Good Hope and mild
climates. The following are thus deferibed.
* A. panicled : cal. 3-flowered 3 male floret awned 3 e/o/for,
hermaphrodite floret fometimes awnlefs. Cows, fheep,
and goats eat it. The roots are fometimes very trou-
blefome to the farmers in arable lands, producing a kind
of fquitch. It produces a large crop, but is unpalat¬
able to cattle, efpecially to horfes, as are the avena in
general.
* A. panicled: cal. 3-fiowered, fhorter than there-/Wtf,
ceptacle 3 petals awned upon the back 3 the third flo¬
ret awnlefs. This is nearly as good as the cultivated
oat 3 it will make gruel or oat cake, and feed cattle, as
well as that. R.ay fays it fells in Cornwall at the price
of wheat.
* A. panicled ; cal. 3-floxvered, all the florets zvin-fatua.
ed and hairy at the bafe. Horfes, flieep and goats eat
it. J he awns are uled for hygrometers. Sometimes
fo prevalent amongft barley as almoft entirely to choke
it. It may be extirpated by repeated fallowing, or lay¬
ing down the land in grafs.
o
A
io6
pubefcens.
Jlavefcens.
pratenjis.
Jirigofa.
ovatus.
phragmites
epigejos.
cnlama-
grqftis.
arenaria.
perenne.
B O T
* A. panicle fpike-like ; cal. 3-flowered j cor. beard¬
ed at the bafe ; leaves flat, downy.
* A. panicle loofe $ cal. 3 flowered, Ihort all the
florets awned.
* A. panicle fpike-like j cal. 5-flowered.
* A. panicle oblong, coinpaft, pointing one way \
florets in pairs, with 2 awns at the end, and a jointed
awn on the back.
143. Lagurus, or Hares-tail Grafs.
Cal. 2-valved, awn woolly. Cor. entire, petal with
2 awns at the end, and a twifted awn at the back.
This genus includes one fpecies 5 viz.
* L. fpike egg-lhaped, awned.
144. Arundo, or Reed.
Cal. 2-valved, Cor. awn-lefs, furrounded with
down at the bafe. This genus includes 11 fpecies ; viz.
donax, phragmites, bifaria, benghalenfis, tenax, karka,
confpicua, epigejos, calamagroflis, colorata, arenaria.
Chiefly of warm climates, except the following, which
are thus defcribed.
* A. cal. 5-flowered ; panicle fpreading. The pani¬
cles are laid to be ufed by the country people in Swe¬
den to dye woollen green. The reeds are much more
durable than draw for thatching: Screens to keep
off the cold winds in gardens are made of them j and
they are laid acrofs the frame of wood-work as the
foundation for plaifter floors.
* A. cal. i-flowered; panicle upright; leaves fmooth
underneath.
* A. cal. 1-flowered, fmooth; bloffoms woolly; ftraw
branched.
* A. cal. i-flowered; leaves rolled in at the edges,
(harp pointed.
145. Pappaphorum
Has one fpecies ; viz. alopecuroideum.
146. Aristida, or Oat-grafsy
Includes ten fpecies ; viz. adfcenfionis, americana,
gigantea, hyftrix, veftita, plumofa, capenfis, fetacea,
depreffa, arundinacea. Cape, and milder climates.
147. Lolium, or Darnel or Rye-grafs,
Cal. 1. leaf, fixed, many-flowered ; fpikets alternate.
This genus includes five fpecies; viz. perenne, tenue,
temulentum, mafimum, diftachyon. The following are
thus defcribed :
L. fpike awnlefs ; fpikets compreffed, many-flower¬
ed, longer than the cal. It makes an excellent hay
upon dry chalky or fandy foils. It is cultivated with
advantage along with clover, and fprings earlier than
the other graffes, thereby fupplying food for cattle at
a feafon when it is mofi: difficult to be obtained.
Cows, horfes, and ffieep eat it. Goats are not fond of
it. Though it fucceeds bell upon light foils, it will
flourilh on any land except ftiff clay, and will grow
even on that; but upon rich fands and loams it be¬
comes not only a good fpring grafs, but if properly
managed by due mixtures, turns out well as permanent
pafture land; always, however, moft valuable by be¬
ing ffieep-fed, for which it is Angularly adapted. It is
worthy of remark, however, that there is reafon to
think that the common cultivated rye-grafs has dege¬
nerated from its natural qualities ; and that it is infe¬
rior in many refpe&s, particularly in its duration, to the
ANY, Triandria.
rye-grafs which grows naturally in the beft Britiffi
meadows and paftures.
* L. fpikes awned, compreffed, many-flowered; not temulen~
longer than the cal.; flraw rough. The feeds mixed turn.
with bread corn produce but little effedf, unlefs the
bread be eaten hot; but, if malted with barley, the
ale foon occafions drunkennefs.
* L. fpikets awnlefs, rather ffiorter than the calyx; arvenfe.
cal. 2-valved ; ftraw fmooth. It is very injurious to
a wheat crop, but may readily be avoided as it is fown
along with the feed.
* L. panicle undivided, pointing one way; fpikets bromoides.
awned.
148. Rottboellia, or Sea hard-grafs.
Cal. of I or 2 valves, egg-fpearffiaped, flat. Florets
alternate, on a zigzag fpike-ftalk. Cor. 2-valved,
awnlefs. This genus includes 16 fpecies ; viz. incurva-
ta, filiformis, cylindrica, thomaca, repens, laevis, pilo-
fa, compreffa, hirfuta, cymbachne, coelorachis, dimidi-
ata, exaltata, coryinbofa, muricata, fanguinea. Chief¬
ly of Europe and India. The following is thus de¬
fcribed.
* R. fpike cylindrical, awfl-ffiaped ; cal. hulk awl- incurvata.
lhaped, contiguous, divided into two.
149. Elymus, or Lime-grafs.
Cal. lateral, 2-valved, feveral together, many-flower¬
ed. This genus contains 12 fpecies; viz. arenarius,
giganteus, fibiricus, tener, philadelphicus, canadenfis,
caninus, virginicus, ftriatus, europaeus, caput medufae,
hyftrix. Chiefly of Europe and America. The fol¬
lowing are thus defcribed.
* E. fpike upright, compact; cal. woolly, \or\gtxarenarius,
than the floret. It refills the fpreading of the loofe
fand on the fea Ihore. It is not capable of being
formed into ropes as the ftipa tenaciffima is in Spain.
Cows, horfes, and goats eat it; ffieep refufe it.
* E. fpike compaft, leaning; fpikets upright without caninus.
an involucrum, the kmermoft in pairs.
* E. fpike upright; fpikets 2-florets in each, as long europeus,
as the cal.
150. Secale, or Rye,
Contains four fpecies, viz. cereale, villofum, orien-
tale, creticura.
15r. Hordeum, or
Cal. lateral, 2-valved, 1 flowered ; three together.
This genus includes ten fpecies ; viz. vulgare, hexafti-
chon, diftichon, zeocriton, bulbofum, nodofum, muri-
num, fecalinum, maritimum, jubatum. The following
are thus defcribed.
* H. lateral florets male, awned, fmooth on the tnurinum.
involucrum of the intermediate florets fringed. Sheep
and horfes eat it. It feeds the brown moth {phalcena
granella), and the barley fly {mufca frit).
* H. lateral florets male, awnlefs; involucrum brittle-pratenfe.
ffiaped, rough. In moift meadows it produces a con-
liderable quantity of hay, but is not to be recommend¬
ed as one of the beft graffes for the farmer.
* H. lateral florets male, awnlefs; middle floret her- mariti-
maphrodite, with a long awn. mum.
* H. all the florets hermaphrodite, awned; czl.Jylvaticum
growing together at the bafe, ffiorter than the awns.
152. Triticum, or Wheat.
Cal. 2-valved, folitary, moftly 3-flowered; floret
bluntiffi.
Triandria. B O T
bluntifli. This genus includes iB fpecies ; viz. aefti-
vum, hybernum, compohtum, turgidum, polonicum,
fpelta, monococcum, hifpanicum, proftratum, pumilum,
junceum, diftichum, repens, maritimum, tenellum, uni-
oloides, loliaceum, unilaterale. Of mild climates.
The following are thus defcribed.
junceum. * T. cal. 5-flowered, lopped; leaves edges rolled in.
repens. * T. cal. 4-flowered, awl-lhaped, tapering to a point;
leaves flat. It is a moft troublefome weed in arable
lands, and can only be deftroyed by fallowing in a dry
fummer. At Naples the roots are colle&ed in large
quantities and fold in the market to feed horfes: they
have a fweet tafte, fomething approaching to that of
liquorice : when dried, and ground to meal, they have
been made into bread in years of fcarcity. The juice
of them drank liberally is recommended by Eoerhaave
in obftruflions of the vifcera ; particularly in cafes of
fcirrhous liver and jaundice. Cattle are frequently
found to have fcirrhous livers in the winter, and they
foon get cured when turned out to grafs in the fpring.
Dogs eat the leaves to excite vomiting ; horfes eat them
when young, but leave them when fully grown ; cows,
ftieep, and goats eat them.
caninum. * T cal. pointed, moftly 4-flowered ; awns longer than
the cor.; fpikets upright.
lotiaceum. * T. fpike Ample, comprefled ; fpikets egg-fltaped, but
pointed ; cal. many-flowered.
153. Lappago
Has one fpecies, called racemofa. Europe, India,
and Arabia.
Order III. TRIGYNIA.
ANY.
155 Montia, or Small Water Chtck-wecll,
Cal. 2 leaves. Cor. 1 petal, irregular. Capf.
1-celled, 2-valved. It has only one fpegies, called
* fontana.
156. Proserpinaca,
One fpecies, called paluftris. Virginia.
157. Holosteum
Has five fpecies; viz. cordatum, diandrum, fucculen-
tum, hirfutum, * umbellatum. Chiefly hot climates.
158. Koenigia.
One fpecies, called illandica. Iceland.
159. Polycarpon.
One fpecies, called tetraphyllum. Europe.
160. Donatia.
One fpecies, called fafcicularis. Ter. del Fuego.
161. Mollugo, or African Chick-weed^
Has five fpecies; viz. oppofitifolia, ftrida, hirta, pen-
taphylla, verticillata. Hot climates.
162. Minuartia
Has three fpecies; viz. dichotoma, campeftris, mon-
tana. Spain.
163. Queria
Has three fpecies, viz. hifpanica, canadenfis, tricho-
toma. The laft of Japan.
164. Lechea'
Has three fpecies; viz. minor and major, ofCandia;
verticillata of E. Indies.
154. Eriocaulon, or Net-work,
^ Has eight fpecies; viz. triangulare, quinquangulare, c^afs inandna are
sexangulare, fetaceum, decangulare, repens, fafcicula- 90 Genera, including 920 Species, of which 147
turn, umbellatum. India, and S. America. are found in Britain.
CHASSIS IV.
TETRANDRIA.
Ordo I. MONOGYNIA
Sect. I. Flores monopetali, monofpermi, infert.
169. Globularia. Cor. 1-petal*, irregulares.
Sem. pappo nudis.
Se£t. II. Flores monopetali, monofpermi, fuperi, ag¬
gregate.
* 171. Di psacus. Cal. communis foliaceus. Re-
cept. conicum, paleaceum. Sem. columnaria.
* i?I 2* Scabiosa. Cal. communis. Recept. eleva-
tum, fubpaleaceum. Sem. coronata, involuta.
I73* Knautia. Cal. communis oblongus. Recept.
planum, nudum. Sem. apice villofa.
CLASS IV.
TETRANDRIA.
Order I. MONOGYNIA.
Se£t. I. Flowers with one petal, i-feeded, inferior.
G. or Blue Daify. Cor. 1-petal, irregular; feed with¬
out down.
Se£t. II. Flowers monopetalous, i-feeded, incorpora¬
ted.
* D. or Teasel. Cal. common, leafy. Receptacle
conical, chaffy. The feeds columnar.
* S. or Scabious. The cal. common. The recep¬
tacle elevated, fomewhat chaffy. The feed crowned,
rolled inwards.
K. Cal. common, oblong. Receptacle flat, naked.
Seed with a woolly top.
O2 174. Allionia
IO7
ANY. Tetrandria.
A. Cal. common, 3-leafed, 3-flowered $ the proper
fuperlor wanting. Seed naked.
EOT
174. Allion tA. Cal.'comm. triphyllus, 3-florus, pro-
prius fuperus o. Sem. nudai
f Valeriana Sibirica. Boerbaavla tetrandra.
S?ct. III. Flores monopetaliy tetrafperm'u
188. Mattuschkea. Cor. 4-fida hypocraterifor-
nm. Cal, 4-partitus.
Se£l. IV. Flores monopetaliy monocarply inferi.
203. Pyrostria. Cor. campanulata. Cal. 4-dent,
Drupa nucibus 8-focta.
202. Myonima. Cor. tubulofa. Cal. integerri-
mus. Drupa nuce 4-locul. 4-fperma.
201. Petitia. Cor. tubulofa. Cal. 4-dentat.
Drupa nuce 2-locul.
210. Aquartia. Cor. rotata. Cal. fubquadrifi-
dus. Bacca polyfperma.
190. Roussea. Cor. campanulata. Cal. 4-phyll.
Bacca 4 angul polyfperma.
209. Callicarpa. Cor. tubulofa. Cal. 4-fidus.
Bacca 4-fperma.
208. Wallenia. Cor. tubulofa. Cal. 4-fid. Bac¬
ca i-fperma.
21 r. Witheringia. Cor. fubcampanulata. Cal.
obfolete 4-dentat. Pericarp 2-locul.
205. Aegiphila. Cor, hypocraterif. Cal. 4-den-
tatus. Bacca 2-locul. Stylus femibifidus.
170. Cephalanthus. Cor. infundibuliformis.
Cal. 4-fidus. Capf. 4-locul. non dehifcens.
215. Lasiostoma. Cor. infundibulifoimis, fauce
villofa. Cal. 5-fid. Capf. i-locul. 2-fperma.
223. Scoparia. Cor. rotata. Cal. 4-partitus.
Capf. i-locularis. 2-valvis.
224. Centunculus. Cor. rotata. Cal. 4-parti¬
tus, i-locularis, circumfcifla.
* 222. Plantago. Cor. refra£ta. Cal. 4-partitus.
Capf. 2-locularis, circumfciffa.
213. Polypremum. Cor. rotata. Cal. 4-pkyllus.
Capf. bilocularis, emarginata.
220. Buddleia. Cor. campanulata. Cal. 4-fidus.
Capf. 2-locularis bifulca.
221. Exacum. Cor. fubcampanulata. Cal. 4-
phyllus. Capf. 2-locularis comprefla.
212. Myrmecia. Cor. tubulofa. Cal. 5-dentatus.
Capf. 2-locul. polyfperma.
214. Labatia. Cor. fubcampanulata. Cal. 4-
phyll. Capf. 4-locularis.
218. Pen.'ea. Cor. campanulata. Cal. 2-phyllus.
Capf. 4-locularis, 4-valvis.
219. Bla^ria. Cor. fubcampanulata. Cal. 4-
partitus. Capf. 4-locularis, angulis dehifcens.
•f 'JuJlicia pulchernma, lycium tetrar.drum, cordia tetran¬
dra.
Sc£t. V. Flores monopetaliy monocarpiy fuperi.
200. Chomelia. Cor. tubulofa. Cal. 4-fidus.
Dinpa nuce 2-locul.
204. Cunningham 1 a. Cor. infudibuliformis. Cal.
4-dentat. Drupa nuce 2-locuk
Sect. III. Flowers monopetalousy /\-feeded.
M. Cor. 4-cleft, falver-fhaped. Cal. quadripartite,
Se£t. IV. Flowers monopetalousy 1 fruit-vejfely infe¬
rior.
P. Cor. bell-fliaped. Cal. 4-toothed. A drupe 8-
feeded with nuts.
M. Cor, tubular. Cal, entire. A drupe with a
nut, and 4 cells and 4 feeds.
P. Cor. tubulous. Cal. 4-toothed. A drupe with a
2-celled nut.
A. Cor. wheel-fhaped. Cal. nearly 4-cleft. A
berry many-feeded.
R. Cor. bell-fhaped. Cal. 4-leafed. A berry 4-
angular, many-feeded.
C. or Tonfonia. Cor. tubulous. Cal. 4-cleft. Berry
4- feeded.
W. Cor. tubulous. Cal. 4-cleft. Berry 1 feed.
W. Cor. nearly bell-fliaped. Cal. obfcure, 4-tooth¬
ed. Seed-veffel 2-celled.
A. Cor. falver-lhaped. Cal. 4-toothed. Berry 2-
celled. Style half-cleft.
C. or Button-wood. Cor. funnel-lhaped. Cal. 4-
cleft. Capf. 4-celled ; not wide.
L. Cor. funnel-fhaped, with a wmolly mouth. Cal,
5- cleft. Capf. 1-celled, 2-feeded.
S. Cor. wheel-lhaped. Cal. 4-parted. Capf. i-celled,
2-valved.
C. or Bafe Pimpernel. Cor. wheel-lhaped. Cal.
4-cleft. Capf. 1 cell, cut round.
* P. or Plantain. Cor. bent back. Cal. 4-cleft. Capf,
2-celled, cut round.
P. or Carolina Flax. Cor. wheel-fhaped. Cal. 4-
leaved. Capf. 2 cells, notched.
B. Cor. bell-fhaped. Cal, 4-cleft. Capf. 2-celled,
2-furrowed.
E. Cor. nearly bell-fhaped. Cal. 4-leaved. CapC
2-celled, comprelfed.
M. Cor. tubulous. Cal. 5-toothed. Capf. 2-celled,
many-feeded.
L. Cor. nearly bell-fhaped. Cal. 4-leaved. CapC
4-celled.
P. Cor. bell-fhaped. Cak 2-leaved. Capf. 4-cell¬
ed, 4-valved.
B. Cor. nearly bell-fhaped. Cal. 4-partite. CapC
4-celled, with open angles.
Se£l. V. Flowers tncnopeialouSy 1 feed-vejply fuperior.
C. Cor. tubulous. Cal. 4-cleft. A drupe with 2
2-celled nut.
C. Cor. funnel-fhaped. Cal. 4-cleft. A drupe with
a 2-celled nut.
183.
Tetrandria. B O T
182. Scolosanthus. Cor. tubulofa, limbo revo-
luto. Cal. 4-fid. Drupa i-fperma.
195. Pevatta. Cor. tubulofa. Cal. 4-dentatus.
Bacca l-fperma.
194. Ixqra. Cor. tubulofa. Cal. 4-partitus. Bac-
Ca 2-locularis. Sem. 2.
188. Petesia. Cor. tubulofa. Cal. 4-dentatus.
Bacca 2-locularis, polyfperma.
193. Catesb/ea. Cor. tubulofa. Cal. 4-denta-
tus. Bacca i-locularis, polyfperma.
191. Froelichia. Cor. tubulofa. Cal. 4-partit.
Bacca i-fperma exfucca. Sem. arillatum.
199. Hoffmannia. Cor. tubulofa. Cal. 4-den¬
tatus. Filamenta o. Bacca 2-locul. polyfperma.
196. Ernodea. Cor. tubulofa. Cal. 4-partitus.
Bacca 2-locul. Sem. folitaria.
197. Siderodendrum. Cor. tubulofa. Cal. 4-
dentatus. Bacca 2-occa. Sem. folitaria.
207. Coccopcysilum. Cor. infundibulif. Cal. 4-
fid. Bacca inflata 2-locul. polyfperma.
206. Mitchella. Cor. 2, tubulofae. Cal. 4-den¬
tatus. Bacca 4-fpeima, biflora, bifida.
176. Hedyotis. Cor. tubulofa. Cal. 4-partitus.
Capf. didyma, polyfperma, apice debifcens,
240. Oldenlandia. Cor. tubulofa. Cal. 4-par¬
titus. Capf. didyma, polyfperma, dehifcens inter den¬
tes.
181. Hydrophylax. Cor. infundibulif. Cal. 4-
partit. Capf. angulata, 2-locul.diflepimentis contrariis.
Sem. folitar.
216. Manettia. Cor. tubulofa. Cal. 8-pbyllus.
Capf. I-locularis.
183. Carphalea. Cor. tubulofa, intus hirta. Cal.
4-fid. Capf. 2-locul. polyfperma.
217. Bellardia. Cor. 4-fida. Cal. 4-fid. Capf.
2-locul. 2-partibil. polyfperma.
* 225. Sanguisorba. Cor. plana fupera. Cal. 2-
phyllus inferus. Capf. 4-gona inter calycem et corol-
lam.
•f- Coffea occidentalis. Bondeletia pilofa, virgnta. Hil-
ha tetrandra. Guettarda elliptic a, membranacea.
‘ Portlandia tetrandra.
Se£h VI. Flores monopetali, dicocci) inferi.
184. Houston 1 A. Cor. tubulofa. Cal. 4-denta¬
tus. Capf. 2-locularis, 2-valvis.
Seel. VII. Flores monopetaU> dicocci, fuperi. Stella-
tee.
* 187. Rubia. Cor. campanulata. Fruftus beccati.
'* 185. Galium. Cor. plana. Frudlus fubglobofi.
* 179. Asperula. Cor. tubulofa. Fru&us fubglo¬
bofi.
* 178-. SherardiA. Cor. tubulofa. Fru£tus coro-
natus. Sem. 3-dentatis.
177. Spermacoce. Cor. tubulofa. Fru&us co-
ronatus. Sem. 2-dentatis.
182. Knox 1 A. Cor. tubulofa* Fru&us bipartibilis
fulcatus.
ANY. IC9
S. Cor. tubulous, with a border rolled back. Cal,
4-cleft. A drupe with I feed.
R. Cor. tubulous. Cal. 4-toothed. A berry with
I feed. .
I. or American JeJFaminc. Cor. tubulous. Cal. 4-
partite. A 2 celled berry ; 2 feeds.
P. Cor. tubulous. Cal. 4-toothed. A 2-celled
berry, many-feeded.
C. or Lily Lhorn. Cor. tubulous. Cal. 4-toothed.
A berry with 1 cell, many feeds.
F. Cor. tubulous. Cal. 4-partite. Berry 1 dry
feed. Seed coated.
H. Cor. tubulous. Cal. 4-cleft j no filaments. A
berry with 2 cells and many feeds.
E. Cor. tubulous. Cal. 4-cleft. A 2-celled berry,
1 feed.
S. Cor. tubulous. Cal. 4-toothed. A berry with
2 cells ; 1 feed in each.
C. Cor. funnel-lhaped. Cal. 4-cleft. A berry in¬
flated, with 2 cells and many feeds.
M. Cor. double, tubulous. Cal. 4-toothed. A
berry 4-feeded, double-flowered, cleft.
H. Cor. tubulous. Cal. 4-partite. Capf. double,
many feeds, with an open top.
O. Cor. tubulous. Cal. 4-partite. Capf. double ;
many feeds; opening between the teeth.
H. Cor. funnel-fhaped. Cal. 4-partite. Capf. an¬
gular, 2-celled, with oppofite partitions. The feeds
folitary.
M. Cor. tubulous. Cal. 8-leaved. Capf. 1 cell.
C. Cor. tubulous rough-haired within. Cal. 4-cleft,
Capf. 2 cells, many feeds.
B. Cor. 4-cleft. Cal. 4-cleft. Capf. 2-celled, di-
vifible into two. Many feeds.
* S. or Greater Wild Burnet. Cor. flat above. Cal.
2-leaved j bent downwards. Capf. 4-gonous between-
the cal. and the cor.
Sett. VI. Flowers monopetalons, 2 capfules united*
each with one cell, inferior.
H. Cor. tubulous. Cal. 4-toothed. Capf. 2-celled j
2-valved.
Se£l. VII. Flowers monopetalous, 2 capfules united,
each with one cell, fuperior. Starlike.
* R. or Madder. Cor. bell-fhaped. Fruit a berry.
* G. or Ladies Bed-fraw. Cor. flat. Fruit nearly
round.
* A. or Wood-roof. Cor. tubulous. Fruit nearly
round.
* S. or Little Yield-madder. Cor. tubulous. Fruit
crowned. Seed 3-toothed.
S. or Butter-weed. Cor. tubulous. Fruit crowned.
Seed 2-toothed.
K, Cor. tubulous. Fruit divifible j furrowed.
i8oa
no B O T
180/Diodia. Cor, tubulofa. FrmStus tetragonus
connatus, 2-valvis. ,
186. Crucianella. Cor. tubulofa, aiiftata. Fruc-
tus nudus. Sem. linearia.
Se£t. VIII. Flores monopetali, tetracocciy inferi.
189. SiphonAnthus. Cor. tubulofa. Cal. 5-par¬
titas. Bacca 4, i-fpermae.
Sc£l. IX. Flores tetrapetali, inferi.
227. Epimedium. Petala nedlar. 4-incumbentxa.
Cal. 4-pby]lus. Cal. 4-phyllus. Siliqua i-locularis.
235. P^elea. Pet. coriacea. Cal. 4-partitus.
Stigmata 2. Samara monofperma.
234. Blackburnia. Petala oblonga. Cal. 4-den-
tat. Stigma fimplex. Bacca 1 fperma.
236. Skimmia. Pet. concava. Cal. 4-partit. Bac¬
ca 4-fperma.
233. Monetia. Pet. linearia. Cal. 4-fid. Bac¬
ca 2-local.
230. Samara. Pet. bafi lacuna. Cal. 4-partitus.
Drupa fubrotunda Stigma infundibuliforme.
232. Hartogia. Pet. patentia. Cal. 5-fid. Drupa
nuce 2-fperma.
247. Curtisia. Pet. obtufa. Cal. 4-part. Dru¬
pa nuce 4 f. 5-locul.
231. Fagara. Pet. ftaminibus breviora. Cal. 4-
fidus. Capf, 4-valved, x fperma.
237. Othera. Pet. lanceolata. Cal. 4-part. Stig¬
ma feffile. Capf. *
238. Orixa. Pet. lanceolata. Cal. 4-part. Stig¬
ma capital. Capf.
241. Am ann 1 A. Pet. rariflime prefentia. Cal.
tubulofus, 8-dentatus. Capf. 4-locularis.
f Evonymus europeeus, japonicus. Portulaca meridiana.
Melafioma tetrandra. Cardatnine hirfuta.
Se£t. X. Flores tetrapetali fuperi.
' 243. Trap a. Cal. 4-partitus. Nux armata fpi-
nis conicis oppofitis.
226. Cxssus. Cal. cingens germen. Bacca 1-
fperma.
229. Glossoma. Cal. 4-dentat. Drupa nuce 1-
fperma.
* 228. Corn us. Cal. 4-dentatus, deciduus. Dru¬
pa nuce 2-loculari.
239. Ludwigia. Cal. 4-partitus. Capf. 4-locu¬
laris, tetragona.
25,1. Sa-ntalum. Cor. 4-petala calyci innata.
Bacca 1-fperma.
Se£t. XL Flores incompleti inferi.
252. Struthiola. Cor. 4-fida. Bacca i-fperma
ficca. Neftar. 8-glandulis.
175. Opercularia. Cor. 4 f. 5-fida. Siam, re-
ceptaculo inlerta. Semina fqlitaria receptaculo im-
merfa.
A N Y. Tetrandria*
D. Cor. tubulous. Fruit 4-cornered, united at the
bafe, 2-valved.
C. or Petty Madder. Cor. tubulous, awned. Fruit
naked. Seed ftrap-ihaped.
Se£t. VIII. Flowers monopetalousy with 4 capfules
united, each with I cell, inferior.
S. Cor. tubulous. Cal. 5-partite, 4 berries j one
feed in each.
Se£l. IX. Flowers four-pet alous, inferior.
E. 4 honied petals, incumbent. Cal. 4-leaved. A
pod with 1 cell.
P. or Shrub Trefoil. The petals leather-like.
Cal. 4. partite. Twol’tigmas. Seed-vdTel i-feeded.
B. Petals oblong. Cal. 4-toothed. Stigma fingle.
A i-feeded berry.
S. Petals concave. Cal. 4-partite. A berry, 4-feed-
ed.
M. Petals ftrap-fhaped. Cal. 4-cleft. Berry 2-
celled.
S. Petals with a pitted bafe. Cal. 4-partite. A
roundilh drupe. Stigma funnel-lhaped.
H. Pet. expanding. Cal. 5-cleft. A drupe with
a nut and 2 feeds.
C. or HaJJagay-tree. Pet. obtufe. Cal. 4-partite.
A drupe, and 4 or 5 cells.
F. The petals fliorter than the ftamens. Cal. 4-
cleft. Capf. 4-valved, 1 feed.
O. Pet. fpear-fhaped. Cal. 4-partite. Stigma fit¬
ting. Capf.
O. Pet. fpear-fhaped. Cal. 4-partite. The fligma
with a head. Capf.
A. Pet. rarely prefent. Cal. tubulous 8-toothed.
Capf. 4-celled.
Seel. X. Flowers four-petaled, fuperior.
T. or Floating IVater-caltraps. Cal. 4-partite. A
nut armed with oppofite conical thorns.
C. Cal. furrounding the feed-bud. A berry 1 feed.
G. Cal. 4-toothed. A drupe with a nut, and I
feed.
* C. or Dogwood, or Cornel-cherry. Cal. 4-toothed,
deciduous. A drupe with a 2-celled nut.
L. or Bafe Virginian Loofefrife. Cal. 4-partite.
Capf. 4-celled, 4-cornered.
S. or Sanders. Cor. 4. Pet. fixed in the cal. A
berry with 1 feed.
Sect. XI. Flowers incomplete, inferior.
S. Cor. 4-cleft. A berry with 1 feed, dry. Honied
with 8 glands.
O. Cor. 4 or 5-cleft. The ftamens inferted in the
receptacle. The feed foljtary, funk in the receptacle.
165.
Tetrandria. B O T
165. Protea. Cor. 4-fida. Antherge infra apices
corollas in'ertae. Nux i-lperma.
167. Rupala. Cor. 4-petala. Stamina medio pe-
talorum inferta. Bacca i-fperma.
166. Banksia. Cor. 4-petala. Stamina limbo
inferta. Capf. 2-valvis, 2-fperma. Semina alata.
168. Embothrium. Cor. 4-petala. Stam. lim¬
bo inferta. Folliculus polyfpermus. Sem. alata.
245. Pothos. Cor. 4-petala. Spatha i-phylla.
Bacca 2-locul.
253. Krameria. Cor. 4-petala. Bacca licca 1-
fperma, ecbinata.
255. Rivjna. Cor. 4-petala. Bacca i-fperma.
Sem. fcabrum.
248. Chloranthus. Petalum 3-lobum. Bacca
I-fperma.
256. Salvadora. Cal. 4-fidus. Bacca i-fperma.
Sem. aril latum.
257. Camphorosma. Cal. 4-fidus. Capf. i-fper-
ma.
258. Alchemilla. Cal. 4-fidus. Sem. 1, calicc
inclufum.
244. Dorstenia. Cal. recept. planum, carnofum,
commune.
246. Cornetes. Umbella 4-phylla, 3-flora. Capf.
'3-cocca.
f Cor chorus cor eta. Convallaria bifolia. Ammannuu
Se£t. XII. Flores incompleti, fuperii.
250. Gonatocarpus. Cor. 4-fida. Drupa nuce
I -fperma.
254. AciENA. Cal. 4-phyllus. Bacca echinata 1-
fperma.
242. Isnardia. Cal. campanulatus, perfiftens.
Capi. 4 locularis. t
249. El^eagnus. Cal. companulatus, deciduus.
Drupa.
f Fhejium alpinum*
Ordo II. DIGYNIA.
260. Bufonia. Cor. 4-petala. Cal. tetraphyllus.
Capl. 1-locularis, 2-valvis, 2-fperma.
263. Hypecoum. Cor. 4-petala, insequalis. Cal.
2-phyllus. Siliqua.
261. Hamamelis. Cor. 4-petala longiflima. Cal.
duplex. Nux 2-locularis bicornis.
* 262. Cuscuta. Cor. 4-fida, ovata. Cal. 4-fidus.
Capf. 2 locularis circumfcifla.
264. Nerteria. Cor. campanulata. Cal. o. Ba¬
ca 2-locul.
265. Galopina. Cor. campanulata. Cal. o. Sem.
2- muricata.
259. Cruzita. Cor. o. Cal. 4-phyllus, exterior
3- phyllus. Sem. 1.
A N y;
P. or Silver-tree. Cor. 4-cleft. The anthers in-
ferted below the points of the cor. A nut, 1 feed.
R. Cor. with 4 petals. The ftamens inferted in
the middle of the petals. A berry with 1 feed.
B. Cor. with 4 petals. The ftamens inferted in
the border. Capf. 2-valved, 2-feeded j the feeds
winged.
E. Cor. with 4 petals. The ftamens inferted in
the border. An air-bag, many-leeded 5 feeds winged.
P. or Scunkweed. Cor. with 4 petals. Sheath 1-
leaved. A berry with 2 cells.
K. Cor. 4-petaled. A dry berry, 1 feed, prickly.
R. Cor. 4-petaled. A berry with one feed. Seed
rough.
C. or Tea-leaved Chu-Ian. Pet. 3-lobed. A berry
with 1 feed.
S. Cal. 4-cleft. A berry wdth one feed. Seed coated,
C. Cal. 4-cleft. Capf. 1 feed.
A. or Ladies Mantle. Cal. 4-cleft. Seed 1, in the
calyx.
D. or Contrayerva. Cal. and receptacle flat, flefhy
common.
C. an umbel 4-leaved, 3-flowered. Capf. 3-celled
Seel. XII. Flowers incomplete) fuperior.
G. Cor. 4-cleft. A drupe with a i-feeded nut.
A. Cal. 4-leaved. A prickled i-feeded berry.
I. Cal. bell-lhaped, permanent. Capf. 4-cleft.
E. or Oleajler, or Wild-olive. Cal. bell-fliaped, de¬
ciduous. A drupe.
Order II. DIGYNIA.
B. or Toad-grafs. Cor. 4-petaled. Cal. 4-leaved.
Capf. 1 cell, 2 valves, 2 feeds.
H. Cor. 4-petaled, unequal. Cal. 4-leaved. A
pod.
H. or Witch-ha%el. Cor. 4-petaled, very long. Cal.
double. A nut, 2-celled, 2-horned.
* C. or Dodder. Cal. 4-cleft, oval. Cal. 4-cleft.
Capf. 2-celled, cut round.
N. Cor. bell-fliaped. No cal. A berry with 2
cells.
G. Cor. bell-fliaped. No cal. A feed, thorny on
two fides.
C. No cor. Cal. 4-leaved. On the outfide 3-
leaved. Seed 1.
f Herniaria fruticofa. Gentemv quadrijida?. Swertia
corniculata dichotoma.
Ordo
B Q T
ANY.
Tetrandria,
i ia
Ordo III, TRIGYNIA,
266. Boscia. Cor. 4-petala, Cal. 4-dentatus.
Capli 4-locularis,
Ordo IV. TETRAGYNIA.
267. Ilex. Cor, i-petala. Cal. 4-dentatus. Bac-
ca 4-fperma.
268. Golden 1 A. Cor. i-petala. Cal. 4-phyllus,
Sem. 2, bilocularia.
271. Sagina. Cor. 4-petala, Cal. 4-p’hyllus. Capf.
4-locularis, polyfperma.
272. Till^a. Cor. 3 f. 4-petala. Cal, 3 f. 4-
phyllus, Capf, 3 f. 4-polyfpermse.
273. Myginda. Cor. 4-petala, Cal. 4-partitus.
Drupa i-fperma.
269. Potamogeton. Cor. o. Cal, 4-phyllus.
Bern. 4, feffilia.
270. Ruppia. Cor. o. Cal, 0, Sem.4, pedicel-
lata,
Order I. MONOGYNIA.
165. Protea, or Silver-tree.
Cor. 4 cleft. The anthers, ftrap-lhaped, xnferted
in the petals beneath the apex. No proper calyx. A
nut. i feed.
decumbens I • P. with leaves, 3-cleft, thread-fhaped j the Item
decumbent. C. of G. Hope. F?.
jlorida. 2. P. with leaves, 3-cleft, winged, thread-fhaped $
ftem ereft, with folitary little heads, furrounded by
leaves. b • C. of G. Hope.
cyanoides. 3. P. with leaves 3-cleft, winged, thread-draped ;
Item ereft, naked, folitary, little heads, b • C. of G.
Hope.
patulcu 4. P. wdth leaves 3-cleft, thread diaped ; erefl ftem,
little heads incorporated. b • C. of G. Hope.
pulchella. 5. P. with leaves double winged, fmooth, thread-
fhaped, with terminal heads, club-ihaped, without floral
leaves. b • N. Holland.
fphaero- 6. P. with double winged thread-fhaped leaves j fruit-
cephala. flalks fhorter than the tops, with the fcales of the cal.
oval, woolly at the bafe. b * C. of G. Hope.
ferraria. 7. P. with double winged, thread-fhaped, hairy
leaves 5 fruitftalks longer than the tops 5 with the fcales
of the cal. egg-fpear-fhaped and hairy. b • C. of G.
Hope.
triternata. 8. P. wdth double winged, thread fhaped, fmooth
leaves. The fruitftalks longer than the head, with the
fcales of the cak fpear-fhaped and hairy. b • C. of
G. Hope.
'g/omerata. 9. P. with double winged tbread-fhaped leaves j and
naked, common, elongated fruitftalk ; the pedicles
longer than the knobs. b • C. of G. Hope.
phylicoides 10. P. with double winged, thread-fhaped leaves $
and terminal knobs, folitary, and cottony, b • C. of
G. Hope.
Order III, TRIGYNIA.
B. Cor. 4-petaled. Cal, 4-toothed. Capf. 4-cell*
ed.
Order IV. TETRAGYNIA.
I. or Hally. Cor. 1-petal. Cal. 4-toothed. A
berry 4-feeded.
C. Cor. i-petal. Cal. 4-leaved. Two feeds, 2-
celled.
S. or Pearlwort. Cor. 4 petaled. Cal. 4-leaved,
Capf. 4-celled, many-feeds.
T. or Small Annual Houfeleek. Cor. 3, or 4-pe-
tated. Cal. 3 or 4-leaved. Capf. 3, or 4, Many*
feeds.
M. Cor, 4-petaled. Cal. 4-partite. A drupe wdth
I feed.
P. No cor. Cal. 4 leaved. Seeds 4-fitting.
R. or Sea or Tajjel-grafs. No cor. No cal. Seeds
4, on a pedicle.
11. P. with double-winged, thread-flraped leaves j and
aggregate knobs in fpikes. b • C. of G. Hope.
12. P. with double-winged thread-fhaped Xzwts \fpicata.
and heads fpiked and diftindft. b • C. of G. Hope.
13. P. wdth double-wdnged inferior leaves ; the in-fceptrum.
perior being 3-cleft and entire. b • C. of G. Hope.
14. P. with fmooth 5-cleft leaves j ftem eredf ; and crinita.
terminal heads by three’s. b • C. of G. Hope.
15. P. with 5-toothed fmooth leaves j ftem ereft andcotfoorr/tf,
a terminal head. b • C. of G. Hope.
16. P. with 3-toothed, fmooth, elliptical Xvavzs \elliptica.
ereft ftem and terminating head, b • C. of G. Hope.
17. P. with 3-toothed fmooth leaves, a decumbenthypophylla
ftem and terminal head. b • C. of G. Hope.
18. P. with 3-toothed fmooth leaves and lateral heads.
b . C. of G. Hope.
19. P. with 3-toothed cottony leaves. b* C. oUomentofa.
G. Hope.
20. P. with 4-toothed entire leaves, and ftem decum-^T'mj-
bent. b • C. of G. Hope. phylla.
21. P. with thread-fhaped leaves, and flowers pinifolia.
and fmooth, cal. not double. b ■ C. of G. Hope.
2 2. P. with leaves thread-fhaped j flowers cottony, racemofa.
in bunches, with a double cal. b • C. of G. Hope.
23. P. with leaves thread-fhaped, bent inwmrds, andincurvaf
fmooth, and bunchy fpiked cottony knobs, b • C,
of G. Hope.
24. P. with hairy thread-fhaped leaves, and fitting, to.
fpiked heads or knobs. b • C. of G. Hope,
25. P. wuth thread-fhaped channelled leaves, a tcv-brafteata.
minal knob, and many-cleft floral leaves. 12. C. of
G. Hope.
26. P. with inferior thread-fhaped leaves, the comofa.
rior fpear-fhaped, and a terminal or terminating knob.
b • C. of G. Hope.
27. P, with ftrap-fliaped, bent back leaves, cxooktdipurpurea.
terminal
Tetrandria. B O T
terminal knobs, and decumbent flem. . C. of G.
Hope.
prolifera. 28. P. witb awl-fhaped comprefled leaves, and a flower¬
bearing Item, b. C. of G. Hope.
corymbofa. 29. P. with ftrap-awl-lhaped contiguous leaves, and
little flat-topped branches in -whirls. I2. C. of G.
Hope.
nana, 30. P. with ftrap-awl-fliaped leaves, a terminal knob
and coloured calyx, h • C. of G. Hope.
tanata. 31* P* with contiguous 3-fquare leaves, and a wool¬
ly terminal knob, h • C. of G. Hope.
torta. 3 2. P. with oblique, ftrap-fhaped, obtufe leaves, b*
C. of G. Hope.
alba. 33. P. wuth ftrap-lhaped, Alky, cottony leaves, b*
C. of G. Hope.
aulacea. 34. P. with ftrap-battledore-lhaped, fmooth leaves $
flowers in bunches j Angle calyx, b • C. of G. Hope.
imbellata. 35. P. with ftrap-battledore-fliaped, fmooth leaves ;
terminal knobs, many-cleft j floral leaves, b* C. of
G. Hope.
tinearis. 36. P. with ftrap battledore-lhaped fmooth leaves j
a cottony terminal knob, b • C. of G. Hope.
einerea. 37- P- with ftrap-wedge-lhaped Alky leaves, and a
Alky terminal knob. C. of G. Hope.
fcolymus. 38. P. with fharp fpear-lhaped leaves, and a round
terminal knob or head, b • C. of G. Hope.
abyjjinica. 39. P. with fpear-lhaped leaves, obtufe and flender
at the bafe, and a hemifpherical terminal knob. b •
Abyflinia.
mellifera. 40. P. with flxap-elliptical-lhaped leaves, and an ob¬
long terminal knob. b • C. of G. Hope.
repens. 41. P. with Ipear-elliptical-fliaped fmooth leaves, an
oval knob, and fliort decumbent Item. b • C. of G,
Hope.
plumofa, 42. P. with fpear-wedge-lhaped hoary leaves, an ob¬
long terminal knob, petals fmooth beneath, and hairy
above, b • C. of G. Hope.
obhqua. 43. P. with ftrap-fpear-lhaped, callous, fmooth, ob¬
lique leaves, and a terminal knob belonging to the flem.
b . C. of G. Hope.
parvijlora. 44. P. with elliptical obtufe, callous, oblique leaves,
and fmooth terminal heads of little branches, b • C.
of G. Hope.
pailens. 45. P. with leaves fpear-fhaped, flender at the bafe,
fmooth, {harp, callous j and a terminal knob fenced with
a pale cover, fj. C. of G. Hope.
Conifer a. 46. P. with leaves fpear-fhaped, attenuate at the bafe,
fmooth, acute, callous, and a terminal head, fenced
with a long fharp cover of the fame colour, b • C*
of G. Hope.
levifanus. P. with leaves inverfely egg-fhaped, obtufely
tapering, tiled fmooth, a hairy flem, and a head with
an obtufe long covering, b • C. of G. Hope.
Jlrobilina. 48. P. with elliptical leaves, blunt, callous, fmooth,
and a terminal knob, b * C. of G. Hope.
imbricata. 49. P. with leaves fpear-fhaped, fmooth, fcored, tiled,
and a terminal knob, b • C. of G. Hope.
fericea. 50. P. with leaves fpear-fhaped ; Alky, thread-fha-
ped branches; ftem decumbent, b* C. of G. Hope.
Jal'igna. 51. P. with fpear-fhaped Alky leaves; a fhrubby
flem ; and oblong enveloped knobs. b • C. of G.
Hope.
argentea. 52. P. with leaves fpear-fhaped, Alver-cottony, frin¬
ged, with woody ftem and globular knobs, b • C. of
G. Hope.
Vol, IV. Part I.
ANY. nj
53. P. with leaves oblong and fmooth; a globular acaulis,
knob or head ; and a ihort decumbent ftem. b • C.
of G. Hope.
54. P. with oblong fmooth leaves; and aggregate myrtifolia,
terminal knobs, b ‘ C. of G. Hope.
56. P. with fmooth oblong leaves without Veins, glabra.
hemifpherical knob, and a ftirub-like ftem. b • C. °f
G. Hope.
57. P. with oblong fmooth leaves* an oblong \^no\>,fpeciofa.
the fcales of the calyx barbed at the point, h » C. of
G. Hope.
58. P. wdth oval, fmooth, callous leaves; cor. hairy, totta.
and cylindrical, b • C. of G. Hope.
59. P. with fmooth, oval leaves; and lateral flowers.bir/a.
b • C. of G. Hope.
60. P. with oval leaves; and cottony terminal knobs.pubera.
b • C. of G. Hope.
61. P. with hairy oval leaves, terminal knobs, and divaricata.
ftradling branches, b • C. of G. Plope.
62. P. with fmooth, battledore conical leaves, b .fpathulata.
C. of G. Hope.
63. P. with leaves nearly round ; and fmooth \z2Ji-cyanar0i~
ftalks. b • C. of G. Hope. des.
64. P. wdth heart-fhaped leaves, b • C. of G. Hope, cordata.
166. Banksia.
Recept. common, elongated, fcaly. Cor. 4 petals.
The ftamens inferted in the border. The capf. 2-val-
ved, 2-feeded. A moveable partition between the feeds,
W'hich are winged.
Of this genus there are 8 fpecies, viz. ferrata, gran-
dis, integrifolia, pyriformis, dentata, fpinulofa, eiicae-
folia, gibbofa. N. Holland.
167. Rupala.
This genus has two fpecies; viz. montana, and fef-
Afolia,
168. Embothrium.
Eight fpecies; viz. fpecioftflimum, coccineum, gran-
diflorum, umbellatum, hirfutum, buxifolium, fericeum,
Alaifolium.
169. Globularia, or Blue Daify.
Nine fpecies ; viz. longifolia, nana, nudicaulis, o-
rientalis. S. Eur.
170. Cephalanthus, or Button-wood,
Has one fpecies ; viz. occidentalis. N. America.
171. Dipsacus, or Teatzel.
Has four fpecies; viz. *fullonum, * fylveftris, laci-
niatus, and *pilofus.
* D. leaves Atting, ferrated ; chaff bent backwards, fullonum,
It is cultivated for the ufe of the clothiers, who employ
the heads with crooked awns, to raife the knap upon
woollen cloths. For this purpofe they are Axed round
the circumference of a large broad wheel, which is
made to turn round, and the cloth is held againft them.
The plant flowers in June and July, and the heads are
colledled in Auguft. It is fometimes fown along with
caraway and coriander; by which means three crops
are on the foil at once, without inconvenience, as they
ripen at differertt periods.
172. Scabiosa, or Scabious,
Has 41 fpecies; viz. alpina, uftulata, rigida, atte-
nuata, fcabra, tranfylvanica, fyriaca, leucanthia, *fuc-
cifa, integrifolia, amplexicaulis, humilis, decurrens,
P tatarica,
ii4 B O T
tatarica, *arvenfis, uralenus, fylvatica, gramuntia, *co-
lumbaria, pyreaaica, ficula, rutaefolia, * maritiraa, ftel-
lata, prolifera, atropurpurea, argentea, indurata, afri-
cana, monfpelienfis, pumila, cretica, limonifolia, gra-
minitolia, lyrata, paleftina, iietenfis, ucranica, ochro-
leuca, pappofli, and pterocephala. S. Eur. Ind. Afr.
fuccifa. * S. bloffoms 4-cleft, equal 5 llem undivided ^ branches
approaching; leaves Ipear-egg-lhaped. The dried leaves
are ufed to dye wool yellow or green. (Linn.) A
ftrong decoftion of it continued for a confiderable
length of time, is an empirical fecret for gonorrheas.
arvenjis. * S. bloffoms 4-cleft, radiating j leaves wing-cleft, and
jagged; ftem rough with ftrong hairs. Sheep and
goats eat this fpecies. Horfes and cows are not fond of
it. It is flightly aftringent, bitter, and faponaceous.
173. KnautiA,
Has four fpecies j viz. orientalis, propontica, palsef-
tina, and plumofa. Levant, Archipel.
174. Allionia,
Has two fpecies j viz. violacea, and incarnata. Am.
175. Opf.rcularia,
Has three fpecies j viz. umbellata, afpera, diphylla.
N. Holland.
176. Hedyotis,
Has 11 fpecies 5 viz. fruticofa, racemofa, auricula-
ria, hyfpida, maritima, pumila, diffufa, herbacea, gra-
miuifolia, virgata, rupeflris. E. & W. Ind. S. Amer.
177. Stermacoce, or Button-weed,
Has 20 fpecies j viz. tenuior, latifolia, coerulefcens,
alata, hexagona, proftrata, radicans, longifolia, verti-
cillata, fumatrenfis, afpera, hirta, villofa, hifpida, fca-
bra, articularis, ftrifta, linifolia, procumbens, fpinofa.
E. Ind. Afr. Amer.
178. Sherardia, or Little Field-madder,
Contains three fpecies 5 viz. arvenfis, muralis, fruti¬
cofa. Eur. Ifle of Afcenfion.
179. Asperula, or Woodroof
Has feven fpecxes; viz. odorata, hexaphylla, arvenfis,
taurina, craffifolia, calabrica, arilfata, tinftoria, py-
renaica, cynanchica, laevigata. Eur.
odorata. A. leaves 8 in a whirl, fpear-fliaped j flowers in bun¬
dles on fruitftalks. The fcent of it is faid to drive a-
wray ticks and other infefls. (Linn.) It gives a grateful
flavour to wine. Cows, horfes, fheep, and goats eat it.
180. Djodia,
Has 6 fpecies •, viz. virginica, fimplex, verticillata,
profirata, fcandens, farmentofa. Amer. Jamaica.
X-81. Hydrophyx,ax,
Contains only one fpecies 5 viz. maritima.
182. Knoxia,
Has under it two fpecies j zeylanica, and corymbofa.
Ceylon. '
183. Carphalea.
Has one fpecies j viz. corymbofa. Madagafcar.
184. Houstonxa.
Has three fpecies j coerulea, longifolia, and purpurea.
N. America.
185. Galium, or Ladies Bed-Jlraw,
Includes 50 fpecies, viz. rubioides, * paluftre, trifi-
dum, fruticofum, *montanum, tinftorium, capenfe, mu-
cronatum, expanfum, afperum, glabrum, auftriacum,
bocconi, vifcofum, faxatile, tenue, jufliei, pyrenaicum,
A N Y. Tetrandria.
minutum, *pufillum, *fcabrum, * verutn, mollugo, fyl-
vaticum, linifolium, rigidum, ariftatum, hierolblymi-
tanum, pafchale, glaucum, purpureum, rubrum, mega-
lofpermum, fpurium, harcynicum, * uliginofum, * bo-
reale, rotundifolium, bermudianum,ericoides, hirtum,ru-
thenicum, aparine, *aparine, album, microcarpum, pa-
rifienfe, pilofum, maritimum, groecum. Eur. Arab.
N. Amer. Of thefe the following deferve notice.
* G. leaves 8 in a whirl, llrap-flxaped, furrowed j flower- verum*
ing branches ftiort. The flowers will coagulate boiling
milk ; and their juice changes blue infufions to a red
colour, thereby difcovering mai-ks of acidity. The
French preicribe them in hyfteric and epileptic cafes.
Boiled in alum-water they tinge wool yellow. The
roots dye a very fine red, not inferior to madder, and
are ufed for this purpofe in the ifland of Jura. (Pen¬
nant 1772. p. 212.) Sheep and goats eat it. Horfes
and fwine refufe it. Cows are not fond of it. It is
fubjeft to a difeafe, in which the ftem and plants are
fet with flefhy balls, about the fize of a pea, hollow"
within and covered with a purplifli fldn.
* G. leaves 4 in a whirl, fpear-ftxaped, fmooth, 3-fibred;
ftem upright. The roots afford a red dye for woollens.
*. G. leaves 8 in a whirl, fpear-fhaped ; keel rough aparine*
with prickles pointing backwards j joints woolly. The
branches are ufed by the Swedes inftead of a foi to ftrain
milk. Young geefe are very fond of them. The feeds
may be ufed inftead of coffee. The plant is eaten by
horfes, cows, fheep and goats. Swine refufe it. (Linn.)
I he expreffed juice of the ftem and leaves, taken to
the amount of four ounces night and morning, is very
efficacious in removing many of tfiofe cutaneous erup¬
tions, which are called, although improperly, fcorbutic.
It muff be continued for feveral weeks.
186. Crucianella, or Betty madder.
Nine fpecies $ viz. anguftifolia, latifolia, aegyptiaca,
patula, ciliata, pubefeens, maritima, capita, monfpeliaca.
S. Eur. Arab.
187. Rubia, or Madder.
Seven fpecies; tinftorum, or dyers madder, with an¬
nual leaves and a prickly ftem, if.; chilenfis, pere-
grina, lucida, fruticofa, anguftifolia, cordifolia. Siber.
S. Eur. Canar. ;
188. Mattuschk;ea,
One fpecies ; viz. hirfuta. Carolina.
189. Siphonanthus,
Two fpecies; viz. indica, and anguftifolia. India.
190. Roussea,
One fpecies ; viz. fimplex. Mauritius.
191. Froelichia.
One fpecies; viz. paniculata.
I92. SCOLOSANTHUS.
One fpecies ; viz. verficolor.
J93. Catesbjea, or Lily Thorn.
Two fpecies; viz. fpinofa, and parviflora. Jam.
Ifle of Providence.
194. Ixora, or American JeJfamine.
Six fpecies ; viz. coccinea, parviflora, alba, ameri-
cana, fafciculata, and multiflora. E. Ind. Jam. S. Am.
195. Pavetta. \
Five fpecies; viz. indica, villofa, longiflora, caffra,
pentandra. C. of G. Hope.
196.
Tetrandria.
T
B O
196. Ernodea.
One fpecies j called littoralis. Jamaica.
I97. SlDERODENDRUM.
One fpecies j called triilorum. S. Amer.
198. PetesiA,
Three fpecies j viz. ftipularis, carnea, tomentofa.
199. Hoffmannia.
One fpecies; called pendunculata. Jamaica.
200. Chomelia.
One fpecies ; called fpinofa.
2or. Petitia.
One fpecies; called domingenfis. St Domingo.
202. Myonima.
Two fpecies ; viz. obarata, lanceolata. Me of Bourb.
203. Pyrostria.
One fpecies; viz. falicifolia.
204. CuNNINGH AMIA.
Two fpecies ; farmentofa, verticillata. Guiana, Me
«f Bourbon.
205. ^.GIPHILA.
Eight fpecies ; viz. martinicenlis, elata, mixia, vil-
lofa, arborefcens, laevis, foetida, trifida. W. Indies.
206. Mitchella.
One fpecies ; viz. repens. N. America.
207. Coccocypsilum.
Three fpecies; viz. repens, unidorum, biflorum. Jam.
208. Wallenia.
One fpecies ; viz. laurifolia. Jamaica.
209. Callicarpa, or Johnfonia.
Ten fpecies ; viz. americana, cana, lanata, macro-
phylla, ferruginea, reticulata, longifolia, integrifolia,
villofa, japonica. N. Amer. Jap. Jamaica.
210. Aquartia.
Two fpecies ; viz. aculeata, microphylla. S. Amer.
211. WlTHERINGIA.
One fpecies ; viz. folanacea. S. Amer.
212. Myrmecia.
One fpecies ; viz. fcandens. Guiana.
213. Polyphremum, or Carolina F/ax.
One fpecies ; viz. procumbens. N. Amer.
214. Labatia.
Two fpecies ; viz. feffilifiora, pedunculata. Hifpan.
215. Lasiostoma.
One fpecies ; viz. cirrhofa. Guiana.
216. Manettia.
Five fpecies; viz. reclinata, lygiftum, coccinea, pic-
ta, lanceolata. S. Amer. Jamaica.
217. Bellardia.
One ipecies; viz. repens. Guiana.
218. Pen^a.
Nine fpecies; viz. farcocolla, mucronata, marginata,
lateriflora, tomentofa, fucata, fquamofa, fruticulofa, myr-
toides. Cape of G. Hope.
219. Blaeria.
Nine fpecies; viz. cricoides, fcabra, fafcicula, articu-
lata, purpurea, mufcofa, pufilla, glabella, ciliaris. Cape.
220. Buddleia.
Nine fpecies; viz. americana, occidentalis, globofa,
A N Y.n 115
falvifolia, madagafcarienfis, falicitolia, diverfifolia, vir-
gata, incompta. Cape, S. Amer. W. Ind.
221. Exacum.
18 Species ; viz. vifcofum, pedunculatum, albens,
aureum, felhle, cordatum, pun£tatum, quadrangulare,
gujanenfe, diffufum, tenuifolium, *filiforme, aphyllum,
heteroclitum, fpicatum, ramofum, verticillatum, hyffo-
pifolium. Afia, Africa.
222. Plantago, or Plantain.
33 Species ; viz. * major, crafla, afiatica, maxima,
* media, virginica, altiffima, * lanceolata, capenfis, la-
gopus, lufitanica, patagonica, albicans, hirfuta, alpina,
bellardi, cretica, barbata, *maritima, fubulata, recur-
vata, macrorhiza, ferraria, *coronopus, loeflingii, cor-
nuti, amplexicaulis, pfyllium, fquarrofa, indica, pu-
mila, cynops, afra. Eur. Egypt, China, N. Amer.
* P. leaves fpear-lhaped; fpike nearly eggdhaped, ws.-lanceolata.
ked ; llalk angular. It is ufually called rib-wort or
rib-grafs. Linnaeus fays it is eaten by horfes, flieep,
and ^oats, and that cows refufe it ; but Haller attri¬
butes the richnefs of the mijk in the famous alpine dai¬
ries to this plant, and to the alchemilla vulgaris.—The
total abfence of this plant in marlhy lands, is a certain
criterion of the wretched quality thereof: in proportion
as fuch foils are meliorated by draining, this plant will
flourilh and abound. When fown for pafturage upon
rich fands and loams, this plant gives a confiderable
herbage; and on poorer and drier foils, it does well for
Iheep, but is inferior to fome others. Mr Marfhall ob-
ferves that it has flood the tell of 20 years eftablifhed
practice, in Yorkfhire, and is in good eflimation, though
not well affefted by horfes, and bad for hay from re¬
taining its fap. The plantago major or great plantain,
is called feptinervia, from its having 7 large nerves or
ribs running along each leaf; the narrow-leaved fort,
above defcribed, has only five ribs, and hence it is cal¬
led quinquenervia. The leaves are lightly affringent,
and the feeds are faid to be fo ; and hence they fland
recommended in haemorrhages and other cafes of this
kind where medicines of this kind are proper. The
leaves bruifed a little are the common application of
the common people to flight tlefh wounds.
Plantain has been alleged to be a cure for the bite
of the rattle-fnake; but for this there is probably little
foundation, although it is one of the principal ingre¬
dients in the remedy of the negro Csefar, for the difco-
very of which he received a confiderable reward from
the affembly of S. Carolina.
223. Scoparia.
Three fpecies; viz. dulcis, procumbens, arborea.
Egypt, N. America.
224. Centunculus, or Bafe Pimpernel.
One ipecies; called minimus. Germany, S. Eur.
225. Sanguisorba, or Great Wild Burnet.
Three fpecies ; viz. * officinalis, media, canadenfis.
Eur. N. America.
226. Cissus.
18 Species; viz, vitiginea, capenfis, repanda, lati-
folia, cordifolia, rotundifolia, ficyoides, quadrangula-
ris, acida, cirrhiofa, trifoliata, microcarpa, crenata, car-
nofa, obovata, japonica, pentaphylla, pedata. Arabia,
Ind. Jam.
227. Epimedium, Barren-wort.
One fpecies; viz. *alpinum.
P 2
228,
ji6 B O T
22?. Corn US, or Dog-wood Cornel Cherry.
12 Species; viz. *fuecica, canadenfis, florida, maf-
cula, japonica, * fanguinea, alba, fericea, circinata, ftri-
ata, paniculata, alternifolia. Alia, Amer.
Janguinea. * C. branches flraight ; leaves egg-lhaped, green on
both fides ; tuft flatted. The wood is very hard and
fmooth, fit for the purpofes of the turner. The leaves
change to a blood red in autumn ; the berries are bit¬
ter and flyptic, they dye purple. Horfes, flieep, and
goats eat it. Swine and cows refufe it.
229. Glossoma.
One fpecies ; viz. arborefeens. Guiana.
230. Samara.
Four fpecies; viz. la;ta, coriacea, pentandra, floii-
bunda. Cape, E. Ind. Jam. Guiana.
231. Fagara.
12 Species ; viz. triphylla, evodia, pterota, piperita,
tragodes, zanthoxyloides, horrida, capenfis, armata, avi-
cennse, o&andra, elaphrium. W. Ind. Japan.
232. Hartogia.
One fpecies ; viz. capenfis. C. of G. Hope.
233. Monetia.
Twto fpecies; viz. barlerioides, diacantha. E. Ind.
234. Blackburnia.
One fpecies; viz. pinnata.
235. Ptelea, or Shrub Trefoil.
One fpecies; viz. trifoliata. N. Amer. S. S. ifles.
236. Skimmia.
One fpecies; viz. japonica. Japan.
237. Othera.
One fpecies; viz. japonica. Japan.
238. Orixa.
One fpecies ; viz. japonica.
239. Ludwigia, or Bafe Virginian LoofeJlrife.
Five fpecies ; alternifolia, hirfuta, juffiacoides, op-
pofitifolia, erigata. Ind. Amer. Jam.
240. Oldenlandia.
13 Species; viz. verticillata, digynia, trinervia, de-
preffa, capenfis, uniflora, biflora, pentandra, umbella-
ta, corymbofa, hirfuta, debilis, foetida.
241. Ammania.
Seven fpecics; latifolia, ramofior, debilis, fanguino-
lenta, oclandra, baccifera, pinnatifida. Ind. Virginia.
242. Isnardia.
One fpecies ; viz. paluftris. Eur. China, N. Amer.
W. Ind.
243. TrApa, or Floating Water-caltrops.
Two fpecies; viz. natans, bicornis. Eur. China.
244. Dorstenia, or Contrayerva.
Fen fpecies; viz. cordifolia, braffilienfis, arifolia,
houftoni, contrajerea, drakena, caulefcens, lucida, pu-
befeens. Arab). S. America.
245. Pothos, or Scunh-weed.
12 Species; viz. fcandens, acaulis, lanceolata, cre-
A N Y» Tetrandria*
247. CurtisiA, or Hajfagay-tree.
One fpecies ; viz. faginea. C. of G. Hope.
• 24S. Chloranthus, or Tea-leaved Chu-lan.
One fpecies; viz. inconfpicuus. Cape, China, Jap.
249. Eleagnus, or 0leafier or Wild Olive.
Ten fpecies ; viz. anguflifolia, orientalis, fpinofa,
pungent, latifolia, crifpa, multiflora, umbellata, glabra,
macrophylla. S. Eur. China, Japan.
250. Gonatocarpus.
One fpecies ; viz. micranthus. Japan.
251. Santalum, or Sanders.
One fpecies; viz. album. What is ufually called
White Sanders wood, is brought from the Eaft Indies,
in billets about the fize of a man’s leg, of a pale whitifh
colour. It conftitutes the outer part of the timber or
that part of the tree which is neareft the bark. This
white part has little fenfible fmell or tafte. The inner
part of the timber, which ufually receives the appella¬
tion of Tellow Sanders wood, is of a pale yellowdftt
colour, of a pleafant fmell and a bitterifh aromatic tafle,
accompanied with an agreeable fort of pungency. Dx-
flilled with water it yields a fragrant effential oil, which
thickens in the cold to the confiftence of a balfam.
Digefted in pure fpirit it imparts a rich yellow tindlure,
which being committed to diftillation, the fpirit arifes
without bringing over any thing confiderable of the
virtues of the fanders. The refiduum contains the
virtues of fix times its wreight of the w7ood. Hoffman
looks upon this extraft as a medicine of fimilar virtues
to ambergris, and recommends it as an excellent refto-
rative in great debilities.
252. Struthiola.
Five fpecies; viz. virgata, nana, juniperina, ere&a*
ovata. C. of G. Hope.
253. Krameria,
One fpecies; viz. ixina. S. Amer.
254. Acaena.
One fpecies ; viz. elongata. Mexico.
255. Rivina.
Four fpecies; viz. humilis, leevis, brafilienfis, o&andra.
W. Indies.
256. Salvadora.
One fpecies; viz. perfica. Perfia, India.
257. Camphorosma.
Five fpecies; viz. paleacea, monfpeliaca, acuta, gla¬
bra, pteranthus. S. Eur. Cape.
258. Alchemilla, or Ladies-mantle.
Six fpecies; viz. capenfis, ^vulgaris, *alpina, pen-
taphylla, aphanoides, aphanes. Alps of Eur.
A. leaves gafhed. The whole of this plant is aftrin- vulgaris^
gent. In the province of Smolandia in Gothland, they
make a tinfture of the leaves, and give it in fpafmodic
or convulfive difeafes. Horfes, fheep, and goats eat it;
fwine refufe it; cows are not fond of it.
Order II. DIGYNIA.
ata, viotacea.
cramnervxa, cordata, macrophylla, pin-
ata, palmata, digitata, pentaphylla. Ind. Amer.
246. Comeths.
One fpecies; viz. alternifloria. E. Ind. Surat.
259. Cruzita.
One fpecies ; viz. hifpanica.
260. Bufonia, or Toad-grafs.
One fpecies; viz. * tenuifolia.
26*.
Pentandrla.
T
117
B O
261. Hamamelis, or Witch Hazel.
One fpecies ; viz. virginica. Carol. Virgin.
262. Cuscuta, ox Dodder.
Five fpecies; viz. europea, americana, africana, mo-
nogyna, chineniis.
curopcea. * C. flowers fitting, moftly 4-cleft. The feeds of
this fpecies fown in a pot produce plants, but which
foon die, unlefs they can attach themfelves to fome
other plant. As foon as the fhoots have twined about
an adjoining plant, they fend out from their inner fur-
face a number of little veficles or papillae, which at¬
tach themfelves to the bark or rind of the plant. By
degrees the longitudinal veflels of the ftalk, which ap-
pear to have accompanied the veficles, fhoot forth from
their extremities and make their way to the fofter plant,
by dividing the velfels and infinuating themfelves into
the tendered part of the fta’k ; and fo intimately are
they united with it, that it is eafier to break than to
difengage them from it.
263. Hypecoum.
Four fpecies ; viz. procumbens, littorale, pendulum,
ereftum.
264. Nerteria.
One fpecies j viz. depreffa. S. America.
263. Galopina.
One fpecies 5 viz. circteoides. C. of G. Hope.
Order III. TRIGYNIA.
266. Boscia.
One fpecies ; viz. undulata.
Order IV. TETRAGYNIA.
267. Ilex, or Holly.
19 Species j viz. *aquifolium, japonica, opaca, cro-
cea, ferrata, latifolia, perado, prinoides, cafline, vo-
mitoria, crenata, emarginata, falicifolia, afiatica, inte-
gra, rotunda, obcordata, acuminata, cuneifolia. Afia,
N. America.
aquifolium * !• leaves egg-fhaped, acute, thorny, on leaf-ftalks;
flowers in a kind of umbel, axillary.—All the varieties
which gardeners reckon, to the amount of 40 or 50,
are derived from this one fpecies, and depend upon the
ANY.
variegation of the leaves or thorns, and the colour of
the berries. Sheep are fed in the winter with the
croppings, as are alfo deer. Birds eat the berries.
The bark fermented, and afterwards walked from the
woody fibres, makes the common bird-lime. It makes
an impenetrable fence, and bears cropping; nor is its
verdure, or the beauties of its fcarlet berries ever ob-
ferved to fuffer from the fevereft of our winters. The
wood is ufed in fineering, and is fometimes ftained
black to imitate ebony. Handles for knives and cogs
for mill-wheels are made of it.—It is faid to have been
obferved by Linnaeus, that the low'er branches within
reach of cattle bear thorny leaves, whilft the upper
ones which fland in need of no fuch defence are with¬
out thorns.
268. ColdeniA.
One fpecies ; viz. procumbens. E. Indies.
269. Potamogeton, or Pond-weed.
14 Species; viz. natans, fluitans, heterophyllum, per-
foliatum, denfum, *lucens, *crifpum, ferratum, *com-
preffum, *pe6Hnatum, * fetaceum, *gramineuin, *ma-
rinum, *pufillum. Eur. N. America.
P leaves oblong egg-lhaped, on leafftalks, floating, nataaf.
The leaves of this plant floating upon the furface of
water, afford an agreeable ihade to filh, and are the
habitation and food of the phalcena potamogeton. The
roots are a favourite food of the fwan.
270. Ruppia.
One fpecies 5 viz. *maritima.
271. Sagina, or Pearl-wort.
Five fpecies; viz. * ceraftoides, * procumbens, * a~
petala, *ere<ffa, and virginica of Virginia.
272. Till;ea, Small annual houfe-leek.
Eight fpecies 5 viz. aquatica, proftrata, vaillantii,
capenfis, perfoliata, umbellata, decumbens, mufeofa.
Eur. C. of G. Hope.
273. Myginda.
Three fpecies j viz. vragoga, rhacoma, latifolia. N>
America, W. Indies.
In the clafs Tetrandria are
117 Genera, which include 638 Species. Of thefe
56 fpecies are found in Britain.
CLASSIS V. CLASS v.
PEN TAND RIA. PENTAND RIA.
Ordo I. MONOGYNIA. Order I. MONOGYNIA
Seel. I. Flores monopetaliy inferiy tnonofpermi.
373. Mirabilis. Nux infra corollam. Cor. in-
fundibilif. Stigma globofum papillofum.
295. Tricratus. Nux 5-angularis. Cor. infundi-
bilif. laciniis bilobis. Cal. 0.
318,
Seel. I. Flowers monopetalouSy inferiory one feeded
,M. Nut beneath the cor. The cor. ftmnel-lhaped.
Stigma globular pimpled.
I. Nut 5-angular. Cor. funnel-lhaped with 2-I0-
bed fegments. No calyx.
118 EOT
318. Plumbago. Sem. 1. Stam. valvis inferta.
Cor. infundibilif. Stigma. 5-fidum.
317. Weigelia. Sem. 1. Cor. infundibilif. Stylus
a latere germinis.
470. Quinchamalia. Sem. i. Cor. tubulofa. An-
tberae feffiles.
408. Corymbum. Sem. 1, lana involut. Cor. in¬
fundibilif. Cal. 2-phyll. Anth. connatae.
Seel. II. Flores monopetaliy inferiy difpenni. Af-
perifolia.
281. Cerinthe. Cor. fauce nuda ventricofa. Nuc.
2, ofleae, 2-loculares.
287. Messerchmidia. Cor. fauce nuda, infundib.
Nuc. 2. fuberofae, 2-fpermse.
Se£l. III. Flores monopetaliy inferiy tetrafpermi. Af-
perifolue.
286. Echium. Cor. fauce nuda, irregularis, cam-
panulata.
274. Heliotropium. Cor. fauce nuda, hypocra-
terif. lobis dente interjedlis. Sem. 4.
279. Pulmonaria. Con fauce nuda, infundib.
Cal. prifmaticus.
276. Lithospermum. Cor. fauce nuda, infun¬
dib. Cal. 5-partitus.
282. Onosma. Cor. fauce nuda, ventricofa. Sem. 4.
280. Symphytum. Cor. fauce dentata, ventricofa.
283. Borago. Cor. fauce dentata, rotata.
285. Lycopsis. Cor. fauce fornicata, infundib.
tubo curvato.
284. Asperugo. Cor. fauce fornicata, infundib.
Fruftus comprelfus.
278. Cynoglossum. Cor. fauce fornicata, infun¬
dib. Sem. deprelfa, latere affixa.
277. Anchusa. Cor. fauce fornicata, infundib.
tubo bad prifmatico.
275. Myosotis. Cor. fauce fornicata, hypocra-
terif. lobis emarginatis.
Seel. IV. Flores monopetaliy inferiy pentafpermi.
289. Nolana. Cor. monopetala. Nuces 5, 2 f.
4-loculares.
Se£f. V. Flores monopetaliy inferiy angiofpermi.
374. Coris. Capf. i-locularis, 5-valvis. Cor. ir¬
regularis. Stigm. capitatum.
303. Hydrophyllum. Capf- i-locularis, 2-valvis.
Cor. nedtariis 5, exarata. Stigma bifidum.
434. Galax. Capf. i-locularis, 2-valvis. Cor.
hypocrat. Stigma fubrotundum.
432. Barreria. Capf.? Cor. rotata. Anth. co-
Iiserentes. Stigmata 3.
294. Cortusa. Capf. i-locularis, oblonga. Cor.
rotata. Stigma fubcapitatum.
306. Anagallis. Capf. i-locularis, circumfcif.
Cor- rotata. Stigma capitatum.
ANY. Pentandria
P. Seed 1. Stamen inferted in the valves. Cor. fun-
nel-fhaped. Stigma 5-cltft.
W. 1 Seed. Cor. funnel-lhaped. Style with late¬
ral feed-buds.
I Seed. Cor. tubular. Anthers fitting.
C. 1 feed covered with wool. Cor. funnel-fiiaped.
Cal. 2-leaved. Anthers united at the bafe.
Se£l. II. Flowers mo?iopetalouSy inferiory 2-feeded.
Rough leaves.
C. Cor. with a naked mouth, diftended. Nuts 2,
hard as bone, 2-celled.
M. Cor. with a naked mouth, funnel-lhaped. Nuts
2, eroded beneath, 2-feeded.
Se£l. III. Flowers monopetalousy inferiory 4-fteded.
Rough leaves.
E. Cor. with a naked mouth, irregular, bell-lhaped.
H. Cor. with a naked mouth, and lobes divided by a
falver-fhaped tooth. Seeds 4.
P. Cor. with a naked mouth, funnel-fhaped. Cal.
prifm-lhaped, i. e. differing from cylindrical in the cup
being angular.
L. Cor. with a naked mouth, funnel-fhaped. Cal.
5-partite.
O. Cor. wdth a naked mouth, diftended. Seeds 4.
S. Cor. with a toothed mouth, diftended.
B. Cor. wdth a toothed mouth, wftieel-fhaped.
L. Cor. wdth a vaulted mouth, funnel-fhaped, tube
curved.
A. Cor. with a vaulted mouth, funnel-fhaped, fruit
compreffed.
C. Cor. with a vaulted mouth, funnel-fhaped. Seed
depreffed, fixed in the fide.
A. Cor. with a vaulted mouth, funnel-fhaped, the
tube prifmatic at the bafe.
M. Cor. with a vaulted mouth, falver-fhaped , lobes
notched at the end.
Se£t. IV. Flowers monopetalousy inferiory $-feeded.
N. Cor. monopetalous. 5 Nuts, 2 or 4-celled.
Sect. V. Flowers \~petalouSy inferior. Seeds in a cap-
fule.
C. Capf. I-celled, 5-valved. Cor. irregular. The
ftigmas growing in heads.
H. Capf. 1-celled, 2-valved. Cor. furrowed with
5 neftaries. Stigma 2-cleft.
G. Capf. 1-celled, 2-valved. Cor. falver-fhaped.
Stigm. nearly round.
B. Capf. ? Cor. wheel-fhaped. Anthers coher¬
ing. Stigmas 3.
C. Capf. 1-celled, oblong. Cor. wheel-fhaped. Stig¬
ma nearly growing in heads.
A. Capf. 1-celled, cut round. Cor. wTheel-fhaped.
Stigma growing in a head.
3°5*
J
Pentandria. EOT
305. Lysimachia. Capf. i-locularis, 10-valvis.
Cor. rotata. Stigma obtufum.
300. Doroena. Capf. i-locul. i-valv. polyfper-
ma. Cor. 5 nda. Stigma emarginatum.
298. Cyclamen. Capf. i-locularis, intus pulpofa.
Cor. reflexa. Stigma acutum.
297. Dodecatheon. Capf. i-locul. oblonga. Cor.
reflexa. Stigm. obtufum.
296. So LOAN ELL A. Capf. i-locularis. Cor. lace-
ra. Stigm. fimplex.
395. Lita. Capf. i-locid. 2-valv. Cor. hypocra-
terif. Anth. in tubo fefliles. Stigma truncatum.
293. Primula. Capf. i-locularis. Cor. infundib.
fauce pervia. Stigma globofum.
291. Aretia. Capf. i-locul. Cor. bypocraterif.
Stigma depreflb capitatum.
302. Bacopa. Capf. i-locul. Cor. hypocraterif.
Cal. inaequal. Stigma capitatum.
301. Hottonia. Cor. fauce fornicata, infundib.
Sem. depreffa, latere affixa.
313. Sheffieldia. Capf. i-locul. 5-valv. Cor.
campanulata. Stam. alterna fterilia.
299. Menyanthes. Capf. i-locularis. Cor. vil-
lofa. Stigma bifidum.
479. Alla man da. Capf. i-locularis, lentiformis,
bivalvis, valvulis cymbiformibus. Sem. imbricata.
507. Theophrasta. Capf. i-locularis, maxima.
Cor. campanulata. Stigma acutum.
371. Geniostoma. Capf. 2-locul. Cor. infundi-
bilif. fauce villofa.
308. Spigelia. Capf. 2-locularis, didyma. Cor.
infundib. Stigma fimplex.
334* Sphehoclea. Capf. 2-locul. circumfcifla.
Cor. 5-fid. calyce minor. Stigma capitatum.
309. Ophiorhiza. Capf. 2-locularis, 2-partita. Cor.
infundib. Stigma 2-fidum.
321. Retzia. Capf. 2-locul. Cor. cylindrica, ex-
tus villofa. Stigma 2-fidum.
323. Con volvulus. Capf. 2-locularis, 2-fperma.
Cor. campanulata. Stigm. 2 fidum.
310. Li si an thus. Capf. 2-locularis, polyfperma.
Cor. infundib. ventricofa. Styl. perfiftens.
377- Datura. Capf. 2-locul. 4-valvis. Cor. in¬
fundib. Cal. deciduus.
378. Hyosciamus. Capf. 2-locularis operculata.
Cor. infundib. Stigma capitatum.
379. Nicotiana. Capf. 2-locularis. Cor. infun¬
dib. Stigm. emarginatum.
376. Verbascum. Capf. 2-locular. Cor.' rotata.
Stigma obtufum. Stam. declinata.
394- Chironia. Capf. 2 locular. Cor. tubo urce-
olato, Antherae defloratae fpirales.
322. Porana. FrmRus bivalvis. Calyx in fruftu
grandifaftus. Stylus elongatus, femibifidus.
290. Diapensia. Capf. 3-locularis. Cor. hypo-
crat. Cal. 8-phyllus.
320. Phlox. Capf. 3-locularis. Cor. hypocrater.
tubo curvo. Stigm. trifidum.
326. Polemonium. Capf. 3-locularis. Cor. 5-par¬
tita. Stam. valvis impofita.
324. Cantua. Capf. 3-locul. 3-valv. Sem. alata.
Cor. infundibilif. Stigm. 3-fid.
325* Ipomoea. Capf. 3-locularis. Cor. infundib.
Stigma capitatum.
ANY.
L. Capf. i-celled, with ID valves. Cor. wheel-
fhaped. Stigma blunt.
D. Capf. 1-celled, i-valved, many-feeded. Cor. 5-
cleft. Stigma notched at the end.
C. Capl. 1 celled, pulpy within. Cor. bent back.
Stigma lharp.
D. Capf. i-celled, oblong. Cor. bent back. Stig¬
ma blunt.
S. Capf. 1-celled. Cor. ragged. Stigma undivid¬
ed.
L. Capf. 1-celled, 2-valved. Cor. falver-lhaped.
Anthers fitting in the tube. Stigma lopped.
P. Capf. 1-celled. Cor. funnel-lhaped with a per¬
vious mouth. Stigma globular.
A. Capf. 1-celled. Cor. falver-fhaped, flat-headed.
B. Capf. 1-celled. Cor. falver-fhaped. Cal. un¬
equal. Stigma headed.
H. Cor. with a vaulted mouth, funnel-fliaped. Seed
funk, fixed in the fide.
S. Capf. 1-celled, 5-valved. Cor. bell-fhaped. Al¬
ternate ftamens barren.
M. Capf. i-celled. Cor. woolly. Stigma 2-cleft.
A. Capf. i-celled, globular, but comprefled, 2-val¬
ved, with boat-fhaped valves. Seed tiled.
T. Capf. i-celled, very large. Cor. bell-fhaped.
Stigma acute.
G. Capf. 2-celled. Cor. funnel-fhaped, with woolly
mouth.
S. Capf. 2-celled, double. Cor. funnel-fhaped. Stig¬
ma undivided.
S. Capf. 2-celled, cut round. Cor. 5-cleft, lefs than
the calyx. Stigma headed.
O. Capf. 2-celled, 2-partite. Cor. funnel-fhaped.
Stigma 2-cleft.
R. Capf. 2-celled. Cor. cylindrical, outfide woolly.
Stigma 2-cleft.
C. Capf. 2-celled, 2-feeded. Cor. bell-fhaped. Stig¬
ma 2-cleft.
L. Capf. 2-celled, many-feeded. Cor. funnel-fhaped,
diftended. Style permanent.
D. Capf. 2-celled, 4-valved. Cor. funnel-fhaped.
Cal. deciduous.
H. Capf. 2-celled, covered with a lid. Cor. fun¬
nel-fhaped. Stigma headed.
N. Capf. 2-celled. Cor. funnel-fhaped. Stigma
notched at the end.
V. Capf. 2-celled. Cor. wheel-fhaped. Stigma
obtufe. Stamens bent.
C. Capf. 2-celled. Cor. with a pitcher-fhaped tube,.
Anthers twifled after having fhed their pollen.
P. Fruit 2-valved. Calyx fwelling with the fruit.
Style elongated, half-cleft.
D. Capf. 3-celled. Cor. falver-fhaped. Cal. 8-
leaved.
P. Capf. 3-celled. Cor. falver-fhaped, with a crook¬
ed tube. Stigma 3-cleft.
P. Capf. 3-celled. Cor. 5-partite. Stamens placed
on valves.
C. Capf. 3-celled, 3-valved. Seeds winged. Cor,
funnel-fliaped. Stigma 3-cleft.
I. Capf. 3-celled. Cor. funnel-fhaped. Stigma
with a little head.
375*
119
120
Pentandria*
\
B O T
375. Bross^ea. Capf. 5-locul. Cor. truncata.
Cal. carnofus.
;i2. Azalea. Capf. 5-locularrs. Cor. campanu-
lata. Stigm. obtufum.
315. Ep^eris. Capf. 5-locul. Cor. infundibulif.
villofa. Squama neftarif.
481. Nerium. Follic. 2, eredli. Cor. fauce coro-
nata. Sem. pappofa.
482. Echites. Follic. 2, ere£li. Cor. infundib.
fauce nuda. Sem. pappofa.
483. Plumieria. Follic. 2, retra&i. Cor. infun¬
dib. Sem. alata.
484. Cameraria. Follic. 2, lobati. Cor. hypo-
crat. Sem. alata.
485. TaBERN ^MONTANA. Follic. 2, pulpofi. Cor.
hypocrat. Sem. iimplicia.
480. Vine A. Follic. 2, ereai. Cor. hypocrat.
Sem. fimplicia.
475. Cerbera. Drupae 2, nuces fubmonofpermoe.
Cor. infundibulif.
339. Thouinia. Drupa. Cor. campanulata, extus
hifpida. Cal, 5-phyll.
402. Tectona. Drupa ficca, mice 3-locul. Cor.
infundibulif.
391. Ardisia. Drupa i-fperma. Cor. hypocra-
terif. limbo reflexo.
401. Bumelia. Drupa i-fperma. Cor. hypocra-
terif. limbo dentibus interjefto. Neft. 5-phyll.
474. Gynopogon. Drupa nuce femibilocul. Cor.
hypocraterif. Stigma globofum villofum.
" 399. Langeria. Drupa i-fperma. Nux 5-locu-
lar. Stigm. capitatum.
398. Varronia. Drupa i-fperma. Nux 4-locul.
Stigm. 4-plex.
396. Cordia. Drupa i-fperma. Nux 4-locularis.
Stigma dichotomum. Cal. baccae accretus.
386. Ignatia. Drupa polyfperma. Cor. infundi¬
bulif. tubo longiffimo.
397. Ehretia. Drupa 4-fperma. Nux 2-locular.
Stigm. emarginatum.
316. Styphelia. Drupa 5-locularis. Cor. tubu-
lofa.
478. Willughbeja. Cor. hypocraterif. Stigm.
capitatpm.
473. Carissa. Baccae 2, polyfpermae.
392. Jac^uinia. Bacca i-fperma. Cor. 10-fida.
Ned. 5-phyll.
421. Myrsine. Bacca i-fperma. Cor. campanu-
lat. Stigm. villofum.
422. Bladhia. Bacca i-fperma. Sem. arillatum.
Cor. rotata.
472. Pajderia. Bacca 2-fperma, inflata, fragili?.
471. Rauwolfia. Bacca 2-fperma. Sem. corda-
ta.
415. Arduina. Bacca z-fpenna. Sem. oblonga.
Cor. curvata. Stigm. 2-fidum.
387. Cestrum. Bacca i-locularis. Filamenta
dente notata.
311. Frag/ea. Bacca 2-locul. carnol. Cor infun¬
dibulif. tubo longo. Stigma capitatum.
288. Tournefortia. Bacca 2-locul. loculis z-fper-
mis, apice perforata.
385. Strychnos. Bacca 2-locularis corticofa.
Stigma capitatum.
ANY.
B. Capf. 5-celled. Cor. lopped. Cal. flefliy.
A. Capf. 5-celled. Cor. bell-fhaped. Stigm. blunt.
E. Capf. 5-celled. Cor. funnel-lhaped, woolly. A
fcale honey-bearing.
N. Air-bags 2, ere&. Cor. with a crowned mouth.
Seeds downy.
E. Air-bags 2, ered. Cor. funnel-lhaped, with a
naked mouth. Seeds downy.
P. Air-bags 2, drawn back. Cor. funnel-lhaped.
Seeds winged.
C. Air-bags 2, galhed. Cor. falver-fliaped. Seeds
wnnged.
T. Air bags 2, pulpy. Cor. falver-ftiaped. Seeds
undivided.
V. Air bags 2, ered. Cor. falver-lhaped. Seeds
undivided.
C. Drupes 2, nuts nearly i-feeded. Cor. funnel-
fhaped.
T. A drupe. Cor. bell-lhaped, rough w'ithout, with
fliff briftly hairs. Cal. 5-leaved.
T. A drupe dry, with a 3-celled nut. Cor. funnel-
fliaped.
A. A drupe i-feeded. Cor. falver-ihaped, border
turned back.
B. A drupe with 1 feed. Cor. falver-fhaped, border
notched with teeth. Nedary 5-leaved.
G. A drupe with a nut half 2-celled. Cor. falver-
fliaped. Stigma globular, woolly.
L. A drupe with 1 feed. A nut 5-celled. Stigma
wnth a knob.
V. A drupe 1-feed. Nut 4-celled. Stigma 4-fold.
C. A drupe, 1 feed. Nut 4-celled. Stigma forked.
Cal. growing to the berry.
1. A drupe. Many feeds. Cor. funnel-fliaped, with
a very long tube.
E. A drupe, 4-feedcd. Nut 2-celled. Stigma notch¬
ed at the end.
S. A drupe, 5-celled. Cor. tubular.
W. Cor. falver-fliaped. Stigma with a little head
or knob.
C. Berries 2, many-feeded.
|. Berry i-feeded. Cor. 10-cleft. Nedary 5-
leaved.
M. Berry 1 feed. Cor. bell-fliaped. Stigma wool-
ty-
B. Berry I feed.
Seed coated. Cor. wheel-fliaped.
P. Berry 2-feeded, inflated, brittle.
R. Berry 2-feeded. Seeds heart-fliapcd.
A. Berry 2-feeded. Seeds oblong. Cor. crookeo
Stigma 2-cleft.
C. Berry 1-celled. Filaments toothed.
F. Berry 2-celled, flefhy. Cor. funnel-fliaped, ivvitu
a long tube. Stigma with a knob.
T. Berry 2-celled, w7ith 2-feeded cells perforated at
the point.
S. Berry 2-celled, bark-like. Stigma with a knob.
3847
Pentandria. B O T
384. Capsicum, Bacca 2-locul. exfucea. An¬
ther* conniventes,
* 383. Solan um. Bacca 2-locularis. Anther* bi-
perforat*.
382. Physalis. Bacca 2-locul. Calyceinflate.
Anther* approximat*.
380. Jabarosa. Bacca ? Cor. tubulofa longiflima.
* 381. Atropa. Bacca 2-locul. Stain, diftantia,
incurvata.
304. Ellisia. Bacca 2-locular. Sem. 2, altero
fuperiore.
388. Licium. Bacca 2-locular. Stam. bafl villo
claudentia.
390. Cryptostomum. Bacca 3-locul. Cor. in-
fundibulif. calyci inferta. Ne£t. i-phyllum, corollam
claudens.
416. Cam ax. Bacca 4 locul. villof. polyfp. iCor.
rotata. Cal. 5-part.
319. Triguera. Bacc. 4-locul. j locul. 2-fperm.
Cor. campanulata. Cal. 5-dent.
341. Solandra. Bacca 4 locul. polyfperma. Cor.
infundibulif. Cal. ringens.
369. Menais. Bacca 4-locular. Cal. 3-phyllus.
Stigm. duo.
449. Leea. Bacca 5-fperma. Cor. rotata. Neft.
urceolat. 5-fid. ftaminiferum.
403. Sideroxylon. Bacca 5-fperma. Cor. 10-
fida, laciniis interioribus conniventibus.
400. Chrysophyllum. Bacca iQ-fperma. Cor.
2S-fida, laciniis exterioribus patentiflimis.
393. Bassonia. Bacca polyfperma nodulofa. Cor.
rotata.
364. Bjeobotrus. Bacca polyfperma. Cor. tu-
bulof. Cal. duplex.
Se£t. VI. Flcres monopetali, fuperi.
* 333. Samolus. Capf. i-locularis, apice 5-valvis.
Cor. hypocrat. Stigm. capitatum.
352. Virecta. Capf. i-locul. Cor. infundibulif.
Cal. 5-dent, dentibus interje&is.
338. Bellonia. Capf. i-locul. umbilico roftrato.
Cor. rotata, ftigm. acutum.
337. Macrocnemum. Capfi 2-locul, turbinata.
Cor. camp. Sigm. bilobum. Sem. imbricata.
351. Dentella. Capf. 2-locul. Cor. infundibu¬
lif. laciniis 3-dentat.
350. Chimarrhis. Capf. 2-locul. j locul. i-fperm.
Cor. infundibulif. Stigm. 2-part.
336. Rondeletia. Capf. 2-locular. fubglobofa.
Cor. infund. Stigm. obtufum.
346. Cinchona. Capf. 2-locular. intus dehifeens.
Cor. hirfuta. Stigm. fimplex.
340. Portlandia. Capf. 2-locul. coronata. Cor.
ventricofa. Stigm. fimplex. Sem. imbricata.
330. Roella. Capf. 2-locul. coronata. Cor. ro¬
tata. Stigm. 2-fidum.
344. Gooden ia. Capf. 2-locul. Cor. 2-petal, lon-
gitudinaliter fifla.
* 331* Phyteuma. Capf. 2 f. 3-locul. perforata.
Cor. 5-partita. Srigm, 2 f. 3-fidum.
332. Trachelium. Capf. 3-locul. perforata. Cor.
infundibulif. Stigm. capitatum.
* 339. Campanula. Capf. 2 f. 3-locu]. Cor. i-per-
forata. Cor. campanul. Stigm. 3-fidum.
Vol. IV. Part I.
A N Y. 121
C. Berry 2-celled, dry. Anthers converging.
* S. Berry 2-celled. Anthers double perforated.
P. Berry 2-celled. Calyx bellied. Anthers ap¬
proaching.
J. Berry ? Cor. very long, tubular.
* A. Berry 2-celled. Stamens diftant, bowed inwards.
E. Berry 2-celled. Seeds 2, one fuperior.
L. Berry 2-celled. Stamens clofing with a hairy
bafe.
C. Berry 2-celled. Cor. funnel-fhaped, inferted in
the calyx. Neftary I-leaved, clofing the corolla.
C. Berry 4-celled, woolly, many-feeded. Cor. wheel-
fliaped. Cal. 5-partite.
T. Berry 4-celled, cells 2-feeded. Cor. bell-fhaped.
Cal. 5-toothed.
S. Berry 4-celled many-feeded. Cor. funnel-
ftiaped. Cal. gaping.
M. Berry 4-celled. Cal. 3-leaved. Stigmas 2.
L. Berry 5-feeded. Cor. wheel-fliaped. Ne&ary
pitcher-lhaped, 5-cleft, bearing the ftamens.
S. Berry 5-feeded. Cor. 10-cleft, the inner feg-
ments converging.
C. Berry xo-feeded. Cor. 10-cleft, the outer feg-
ments very open.
B. Berry many-feeded, knotted. Cor. wheel-fliaped.
$
B. Berry many-feeded. Cor. tubular. Cal. double.
Seel. I. Flowers monopetalous, fuperior.
* S. Capf. i-celled, with 5-valves at the top. Cor.
falver-fhaped. Stigma with a knob.
V. Capf. x-celled. Cor. funnel-fliaped. Cal. 5-
toothed, the teeth interjected.
B. Capf. 1-celled, dimple-beaked. Cor. wheel.
fliaped. Stigma fliarp.
M. Capf. 2-celled, turban-fliaped. Cor. bell-ftiaped.
Stigma 2-lobed. Seeds tiled.
D. Capf. 2-celled. Cor. funnel-fhaped, with feg-
ments 3-toothed.
C. Capf. 2-celled j cell l-feeded. Cor. funnel-fliaped,
Stigma 2-partite.
R. Capf. 2-celled, nearly globular. Cor. funnel-
ftiaped. Stigma obtufe.
C. Capf. 2-celled, gaping within. Cor. fliaggy.
Stigma undivided.
P. Capf. 2-celled, crowned. Cor. bellied. Stigma
undivided. Seeds tiled.
R. Capfi 2-celled, crowned. Cor. wheel-fliaped.
Stigma 2-cleft.
G. Capf. 2-celled. Cor. i-petal, cleft lengthwife.
* P. Capf. 2 or 3-celled, perforated. Cor. 5-partite.
Stigma 2 or 3-cleft.
T. Capf. 3-celled, perforated. Cor. funnel-fliaped.
Stigma with a knob.
* C. Capf. 2 or 5-celled, perforated. Cor. bell-fhaped.
Stigma 3-cleft.
CL
345*
12* B O T
* 342. Lobelia. Capf. 2 f. 3-locul. Cor. i-pe-
t&l. irregul. Anth. connatoe.
345. Scvola. Drupa l-fperma. Cor. irregula¬
ris flabelliformis, fiffura longitudinal!.
367. Schoepfia. Drupa i-fperma. Cor. campa-
iiulata. Cal. duplex, alter inferus, alter fuperus.
372. Matthiola. Bacca i-fperma. Cor. infun-
dibulif. indivifa. Stigrn. obtufum.
363. Morinda. Bacca i-fperma, aggregata. Cor.
infundib. Stigma 2-fidum.
349. Psychotria. Bacca 2-fperma. Sem. fulca-
ta. Cor. infundib. Stigm. emarginatum.
353. Coffea. Bacca 2-fperma. Sem. arillata.
Cor. hypocrat. Stigm. 2-partitum.
354. Chiococca. Bacca 2-fperma. Cor. infun¬
dib. Stigm. fimplex.
389. Series A. Bacca 2-fperma. Cor. infundibu-
lif. fauce ciliata, laciniis limbi fubtrilobis.
357. CephjElis. Bacca 2-fperma. Cor. tubulofa.
involucr. fubtetraphyll. Recept. paleaceum.
355. Vangueria. Bacca 4 f. 5-fperma. Cor. hy-
pocraterif, tubo globofo, fauce pilofa.
347. Solena. Bacca i-locul. Cor. hypocraterif.
tubo longiftimo. Stigm. 3-fid.
356. Canephora. Frudh 2-locul. Cor. campanu-
lata. Cal. communis tubulofus multifiorus.
358. Bertiera. Bacca 2-locul. Cor. hypocra¬
terif. Stigm. 2-lamellat. Siam, tubo inferta.
* 361. Lonicera. Bacca 2-locularis fubrotunda.
Cor. inaequalis. Stigm. capitatum.
476. Webera. Bacca 2-locul. 5 locul. i-fperm.
Cor. infundibulif.
477. Gardenia. Bacca 2-locularis polyfperma.
Cor. infundibulif.
348. Ucriana. Bacca 2-locul. Cor. hypocrate¬
rif. tubo longiffimo. Stigm. 2-lamellat. Stam. fauci
inferta.
362. Triosteum. Bacca 3-locul. coriacea. Cor.
inaequalis. Stigm. oblongum.
467. Plocama. Bacca 3-locul. 5 locul. i-fpermis.
Corolla campanulata.
370. Muss^enda. Bacca 4-locularis, oblonga.
Cor. infundib. Stigm. 2-part.
360. Schwencfeldia. Bacca 5-locul. polyfperm.
Cor. hypocraterif. Stigm. 5-part.
359. Hamellia. Bacca 5-locular. polyfperma.
Cor. tubo longo. Stigm. lineare.
368. Erithalis. Bacca 10-loeul. fubglobofa. Cor.
rotata. Stigm. acutum.
f Ixta pentandra, pavetta pentandra, oldenlandia, di~
gyna pentandra, rubice et crucianellce nonnullce, prinos.
Se£l. VII. Flores tetrapetali.
365. Stroemia. Bacca corticofa 2-valv. Cal. 4-
phyll. Neft. ligulat.
Seel. VIII. Flores pentapetali, inferi.
442. Hirtella. Bacca i-fperma. Stylus latera¬
lis. Stam. ptrfiftentia, fpiralia.
* 405. Rhamnus. Bacca 3-locularis, rotunda. Cal.
tubul. Corollifer. petala 5 convergentia.
A N' Y. Pentandria.
* L. Capf. 2 or 3-celled. Cor. l-petal, irregular.
Anthers twins, that is, united at the bafe.
S. A drupe i-feeded. Cor. irregular, fan-lhaped,
with a longitudinal fiffure.
S. A drupe i-feeded. Cor. bell-fhaped. Cal.
double, one inferior, the other fuperior.
M. Berry i-feeded. Cor. funnel-draped undivided.
Stigma obtufe.
M. Berry r-feeded, incorporated. Cor. funnel-
fhaped. Stigma 2-cleft.
P. Berry 2-feeded. Seeds furrowed. Cor. funnel-
draped. Stigma notched at the end.
C. Berry 2-feeded. Seeds coated. Cor. falver-
draped. Stigma 2-partite.
C. Berry 2-feeded. Cor. funnel-draped. Stigma
undivided.
S. Berry 2-feeded. Cor. funnel-draped, with a
fringed mouth, the fegments of the border nearly 3-
lobed.
C. Berry 2-feeded. Cor. tubular. Involucrum
nearly 4-leaved. Receptacle chady.
V. Berry 4 or 5-feeded. Cor. falver-draped, with
a globular tube and hairy mouth.
S. Berry 1-celled. Cor. falver-draped, with a very
long tube. Stigma 3-cleft.
C. Fruit 2-celled. Cor. bell-draped. Cal. common,
tubular, many-dowered.
B. Berry 2-celled. Cor. falver-draped. Stigma
2-gilled. The damens inferted in a tube.
* L. Berry 2-celled, nearly round. Cor. unequal.
Stigma with a knob.
W. Berry 2-celled, cell i-feeded. Cor. funnel-
draped.
G. Berry 2-celled, many-feeded. Cor. funnel-
draped. 1
U. Berry 2-celled. Cor. falver-draped, with a very
long tube. Stigma 2-gilled. The damens inferted
in the mouth.
T. Berry 3-celled, leather-like. Cor. unequal. Stig¬
ma oblong.
P. Berry 3-celled, cells i-feeded. Corolla bell-
diaped.
M. Berry 4-celled, oblong. Cor. funnel-draped.
Stigma 2-partite.
S. Berry 5-celled, many-feeded. Cor. falver-draped.
Stigma 5-cleft.
H. Berry 5-celled, many-feeded. Cor. with a long
tube. Stigma ftrap-draped.
E. Berry 10-celled, nearly globular. Cor. wheel-
draped. Stigma acute.
Sect. VII. Flowers 4-petaled.
S. Bark-like berry writh 2-valves. Cal. 4-leaved.
Neftary ftrap-draped.
Se£t. VIII, Flowers $-petaled> inferior.
H. Berry i-feeded. Style lateral. Stamens per¬
manent, twifted.
* R. Berry 3-celled, round. Cal. tubular. Cor. bear¬
ing 5 converging petals.
412.
I
123
Pentandria. B O T
412. Ceanothus. Bacca 3-cocca. Cal. tubul.
Corollifer petala fornicata.
* 424. Evonymus. Bacca capfularis, lobata. Cal.
patens. Sem. baccato-arillata.
423. Celastrus. Bacca 3-cocca. Cal. planus.
Sem. arillata.
429. Staavia. Bacca 5-fperma corticata. Recept.
paleaceo-villofum. Stam. calyci inferta.
454. Euparea. Bacca exfucca i-locul, polyfp.
Petal. 5-12.
440. Billardiera. Bacca polyfperma. Stigm.
fimpl.
424. Ruyschia. Bacca polyfperma. Styl. o. Cor.
reflexa.
453. Vitis. Bacca 5-fperma. Cor. faepe connata.
Stylus nullus.
439. Escalonia. Bacca 2-locularis. Stigm. capital.
441. Mangifera. Drupa renifomis. Cor. peta-
lis lanceolat. Nux lanuginofa.
406. Ziziphus. Drupa nuce 2-locul. Cal. tubul.
corollifer. Petala oris 5, convergentia.
404. Schrebera. Drupa licca nuce 2-locul. Ned:,
margo elevat.
438. Eljeodendrum. Drupa nuce 2-locul. Pe¬
tal. fubrotund. Glandula fub germine.
430. Walkera. Drupae 5, monofpermae. Cal. 5-
part.
451. Corynocarpus. Nux clavata. Ned. 5, pe-
taliformia ball glandulofa.
435. Humboldtia. Legumen. Petal. 5, lanceo-
lata. Cal. 4-part.
425. Pilocarpus. Capf. 2-5, infemae coalitae.
Stam. infra germen inferta.
436. Cedrela. Capf. 5-locularis, ball dehifcens.
Cor. receptaculo unita. Sem. alata.
437. Calodendrum. Capf. 6-locul. 5-angulat.
petal, lanceolat. Germen pedicellat. Ned. 5-phyll.
413. Scopolia. Capf. baccata 5-locul. 5 locul. x-
fperm. Stigm. capitat.
420. Polycardia. Capf. 5-locul. Sem. arillata.
Petala rotundata. Stigm. lobatum.
431. Pittosporum. Capf. 2-5 locul. 5-valv. Sem.
teda pulpa. Petala conniventia in tubum.
417. Buttineria. Capf. 5-cocca. Cal. petalis
auriculatus. Stam. nedario annexa.
418. Ayenia. Capf. 5-locul. Petala in ftellulam
connata. Ned. urceolus piflillum tegens ftaminiferum.
419. Gluta. Capfula ? Petala pedicello germinis in¬
ferta. Cal. campanulat. deciduus.
426. Diosma. Capf. 5-plex. Nedar. germ, coro-
nans. Sem. arrillata.
3x4. Sprengelia. Capf. 5-locul. 5-valv. polyfper-
ma. Anth. connatse.
427. Hovenia. Capf. 3 locul. 3-valv. Petala obo-
vata. Stigmata 3.
335. Nauclea. Capf. 2-locul. polyfperm. Recept.
commun. pilofunn
447. Impatiens. Capf. i-locul. 5-valv. Cor. ir-
regul. calcarat. Cal. 2-phyll. Anth. cohaerentes.
* 446. Viola. Capf. x-locul. 3-valv. Cor. irregul.
calcarata. Cal. 5-phyll. Anth. cohaerentes.
459. Claytonia. Capf. i-locul. 3-valvis. Cal.
2-valvis. Stigm. 3-fidum.
ANY.
C. Berry 3-celled. Cal. tubular. Cor. bearing
vaulted petals.
* E. Berry capfular, lobed. Cal. extending. Seeds
berried-coated.
C. Berry 3-celled. Cal. flat. Seeds coated.
S. Berry 5-feeded, barked. Receptacle chaffy-
woolly. Stamens inferted in the calyx.
E. Berry dry, 1-celled, many-feeded. Petals 5-12.
B. Berry many-feeded. Stigma undivided.
R. Berry many-feeded. No ftyle. Cor. bent back.
V. Berry 5-feeded. Cor. oft united at the bafe.
No ftyle.
E. Berry 2-celled. Stigma with a little head.
M. A drupe kidney-fhaped. Cor. with fpear-fha-
ped petals. Woolly nut.
Z. A drupe with a 2-celled nut. Cal. tubular,
bearing the cor. Petals of the mouth 5, converging.
S. A dry drupe, with a-2-celled nut. The margin
of the neftary elevated.
E. A drupe, with a 2-celled nut. Petals nearly
round. A gland beneath the germen.
W. 5 drupes, x-feeded. Cal. 5-partite.
C. Club-lhaped nut. Nedlaries 5, petal-ftiaped,
with a glandular bafe.
H. A leguminous plant. Petals 5, fpear-lhaped.
Cal. 4-partite.
P. Capf. 2-5 uniting beneath. Stamens inferted be¬
neath the germen.
C. Capf. 5-celled, gaping at the bafe. Cor. united
to the receptacle. Seeds winged.
C. Capf. 6-celled, 5-angled. Petals fpear-lhaped.
Germen on a pedicle. Neftary 5-leaved.
S. Capf. berried, 5-celled. Cells x-feeded. Stigma
with a little head.
P. Capf. 5-celled. Seeds coated- Petals rounded.
Stigma lobed.
P. Capf. 2-5 celled, 5-valved. Seeds covered with
pulp. Petals converging into a tube.
B. Capf. 5-celled. Cal. ear-ftiaped with petals. Sta¬
mens annexed to the ne&ary.
A. Capf. 5 celled. Petals united at the bafe into a
ftar. A pitcher-fhaped neftary covering the piftil
which bears the ftamens.
G. Capfule ? Petals inferted in the pedicle of the
germen. Cal. bell-fliaped, deciduous.
D. Capf. 5-fold. Neftary crowning the germen.
Seeds coated.
S. Capf. 5 celled, 5-valved, many feeded. Anthers
united at the bafe.
H. Capf. 3-celled, 3-valved. Petals egg-fhaped with
the fmall end downwards. Stigm. 3.
N. Capf. 2 celled, many-feeded. The common re¬
ceptacle hairy.
I. Capf. 1-celled, 5-valved. Cor. irregular having
a fpur. Cal. 2-leaved. Anthers cohering.
* V. Capf. i-celled, 3-valved. Cor. irregular, fpur-
red. Cal. 5-leaved. Anthers cohering.
C. Capf. 1 celled, 3-valved. Cal. 2-valved. Stig¬
ma 3-cleft.
0-2
457>
124 B O T
457. Roridula. Capf. i-locul. 3-valvis, Nefta-
rium fcrotiforrae.
433. Itea. Capf. l-locul. 2-valvis. Cal. corolli-
fer. Stigm. obtufum.
455. ^giceras. Capf. i-locul. arcuata, t-valv.
I-fpcrma. Cal. 5-fid.
458. Sauvagesia. Capf. i-locul. Ne£tarium 5-
phyllum. Petala imbricata.
407. Yenx 1 lago. Samara i-fperma, apice alata.
Cal. 5-fid. corollifer.
428. Brunia. Sem. r, villofum. Recept. com¬
mune villofum. Stain, unguibus petal, inferta.
f Cccfalbinia pentandra. Bombax pentandrmn. CaJJia
ni&itans.
Sect. IX. Flores pentapetalt^ Juperi.
* 445. Ribes. Bacca polyfperma. Cal. corollif.
Sty]. 2-fidus.
* 452. Hedera. Bacca 5-fperma. Cal. cingens
frudt. Stigm. fimplex.
444. Plectronia. Bacca 2-fperma. Cal. ungui¬
bus claufus. Antberse inclufae geminatae.
443. Strumpfia. Bacca i-fperma. Cal. 5-dent.
Anth. in corpus ovatum coalitae.
409. Phylica. Bacca 3-cocca. Cal. tubulofus,
corollifer, fquamis 5-convergentibus.
410. Carpodetus. Bacca ficca, 5-locul. petala
calycis margini inferta.
448. Gronovia. Capf. i-fperma, colorata. Cal.
coloratus. Petala minuta.
* 328. Jasione. Capf. 2-locul. Involuc. 10-fid.
Cal. 5'part. Antb. ball cohaerentes.
343. Cyphia. Capfula ? Petala aequalia linearia.
Filamenta pilofa, ball cohaerentia. Stigm. cavum, gib-
bum.
450. Argophyllum. Capf. 3-locul. Petala lan-
ceolata. Ne£t. 5-angul, pyramidatum.
327. Lightfootia. Capf. 3-5-locul. Cor. fundo
claufa, valvis ftaminiferis. Cal. 5-pbyll.
458. Lagoecia. Sem. 2, nuda. Cal. pinnato pec-
tinatus. Pet. bicomia.
366. Conocarpus. Sem. 1, depreffum. Recept.
aggregens. Petala conniventia.
Sect. X. Flores incompleti> inferi.
462. Achyranthis. Sem. 1, oblongum. Cal.
exterior, 3-phyllus, nudus.
464. Chenolia. Utriculus depreflus, i-fpermus.
463. Celosia. Capf 3-fperma. Cal. exterior, 3-
pliyllus •, coloratus.
* 465. Illecebrum. Capf. i-fperma, 5-valvis. Cal.
fimplex, rudis.
* 466. Glaux. Capf. 5-fperma, 5-valvis. Cal. fim¬
plex, rudior, campanulatus.
411. Colletia. Fru£t. 3-coccus. Cor. campanu-
lata, 5-fida, plicis 5 fquamiformibus inftru£ta. Cal. o.
f Polygonum amphibium, lapathifolium. Polycnetnum
oppojitifolium. Samara pentandra, Jloribunda. Ce-
ratonicu
A N Y. Pentandria.
R. Capf. I-celled, 3-valved. Nectary purfe-fhaped.
I. Capf. 1-celled, 2-valved. Cal, bearing the co¬
rolla. Stigma obtufe.
jE. Capf. 1-celled, bowed with 1 valve, 1 feed. Cal.
5-cleft.
S. Capf. l-celled. Nedtary 5-leafed. Petals tiled.
V. Clofe feed-veffel, l-feeded, winged at the point..
Cal. 5-cleft, bearing the corolla.
B. Seed 1, woolly. Common receptacle woolly.
The ftamens inferted in the claws of the petals.
Sett. IX. Flowers ^-petaled, fuperior.
* R. Many-feeded berry. Cal. bearing the corolla.
Style 2-cleft.
* H. Berry 5-feeded. Cal. furrounding the fruit.
Stigma undivided.
P. Berry 2-feeded. Cal. ending in claws. An¬
thers in pairs, fliut up.
S. Berry i-feeded. Cal. 5-toothed. Anthers unit¬
ing into an egg-lhaped body.
P. Berry 3-celled. Cal. tubular, bearing the co¬
rolla with 5 converging fcales.
C. Berry dry, 5-celled. Petals inferted in the ex¬
tremity of the calyx.
G. Capf. i-feeded, coloured. Cal. coloured. Pe¬
tals minute.
* J. Capf. 2-celled. Involucrum 10-cleft. Cal. 5-
partite. Anthers cohering at the bafe.
C. Capfule ? Petals equal, ftrap-fhaped. Filaments
hairy, cohering at the bafe. Stigma hollow, bulging.
A. Capf. 3-celled. Petals fpear-lhaped. Nedlary
5-angled, pyramidal.
L. Capf. 3-5 celled. Cor. with a {hut bottom, the
valves bearing the ftamens. Cal. 5-leafed.
L. Seeds 2, naked. Cal. comb-like, winged. Pe¬
tals 2-horned.
C. Seed 1, depreffed. Receptacle incorporating.
Petals converging.
Se£l. X. Flowers incomplete, inferior.
A. Seed 1, oblong. Cal. exterior, 3-leafed, na¬
ked.
C. A little bag, depreffed, i-feeded.
C. Capf. 3-feeded. Cal. exterior, 3-leafed, colour¬
ed.
* I. Capf. i-feeded, with 5 valves. Cal. undivided,
rough.
* G. Capf. 5-feeded, 5-valved. Cal. undivided, con-
fiderably rough, bell-ftiaped.
C. Fruit 3-celled. Cor. bell-fhaped $ 5-cleft, with
5 fcaly plaits. No cal..
Sea,
Pentandria.
B O T
ANY,
12
Se£l. XI. Flores tncompletiy fuperi.
* 469. Thesium. Sem. x, coronatum. Cal. ftami-
nifer.
460. Heliconia. Capf. 3-cocca, local, i fperm.
Cor. 3-petal. Ne£L 2-phyll.
461. Strelitzia. Capf. 3-cocca, local, polyfperm.
Cor. 3-petal. Neft. 3-phyll.
Ordo II. DIGYNIA.
Se6t. XI. Flowers Incomplete, fuperior.
T. Seed 1, crowned. Cal. bearing the ftamens.
H. Capf. 3-celled, cells i-feeded. Cor. 3-petaled,
Neftary 2-leafed.
S. Capf. 3-celled, cells many-feeded. Cor. 3-pe¬
taled. Neftary 3-leafed.
Order II. DIGYNIA.
Sect. I. Flores monopetaliy infers.
494. Stapelia. Folliculi 2. Cor. rotata, nec-
tariis flellaris.
488. Cynanchum. Folliculi 2. Cor. rotata. Nec-
tario cylindrico.
487. Periploca. Folliculi 2. Cor. rotata. Nec-
tariis 5, filiformibus.
49x. Hostea. Folliculi 5, angulares. Cor. rotata.
489. Apocynum. Folliculi 2. Cor. campan.
Neftariis glandulofis 5. Setis 5.
486. Pergularia. Folliculi 2. Cor. hypocrate-
rif. Neft. 5, femi-fagittata.
490. Asclepias. Folliculi 2. Cor. reflexa. Nec-
tariis 5, auriformibus unguiculatis.
493. Ceropegia. Folliculi 2. Cor. limbus conni-
vens.
492. Melodinus. Bacca 2-locul. polyfperma.
Faux corollae coronatus.
* 511. Swertia. Capf. x-locul. 2-valvis. Cor. ror
tata, poris 5 neftariferis.
*512. Gentiana. Capf. i-locul. 2-valvis. Cor.
tubulofa indeterminata.
502. Cressa. Capf. x-fperma, 2-valvis. Cor. hy-
pocrater. Limbo reflexo.
506. Nam a. Capf. 1-local. 4-gona, 2-valvis. Cor.
longitudine calycis tubulofa.
507. Hydrolea. Capf. 2-locul. 2-valvis. Cor.
rotata.
508. Rochefortia. Fru£t. 2-locul. polyfperm.
Cor. infundibuliform.
513. Dichondra. Capfulae 2. Cor. campanulata.
f Cufcutce nonnulLe.
Se£t. II. Flores pentapetaliy inferi.
510. Velzia. Capf. i-locul. i-valvis. Cor. 5-
petala. Cal. tubulofus.
495. Lin con ia. Capf. 2-locul. Petalis lacuna.
Cal. 4-phyllus.
515. Bumalda. Capf. 2-locul. 2-roftris. Cor. 5-
petal. germini inferta. Styli villofi.
509. Heuchera. Capf. 2-locul. 2-roftrata. Cor.
5-petala, calyci inferta.
501. Anabasis. Bacca x-fperma. Cor. 5-petala,
minima.
f Staphylea pinnata.
Sect. III. Flores incompleti.
* 500. Salsola. Sem. 1, cochleatum,. teftum. Cal.
5-phyllus.
Sect. I. Flowers monopetalouSy inferior.
S. Air-bags 2. Cor. wheel-lhaped ; with ftar-like
nectaries.
C. Air-bags 2. Cor. wheel-fhaped. A cylindrical
neftary.
P. Air-bags 2. Cor. wheel-lhaped, with 5 thread-
Ihaped nectaries.
H. Air-bags 5-angular. Cor. wheel-lhaped.
A. Air-bags 2. Cor. bell-lhaped, wdth 5 glandu¬
lar neftaries. Briftles 5.
P. Air-bags 2. Cor. falver-lhaped. Nectaries 5,
half-arrow-lhaped.
A. Air-bags 2. Cor. bent back, with 5 neftaries
ear-lhaped, with claws.
C. Air-bags 2. Cor. the border converging.
M. Berry 2-celled, many-feeded. The mouth of
the cor. crowned.
* S. Capf. 1-celled, 2-valved. Cor. wrheel-lhaped5
with 5 honey-bearing little holes.
* G. Capf. i-celled, 2-valved. Cor. tubular, not
bordered.
C. Capf. x-feeded, with 2 valves. Cor. falver-
lhaped ; the border bent back.
N. Capf. 1-celled, 4-gon. 2-valved. Cor. tubular,
of the length of the calyx.
H. Capf. 2-celled, 2-valved. Cor. wheel-lhaped.
R. Fruit 2-celled, many-feeded. Cor. funnel-lhap-
ed.
D. Capfules 2. Cor. bell-lhaped.
Se£t. II. Flowers ^-leavedy inferior.
V. Capf. 1-celled, x-valved. Cor. 5-petaled. Cal.
tubular.
L. Capf. 2-celled, with a pit in the petals. Cal.
4-leaved.
B. Capf. 2-celled, with 2 beaks. Cor. with 5 pe¬
tals inferted in the germen. Styles woolly.
H. Capf. 2-celled, 2-beaked. Cor. 5 petals infert¬
ed in the calyx.
A. Berry x-feeded. Very fmall 5-petaled cor.
Se£t. III. Flowers incomplete.
* S. Seed r, fhell-like, covered. Cal. 5-leaved.
497*
126 B O T
* 497. Chenopodium. Sem. 1, orbiculare. Cal. 5-
phyllus, foliolis concavis.
* 498. Beta. Sem. 1, reniforme. Cal. 5-phyllus,
ball iemen fovens.
* 496. Herniaria. Sem. 1, ovatum, tedium. Cal.
5-partitus. Filam. 5 fterilia.
503. Gomphrena. CapH i-fperma, circumfcifla.
Cal. diphyllus, compreflus, coloratus.
504. Bosea. Bacca l-fperma. Cal. 5-phyllus.
* 5°5* U^mus. Samara, comprefla. Cal. i-phyl-
lyus, emarcefcens.
499. Microtea. Drupa ficca echinata. Cal. 5-
phyll. patens.
f Polygonum virginianum. Zi%ifihi nonnulla fpecies.
Trianthema pentandra.
Se£l. IV. Flores pentapetaliy fuperiy capfulares.
514. Vahlia. Capf. truncata i-locul. 2-valv. Pe¬
tal. ovata. Cal. 5-phyll.
>Se<Sl. V. Flores pentapet ally fuperiy difpermiy umbel¬
late.
A. Involucro univerfalipartia/ique.
516. Phyllis. Flor. difperfi.
* ^j8. Eryngium. FI. capitati. Recept. palea-
ceum.
* 519. Hydrocotyle. FI. fubumbellati, fertiles.
Sem. compreffa.
520. Azorella. FI. fubumbellati, fertiles. Sem.
fubglobofa, tridentata, fulcata.
517. Cussonia. FI. fubumbellati. Margo recep-
taculi in calicem 5-dentatum dilatatus.
* 521. Sanicula. Flor. fubumbellati, abortivL Sem.
muricata.
522. Astrantia. Flor. umbellati, abortivi. In-
vol. colorata. Sem. rugofa.
* 541. Heracleum. FI. radiati, abortivi. Invol.
deciduum. Sem. membranacea.
* 548. Oenanthe. FI. radiati, abortivi radio. In¬
vol. fimplex. Sem. coronata, feffilia.
* 525. Echinophora. FI. radiati, abortivi. In¬
vol. fimplex. Sem. feflilia.
* 528. Caucalis. FI. radiati, abortivi. Invol. fim¬
plex. Sem. muricata.
529. Artedia. FI. radiati, abortivi. Invol. pin-
natum. Sem. margine crenis foliaceis.
* 530. Caucus. FI. radiati, abortivi. Invol. pin-
natum. Sem. hifpida.
* 527. Tordylium. FI. radiati, fertiles. Invol.
fimplex. Sem. margine crenata,
540. Laserpitium. FI. flofculofi, abortivi. Pet.
cordata. Sem. 4-alata.
* 536. Peucedanum. FI. flofculofi, abortivi. In¬
vol. fimplex. Sem. deprelfa, ftriata.
531. Am mi. FI. flofculofi, fertiles. Invol. pinna-
tum. Sem. gibba, laevia.
526. Hasselquistia. FI. flofcul. fertiles. Pe-
£ala cordata. Sem. radii plana j difci urceolata.
A N Y. Pentandria*
* C. 1 round and flat feed. Cal. 5-leaved, with con¬
cave leaflets.
* B. 1 feed, kidney-fhaped. Cal. 5-leaved, feed ad¬
hering to the bafe.
* H. 1 oval covered feed. Cal. 5-partite. 5 barren
filaments.
G. Capf. i-feeded, cut round. Cal. 2-leaved, com-
prefled, coloured.
B. A berry i-feeded. Cal. 5-leaved.
* U. Seed-veffel comprefled. Cal. i-leaf, fading.
M. A drupe, dry, prickly. Cal. 5-leaved, ex¬
panding.
Seel. IV. Flowers ^-petaledy fuperiory capfular.
V. Capf. lopped, i-celled, 2-valved. Petals oval.
Cal. 5-leaved.
Se£l. V. Flowers with 5 petalsy fuperiory 2-feededy
umbellated.
A. With an umverfal and partial involucrum.
P. Flowers difperfed.
* E. Flowers with little heads. Receptacle chaffy.
* H. Flowers nearly umbellated, fertile. Seeds com-
preffed.
A. Flowers nearly umbellated, fertile. Seeds near¬
ly globular, 3-toothed, furrowed.
C. Flowers nearly umbellated. The extremity of
the receptacle dilated into a 5-toothed calyx.
* S. Flowers nearly umbellated, barren. Seeds co¬
vered with fliarp points.
A. Flowers umbellated, barren. Involucrum co¬
loured. Seeds wrinkled.
* H. Flowers radiated, barren. Involucrum decidu¬
ous. Seeds membranaceous.
* O. Flowers radiated, outer florets barren. Involu¬
crum undivided. Seeds crowned, fitting.
* E. Flowers radiated, barren. Involucrum undi¬
vided. Seeds fitting.
* C. Flowers radiated, barren. Involucrum undivid¬
ed. Seeds covered with ftiarp points.
A. Flowers radiated, barren. Involucrums wing¬
ed. Seeds in the border with fcolloped leaves.
* D. Flowers radiated, barren. Involucrum winged.
Seeds rough, with briftly hairs.
* T. Flowers radiated, fertile. Involucrum undivid¬
ed. Seeds fcolloped at the border.
L. Flowers with tubular florets, barren. Petals heart-
fhaped. Seeds 4-winged.
* P. FI. tubular florets, barren. Involucrum undi¬
vided. Seeds depreffed, fcored.
A. FI. tubular florets, fertile. Involucrum winged.
Seeds bulging, level.
H. FI. tubular florets, fertile. Petals heart-fha-
ped. Seeds of the ray flat j of the dilk pitcher-lha-
ped.
533-
Pentandria. B O T
* 533* Conium. FI. flofcul. fertiles. Pet. cordata.
Sem. glbba, coftato-fulcata j involucella dimidiata.
524. Exoacantha. FI. flofcul. fertiles. Petal,
cordata. Sem. ovata-llriata. Involucrum et involu¬
cella fpinofa.
* 532. Bunium. Flor. flofc. fert. Pet. cordata.
Involucella fetacea.
* 535. Athamanta. FI. flofc. fert. Pet. cordata.
Sem. convexa, llriata.
* 523. Bupleurum. FI. flofc. fert. Pet. involuta
(plerifque folia indivifa. f. involucella petaliformia).
* 544. Sium. FI. flofc. fert. Pet. cordata. Sem.
fubovata, ftriata.
* 534. Selinum. FI. flofc. fert. Pet. cordata. Sem.
deprefla, ftriated.
547. Cuminum. FI. flofc. fert. Pet. cordata.
Umb. 4-fid. Invol. fetacea, longiflima.
539. Ferula. FI. flofc. fert. Pet. cordata. Sem.
plana.
* 737. Crithmum. FI. flofc. fert. Pet. planiuf-
cula. Invol. horizontale.
546. Bubon. FI. flofc. fert. Pet. planiufc. In¬
vol. 5-phyllum.
538. Cochrys. FI. flofc. fert. Pet. planiufc.
Sem. cortice fuberofo.
* 542. Ligusticum. FI. flofc. fert. Pet. involuta.
Invol. membranacea.
* 543. Angelica. FI. flofc. fert. Pet. planiufc.
Umbellulse globofe.
* 545. Sison. FI. flofc. fert. Pet. planiufc. Um-
bell. depauperata.
B. Involucris partialibus ; univerfali nullo.
* 551. Alt h u sa. Flor. fubradiati, fertiles. Invol-
lucella dimidiata.
* 552. Coriandrum. FI. radiati, abortivi. Fr.
fubglobofi.
* 553. Scandix. Flor. radiat. abort. Fr. oblongi.
* 554. Chasrophyllum. FI. flofcul. abort. Fr.
fubglobofi.
* 549. Phellandrium. FI. flofcul. fert. Fr. co-
ronati.
* 555. Imperatoria. FI. flofc. fert. Umbell. ex-
panfo-plana.
556. Seseli. FI. flofc. fert. Umbell. rigidula.
* 550. Cicuta. FI. flofc. fert. Pet. planiufcula.
f Bupleurum rotundifolium. Apium petrofelinum et ant-
fum.
C. Involucro nullo ; nee univerfali, nec partiAibus.
* 559. Smyrnium. Flor. flofcul. abortivi. Sem. re-
niformia angulata.
* 561. Carum. FI. flofcul. abortivi. Sem. gibba,.
ftriata.
557. Thapsia. FI. flofc. fert. Sem. membrana¬
cea, alata, emarginata.
* 558. Pastinaca. FI. flofc. fert. Sem. depreffo
plana.
* 560. Anethum. FI. flofc. fert. Sem. marginata,
ftriata.
ANY. 127
* C. Flowers with tubular florets, fertile. Petals heart-
ftiaped. Seeds bulging, rib-furrowed j the fmall invo-
lucrums extending half round.
E. FI. tubular florets, fertile. Petals heart-fhaped.
Seeds oval, fcored. The total and partial involucrums
thorny.
* B. FI. tubular florets, fertile. Petals heart-fhaped.
Seeds convex, ftriped.
* A. FI. florets, fertile. Petals heart-fhaped. Seeds
convex, fcored.
* B. FI. florets, fertile. Petals rolled inwards (ufu-
ally the leaves undivided, or the involucella or fmall
involucrums petal-fhaped).
* S. FI. florets, fertile. Petals nearly heart-fhaped.
Seeds nearly egg-fhaped, fcored.
* S. FI. florets, fertile. Petals heart-fhaped. Seeds
deprefled, fcored.
C. FI. florets, fertile. Petals heart-fhaped. An
umbel 4-cleft. Involucrums very long, briftly.
F. FI. florets, fertile. Petals heart-fhaped. Seeds
flat.
* C. FI. florets, fertile. Petals little planes. Invo¬
lucrum horizontal.
B. FI. florets, fertile. Petals flattened. Involu-.
crum 5-leafed.
C. FI. florets, fertile. Petals flattened. Seeds with
a gnawed bark.
* L. FI. florets, fertile. Petals rolled inwards in &
membranaceous involucrum.
* A. FI. florets, fertile. Petals flattened. Small
globular umbels^
* S. FI. florets, fertile. Petals flattened. Slender
umbel.
B. With partial involucrums ; none univerfal.
* AL Flowers nearly radiated, fertile. Small invo¬
lucrums going half-round.
* C. Flowers radiated, barren. Fruits nearly globu¬
lar.
* S. Flowers radiated, barren. Fruit oblong.
* C. Flowers are florets, barren. Fruit nearly glo¬
bular.
* P. Flowers are florets, fertile. Fruit crowned.
f I- Flowers are florets, fertile. An umbel expand¬
ing, flat.
S. Flowers are florets, fertile. Inflexible umbels
* C. Flowers are florets, fertile. Petals flattened.
C. With no involucrum, neither univerfal nor partial.
* S. Flowers, barren florets. Seeds kidney-fhaped,
angular.
* C. Flowers, barren florets. Seeds bulging, fcored.
T. Flowers, fertile florets. Seeds membranaceous,
notched at the end.
* P. Flowers fertile florets. Seeds funk flat, f
* A. Flowers fertile florets. Seeds bordered, fcored..
5<%
Z28
*
B O T
* 564. iEGOPODiUM. Tl. flofc. fert. Sera, gibba,
ftiiata. Pet. cordaia.
* 563. Apium. FI. flofc. fert. Sera, minuta, ftriata.
Pet. inflexa.
* 962. Pimpinella. FI. flofc. fert. Umbell. ante
florefcentiam nutantes. Pet. cordata.
ANY. Pentandrxa,
* JE. Flowers fertile florets, Seeds bulging, fcored.
Petals heart-fhaped.
* A. Flowers fertile florets. Seeds minute, fcored.
Petal bent inwards.
* P. Flowers fertile florets. Umbels drooping before
the flowering. Petals heart-fliaped.
Ordo III. TRIGYNIA,
Order III. TRIGYNIA.
Sed. I. Flores fuperi.
* 567. Viburnum. Cor. 5-fida. Bacca i-fperma.
* 569. Sambucus. Cor. 5-fida. Bacca 3 fperma.
Se£t. II. Flores itiferi.
569. SemicarpUs. Cor. 5-petala. Nux l-fperma
in receptaculo compreffo carnofo magno.
566. Rhus. Cor. 5-petala. Bacca i-fperma.
568. Cassine. Cor. 5-petala. Bacca 3-fperma.
574. Reichelia. Cor. i-petala, campanulata.
Capf. 3-locul. circumfcifla.
570. Spathelia. Cor. 5-petala. Capf. 3-locularis.
3-gona, i-lperma. Filamenta bafi dentata.
* 571. Staphylea, Cor. 5-petala. Capf. 2 f. 3-fida,
inflata.
* 572. Tamarix. Cor. 5-petala. Capf. i-locularis.
fern, coma pappiformi coronata.
581. Drypis. Cor. 5-petala. coronata. Capf. 1-
fperma, circumfciffa.
576. Turnera. Cor. 5-petala. Capf. i-locularis.
Cal. i-phyllus, corollifer.
575. Salmasia. Cor. 5-petala. Sty 1. o. Capf. 3-
locul. 3-valv.
583. Sarothra. Cor. 5-petala. Capf. i-locul.
colorata. Cal. i-phyllus.
* <;8o. Alsine. Cor. 5-pet. Capf. i-locul. Cal. 5-
phyllus. Pet. 2-fida.
577. Telephium. Cor. 5'Pet* Capf. i-locul. tri-
quetra. Cal. 5-phyllus.
* 578. Corrigiola. Cor. 5-pet. Sera. 1, triquetrum.
Cal. 5-partitus.
584. Portulacaria. Cor. 5-petala. Sera. 1, alato-
triquetrum. Cal. 2-phyllus.
579. Pharnaceum. Cor. nulla. Cal. 5-phyllus.
Capf. 3-locularis.
573. Xylophylla. Cal. 5-partitus. Capf. 3-cocc.
feminibus binis.
582. Basella. Cor. nulla. Cal. 6-fidus. Sem.
l-globofum, calyce baccato.
f 'Zi-zlphus paliurus. Celajlrus.
Ordo IV. TETRAGYNIA.
* 585. Parnassia. Cor. 5-petala. Capf. 4-valvis.
Netl. 5, ciliato-glandulofa.
586. Evolvulus. Cor. i-petala. Capf. 4-locul.
Ordo V. PENTAGYNIA.
Se£l. I. Flores fuperi.
587. Aralia. Cor. 5-petala. Bacca 5-1gcu1. j lo-
cul. i-fperxna.
Se£l. I. Flowers fuperior.
* V. Cor. 5-cleft. Berry i-feeded.
* S. Cor. 5-left. Berry 3-feeded.
Se6t. II. Flowers inferior.
S. Cor. 5-petaled. Ne£l. 1-feed in a large flefhy
compreffed receptacle.
R. Cor. 5 petals. Berry i-feed.
C. Cor. 5 petals. Berry 3-feeded.
R. Cor. I petal, bell-lhaped. Capf. 3-celled, cut
round.
S. Cor. 5 petals. Capf. 3-celled, 3-gon. i-feed.
Filaments toothed at the bafe.
* S. Cor. 5 petals. Capf. 2 or 3-cleft, inflated.
* T. Cor. 5 petals. Capf. x-celled. Seeds crowned
with a down-like comb.
D. Cor. 5 petals crowned. Capf. i-feeded, cut
round.
T. Cor. 5 petals. Capf. i-celled. Cal. 1-leafed,
bearing the coroll.
S. Cor. 5 petals. No ftyle. Capf. 3-celled. 3-
valved.-
S. Cor. 5-petaled. Capf. 1-celled, coloured. Cal.
1- leafed.
* A. Cor. 5 petals. Capf. i-celled. Cal. 5-leafed.
Pet. 2-cleft.
T. Cor. 5 petals. Capf. 1-celled, 3-cornered. Cal.
3-leafed.
* C. Cor. 5 petals. Seed 1, 3-cornered. Cal. 5-
partite.
P. Cor. 5 petals. Seed 1-winged at 3 fides. Cal.
2- leafed.
P. No cor. Cal. 5-leafed. Capf. 3-celled.
X. Cal. 5 partite. Capf. 3-celled, with two feeds
in each.
B. No cor. Cal. 6-cleft. Seed 1, globular, with a
berried calyx.
Order IV. TETRAGYNIA.
* P. Cor. 5-petals. Capf. 4-valved. Ne&aries 5,
fringed, glandular.
E. Cor. x-petal. Capf. 4-celled.
Order V. PENTAGYNIA.
ed.
Se£t. III. Flowers fuperior.
A. Cor. 5-petals. Berry 5-celled, each cell i-feed-
588.
Rentandria.
58S. Gcqssopetalvm,
locul. 5-fperma.
B O T
Cor. 5-petala, Bacca 1-
A N if.
G. Cor. j.petals. Berry i-cell, 5-feeds,
Se6t, II. Flores inferi.
594. Crassuea. Cor. 5-partita. Capf. 5, poly,
fperma,
593. Gisechia. Cor. o. Cal. 5-phyllus. Capf.
5 rotundae, 5-fperma.
* 590. Linum. Cor. 5-petala. Capf. 10-locularis,
2-fperma.
591. Aldrouanda. Cor. 5-petala. Capf. i-locu-
laris, io-fperraa.
* 592. Drosera. Cor. 5-petala. Capf. i-locularis,
apice dehifcens.
595. Mahern 1 A, Cor. 5-petala. Capf. 5-locularis,
glabra.
596. Commersonia, Cor. 5-petala. Capf. 5-locul.
echinata.
* 597. Sibbaldia. Cor. 5-petala. Sem. 5. Cal.
jo fidus,
* 5^9* Statice. Cor. 5-partita. Sem. 1, calyce
infundib. veftitum.
f CeraJUum pentandrum, Spergula pentandra. Erodium,
Ordo VI. DECAGYNIA.
598. Schefflera. Cor. 5-petala. Capf. jo-locul. j
locul. i-fpermis,
Ordo VII. POLYGYNIA.
Sed. II. Flowers inferior,
C. Cor. 5-partite. Capf. 5, many feeded.
G, No cor. Cal. 5-leafed. Capf. yround, 5-feed-
ed.
* L. Cor. 5-petaled. Capf. 10-celled, 2-feeded.
A. Cor. 5-petaled. Capf. i-celled, io-feeded3
* D, Cor. 5-petaled. Capf. i-celled, opening at the
top.
M. Cor. 5-petaled. Capf. 5-celled, fmooth.
C. Cor. 5-petaled. Capf. 5-celled, prickly.
* S. Cor. 5-petaled. Seeds 5. Cal. 10-cleft,
* S. Cor. 5-partite. Seed 1, covered by a funnel-
fhaped calyx.
Order VI. DECAGYNIA.
S. Cor. 5-petaled Capf. jo-celled, with 1 feed in
each cell.
Order VII. POLYGYNIA,
* 599. Mvosurus. Cal. 5-phyllus. Ned. 5, lingu-
lata. Sem. numerofa,
560. Zanthorhiza, Cal. o. Petala 5, Ned. 5,
pedicellata. Capf. 5, monofpermae.
* M. Cal. 5-leafed. Nedaries 5, tongue-lhaped.
Seeds numerous.
Z, No cal. Petals 5. Nedaries 5, on pedicles.
Capf. 5, 1-feeded.
I
Order I. MONOGYNIA.
274. Heliotropium, or Turn-fole,
Includes 2 2 fpecies j viz. peruvianum, amplexicaule,
indicum, parviflorum, inundatum, villofum, europaeum,
coromandelianum, malabaricum, marifolium, fupinum,
undiilatum, lineatum, ftrigofum, curaffavicum, zeylani-
cum, perficum, feabrum, orientale, gnaphaloides, terna-
tum, pinnatum. S. Eur, Afia, W. Indies, Peru.
275. Mrosorts.
12 fpecies; viz. fcorpioides, * arvenfis, nana, fruti-
cofa, fpathulata, rupeftris, virginiana, lappula, fquar-
rofa, echinophora, fpinocarpos, pedinata. Europe,
North America,
276. Lithospermum, or Cromwell.
16 fpecies 5 viz. * officinale, arvenfe, incanum, pa-
pillofum, virginianum, tindorium, apulum, fcabrum,
orientale, * purpureo-coeruleum, fruticofum, callofum,
ciliatum, tenuitlorura, difpermum, retortum. Europe,
Egypt, Virginia.
arvenfe. * L. feeds wrinkled *, corolla or bloffbms hardly longer
than the calyxes or cups.—^The girls in the north of
Vol. IV. Part I.
Europe, it is faid, paint their faces with the juice of the
root of this plant upon days of feftivity. The bark of
the root tinges wax and oil of a beautiful red, fimilar
to that which is obtained from the root of the foreign
alkanet that is kept in the ffiops. Sheep and goats eat it.
Cows are not fond of it. Horfes and fwine refufe it.
* L, feeds fmooth 5 corol. fcarcely longer than xhtofeina/e,
calyx $ leaves lanceolate or fpear-ffiaped. This fpecies
is found wild in dry fields and hedges. Its feeds are
roundiffi, hard, of a whitiffi colour,' like little pearls j
and from thefe circumftances, they were at one time
fuppofed peculiarly ferviceabie in calculous diforders.
Their tafte is merely farinaceous.
277. Anchusa, or Bug/ofr.
13 fpecies j viz. paniculata, capenfis, officinalis, ita-
lica, anguftifolia, undulata, tindoria, hifpida, virginica,
lanata, * fempervirens, parviflora, cefpitofa. Eur. Mad.
N. Amer.
278. Cynoglossum, or Hounds-tongue.
_ 24 fpecies j viz. * officinale, pidum, lanceolatum,
virginicum, limenfe, cheirifolium, apenninum, hilpiduin,
hirfutum, echinatum, muricatum, anguftifolium, laevi-
i3o
Pentandria-
officinale.
offcinalis.
officinale.
officinalis.
HOT
gatum, glaftifolium, cnftatum, lufitahicum, linifolium,
ianatum, japonicum, lateriflorum, fcorpioides, ompha-
lodes, cappadocicum, myofotoides. S. Europe, Japan,
Virginia.
* C. ftamens (liorter than the blofiom j leaves broad,
fpear-fhaped, fitting, cottony.—Both tire root and
leaves of this plant have been fufpefted to poffefs nar¬
cotic properties, but fome will not admit of the fa61.
It is dil'carded from the prefent praftice ; though fome
individuals are faid to ufe a decoftion of the roots in¬
wardly, and cataplafms of them outwardly, in llrumous
and fcrophulous cafes. Its fcent is very difagreeable,
and very much refembles that of mice. Goats eat it.
Cows, horfes, flieep, and fwine, refute it. It furnifhes
food to the phalence domina.
279. Pulmonaria, or Lung-wort.
Seven fpecies j viz. * angultifolia, * officinalis, fuffri-
ticofa, paniculata, virginica, fibirica, * maritima. Eu¬
rope, N. America.
* R. root-leaves egg-heart-lhaped, rough; upper leaves
egg-ffiaped, acute.—This plant when burnt, is faid to
afford a larger quantity of afhes than almoft any other
vegetable •, often i-7th of its weight. Sheep and
goats eat it. Cows are not fond of it. Horfes and
fwine refufe it, The cbryfomela nemorum feeds upon
it.
280. Symphytum, or Comfrey.
Three fpecies 5 viz. officinale, * tuberofum, orientale.
Ger. Fr. Spain, India.
* S. leaves egg-ffiaped, decurrent.—The particles of
the pollen are faid to appear in the microfcope like two
globules united together. The leaves give a grateful
flavour to cakes and panada, and the young flems and
leaves are excellent when boiled. The roots are glu¬
tinous and mucilaginous, and a decodion of them is
ufed by dyers to extrafl the colouring matter of gum
lac. Cows and flieep eat it. Horfes, goats, and fwine,
refufe it.
28*1. Cerinthe, or Honey-wort.
Three fpecies 5 viz. major, afpera, minor. Auftria, S.
Europe.
282. Onosma.
Eight fpecies } viz. fimpliciffima, orientalis, echioides,
fericea, coerulea, tenuiflora, cafpica, micrantha. Europe,
India.
283. Borago, or Borage.
Seven fpecies $ viz. ^officinalis, indica, africana, longi-
folia, zeylanica, orientalis, cretica. Eaft Indies, Afri¬
ca.
* B. all the leaves alternate ; cal. expanding.—It ap¬
pears by experiment that the juice of this plant affords
a true nitre. It is feldom ufed inwardly, but as an
ingredient in cool tankards for fummer drinking,
though the young and tender leaves are good in fal-
lads, or as a pot herb. It is faid to afford nouriffiment
to the phalcena gamma. Horfes are faid to have eaten
284. Asperugo, or Small Wild Buglofs.
Two fpecies j viz. * procumbens and aegyptiaca.
Europe, Egypt.
285. Lycopsis.
Nine fpecies j viz. veficaria, pidla, ciliata, obtufifolia,
vatiegata, * arvenfis, echioides, orientalis, virginica.
Germ. S. Eur. Virginia.
ANY.
286. Echium, or Vipers Buglofs.
26 fpecies ; viz. fruticofum, candicans, giganteum,
ftribtum, argentum, fericeum, fetofum, trichotomum,
hifpidum, paniculatutn, trigonum, capitatum, hevi-
gatum, glabrum, incanum, fpicatum, caudatum, planta-
gineum, * italicum, rubrum, * vulgare, * violaceum,
maritimum, creticum, orientale, lufitanicum. S, Eu¬
rope, Cape, Canaries.
* E. ftem rough with briftles and tubercles; ftem- vulgare,
leaves fpear-fhaped, rough with hair 5 flowers in late¬
ral fpikes.—Cows and flieep are faid not to be fond of
this plant. Horfes and goats refufe it. Bees are fond
of the flowers, but get their wings torn by its ftrong
hairs.
287. Messerschmidia.
Three fpecies; viz. fruticofa, arguzia, cancellata,
Siberia, Canaries.
288. Tournefortia, or Bafket Withe.
Eleven fpecies $ viz. ferrata, hiriutiflima, volubilis,
fyringaefolia, foetidiffiipaa, humilis, bicolor, cymofa,
argentea, fericea, fuffruticofa. Ceylon, Weft Indies-,.
S. America.
289. Nolana.
One fpecies 5 viz. proftrata. Peru. v
290. Diapensia.
One fpecies ; lapponica. Lapland.
291. Aretia.
Three fpecies j viz. helvetica, alpina, vitaliana. Alps,
Pyrenees.
292. Androsace.
Ten fpecies; viz. maxima, elongata, filiformis, fep-
tentrionalis, odoratiflima, villofa, chamsejafme, obtuli-
folia, laftea, carnea. N. Eur. Archipelago.
263. Primula, or Primrofe.
18 Species ; viz. verticillata, * veris, * elatior,
* farinofa, cortufoides, villofa, nivalis, longiflora, gluti-
nofa, marginata, auricula, gigantea, minima, integri-
folia, carniolica, finmarchica, vifcofa, fibirica. Europe.
* P. leaves toothed, wrinkled, fcape many-flowered, wm.
lumbus of the cor. concave.—This is a low plant grow¬
ing wild in woods and hedges, and producing pale
yellow flowers in the fpring. The leaves have an her¬
baceous tafte. The roots are flightly bitter, with a kind
©f aromatic flavour, which fome compare to that of
anifefeeds; their expreffed juice purified by fettling is
fometimes ufed as a fternutatory. The flowers have
an agreeable flavour, but very vTeak ; an infufion of
them in wine, and a fpirit diftilled from them, are ufed
in fome places as cordial and nervine.
294. Cartusa, or Bears-ear, Sanicle.
Two fpecies ; viz. mathioli, gmelini. Alps of Si¬
beria and Auftria.
295. Tricratus.
One fpecies ; viz. admirabilis.
296. Soldanella, or So/l/atfe/.
One fpecies; viz. alpina. Alps of Auftria and
Swdzerland.
297. Dodecatheon, or Virginian Cowjlip.
One fpecies ; viz. meadia. North America.
298. Cyclamen, or Sow-bread.
Five fpecies; viz. coum, * europaeum, perficum,
hedersefolium, indicum. Auftria, S. Europe, Ceylon.
299*
Pentandrla.
trifoliata.
nummu-
iaria.
B o T
t
299. Menyanthes, or Bog bean.
Four fpecies j viz. * nymphoides, ovata, indica,
* trifoliata. Europe, Cape, Ceylon, Mai.
* M. leaves growing by threes j cor. fegments entire
at the edge, lhaggy on the upper furface.—An in-
fufton of the leaves of this plant is faid to be ex¬
tremely bitter, and is prefcribed in rheumatifms and
dropfies. A dram of them in powder, purges and
vomits. It is fometimes given to deftroy worms. In
a fcarcity of hops, this plant is ufed in the north
of Europe to bitter the ale. Two ounces fupply the
place of a pound of hops. Some people fmoke the
dried leaves. The powdered roots are fometimes
ufed in Lapland inftead of bread, but they are un¬
palatable. Some people fay that (beep will eat it,
and that it cures them of the rot. But from the ufual
experiments, it appears that though goats eat it,
(heep fometimes will and fometimes will not. Cows,
horfes, and fwine, refufe it.
300. Dor^na.
One fpecies $ viz. japonica.
301. Hottonia, or Water-violet.
Four fpecies ; viz. * paluftris, feffiliflora, indica, fer-
sata. North of Europe and India.
302. Bacopa.
One fpecies j viz. aquatica. Guiana, Cayenne.
303. Hydrophyllum, or Water-leaf.
Two fpecies j viz. virginicum, canadenfe. North
America.
314. Ellisia.
One fpecies $ viz. ny&elea. Virginia.
305. Lysimachia, or Loofe-Jlrife,
15 fpecies j viz. * vulgaris, decurrens, ephemerum,
atro-purpurea, dubia, ftrifta, * thyrfiflora, quadrifolia,
punftata, linum, flellatum, mauritiana, * nemorum, ja¬
ponica, * nummularia. Europe, Japan, N. America.
* L. leaves fomewhat cordate, flowers folitary, ftem
creeping.—This fpecies called Moneywort, or Herb
Twopence, grows fpontaneoufly in moiil: watery places,
and creeps on the ground with two little roundifh
leaves at each joint. Their tafte is fubaflringent and
very (lightly acid ; hence, they (land recommended by
Boerhaave in the hot fcurvy, and in uterine and other
hemorrhagies. But their effefts are fo inconfiderable,
that common pra&ice takes no notice of them.
306. Anagallis, or Pimpernel.
Six fpecies ; viz. * arvenfis, pumila, monelli, lati-
folia, linifolia, * tenella. Europe, Jamaica.
307. Theophrasta.
Two fpecies ; viz. americana, longifolia. America.
308. Spigelia, or Worm-grafs,
Two fpecies ; viz. anthelmia, marilandica. North
America, W. Indies.—This laft fpecies grows wild in
the fouthern parts of North America. The roots are
celebrated as an anthelmintic, particularly for the ex-
pulfion of lumbrici from the alimentary canal. Some
order it in dofes of ten or fifteen grains, and allege it
is apt to occafion nervous affeftions if given in larger
dofes ; while others order it in dram dofes, alleging
that the bad effe&s mentioned more readily happen
from fmall, as the large ones often purge or puke :
fome prefer the form of infufion. An emetic is gene-
A N Y.
rally premifed ; and its purgative effeft afiifted by fome
fuitable additions.
309. Ophiorrhiza, or Serpents-tongiie.
Three fpecies j viz. mungos, mitreola, fubumbellata,
E. Indies, S. America.
310. Lisianthus.
15 fpecies j viz. longifolius, glaucifolius, coerulef*
cens, alatus, chelonoides, purpurafcens, grandiflorus,
exfertus, glaber, frigidus, latifolius, umbellatus, cordi-
folius, carinatus, trinervius. Weft Indies, Surinam.
311. Fagr.ea.
One fpecies ; viz. zeylanica. Ceylon.
312. Azalea, or Amer. Upright Honeyfuclile.
Six fpecies; viz. pontica, indica, nudiflora, vifcofa,
lapponica, * procumbens. N. Europe, N. America.
313. Sheffieldia.
One fpecies j viz. repens.
314. Sprengelia.
One fpecies j viz. incarnata.
315. Epacris.
Four fpecies; viz. grandifiora, longifolia, rofmarinx-
folia, pumila. Caribbee Ides.
316. Styphelia.
Eight fpecies $ viz. tubiflora, ericoides, ftrigofa,
fcoparia, daphnoides, lanceolata, elliptica, juniperina.
317. Weigelia.
Two fpecies ; viz. japonica, coraeenfis. Japan.
318. Plumbago, or Lead-wort.
Seven fpecies $ viz. europaea, lapathiftdia, capenfis,
zeylanica, rofea, fcandens, auriculata. S. Europe, E.
Indies, S. America.
319. Triguera.
Two fpecies j viz. ambrofiaca, inodora. Ifle of
Bourbon.
320. Phlox, or Bafe Lychnis, Lichnidea.
12 fpecies •, viz. paniculata, undulata, fuaveolens,
maculata, pilofa, Carolina, glaberrima, divaricata, ovata,
fubulata, fibirica, fetacea. Siberia, N. America.
321. Retzia.
One fpecies; viz. fpicata. Cape of Good Hope.
322. Porana.
One fpecies j viz. volubilis. Eaft Indies.
323 Convolvulus, or Bind weed.
120 fpecies', viz. * arvenfis, * fepium, wheleri,
fcammonia, involucratus, fibiricus,rupeftris,farinofus, la-
nuginofus, incanus, emarginatus, medium, filicaulis, tri-
dentatus, anguftifolius, japonicus, haftatus, panduratus,
bra&eatus, bicolor, trilobus, platanifolius, acuminatus,
carolinus, hederaceus, nil, purpureus, obfcurus, flavus,
angularis, batatas, maximus, biflorus, gemellus, ftriatus,
pentanthus, gujanenfis, capitatus, hifpidus, parvifiorus,
trifiorus, verticillatus,violaceus,umbellatus, tuguriorum,
cordifolius, bifidus,malabaricus,coeleftis,canarienfis, fer¬
ruginous, muricatus, triqueter, anceps, turpethum, gran¬
diflorus, fpeciolus, trinervius, peltatus,jalapa, macrofper-
mus, tenellus, fericeus, tomentofus, quinquefloruS, her-
mannice, arenarius, althaeoides, cairicus, quinquelobus,
copticus, vitifolius, diffeftus, mucronatus, macrocarpus,
R 2, paniculatus,
131
132 B O T
paniculatus, macrorKizos, quinquefolius, venofus, gla-
ber, pentaphyllus, tenuifolius, ficulus, pentapetaloides,
lineatus, faxatilis, cneorum, linearis, cantabrica, aman-
ni, pilofellsefolius, dorycnium, proliferus, lanatus, hy-
llrix, fpinofus, fcoparius, cenotheroides, floridus, cu-
neatus, corymbofus, fpithamasils, perbcus, tricolor,
acetofsefolius, repens, reptans, edulis, hirtus, * foldanel-
la, imperati, pes caprae, brafiiienfis, muitifidus, fubloba-
tus, capenlis, fagittatus, littoralis, inartinicenfis. Eu¬
rope, Alla, xArrica, America.
Jepium. '* C. leaves arrow-diaped, lopped at the bafe ; fruit-
flalk four-cornered, bearing i flower.—The infpiSated
juice of this plant in dofes of 20 or 30 grains, is faid
to be a powerful drastic purge. Scammony is the in-
fpifiated juice of a fpecies of convolvulus, fo much re-
fembling this, that they are wdth difficulty diftinguifh-
ed. Though an acrid purgative to the human race, it
is eaten by hogs in large quantities without any detri¬
ment. Sheep, goats, and horfes eat it. Cows refufe
it.
foldanella. * C. leaves kidney-fhaped; fruitflalks with 1 flower.—
It is faid, that half an ounce of the juice, or a drachm
of the powder of this plant, is an acrid purge. The
leaves applied externally, are faid to diminifh dropfical
fwellings of the feet. The different fpecies furnifh
nouriiliment to the fph'inx convolvuli^ and pbalana el-
penor.
jalap. The root of the fpecies termed jalapa, is brought to
us in thin dices from Xalpa, a province of New Spain.
Such pieces fhould be chofen as are moft compaft,
hard, weighty, dark-coloured, and abound moft with
black circular ftriae.. Slices of bryony root are faid to
be fometimes mixed with jalap. Thefe may be eafily
diftinguiflied by their wffiiter colour and lefs compact
texture. This root has no fmell, and very little taite
upon the tongue ; but when fwallowed it affedts the
throat with a fenfe of heat, and occafions a plentiful
difeharge of faliva. Taken in fubftance in a dofe of
about half a drachm, (lefs or more, according to the
circumflances-of the patient) in plethoric or cold phleg¬
matic habits, it proves an effectual, and, in general, a
fafe purgative ; performing its office mildly, feldom oc-
cafxoning naufea or gripes, which too frequently ac¬
company other ftrong cathartics. In hypochondriacal
, cafes, and hot bilious temperaments, it gripes violent¬
ly if the jalap be good $ but rarely takes due effedt as
a purge. An extradl made with wTater purges almofl
univerfally, but weakly ; and, at the fame time, has
a confiderable effedl by urine : the root remaining af¬
ter this procefs gripes violently. The pure refin, pre¬
pared by fpirit of wine, occafions moft violent gripings
and other diftreffing circumftances, but proves fcarce
at all cathartic. Triturated with fugar or with al¬
monds, into the form of an emulfion, or diffolved in
ipirits and mixed with fyrups, it purges plentifully in
a fmall dofe, without occafioning much diforder. The
part of the jalap remaining after the feparation of the
refin, yields to water an extradl, wffiich has no effedt
as a cathartic, but operates powerfully by urine.
Frederic Hoffman pai-ticularly cautions againft giv¬
ing this medicine to children, and allures us that it
will deftroy appetite, weaken the body, and perhaps
occafion death. In this point this celebrated pradli-
tioner was probably deceived. Children, whofe vef-
A N Y. Pentandria*
fels are lax, and their food foft and lubricating, bear
thefe kinds of medicines, as Geoffrey obferves, better
than adults ; and, accordingly, inoculators make much
ufe of the tindlure mixed with fimple fyrup. A com¬
pound powder of it is employed in dropfy as a hydra-
gogue purge ■, and where ftimulus is not contra-indi¬
cated, jalap is confidered as a fafe cathartic.
The fpecies of the genus convolvulus, called fcam-fcamtnony%
moma, is a climbing plant, which grows in Afiatic
Turkey, and affords a gum refin. The beft forts of
the gum refin come from Aleppo, in light fpongy maf-
fes, eafily friable, of a fnining afti-colour verging to
black 5 when powdered, of a light gray qr whitifh co¬
lour. An inferior fort is brought from Smyrna in
more compadl ponderous pieces, of a darker colour,
and full of fand and other impurities. This juice is
chiefly of the refinous kind. Keftified fpirit of wine
diflolves five ounces out of fix ; the remainder is a mu¬
cilaginous fubftance mixed with drofs: proof fpirit to¬
tally diffolves it, the impurities only being left. It
has a faint and unpleafant fmell, and a bitterifh fome-
what acrimonious tafte. Scammony is an efficacious
and a ftrong purgative. Its dole is from three to 12
grains.
324. Cantua.
Four fpecies; viz. pyrifolia, buxifolia, hoitzia, co-
ronopifolia. Peru.
325. Ipomoea, or ^uamoclit.
28 fpecies j viz. quamoclit, difiedla, umbellata, Ca¬
rolina, coccinea, lacunofa, leucantha, folanifolia, tu-
berofa, digitata, bona nox, campanulata, violacea,
verticillata, carnea, repanda, filiformis, haftata, glau-
cifolia, fimplex, hederacea, triloba, fanguinea, hederi-
folia, parviflora, hepaticifolia, tamnifolia, pes tigridis.
Eaft and Weft Indies, America.
326. Polemonium, or Greek Valerian.
Five fpecies ; viz. * coeruleum, reptans, dubium,
roelloides, campanuloides. N. Eur. Afia, C. of G.
Hope, America.
327. Lightfootja.
Two fpecies j viz. oxycoccoides, fubulata. C. of
G. Hope.
328. Jasione, or Sheep's Scabious.
One fpecies 5 viz. * montana. Europe, C. of G.
Hope.
329. Campanula, or Bell-fower.
85 fpecies 5 viz. cenefia, uniflora, bellardi, pulla,
zoyfii, gracilis, glauca, grandiflora, tetraphylla, tri-
phylla, verticillata, * rotundifolia, linifolia, pubefeens,
linarioides, carpatica, lobelioides, porofa, undulata*
linearis, feffiliflora, * patula, * rapunculus, unidentata,
fafciculata, perficifolia, pyramidalis, ameiicana, niti-
da, latifolia, enfifolia, rhomboidea, * latifolia, urtici-
folia, ftylofa, rapunculoides, bononienfis, vefula, ptar-
micaefolia, graminifolia, * trachelium, * glomerata,
cervicaria, marginata, thyflbidea, petrsea, adprelfa,
fubulata, hifpidula, paniculata, cinerea, peregrina^
cernua, allionii, pundlata, medium, barbata, fpicata,
ftrigofa, alpina, mollis, faxatilis, alliarisefolia, fibirica,
tridentata, laciniata, ftrifla, aurea, fruticofa, fpecu-
lum, *hybrida, prifmatocarpus, cochlearifolia, limoni-
folia, pentagonia, perfoliata, capenfis, procumbens,
tenella,
133
Pentandria. B O T
tenella, elatines, difFufa, * hederacea, crinoides, hete-
rophylla, erinus. Europe, N. America, Cape, Ja¬
pan.
rapunculus * C. leaves waved; root leaves fpear oval; panicle
compaft.—The roots of this plant are faid to be eaten
raw in fallads, or boiled like afparagus. In gardens
they are blanched.
330. Roella.
Five fpecies ; viz. ciliata, fquarrofa, decurrens,
mufeofa, fpicata. Africa.
331. Phyteuma, or Ramfiions.
t6 fpecies; viz. paucidora, fcheuchzeri, michelli,
liemilphaerica, comofa, * orbicularis, nigra, betonicae-
folia, fpicata, ovata, virgata, lobelioides, lanceolata,
ngida, amplexicaulis, pinnata. Europe.
332. Trachelium.
Three fpecies; viz. coeruleum, diffufum, tenuifoli-
um. Italy, Levant, Cape.
333. Samolus, Water Pimpernel.
One fpecies; viz. * valerandi. Europe, Alia, Ame¬
rica.
334. Sphenoclea.
One fpecies; viz. zeylanica.
335. Nauclea.
Six fpecies; viz. orientalis, purpurea, parvifolia,
africana, aculeata, cordifolia. E. Indies, Guiana.
336. Rondeletia.
13 fpecies; viz. americana, odorata, trifoliata, vir¬
gata, pilofa, thyrfoidea, racemofa, laurifolia, tomen-
tofa, umbellulata, incana, hirfuta, hirta. Eaft and
Weft Indies.
337. Marcronfmum.
Three fpecies; viz. jamaicenfe, candidiftimum, coc-
cineum. Jamaica.
338. Bellonta.
Two fpecies ; viz. afpera and fpinofa. America.
339. Thouinia
One fpecies; viz. fpeftabilis. Jamaica, Hifpanio'
la.
- 34O. PORTLANDICA.
Four fpecies ; viz. tetrandra, grandiflora, coccinea,
hexandra. Jamaica, S. America.
341. SoLANDRA.
One fpecies; viz. grandiflora. Jamaica.
342. Lobelia, or Cardinal-flower.
48 Species; viz. linearis, fimplex, pinifolia, * dort-
manna, tupa, kalmii, paniculata, graminea, grandis,
cornuta, depreffa, columneae, arborea, bellidifolia, tri-
quetra, cinerea, longiflora, tomentofa, fecunda, acu¬
minata, ftricla, patula, aflurgens, cardinalis, ferrugi-
nea, debilis, fiphilitica, furinamenfts, inflata, cliffor-
tiana, * urens, minuta, laurentia, radicans, campanu-
loides, evinus, erinoides, anceps, repens, thermalis,
pubefeens, zeylanica, lutea, angulata, hirfuta, pygmasa,
coronopifolia, crenata. Cape, Eaft and Weft Indies,
America.
The fpecies called flphihtica grows in moift places
in Virginia, and bears our winters. It is perennial,
has an ered ftalk three or four feet high, blue flowers,
A N Y.
a milky juice, and a rank fmell. The root confifts of
white fibres about two inches long, refembles tobacco
in the tafte, which remains on the tongue, and is apt
to excite vomiting. It is ufed by the North American
Indians as a fpecific for the venereal difeafe. The
form is that of decodion ; the dofe of which is order¬
ed to be gradually increafed till it bring on very con-
fiderable purging, then to be intermitted for a little,
and again ufed in a more moderate degree till the cure
be completed. The ulcers are alfo wafhed with the
decodion, and the Indians are faid to fprinkle them
with the powder of the inner bark of the fpruce tree.
The fame ftridnefs of regimen is ordered as during a
falivation or mercurial courle. The benefit to be de¬
rived from this article has not, fo far as wre know, been
confirmed either in Britain, or by the praditioners of
Virginia ; for there, as well as in this country, re-
courfe is almoft univerfally had to the ufe of mercury.
Hence the London college have omitted it in their
lift of medical plants ; though in feme cafes it would'
feem to deferve trial.
343. Cyphia.
Six fpecies ; viz. volubilis, digitata, bulbofa, car-
damines, incifa, phyteuma.
344. Goodenia.
Nine fpecies ; viz. ovata, albida, laevigata, panicu¬
lata, bellidifolia, ftrida, ramofiflima, heterophylla,
hederacea.
345. SCiEVOLA.
' Three fpecies ; viz. lobelia, koengii, fericea. South
America.
346. Cinchona, or 'Jefuits-barh Tree.
Nine fpecies ; viz. officinalis, pubefeens, macrocar--
pa, caribaea, corymbifera, lineata, floribunda, bra-
chycarpa, auguftifolia. Peru, Weft Indies, South
fea.
The cinchona officinalis (Peruvian or Jefuits-bark
tree), is deferibed as being in general about 15 feet
high, and fix inches thick. It fomewhat refembles
our cherry tree, grows promifcuoufly in forefts, parti¬
cularly in the hilly parts of Quito in Peru, and is
fpontaneoufly propagated from its own feeds. The
bark has fome odour, to moft people not unpleafant,
and very perceptible in the diftilled water, in wffiich
floating globules, like eflential oil, have been ob-
ferved. Its tafte is bitter and aftringent, accompanied
with a degree of pungency, and leaving a confiderably
lading impreffion on the tongue. 1'wo forts are men¬
tioned, viz. the coloured and the white. The colour¬
ed includes the pale, the red, the yellow, and the
knotty ; their barks being coloured, having the cin¬
chona tafte and fmell, and the trees having very fmooth
leaves and purpliffi flowers. The white includes four
varieties, their barks being of a whitiffi colour, with
very little tafte or fmell, and the trees having broad
hairy leaves, very fragrant red flowers, with hairs on
the infide. The proper red bark, and one of the
white kind, have been found in the province of Santa
Fe.
Dr Wright has deferibed very accurately a fpecies
of cinchona, under the appellation of cinchona jamai-
cenfls, from its being found chiefly in Jamaica. It is
there called the fea-flde beech, and grows from 20 to
40
J34
ANY.
I. Dulcified fpirit of vitriol, 6.
2. Cauitic ley, 7.
3. French brandy, 8.
4. Soft water, g.
5. Vinegar and water, 10.
Pentandria*
Dulcified fpiritofnitre,
Mild volatile alkali,
Reftifiedfoirit ofwine,
Mild veg. table alkali,
Lime-water.
B O T
40 feet high. The white-furrowed thick outer bark
is not ufed y the dark-brown inner bark has the com¬
mon flavour, with a mixed kind of tafte at firft of the
horfe-radifti and ginger, becoming at lafi: bitter and-
aftringent. It feems to give out more extra&ive mat¬
ter than the officinalis. Some of it was imported from
St Lucia, in confequence of its having been fuccefsful-
ly ufed in the army and navy ; and Dr Kentifh has
treated of it at great length, under the name of Si Lu¬
cia bark. When frelh, it is confiderably cathartic and
emetic, but is faid to lofe thefe properties on drying.
The pale and the red are chiefly ufed in Britain.
The pale is brought to us in pieces of different fizes,
either flat or quilled, and the powder is rather of a
lighter colour than that of cinnamon. The red is ge¬
nerally in much larger thicker flattiih pieces, but
fometimes alfo in the form of quills, and its powder is
reddilh, like that of the Armenian bole. It is much
more refinous, and poffeffes the fenfible qualities of the
cinchona, in a much higher degree than the other
forts j and the more nearly the other kinds refemble
the red bark, the better they are now confidered. The
red bark is heavy, round, and dry j friable between
the teeth ; does not feparate into fibres ; and breaks,
not (hivery, but Ihort, clofe, and fmooth. It has
three layers} the outer is thin, ragged, of a reddifli-
brown colour, but frequently covered with moffy mat¬
ter : the middle is thicker, more compadl, darker-co¬
loured, very refinous, brittle, and yields firft to the
peftle. The inmoft is more woody, fibrous, and of a
brighter red.
The Peruvian bark yields its virtues both to cold
and boiling water 5 but the deco&ion is thicker, gives
out its tafte more readily, and forms an ink with a
chalybeate more fuddenly, than the frefh cold infufion.
This infufion, however, contains at leaft as much ex¬
tractive matter, but more in a ftate of folution ^ and its
colour, on (landing fome time with the chalybeate, be¬
comes darker, while that of the decoCtion becomes more
faint. When they are of a certain age, the addition
of a chalybeate renders them green ; and when this is
the cafe, they are found to be in a ftate of fermenta¬
tion, and effete. Mild or cauftic alkalies, or lime, pre¬
cipitate the extractive matter, which in the cafe of the
cauftic alkali is re-diffolved by a farther addition of the
alkali. Lime-water precipitates lefs from a frefti infu-
fton, than from a frefli decoCtion *, and in the precipi¬
tate of this laft fome mild earth is perceptible. The
infufion is by age reduced to the fame ftate with the
frefti decoCtion, and then they depofite nearly an equal
quantity of mild earth and extractive matter; fo that
lime-water, as well as a chalybeate, may be ufed as a
teft of the relative ftrength and periftiable nature of
the different preparations, and of different barks. Ac¬
cordingly, cold infufions are found, by experiments,
to be lefs perifhable than decoCtions j infufions and de-
coCtions of the red bark than thofe of the pale : thofe
of the red bark, however, are found, by length of
time, to feparate more mild earth with the lime-water,
and more extradive matter. Lime-water, as precipi¬
tating the extraCl, appears an equally improper and
difagreeable menftruum.
"Ihe power of different menftrua, as aCHng upon
Peruvian bark, is comparatively in the following or¬
der ; the moft powerful folvent being placed firft.
The antifeptic powers of vinegar and bark united,
are double the fum of thofe taken feparately. The
aftringent power of the bark is increafed by acid of vi¬
triol j the bitter tafte is defttoyed by it. The officinal
preparations of the bark are,
1. The powder. O this, the firft parcel that paffes
the fieve, being the moft refinous and brittle layer, is
the ftrongeft.
2. The extraCL The watery and fpirituous extraCls
conjoined form the moft proper preparations of this
kind.
3. Spirituous tinClure. This is beft made with proof
fpirit.
4. The decoClion. This preparation, though fre¬
quently employed, is inferior to a fimple watery infu¬
fion.
The beft form is that of powder ; in which the con-
ftituent parts are in the moft effeftual proportion. The
cold infufion, which can be made in a few minutes by
agitation, the fpirituous tinfture, and the extraCl, are
likewife proper in this refpeCl. For covering the tafte,
different patients require different vehicles, liquorice,
aromatics, acids, port wine, fmall beer, porter, butter
milk, brandy, rum, currant jelly, &c.
According to fome, the Peruvians learned the ufe
of the bark, by obferving certain animals affeCIed with
intermittents, inftinCHvely led to it ; while others fay,
that a Peruvian, having an ague, was cured by having
drank of a pool, in which fome felled trees had fo
long foaked, as to give the tafte of their bark to the
w-ater ; and its ufe in gangrene is faid to have orginat-
ed from its curing one in an aguifh patient. About
the year 1640, the lady of the Spaniih viceroy, the
Comitiffa del Cinchon, was cured by the bark, which
has therefore been called cortex or pulvis comitiJJ}ey
cinchona, ch'machina or chinchina, kinalina or kuikina,
quinaquina or quinquina ; and from the intereft which
the cardinal de Lugo and the Jefuits took in its diftri-
bution, it has been called cortex or pulvis Cardlnalis
ele Lugo, Jefuiticus, Patrum, &c.
As it was firft introduced into praftice for the cure
of intermittent fevers, fo it feldom fails of fuccefs,
when properly exhibited in thefe. Pradlitioners, how¬
ever, have differed as to the beft mode of exhibiting
it ; fome prefer giving it juft before the fit, fome dur¬
ing the fit, others immediately after it. Some again
order it in the quantity of an ounce between the fits,
the dofe being the more frequent and larger, accord¬
ing to the frequency of the fits ; and this mode of ex¬
hibition, although it may fometimes lead to the em¬
ployment of more bark than is necefiary, is thought,
upon the whole, preferable, from being the beft fuited
to moft ftomachs. The requifite quantity is very dif¬
ferent in different cafes, and in many vernal intermit¬
tents it feems even hardly neceffary.
It often pukes and purges, and fometimes oppreffes
the ftomach. Thefe, or any other irregular effedts
that may take place, are to be counteradled by reme¬
dies particularly appropriated to them. Thus, vomit-
ing
Fentandria. EOT
ing is often retrained by exhibiting it in wine ; loofe-
nefs, by combining it with opium ; and oppreffion at
ftomach, by combining it with an aromatic. But, un-
lefs for obviating particular occurrences, it is more
fuccefsful when exhibited in its fimpleft Ifate, than
with any addition.
It is now given from the very commencement of the
difeafe, and is to be continued, not only till the pa-
roxyfms ceafe, but till the natural appetite, flrength,
and complexion, return. Its ufe is then to be gra¬
dually left off, and repeated at proper intervals to fe-
cure againff a relapfe, to which there is a tendency,
efpecially when the wind blows from the eaft. An
emetic is often advantageoufly employed before com¬
mencing the ufe of it, but other evacuants feem hurt¬
ful.
The Peruvian bark feems not only fuited to inter¬
mittent fevers, both latent and formed, but to that
Hate of the conftitution on which all difeafes, rigidly
periodical, feem to depend ", as periodical pain, inflam¬
mation, hemorrhagy, fpafm, cough, lofs of external
fenfe, &c. Bark is now ufed by fome in all conti¬
nued fevers, taking care to keep the bowels clean, and
to promote, when neceffary, the evacuation of redun¬
dant bile. In confluent fmallpox it promotes languid
eruption and fuppuration, diminifhes the fever through
the whole courfe of it, and prevents or corrects putre-
fcence or gangrene. In gangrenous fore throats it is
much ufed, as it is externally and internally in all
cafes of gangrene. In contagious dyfentery, after
I due evacuation, it has been ufed by the mouth, and
by injedlion, with and without opium.
In all thofe hemorrhagies called pajjlve, which all
hemorrhagies are very apt to become, and likewife in
all other increafed difcharges, it is much ufed j and, in
certain undefined cafes of haemoptyfis, fome allege,
that it is remarkably effectual, when joined with an
abforbent. It is ufed for obviating the difpofition to
nervous and convulfive difeafes; and fome have great
confidence in it, joined with the acid of vitriol, in cafes
of phthifis, fcrofula, ill-conditioned ulcers, rickets, fcur-
vy, and in Hates of convalefcence. In thefe cafes,
however, it ought, in general, to be joined with a
milk diet.
In dropfy, not depending on any particular local af¬
fection, it is often alternated or conjoined with diure¬
tics or other evacuants j and by its early exhibition af¬
ter the water is drawn off, or even begins to be freely
difcharged, a frefla accumulation is prevented, and a
radical cure obtained. In obftinate venereal cafes,
particularly thofe which appear under the form of pains
in the bones, the Peruvian bark is often fuccefsfully
fubjoined to mercury, or even given in conjunftion
with it. On the whole this remedy is ufeful in fuch
a vaft variety of cafes, that its virtues cannot be fuffi-
ciently explained, by confidering it merely as an ordi¬
nary tonic or aftringent; and hence many practitioners
confider it as poffeffmg fpecific qualities peculiar to it-
felf, the nature of which is by no means well under¬
flood.
347. Solena.
One fpecies j viz. longiflora.
348. UCRIANA.
One fpecies $ viz. fpeciofa.
ANY. i$s
349. Psychotria, or Ipecacuanha.
39 fpecies 5 viz. afiatica, glabrata, axillaris, lauri-
folia, parviflora, hirfuta, foetens, citrifolia, nitida, mar-
ginata, tenuifolia, nervofa, carthaginenfis, myrltiphyl-
lum, laxa, paralitica, horizontalis, nutans, fpeciofa,
involucrata, fiexuofa, racemofa, violacea, brachiata,
grandis, patens, uliginofa, ferpens, herbacea, emetica,
corymbofa, pubefcens, pedunculata, crocea, alpina,
paniculata, palicurea, lutca, longifiora. E. and W.
Indies, S. America, China.
The root of the Pfychotria emetica, or common ipe~
cacuan is brought from the Spanilh W. Indies. It is
divided into two forts, the Peruvian and Brazilian ;
but the eye diftinguilhes three ; afh-coloured or gray,
brown, and white. The afh-coloured or Peruvian
ipecacuan of the (hops is a fmall wrinkled root, bent
and contorted into a great variety of figures \ brought
over in Ihort pieces full of wrinkles, and'deep circular fif-
fures, quite down to a fmall white woody fibre that runs
in the middle of each piece. The cortical part is com¬
pact, brittle, looks fmooth and refinous upon breaking.
It has very little fmell: the tafle is bitterifh and fub-
acrid, covering the tongue as it were with a kind of mu¬
cilage. The brown is fmall and fomewhat more wrink¬
led than the foregoing •, of a brown or blackifli colour
without and white within : this is brought from Brafil.
The white fort is woody and has no wrinkles, and no
perceptible bitternefs in tafte. The firlt fort, the alh-
coloured or grey ipecacuan, is that ufually preferred for
medicinal ufe. The brown has been fometimes obferv-
ed, even in a fmall dofe, to produce violent effedls.
The white, though taken in a large one, has fcarce any
effedt at all: Mr Geoffrey calls this fort baftard ipe¬
cacuan, and complains that it is an impofition upon the
public. Geoffrey, Newman, Dale, and Sir Hans
Sloane inform us, that the roots of a kind of Apocy-
tiiim (dog’s-bane), are frequently brought over inftead
of it 5 and inftances are given of ill confequences fol¬
lowing from the ufe of thefe roots. If the marks above
laid down, particularly of the afh-colour, brittlenefs,
deep wrinkles, and bitterifh taffe, be carefully attend¬
ed to, all miftakes of this kind may be prevented.
Ipecacuan was firft brought to Europe about the
middle of the century before the laft, and an account
of it publilhed about the fame time by Pifo 5 but it did
not come into general ufe till about the year 1686,
when Helvetius, under the patronage of Lewis XIV. in¬
troduced it into practice. This root is one of the mild-
eft and fafeft emetics with which we are acquainted 5
and has this peculiar advantage, that if it fliould not
operate by vomit, it paffes off by the other emumflories.
It was firft introduced among us with the charafter of
an almoft infallible remedy in dyfenteries and other in¬
veterate fluxes, as menorrhagia and leucorrhea, and
alfo in diforders proceeding from obftruiffions of long
Handing : nor has it loll much of its reputation by
time. In dyfenteries it almoff always produces happy
effe&s, and often very fpeedily performs a cure. In
other fluxes of the belly, in beginning dylenteries, and
fuch as are of a malignant kind, or where the patient
breathes a tainted air, it has not been equally fuccefsfulr
in thefe cafes it is neceffary to continue the ufe of this
medicine for feveral days, and to join with it opiates,
diaphoretics, and the like. This root given in fubflance
is as effedlualj. if not. more fo, than any of the prepa¬
rations
J
Pentandria*
136
A N Y.
B O T
rations of it: the pure refin a&s as a ftrong irritating
emetic, but is of little fervice in dyfenteries; whilft an
extraft prepared with water is almoft of equal fervice
in thefe cales with the root itfelf, though it has little
effeft as an emetic. Geoffrey concludes from hence
that the chief virtue of ipecacuan in dyfenteries depends
upon its gummy fubftance, which, lining the intelfines
with a foft mucilage when their own mucus has been
abraded, occafions their exulcerations to heal, and de¬
fends them from the acrimony of the juices 5 and that
the reiinous part, in which the emetic quality refides, is
required w'here the morbific matter is lodged in the
glands of the ftomach and inteftines. Water affifted by a
boiling heat takes up from all vegetables a confiderable
portion of refinous along with the gummy matter : if
the ipecacuan remaining after the aftion of water be
digefted with pure fpirit, it will not yield half fo much
refin as at firftj fo that the aqueous extraft differs from
the crude root only in degree, being proportionably lefs
refinous, and having lefs effedl both as an emetic, and in
the cure of dyfenteries. The virtues of ipecacuan in
this diforder depend on its producing perfpiration, the
freedom of which here is of the utmoft importance, and
an increafe of which, even in healthful perfons, is gener-
„ ally obferved to decreafe the evacuation by ftool. In dy¬
fenteries the ikin is for the moft part dry and tenfe, and
perfpiration obftru&ed : the common diaphoretics pafs
off without eft'eft through the inteftinal canal j but ipe¬
cacuan, if the patient after a puke or twro be covered
up warm, brings on a plentiful fweat. After the remov¬
al of the dyfentery, it is neceffary to continue the ufe
of the medicine for fome time longer, in order to pre¬
vent a relapfe *, for this purpofe a few grains divided
into feveral dofes, fo as not to occafion any fenfible eva¬
cuation, may be exhibited every day: by this means the
cure is elfeftually eftablifhed. And indeed fmall dofes
given even from the beginning have been found to
have better effe6ls in the cure of this difeafe than lar¬
ger ones. The only officinal preparation of this root
is a tirxSlure made in wine, which has the appellation of
Vinum Ipecacuanha both in the London and Edinburgh
Pharmacopoeias. Ipecacuan, particularly in the ftate of
powder, is nowadvantageoufiy employed in almoft every
difeafe in wffiich full vomiting is requifite ; and when
combined with opium, it furniffies u^ with the moft
ufeful and active fweating medicine that we poflefs.
It is alfo often given with advantage in fmall dofes, fo
as neither to operate by vomiting, purging, nor fweat¬
ing. The full dofe of the powder is a fcruple or half
a dram, and double that in form of watery infufion.
The full dofe is recommended in the paroxyfm of fpaf-
modic afthma, and a dofe of three or four grains every
morning in habitual afthmatic indifpofition : a dole of
one third or half a grain rubbed with fugar, and given
every four hours or oftener is recommended in uterine
haemorhagy, cough, pleurify, haemoptoe, &c. and has of¬
ten been found highly ferviceable. Dr Irving found that
by long boiling, the aftivity of the root is almoft total¬
ly deftroyed; but that its emetic property was moft effec¬
tually counterafled by means of the acetous acid j in-
fomuch that 30 grains of the powder, taken in two
ounces of vinegar, produced only feme loofe ftools,
350. Chimarrhis.
One fpecies j viz. cymola. Martinico.
351. Dentella.
One fpecies j viz. repens. South fea ifles.
35a. VlRECTA.
One fpecies j viz. biflora. Cayenne, Surinam.
353. Coffea, or Coffee-tree.
Eight fpecies j viz. iambucina, opulina, odorata,
arabica, tiiflora, gujanenfis, paniculata, occidentalis.
Yemen in Arabia, Weft Indies, S. .America.
The coffea arabica, though it originally came from
Arabia, is now cultivated in the Weft Indies. Its
fruit is employed rather as food than as a medicine.
The medical effe&s expected from it are to affift digef-
tion, promote the natural fecretions, and prevent or
remove a tendency to fleepinefs. It has been recom¬
mended in fpafmodic afthma ; and in fome cafes it is
found highly ufeful in alleviating fevere headach. In
the influenza, or epidemic complaint of fpring 1803,
the ule of coffee as the chief article of food was found
to be attended with the heft effedts, particularly in,
removing that extreme debility which was the moft:
univerfal and remarkable fymptom of the difeafe.
354. Chiococca, or Snow-berry,
Two fpecies $ viz. racemofa and barbata. Jamaica,
S. America.
355. Vangueria.
One fpecies j viz. edulis. Me of Madagafcar.
356. Canephora.
Two fpecies $ viz. axillaris and capitata, Madagaf¬
car.
357. Cephaeljs.
12 fpecies; viz. violacea, tomentofa, punicea, elata,
axiliari, purpurea, alba, glabra, involucrata, tetrandra,
felliliflora, mufeofa.
358. Bertjera.
One fpecies, viz. gujanenfis.
359. Hamellia.
Five fpecies ; viz. patens, axillaris, chryfantha, ven-
tricofa, feflilifiora. S. America, W. Indies.
360. SCHWENKFELDIA.
Three fpecies; viz. hirta, cinerea, afpera. Weft
Indies.
361. Lonicera, or Honeyfucile.
20 fpecies ; viz. caprifolium, dioica, fempervirens,
grata, implexa, * periclymenum, japonica, nigra, qua-
drifolia, tatarica, * xylofteum, pyrenaica, alpigena,
coerulea, orientalis, flexuofa, fymphoricarpos, diervilla,
bubalina, corymbofa, Eur. Cape, Japan, N. America,
* L. heads egg-fiiaped, tiled, terminating; leavespericlytne*
diftinfl, deciduous ; bloffom gaping.—The beauty and num.
fragrance of the flowers of this plant render it a pleaf-
ing ornament to our gardens, hedges and arbours.
Cows, goats, and ffieep, eat it; hories refufe it. Va¬
rious infers feed upon it.
* L. fruitftalks 2 flowered; berries diftindl, leaves xylojleutn*
very entire, pubefeent.— In the north of Europe this is
a common plant; Linnaeus informs us it makes excel¬
lent garden hedges in a dry foil : that the clear parts
between the joints of the (hoots are ufed in Sweden as
tubes for tobacco pipes, and that the wood being ex¬
tremely hard makes teeth for rakes, &c.
362.
Pentandrxa. B O T
362. Triosteum, or Fever-root, Tinker's Weed.
Three fpecies j viz. perfoliaturn, anguliifolium, tri-
florum.
363. Morinda.
Three fpecies ; viz. umbellata, citrifolia, royoc.
364. BjEBROTRYS.
Two fpecies j viz. nemoralis and lanceolata.
Four fpecies; viz. farinofa, tetrandra, glandulofa,
rotundifolia. Arabia.
366. Conocarpus, or Button-tree.
T hree fpecies j viz. eredta, procumbens, racemofa.
Weft Indies, Brazil.
367. Sc hoe p FI A.
One fpecies ; viz. americana.
368. Erithalis.
T wo fpecies j viz. fruticoia, polygama. Tamaica,
. iimenca.
369. Menais.
One fpecies 5 viz. topiaria. S. America.
370. Muss.?enda.
Two fpecies j viz. frondofa, glabra.
371. Geniosioma.
One fpecies 5 viz. rupeftris. South fea ifles.
372. Mathiola.
One fpecies j viz. fcabra.
373. Miraeilis, or Marvel of Peru.
Three fpecies ; viz. dichotoma, longiflora, and iala-
pa. E. and W. Indies, Mex. Peru.
374, Cor is, or Heath Low Pine.
One fpecies j viz. monfpelienfis. South of Europe.
375. Brossasa.
One fpecies ; viz. cocinea. S. America.
376. Verbascum, or Mullein.
17 fpecies $ viz. * thapius, * thapfoides, boerhaavii,
haemorrhoidale, phomoides, * lychnitis, ferrugineum,
* nigrum, phoeniceum, * blattaria, gallicum, finuatum,
pinnatifidum, barnadefii, ofhechii, fpinofum, myconi.
S. of Europe, Madeira.
thapfus. * V. leaves decurrent, cottony on both fides 5 ftem un¬
branched 5 fummit globular.—This plant externally
ufed is faid to be emollient. Dr Home adrifes a de-
coftion of it, two ounces to a quart, in diarrhoeas of
an old Handing. It eafes the pains of the intellines :
it is ufed as an injeftion in tenefmus with advantage j
and is often applied externally to the piles. It is laid
to intoxicate fiih fo that they may be taken with the
hand. In Norway they give it to cows that are con-
fumptive. The down ferves for tinder. Neither cows,
goats, Iheep, horfes, or fwine will eat it.
377. Datura, or Thorn-apple.
Seven fpecies *, viz. ferox, ftramonium, tatula, faf-
tuofa, metel, laevis, arborea. Europe, Afia, Africa,
America.
Jlramoni- * D. feed-veflel thorny, upright, egg-fliaped ; leaves
um. egg-fhaped, fmooth.—At night the leaves, particularly
the upper ones, rife up and enclofe the flowers. An
ointment prepared from the leaves gives eafe in exter-
Vol„ IV. Part I.
ANY.
nal inflammations and haemorrhoids. The Edinburgh
college directs an extract to be prepared by evapora¬
ting the exprefled juice of the leaves. This has been
given with great advantage in convulfive affedions
and epilepfies: out of 14 epileptic patients 8 were en¬
tirely cured by it at Stockholm. The dofe from 2 to
16 grains a-day. 1 he feeds or leaves given internally
bring on delirium, tremors, fwelling, itching, eruption,
and inflammation on the {kin j thefe eft'efh* vvere produ¬
ced by a dofe of a drachm and a half in a girl nine
years old. Cows, goats, fheep, and horfes, refufe it.
378. Hyoscyamus, or Henbane.
Eight fpecies; viz. * nig*-*) reticulatus, albus, au¬
reus, muticus, pufillus, pVyfaloides, fcopolia. S. Eu¬
rope, Siberia, Perfia.
H. leaves embracing the ftem, indented flowers fit- niger.
ting.—The feeds, the leaves, and the roots taken in¬
ternally are reputed poifonous ; and well attelled in-
ftances of their bad effedls are recorded : madnefs, con-
vulfion, and death are the general confequence. But
Dr Smith fays, he has often eaten the feeds with impu¬
nity. It is faid that the leaves fcattered about a houfe
will drive away mice. The Edinburgh college order
the expreffed juice of the plant to be evaporated to an
extraft : and perhaps in this Hate it may be advan-
tageoufly joined with opium, w'here the effefts of that
medicine are deferable, and coftiveneb to be avoided.
There is no doubt of its being an uf'^B medicine under
proper management. The dofe/S from half a fcruple
to half a drachm. Goats ate n°t fond of it; horfes,
cows, fheep, and fwine refu^ it $ fheep are, however,
faid fometimes to eat it v^en young : Chryfomela hy-
ofeyami and the cimex h/fyami are found upon it.
379. NifOTIANAJ or Tobacco.
Seven fpecies; riz. tabacum, fruticofa, *ruftica,
paniculata, urens glutinofa, puftlla. America, China.
The fpecies called N. tabaccum was firft brought in¬
to Europe about the year 1560 from the ifland of To¬
bago in America ; and is now fometimes cultivated for
medicir-il ufes in our gardens, but in general imported
from America in large quantities. The leaves are
about two feet long, ol a pale green colour while frefh,
and when carefully diied of a lively yellowifh caff. They
have a ftrong difagreeable fmell, like that of the narco¬
tic plants, and a very acrid burning tafte. Taken in¬
ternally, they prove virulently cathartic and emetic,
occafloning almoft intolerable cardialgic anxieties. By
boiling water their virulence is abated and at length
deftroyed : an extra# made by long co#ion is recom¬
mended by Stahl and other German phyficians, as a
fafe and moft effe#ual aperient, expe#orant, detergent,
&c. but this medicine, which is extremely precarious
and uncertain in ftrength, has never come into effeem
among us. Of late, however, tobacco, under the form
of a vinous or watery infufion, and taken in fuch Imall
dofes as to produce little effeft from its adtion on the
ftomach, has been recommended by Dr Fowler. He
found it to be a very ufeful and powerful diuretic, and
publifhed many cafes of dropfy‘and dyfury in which its
employment Was attended with the befl effefls. Thefe
good effedfs have been confirmed by the obfervation of
other phyficians.
1 obacco is fometimes ufed externally in unguents
for deltroying cutaneous infedfs, cleanfing old ulcers,&c.
S Beaten
138 B O T
Beaten into "a ir.afti with vinegar or brandy, it lias
fometimes proved ferviceable in removing hard tumours
of the hypochondres. Inje&ions by the anus of the
fmoke or deception have been ufed with advantage in
cafes of obflinate conftipation threatening ileus, of in¬
carcerated hernia, of afearides, of fpafmodic afthma,
and of perfows apparently dead from drowning or other
fudden cau)es. It has been ufed internally in form of
fyrup, confervej and infufion, in cafes of worms, epilepfy,
amenorrhea, aft^ma, &c. ; but it is certainly too ac¬
tive to be thus ventured on.
The N. rujiita is founci w;jd 0n dunghills in feveral
parts of England. X!5 to often fubftituted in
the market for true tobaefcv frora which, however, it
may be known by the leaves ving much fmaller and
the flowers not reddifli like thofe oi the proper fort, but
of a yellowiflr green colour.
380. Jaborosa.
I wo fpecies j viz. integrifolia, runcinata. Mon.
Viedo, Buen. Ayr.
381. Atropa, or Deadly Night [hade.
Seven fpecies •, viz. mandragora, * belladonna, phy-
faloides, procumbens, folanacea, arborefeens, frutelcens.
Europe, Peru, Lima.
belladonna* A* ftem herbaceousj leaves egg-fhaped, entire.—The
■whole of this pKnt is poifonous ; and children, allured
by the beautiful Appearance of the berries, have too
ohen experienced t\eir fatal effe^ls. Tumours of the
breads, even of the cancerous kind, are faid to have
Wn refolved by a to^cai application of the frelh
ec\e>.. Dr Giaham fays be found great benefit from
a pou tice made of the roots, boiled in milk, and applied
to hard il -conditioned tumouwand ulcers : and relates
a ep 01 a ole cafe in which this poultice effefted a per-
fect cure. There is no doubt buUbeir external appli¬
cation may be produftive^ of good ?ffeas in feveral
caies, but the following inftance fhovs us that their
application is dangerous when the Ikin k broken : A
lady who. had a fmall ulcer, a little below' *ne Gf her
eyes, which was fuppofed to be of a cancerous nature
put a fmall bit of the green leaf upon it. In the loom¬
ing the uvea of that eye w'as fo affefted, that the pupil
would not contract even by the bl ighted light ; wdiilft
the other eye retained its ufual powers. The leaf be¬
ing removed, the eye was gradually redored to its
former date. This could not be an accidental effecd,
for it was repeated three feparate times, and the fame
circumdances attended each application. The juice
of the ripe berries dains paper of a beautiful and du¬
rable purple.
Med. Com-
mun. vol.i.
p. 415.
382. Physal 1 s, or Alhehengi Winter Cherry.
17 fpecies 5 viz. fomnifera, aridata, flexuofa, arbo¬
refeens, curadavica, tomentofa, vifeofa, pennfylvanica,
alkekengi, peruviana, angulata, pubefeens, barbadenfis,
chenopodifolia, minima, pruinofa, prodrata. Europe,
E. and W. Indies, Carolina.
. 383- Solanum, or Nightjhade.
83 fpecies ; viz. laurifolium, verbafeifolium, auri-
culatum, pubefeens, bombenfe, pfeudo-capficum, micro-
ca.rpum, terminale, pauciflorum, diphyllum, fugax, ge-
rmnatum, retrofraflum, dellatum, * dulcamara, tri¬
quetrum, fcandens, lyratum, tegore, quercifolium, la-
cimatum, rRdicanSjhavannenfe 5tride,racemofum, corym-
A N Y. Pentandria.
bofum, quadrangulare, repandum, bonarienfe, macro-
carpon, tuberofum, pimpinellifolium, lycoperficum,
pfeudo-lycoperficum, peruvianum, montanum, rubrum,
noditlorum, * nigrum, aethiopicum, melongena, fub-
inerme, longiflorum, muricatum, infanum, torvum,
volubile, ferox, campechienfe, fufeatum, mammofum,
hirtum, paniculatum, aculeatiflimum, virginianum,
aquini, xanthocarpum, coagulans, jamaicenfe, indi-
cum, carolinenfe, finuatnm. <C’'^r'TTTT"—u l“aT”
nramonifolium, vtfpertilio, ianctum, hybri-
dum, tomentofum, polygamum, bahamenfe, obfeurum,
giganteum, flexuofum, lanceaefolium, lanceolatum,
eleagnifolium, polyacanthos, igneum, milleri, trilo-
batum, lycioides. Eur. Afia, Africa, Am.
* S. dem without prickles, rather flirub-like, zigzag : dulcamara
upperleaves halberd-fhaped: flowers in tuft-like bunches.
—Boerhaave fays it is a medicine far fuperior to china
and farfaparilla as a fweetener and reflorative. Linnaeus
fays, an infufion of the young twdgs is an admirable
medicine in acute rheumatifms, inflammations, fevers,
and fuppreflion of the lochia. Dr Hill fays he has
found it very efficacious in the aflhma. Dr Hallen-
berg advifes it in ifchiatic and rheumatic pains, jaun¬
dice, feurvy and lues venerea. He diredls a pint of
boiling wTater to be poured upon two drachms of the
dalks diced and dried after danding half an hour. It
mud be boiled 15 minutes. The dofe is two cups full
or more, morhing and evening. The dalks may be
gathered early in fpring, or at the end of autumn.
The root has the fmell of the potato. Sheep and
goats eat it 5 horfes, cows, and fwine refufe it.
* S. dem without prickles, herbaceous : leaves egg- nigrum.
draped, toothed, angular, bunches nodding, pointing
twTo wrays.—From one to three grains of the leaves in-
fufed in boiling water and taken at bed-time occafions
a copious perfpiration, increafes the fecretion by the
kidneys, and generally purges more or lefs the following
day. Thefe properties judicioufly applied render it
capable of doing effential fervice in feveral difeafes.
But its effects on the nervous fydem are fo uncertain,
and fometimes fo confiderable, that it mud ever be
adminidered with the greated caution. The leaves
externally applied abate inflammation and affuage
pain. The flowers fmell like mulk. Horfes, cowts,
goats, flreep, and fwine refufe it.
384. Capsicum, or Guinea Pepper.
Six fpecies; viz. annuum, baccatum, finenfe, groffum,
frutefeens, cerafiforme. E. and W. Indies. The capjlrum
annuum is cultivated in our gardens. It ripens its feeds
in September and O&ober. The tade of capficum is ex¬
tremely pungent and acrimonious, fetting the mouth
as it were on fire. It is chiefly employed for culinary
purpofes, and has long been ufed in that wray; but of
late it has been employed alfo in the practice of medi¬
cine. And there can be little doubt that it furnifhes
us with one of the pured and dronged dimulants
which can be introduced into the human domacb,
while at the fame time it has nothing of the narcotic
effeft of ardent fpirit. Dr Mackitrick Adair, who
was perhaps the fird who employed it as a medicine,
direfts its being given to the extent of fix or eight
grains under the form of pills, or under the form of
tinfture, by infufing half an ounce in a pound of refli-
fied fpirit, and giving this from one to three drachms,
diluted^
Pentandria. B O T
diluted, for a dofe. He found it ufeful in a variety of
affections, particularly in that morbid difpofition which
he calls the cachexia africana, and which he confiders
as a moft frequent and fatal predifpofition to difeafe
among the flaves. This pepper has alfo been fuccefs-
fully employed in a fpecies of cynanche maligna (pu¬
trid fore throat), which proved fatal in the Well Indies,
refilling the ufe of Peruvian bark, wine, and the other
remedies commonly employed. A variety of it called
in the Well Indies bird-pepper, is the bafis of a pow¬
der brought us from thence under the name of cayan
pepper.
385. Strychnos, or Poifon-nut.
Three fpecies j viz. nux-vomica, calubrina, potato¬
rum. Eaft Indies.
386. Ignatia, or St Ignatius's Beans.
One fpecies j viz. amara. India.
387. Cestrum.
11 fpecies; viz. laurifolium, noClurnum, parqui,
auriculatum, fcandens, vefpertinum, diurnum, venena-
tum, tomentofum, hirtum, latifolium. Weft Indies,
Peru.
388. Lycium, or Box-thorn.
11 fpecies; viz. afrum, rigidum, ruthenicum, te-
trandrum, barbarum, cinereum, europaeum, horridum,
barbatum, boerhaaviaefolium, capfulare. Eur. Alia, A-
ffica, America.
389. Serissa.
One fpecies; viz. foetida.
390. Cryptostomum.
One fpecies; viz. laurifolium. Guiana.
391. Ardisia, or Aderno.
Nine fpecies; viz. tinifolia, coriacea, ferrulata, a-
cuminata, humilis, folanacea, lateriflora, excelfa, para¬
litica. Madeira, Ceylon, W. Indies-.
392. Jacquinia.
Five fpecies; viz. arborea, armillaris, venofa, ruf-
cifolia, linearis. W. Indies, S. America.
393. Bassovia.
One fpecies; viz. lylvatica. Guiana.
394. Chironia.
16 fpecies ; viz trinervia, jafminoides, lychnoides,
nudicaulis, campanulata, augularis, * pulchella, chi-
lenfis, *centaurium, inaperta, maritima, fpicata, linoi-
des, baccifera, frutefcens, tetragona. Ceyl. Cape, N.
America.
centaun- * C. herbaceous : leaves, fpear fhaped ; cal. fhorter
than the tube of the bloffom.—This plant is extremely
bitter. It is the bafis of the famous Portland powder,
which prevents fits of the gout, when taken in a large
quantity and a long time together; but brings on
hardnefs of the liver, palfy, and apoplexy. A tindlure
of the leaves, and the upper part of the root, is a good
medicine in weak ftomachs and cacheftic habits. A
decoflion of the whole plant deltroys l;ce, and cures
the itch. Cows are not fond of it, and in flieep-pafture
it is frequently left untouched.
395. Lita.
Two fpecies; viz. rofea, coerulea.
396. Cordia, or Sebejlen Plum.
18 fpecies; viz. myxa, obliqua, monoica, fpinefcens,
febeftena, afpera, dichotoma, gerafchanthus, flavefcens,
any. 1
toquere, macrophylla, micranthus, elliptica, colococca,
hirfuta, tetrandra, patagonula, tetraphjlla. Guiana.
397* Ehretia, or Bafe Cherry-tree.
Nine fpecies; viz. tinifolia, afpera, lasvis, interno-
dis, fpinofa, beurreria, virgata, exfucca, buxifolia. W.
Indies, S. America,
398. Varronia.
Nine fpecies; viz. lineata, bullata, mirabiloides,
martinicenfis, globofa, curaffavica, anguftifolia, alba,
monofperma. W. Indies, S. America.
399. Laugeria.
live fpecies; viz. odorata, lucida, coriacea, refino-
fa, tomentofa. W. Indies, S. America.
400. ChrysophYLLUM, or Star-apple.
Seven fpecies; viz. cainito, monopyrenum, micro-
carpum, argenteum, rugofum, pyriforme, glabrum.
W. Indies, S. America.
401. Bumelia.
. 12 fpecies ; viz. nigra, pallida, tenax, retufa, fceti-
diftima, falicholia, manglillo, montana, nervofa, penta-
gona, rotundifolia, cuneata. W. Indies.
402. Tectona, or Indian Oak, or Teak-wood.
One fpecies ; viz. grandis. The teak-wood is ex¬
tremely valuable for ftiip-building on account of its
refilling in the Indian feas the worms which fo fpeedily
deftroy oak and all other forts of timber. That which is
ufed at Calcutta is chiefly or rather entirely imported
from Rangoon, a port belonging to the Birman em¬
pire in the eaftern peninfula of India. See Asia,N'T06.
403. Sideroxylon, or Iron-wood.
Nine fpecies ; viz. mite, inerme, melanopheum, cy-
mofum, fericeum, argenteum, tomentofum, lycioides,
decandrum. Morocco, Cape, N. America.
404. Schrebera.
One fpecies ; viz. albens. C. of G. Hope.
405. Rhamnus, or Buck-thorn.
32 fpecies; viz. * catharticus, infedorius, lyci¬
oides, erythroxylon, eleoides, crenulatus, faxatilis,
theezans, farcomphalus, ferreus, laevigatus, tetragonus,
polifolius, valentinus, cubenfis, colubrinus, daruricus,
alpinus, pumilus, * frangula, latifolius, glandulofus,
ellipticus, prinoides, myftacinus, almifolius, fphferofper-
mus, hybridus, alaternus, carpinifolius, capenfis, cir-
cumfciffus. Europe, E. and W. Indies, Africa. N.
America.
* R. thorns terminating: flowers 4 cleft; male tm&catharti-
female on different plants: leaves egg-lhaped ; ftem cus.
upright.—A purgative fyrup prepared from the berries
of this plant is kept in the fhops. About an ounce of
it is a moderate dofe ; but it generally occafions fo
much ficknefs and griping that it is falling into difufe.
The flefh of birds that feed upon the berries is faid to
be purgative. The juice of the unripe berries is of
the colour of faffron, and is ufed for flaining maps or
paper. Thefe are fold under the name of French ber¬
ries. The juice of the ripe berries mixed with alum,
is -the fap-green of the painters ; but if they are ga¬
thered late in the autumn the juice is purple. The
bark affords a beautiful yellow dye. Goats, fheep,
and horfes eat it; cows refufe it.
R* without thorns : flowTers hermaphrodite, with \ frangula,
piftil: leaves very entire.—It is faid, that from a
S 2 quarter
B O T
quarter to half an ounce of the Inner bark of this plant
boiled in fmall beer, is a (harp purge. In dropfies or
conftipations of the bowels of cattle, it is a very cer¬
tain purgative. The berries gathered before they are
ripe, dye wool green. The bark dyes yellow, and
with preparation of iron black. Charcoal prepared
from the wood is preferred by the makers of gun¬
powder. The flowers are particularly grateful to bees :
goats devour the leaves voracioufly, and (keep will eat
them. The papilio rhamni and argus live upon both
the fpecies.
406. Zizyphus.
Ten fpecies ; viz. lineatus, volubilis, paliurus, lotus,
napeca, jujuba, xylopyrus, oenoplia, vulgaris, ipina
chrifti.
407. Ventilago.
One fpecies j viz. maderaipatana.
408. Corymbium,
Four fpecies •, viz fcabrium, filiforme, glabrum, vil-
lofum. C. of G. Hope.
409. Phylica, or Bafe Alaternus.
19 fpecies ; viz. ericoides, lanceolata, bicolor, capi-
tata, eriophoros, plumofa, villofa, imberbis, ftipularis,
pinifolia, cordata, dioica, buxifolia,. fpicata, callofa,
p.aniculata, imbricata, racemofa, parviflora. C. of G.
Hope.
410. Carpodetus.
One fpecies j viz. ferratus. South fea ifles.
411. ColletiA.
One fpecies; viz. horrida. Brazil, Peru.
412. Ceanothus, or Nenv-Jerfey Tea.
Five fpecies j viz. americanus, macrocarpus, afiati-
cus, africanus, capfularis. N. America, Cape, Ceylon.
413. SCOPOLIA.
Two fpecies j viz. aculeata, inermis. South fea ifles.
414. Ruyschia.
Two fpecies 5 viz. clufkefolia, furubea. W. Indies.
Guiana.
415. ArduinA, or Cape Buckthorn.
One fpecies : viz. bifpinofa. C. of G. Hope.
416. Camax.
One fpecies *, viz. fraxinea. Guiana.
417. Buttneria.
Seven fpecies *, viz. fcabra, tereticaulis, microphylla,
ovata, cordata, herbacea, catalpaefolia. S. America.
418. Ayenia.
Four fpecies •, viz. pufilla, laevigata, tomentofa, mag-
na. Jamaica, Cumana, Peru.
419. Gluta.
One fpecies } viz. benghas. Java.
420. Polycardia.
One fpecies) viz. madagafearenfis. Madagafcar.
421. Myrsine, or African Box-tree.
Two fpecies j viz. africana, retufa. Azores, Africa^
422. Bladhia.
Four fpecies j viz. japonica, glabra, villofa, crifpa.
Japan.
423. Celastrus, or Staff-tree.
32 fpecies; viz. lucidus, microphyllus, bullatus, lau-
pinus, roftratus, undulatus, oflogonus, filiformis, fcan-
ANY. Pentandrki
dens, paniculatus, procumbens, acuminatus, caffinoides,
ftriatus, ceruis, undatus, edulis, crenatus, dilatatus,
myrtifolius, maytenus, tetragonus, articulatus, alatus,
linearis, integrifolius, emarginatus, phyllacanthus, buxi-
folius, pyracanthus, rctundifolius, parviflorus, Amer,
Cape, iile of Bourbon, Japan.
424. Evonymus.
Seven fpecies ; v*z. tobira, japonicus, * europaeus,
verrucofus, latifolius, atro-purpureus, americanus. .
* E. flowers moftly 4-cleft; leaves fitting.—The ber- europanu,
ries vomit and purge violently. They are fatal to
(beep. Powdered, and fprinkled upon the hair, they
deftroy lice. If the wood is cut when the plant is in
bloflom, it is tough, and not' eafily broken $ and in
that (late is ufed by watch-makers for cleaning watches,
and to make (kewers and toothpicks. Goats and
(heep eat it 5 horfes refufe it j cows are fo fond of the
(hoot in the fpring as conftantly to break down the
banks of the fields wherever a plant of it (lands.
425. Pilocarpus.
One fpecies j viz. racemofus.
426. Diosma, or African Spiraa.
30 fpecies •, viz. oppofitifolia, obtufata, linearis,
virgata, alba, hirfuta, rubra, pe&inata, ericoides, hifpi-
da, ciliata, bifurca, bifida, capitata, villofa, cupreflina,
imbricata, marginata, lanceolata, pubefeens, latifolia,
crenata, tetragona, uniflora, rugo(a, ovata, barbigera,
pulchella, betulina, orbicularis. C. of G. Hope.
427. Hovenia.
One fpecies ; viz. dulcis. Japan.
428. Brunia.
Eight fpecies •, viz. nodiflora, paleacea, lanuginofa,
verticillata, abrotanoides, fuperba, fragarioides, ciliata,
C. of G. Hope.
429. Staaria.
Two fpecies ; viz. radiata, glutinofa.
430. Walkera.
One fpecies ; viz. ferrata. India.
431. Pittosporum.
One fpecies j viz. coriaceum. Madeira, Canary ifles,
43 2. Barreria.
One fpecies ; viz. theabromaefolia. Guiana.
433; .Itea*
Two fpecies j viz. virginica, cyrilla. N. America,
434. Galax.
One fpecies ; viz. aphylla. Virginia.
435. Humboldtia,
One fpecies; viz. laurifolia.
436. Cedrela, or Barbadoes Bafe Cedarr
One fpecies \ viz. odorata. Weft Indies.
437. Calodendrum.
One fpecies 5 viz. capenfe. C. of G. Hope.
438. Elzeodendrum.
Two fpecies 5 viz. orientale, argan. Cape, ifle ox
Mauritius.
439. Escallonia,
Two fpecies > viz. myrtilloides, ferrata. S. Arne-
Fentandria,
O T
odorata.
tricolor.
nolitan-
gere.
B
440. Billardiera,
One fpecies j viz. fcandens.
44T. Mangifera, or Mango-tree.
Three fpecies j viz. indica, laxidora, axillaris. Eafl:
Indies.
442. Hirtj:lla.
Three fpecies) viz. americana, triandra, paniculata.
W. Indies, Cayenne.
443. Strumpfia.
One fpecies j viz. maritima. America.
444. Plectronia.
One fpecies *, viz. ventofa. C. of G. Hope.
445. Ribes, or Currant and Goofeberry.
16 fpecies j viz. rubrum, petrseum, procumbens,
glandulofum, alpinum, fragrans, triife, nigrum, flori-
dum, diacantha, faxatile, reclinatum, grodularia, uva
crifpa, oxyacanthoides, cynoibati. Europe, N. Amerca.
446. Viola, or Violet.
39 fpecics \ viz. palmata, pedata, pinnata, fagittata,
lanceolata, obliqua, cucullata, primulifolia, *hirta, ma-
gellanica, paluftris, *odorata, *canina, montana, num-
mularifolia, cenifia, canadenlis, flriata, pubefcens, mi-
rabilis, bidora, unidora, decumbens, * tricolor, gran-
didora, zoyfii, calcarata, cornuta, capenfis, arborefcens,
ftipularis, parvidora, enneafperma, fuffmticofa, calceo¬
laria, oppofitifolia, hybanthus, ipecacuanha, diandra.
Alps, Pyren. Cape, America.
* V. leaves heart-ihaped j fuckers creeping.—.The
dowers and feeds of this plant are faid to be mild laxa¬
tives. The powdered root, in dofes from 40 to 80
grains, vomits and purges. The petals give the colour
to the fyrup of violets, for which purpofe they are cul¬
tivated in large quantities at Stratford-upon-Avon.
This fyrup is very ufeful in many chemical inquiries, to
dete6l an acid or an alkali, the former changing the
blue colour to a red, and the latter to a green. Slips
of white paper ftained with the juice of the petals, and
kept from the air and light, anfwer the fame purpofe.
* V. Hem branched; leaves egg-diaped, toothed; cal.
fmooth, but half the fxze of the blolfom.—Some allege
that it infallibly cures the fcabby complaints in young
children, called crujla laBea. Boil a handful of the
frefh, or half a dozen of the dried leaves, in half a
pint of milk, and give this milk morning and evening
for fome weeks.
447. Impatiens, or Balfam balfamine.
12 fpecies; viz. bifida, chinenfis, latifolia, capenfis,
oppofitifolia, fafciculata, cornuta, balfamina, biflora, tri¬
flora, natans, *nolitangere. Europe, N. America, E.
Indies, China.
* I. fruitftalks many-flowered, folitary; leaves egg-fha-
ped; Item fwoln at the joints.—The whole of this plant
is confiderably acrid. Goats eat it. Horfes, cows, and
fheep refufe it. The fphinx elpenor lives upon it.
448. Gronovia.
One fpecies; viz. fcandens. Jamaica, Vera Cruz.
449. Leea.
Three fpecies; viz. fambucina, aequata, crifpa. Cape,
Eaft Indies.
450. Argophyllum.
One fpecies; viz. nitidum. New Caledonia,
ANY.
451. Corynocarpus.
One fpecies ; viz, laevigata. New Zealand,
^ 452. Hedera, or Ivy.
Four fpecies ; viz. helix, ptndula, mutans, terebin-
thinacea. Europe, N. Amer. Jamaica.
* H. leaves fome egg-fhaped, others lobed.—The rootshelix>
are ufed by leather-cutters to whet their knives upon.
Its evergreen leaves adorn our walls, and cover the na¬
ked trunks of trees. Apricots and peaches covered
with ivy during the month of February, have been ob-
ferved to bear fruit plentifully. The leaves have a
naufeous talle. Some fay they are given in Germany as a
fpecific in the atrophy of children. The common people
apply them to ifiues. The berries have a little acidity.
They purge and vomit. In warm climates a refinous
juice exudes from the flalks. Hori’es and flieep eat it.
Goats and cows refufe it. Sheep are fond of it, and
in fevere weather it is ftripped off the trees as food.
453. Vitis, or Vine.
I 2 fpecies; viz. vinifera, palmata, indica, flexuofa,
labrufca, vulpina, heterophylla, laciniofa, hederacea,
heptaphylla, pinnata, arborea. Temperate parts of the
world.
V. with leaves gafhed, indented, naked.—The leaves
of this fpecies, which is the proper vine tree, were for¬
merly celebrated as aflringents, but have for a long
time been entirely difregarded ; their taftc is herba¬
ceous with only a flight degree of roughnefs. The trunk
of the tree wounded in the fpring produces a limpid wa¬
tery juice; this, called the tear of the vine, has been ac¬
counted excellent for fore eyes, and by fome recommended
alfo in ardent and malignant fevers, and as a diuretic.
The flowers have a pleafant i’mell, which water elevates
from them in dilfillation ; along wuth the water a fmall
portion of an elegant effential oil is faid to arife, pof-
feffing in great perfedflion the fragrance of the flowers.
The unripe fruit is of a very harfh, rough, four tafte ;
its expreffed juice, called verjuice, was in great elleem
among the ancients, and flill continues fo in fome places
as a cooling aftringent medicine ; a rob and a fyrup
were formerly prepared from it. The ripe fruit or
grapes, of which there are many kinds, properly cured
and dried, are the raifins of the (hops. The juice by
fermentation affords wine, vinegar, and tartar, of whicla
mention will be made under their proper heads.
454. Euparea.
One fpecies ; viz. amoena. New Holland.
455. ZEgiceras.
Two fpecies ; viz. majus, minus.
456. Lagoecia, or Wild Cumin.
One fpecies ; viz. cuminoides. Crete, Levant.-
457. Roridula.
One fpecies; viz. dentata. Cape of G. Hope.
458. Sauvagesia.
One fpecies; viz. ere&a. Jamaica, St Domingo, Su¬
rinam.
459. Claytonia.
Three fpecies; viz. virginica, fibirica, perfoliata,
Siberia, N. America.
*42 B O T
460. Helicon 1 A, or Safe or Wild Plantain.
Five fpecies 5 viz. caribaea, behai, humilis, pfitta-
corum, hirfuta. Cape, W. Indies.
461. Strelitzia.
Two fpecies ; viz. reginae, angufta. C. of G. Hope.
462. Achyranthes.
16 fpecies j viz. argentea, afpera, lappacea, ecbin-
ata, muricata, patula, proflata, farmentofa, alternifolia,
polygonoides, altiflima, nivea, ftellata, corymbofa, te-
nuifolia, dichotoma. S. Europe, E. and W. Indies.
463. Celosia, or Cock's Comb.
18 fpecies j viz. argentea, albida, margaritacea, crif-
tata, comofa, paniculata, nitida, coccinea, caftrenfis,
monfonise, corymbofa, caudata, trigyna, virgata, poly¬
gonoides, baccata, gnaphaloides, nodiflora. China, E.
and W. Indies, Senegal.
464. Chenolea.
One fpecies 5 viz. diffufa.
465. Illecebrum, or Mountain Knot-grafs.
19 fpecies 5 viz. brachiatum, fanguinolentum, lana-
tum, javanicum, * verticillatum, ariftatum, canarienfe,
cymofum, paronychia, capitatum, divaricatum, beng-
halenfe, arabicum, achyrantha, frutefcens, polygonoi¬
des, ficoideum, feflile, alflnefolium. S. Europe, Eafl
Indies, South America.
466. Glaux, or Sea Milk-wort.
One fpecies $ viz. * maritima. Europe.
467. Plocama.
One fpecies $ viz. pendula. Canary ifles.
468. Hedycrea.
One fpecies; viz. incana. Guiana.
469. Thesium, or Bafe Toad-fax.
19 fpecies j viz. * linophyllum, alpinum, humile,
lineatum, fquarrofum, frifea, funale, fpicatum, capita¬
tum, ftridlum, umbellatum, fragile, Icabrum, panicula-
tum, amplexicaule, triflorum, euphorbioides, colpoon,
fpinofum. Alps of Europe, Cape, N. America.
470. Quinchamala.
One fpecies j viz. chilenfis. Chili.
471. Rauwolfia.
Four fpecies ; viz. nitida, glabra, canefcens, tomen-
tofa. W. Indies, S. America.
472. P^EDERIA.
Two fpecies j viz. foetida, fragrans. India.
473. Carissa.
Five fpecies ; viz. carandas, fpinarum, edulis, in-
ermis, mitis. India, Arabia.
474. Gynopogon.
Three fpecies j viz. ftellatum, alyxia, fcandens. South
fea ifles.
475. Cerbera.
Six fpecies; viz. ahovai, ovata, parviflora, manghas,
thevetia. South America.
476. Webera.
Three fpecies ; viz. corymbofa, cymofa, tetrandra.
477- Gardenia, or Cape Jefamine.
i*} fpecies $ viz. radicals, florida, thunbergia, lati-
A N Y. Pentandria,
folia, clufiaefolia, gummifera, muffseada, genipa, roth-
mannia, uliginofa, armata, fpinofa, dumetorum, randia,
micranthus, fcandens, multiflora. Cape, E. and W.
Indies. Japan.
478. WlLLUGHBEJA.
Two fpecies; viz. acieca, fcandens. Guiana.
479. Allamanda.
One fpecies ; viz. cathartica. Surinam, Cayenne.
480. Unica, or Periwinkle.
Five fpecies ; viz. * minor, * major, lutea, rofea,
parviflora. Ger. Fr. Sp. Eaft Indies, N. America.
* U. ftems trailing ; leaves fpear-egg-fliaped j flowers minor.
on fruitftalks.—The fruit of this plant feldom comes
to maturity. It may, however, be eafily obtained by
planting the V. major in a pot, where the roots not
having free room to extend themfelves, the juices are
more copioufly propelled towards the piftil, which then
expands into wTell-formed feed-veflels.
481. Nerium, or Oleander, or Rofe Bay.
Eight fpecies j viz. oleander, odorum, falicinum,
obefum, zeylanicum, divaricatum, antidyfentericum,
coronarium. S. Europe, E. Indies.
482. Echites, or Savanna-flower.
22 fpecies j viz. biflora, quinquangularis, annularis,
tomentofa, fubere&a, domingenfis, aggluntinata, afpe-
ruginis, torulofa, umbellata, circinalis, floribunda, tri-
fida, repens, corymbofa, coftata, fpicata, fiphilitica, can-
data, fcholaris, fucculenta, bifpinofa. W. Indies, Su¬
rinam, Carolina, Cape.
483. Plumeria, or Red Jeflamine.
Four fpecies ; viz. rubra, alba, obtufa, pudica. W.
Indies, S. America.
484. Cameraria.
Four fpecies ; viz. latifolia, zeylanica, lutea, anguf-
tifolia. W. Indies, S. America.
485. TABERNJEMONTANA.
12 fpecies 5 viz. citrifolia, laurifolia, echinata, gran-
diflora, cymofa, amygdalifolia, difcolor, perficaritefo-
lia, elliptica, alternifolia, amfonia, anguftifolia. E.
and W. Indies, N. America, Japan.
Order II. DIGYNIA.
486. Pergularia.
Five fpecies; viz. glabra, edulis, tomentofa, pur¬
purea, japonica. India, Japan.
487. Per ip log A, or Virginian Silk.
11 fpecies; viz. graeca, fecamone, laevigata, anguf¬
tifolia, efeulenta, emetica, indica, capfularis, africana,
tunicata, fylveftris. Syria, Cape, India.
488. Cynanchum, or Bafe Dogs-bane.
25 fpecies ; viz. viminale, filifonne, crifpum, tenel-
lum, obtufifolium, capenfe, acutum, planiflorum, rof-
tratum, grandiflorum, nigrum, racemofum, mariti-
mum, fuberofum, carolinenfe, obliquum, hirtum, crifpi-
florum, proftratum, monfpeliacum, extenfum, reticula-
tum, undulatum, parviflorum, erefhim. S. Europe,
Cape, E. Indies, America.
489. Apocynum, or Dogs-bane.
14 fpecies; viz. filifonne, haftatum, androfemifo-
lium,
Pentandria. B O T
lium, cannabinum, bypericifolium, venetum, frutefcens,
paniculatum, umbellatum, reticulatum, cordatum, lan-
ceolatum, triflorum, lineare. Am. IHes, Adriatic, India.
490. Asclepias, or Swal/oiv-wort.
41 fpeciesj viz. aphylla, undulata, crifpa, pubefcens,
mucronata, procera, gigantea, grandiflora, carnofa,
fyriaca, amoena, purpurarcens, variegata, curaflavi-
1ar>iflr»rQ, parviflnra, inrarnata^ pulchra
critifolia, decumbens, laftifera, vincetoxicum, ni¬
gra, fcetida, convolvulacea, volubilis, alexiaca, aftth-
matica, viminalis, arborefcens, fruticofa, fibirica, da-
vuiica, fetofa, filiformis, verticillata, mexicana, li-
naria, rubra, tuberofa. Europe, Africa, Eaft Indies.
America.
491. Hostea.
One fpecies ; viz. viridiflora.
492. Melodinus.
One fpecies j viz. fcandens. New Caledonia.
493. Ceropegia.
Eight fpecies 5 viz. candelabrum, tuberofa, bulbofa,
biflora, juncea, acuminata, fagittata, tenuiflora. Cape,
Ceylon, Malabar.
494.. Stapelia, or African Swallow ■'wort.
49 fpecies ; viz. ciliata, revoluta, hirfuta, fororia,
grandiflora, ambigua, pulvinata, afterias, gemmiflora,,
divaricata, rufa, acuminata, reclinata, elegans, ctefpito-
fa, arida, parviflora, fubulata, concinna, glandulifera,
pedunculata, aperta, gordoni, pilifera, candata, articu-
lata, mammillaris, pruinofa, ramofa, pulla, adfcendens,
quadrangula, incarnata, pun&ata, geminata, decora,
pulchella, vetula, verrucofa, irrorata, mixta, variegataj
campanulata, barbata, venurta, guttata, humilis, reticu¬
lata, clarata. C. of G. Hope.
495. Linconia.
One fpecies ; viz. alopecuroidea. C. of G. Hope.
496. Hern 1 aria, or Rupture-wort.
Six fpecies 5 viz. * glabra, * hiriuta, alpina, fruticofa,
lenticulata, polygonoides. Germany, Spain, Italy,
Chili.
glabra. * H. Plant fmooth.—This plant is a little faltilh,
and aftringent. It is faid to increafe the fecretions by
the kidneys, and that the juice takes away fpecks in
the eye ; but, to the virtue for which it has been moft
celebrated, that of curing ruptures, it has no title.
Cows, fheep, and horfes eat it. Goats and fwflne re-
fufe it.
497. Chenopodium, or Goofefoot, or Wild Orache.
.26 fpecies; viz. * bonus henricus, mucronatum,
triandrum, * urbicum, atriplicis, * rubrum, guineenfe,
• murale, quinoa, ferotinum, * album, *viride, *hy-
btidum, botrys, ambrofioides, multifidum, anthelminti-
cum, * glaucum, * vulvaria, * polyfpermum, caudatum,
laterale, fcoparia, * maritimum, oppofitifolium, arifta-
tum. Europe, China, America.
bonus. * C. Leaves triangular, arrow-fliaped, very entire*
■ienncus. fpikes compound, leaflefs, axillary.—This plant is faid
to be cultivated as fpinage by the poor people at Bofton
in Lincolnfliire. The young {hoots, peeled and boiled,
may be eaten as afparagus, which they referable in fla¬
vour. _ They are gently laxative. The leaves are of¬
ten boiled in broth. The roots are given to iheep that
ANY. i4
have a cough. Goats and fli^ep are not fond of it.
Cows, horfes, and fwine, refufe it.
* C. leaves diamond triangular, gnawed, entire behind, allumt
the uppermoft oblong; bunches upright.—Cows, goats,
and fheep eat it. Horfes refufe it. Swine are extreme¬
ly fond of it. A black aphis feeds upon it, and fome-
times deftroys it.
* C. leaves awl-ihaped, femi-cylindrical.—It is an tx-metriti-
cellent pot-herb. 1 he phalana lubricipeda feeds upon mum.
mofl: of the Ipecies.
C. with leaves oblong indented ; branches naked, hotrvs
many-cleft. C^\\e.AJerufalem oak.—It is cultivated in ^
gaidens. It has a ftrong, not diiagreeable fmell, and
a warm, fomewhat pungent tafte. It is recommended
as a carminative peftoral, and it has alfo been recom¬
mended as an emmenagogue. Infufions of the leaves
and feed may be drank as tea ; and in this form it has
been recommended in cafes of chronic catarrh. But
the proper menftruum, both for the leaves and feed, is
rectified fpirit.
* C. with entire, diamond-fliaped, oval leaves, with vuharicti
flowers incorporated at the bofom of the leaves. Stink¬
ing orach. It is a low plant, fprinkled all over with
a kind of whitifh clammy meal; it grows about dung¬
hills, and wafte places. The leaves have a ftrong fedd
fmell, with which the hand, by a light touch, becomes
fo impregnated, as not to be eafily freed from it. Its
fmell has gained it the charafter of an excellent anti-
hyfteric ; and this is the only ufe it is applied to.—
Tournefort recommends a fpirituous tindfure, others
a decoftion in water, and others a conferve of the leaves,
as of wonderful efficacy in uterine diforders; but in
the prefent practice it is little employed.
498. Beta, or Beet.
Four fpecies ; viz. vulgaris, patula, cicla, mariti-
ma. France, Portugal, Madeira.—The beta vulgaris
has of late attracted much notice on the continent,
from the difcovery of M. Achard of Berlin, that fu-
gar may be extradled from it in large quantities with
profit. See Sugar.
499. Microtea.
One fpecies ; viz. debilis.
500. Salsola, or Glafs-wort.
25 fpecies ; viz. * kali, tragus, rolacea, foda, fati-
va, fpicata, altiflima, trigyna, falfa, nudiflora, flavef-
cens, hirfuta, laniflora, hyffopifolia, polyclonos, proflra-
ta, monandra, vermiculata, arbufcula, aphylla, arbo¬
refcens, * fruticofa, indica, fedoides, muricata. Europe,
Egypt, Cape, Afia, Carnatic.
501. Anabasis, or Berry-bearing Glafs-wort.
Five fpecies; viz. aphylla, cretacea, foliola, fpino-
fiflima, tamarifcifolia. Spain, Cafpian fea, Egypt.
502. Cressa.
Two fpecies; viz. cretica, indica. Crete, Arabia.
503. Gomphrena, or Globe Attraranth.
Ten fpecies; viz. globofa, perennis, hifpida, anguf-
tifolia, vermicularis, brafilienfis, ferrata, interrupta,
flava, arborefcens. India, S. Amer. New7 Gran.
504. Bosea, or Golden-rod Tree.
One fpecies ; viz. yervamora. Canary ifles.
509. Ulmus, or Elm-tree.
Seven fpecies; viz. * campeftrisy fuberofa, effufy
americana*.
r44 B O T
amerlcana, nemoralis, pumila, xntegrifolia. N. Eu¬
rope, N. America.
campejlris. * U. leaves doubly ferrated, unequal at the bafe j
flowers almoft fitting, coronated together.—A decoc¬
tion of the inner bark, drank freely, has been known
to carry off the water in dropfies. It cures the lepra
iclhyojis of Sauvages. The bark dried and ground to
powder has been mixed with meal in Norway, to
make bread in times of fcarcity. The flowers have a
violet fmell. The wood, being hard and tough, is
ufed to make axle-trees, mill-wheels, heels of boots,
chairs, and coffins. The tree is beautiful, and well
adapted to make lhady walks, as it does not deftroy
the grafs; and its leaves are acceptable to cows, hor-
fes, goats, fheep, and fwine; for this purpofe, it
-flrould be grafted upon the U. glabra, and then the
roots will not fend out fuckers, which the common elm
is very apt to do, and give a great deal of trouble to
keep the ground clear of them. It loves an open fitua-
tion, and black or clayey foil. It bears to be trani-
planted. Papilio polychloros and C. album, phalce-
na lubricipeda, pavonia betularia et vellica, Jimex ulmi
et Jlriatus, cicada ulmi, aphis ulmi, feed upon it. The
latter generally curl the leaves fo as to make them a
fecure ftielter againft the weather. Silk worms will
devour the tender leaves with great avidity.
506. Nama.
One fpecies j viz. jamaicenfis. Jamaica.
507. Hydrolea.
Three fpecies j viz. fpinofa, trigyna, zeylanica. E.
and W. Indies, America.
508. Roc HE PORTIA.
Two fpecies*, viz. cuneata, ovata. Arabia.
509. Heuchera, or Virginian Sanicle.
One fpecies j viz. americana. Virginia.
51a Velegia.
One fpecies ; viz. rigida. Spain.
511. Swertia, ox MarJh-Gentian.
Six fpecies ; viz. * perennis, difformis. decumbens,
corniculata, dichotoma, tetrapetala. Siberia, Auftria,
Virginia, Canada.
512. Gentian A, ox Gentian.
56 fpecies j viz. * lutea, purpurea, pannonica, punc¬
tata, campanulata, feptemfida, afclepiadea, montana,
cruciata, macrophylla, adfcendens, * pneumonanthe,
triflora, frigida, algida, faxofa, faponaria, ochroleuca,
villofa, linearis, quinqueflora, aurea, glauca, exaltata,
acaulis, altaica, pyrenaica, verna, utriculofa, bavarica,
imbricata, proftrata, * nivalis, pumila, aquatica, fcil-
loides, uniflora, germanica, * amarella, obtufifolia, uli-
ginofa, pratenfis, * campeftris, auriculata, tenella, gla-
cialis, dichotoma, nana, carinthiaca, fulcata, rotata,
ciliata, crinita, barbata, detonfa, ferrata.—The gen-
tiana lutea, is faid to be found wild in fome parts of
England ; but the dried roots are moft commonly
brought from Germany. They are much ufed in me¬
dicine. They ftiould be chofen frefh, and of a yellow
or bright colour within. This root is a ftrong bitter,
and as fuch, very frequently made ufe of in praftice :
in tafte it is lefs exceptionable than moft other bitters.
Infufions of it, flavoured with orange-peel, are fuffi-
ciently grateful. It is the capital ingredient in the
bitter
A N Y. Pentandria.
bitter wine, tindlure, and infufion of the druggifts.
An extradl from it is likewife prepared. This ufeful
bitter is not ufed as a powder, as it lofes confiderably
by the drying, which is requifite for giving it that
form. As a very trifling quantity of it gives tafte to
a large quantity of water, it is faid to be fometimes
fraudulently ufed in malt liquors, to fave the more ex-
penfive ingredient of hops.
^13. Dichondra.
Two fpecies j viz. repens, fericea. Jamaica, South
fea ifles.
514. Vahlia.
One fpecies j viz. capenfis. C. of G. Hope.
515. Bumalda.
One fpecies ; viz. trifolia. Japan.
516. Phyllis, ox Bafe Hares-ear.
One fpecies j viz. nobla. Canary ifles.
517. Cussonia.
Two fpecies j viz. thyrliflora, fpicata. C. of G.
Hope.
518. Eryngium, or Sea-holly.
11 fpecies $ viz. foetidum, aquaticum, planum, pu-
fillum, tricufpidatum, * maritimum, * campeftre, ame-
thyftinum, triquetrum, alpinum, bourgati. Europe,
N. America, W. Indies.
* E. root leaves roundifh, plaited, thorny; ftovizxmgmaritimum
heads on fruitftalks ; chaff 3-pointed.—The leaves are
fweetifti, with a light aromatic warmth and pungency.
The roots are fuppofed to have the fame aphrodifiac
virtues as the orchis tribe. They are kept in the ftiops,
candied.
519. Hydrocotyle, or Water Navel-wort.
18 fpecies; viz. * vulgaris, umbellata, bonarienfis,
americana, hirfuta, mofchata, afiatica, erefla, villofa,
glabrata, fpananthe, ranunculoides, faniculaefolia, fo-
landra, tridentata, chinenfis, linifolia, virgata. Eur.
N. America, India.
520. Azorella.
Two fpecies ; viz. filamentoia, cefpitofa.
521. Sanicula, or Sanicle.
Three fpecies; viz. * europaea, canadenfis, mari-
landica. Europe, N. America.
522. Astrantia, or Blach Majler-wort.
Five fpecies; viz. epipaftis, major, carniolica, mi¬
nor, ciliaris. Alps of Europe.
523. Bupleurum, or Hares-ear.
23 fpecies; viz. * rotundifolium, ftellatum, pe-
tneum, graminifolium, angulofum, pyrenacicum, lon-
gifolium, falcatum, caricifolium, odontites, femicom-
pofiton, ranunculoides, rigidum, * tenuiffimum, bal-
denfe, gerardi, junceum, nudum, fruticofum, coriace-
um, frutefcens, fpinofum, difforme. Germany, Swit¬
zerland, S. Europe.
425. Echinophora, or Priclly Parfnip.
Two fpecies; viz. # ipinofa, tenuifolia. Apulia,
Med. fea-fhores.
426. HASSELqyiSTIA.
Two fpecies; viz. tegyptiaca, cordata. Egypt, Le¬
vant.
527«
Pentandria.
*45
B O T
527. Torpyuum, sx Hart-wort of Crete.
Six ipecies $ viz. fyriacum, * officinale, peregrinum,
apulum, * maximum, ffifolium. Auftria, Italy, Crete,
Syria,
528. Caucams, or Bafe Par [ley.
13 fpecies j viz. grandiflora, *' daucoides, * latifo-
lia, mauritanica, pumila, orientalis, africana, lepto-
phylla, platycarpos, * arvenfis, *anthrifcus, japonica,
* nodofa. S. Europe, Egypt, India.
529. Artedia.
One fpecies ; viz. fquamata. Levant.
530. Daucus, or Carrot.
_ Six fpecies j viz. * carota, mauritanicus, lucidus,
vifnaga, g-ingidium, muricatus. Europe, Barb. Ca¬
rolina— For the culture and properties of the carrot,
fee Agriculture, N° 40, 341—353.
531. Am mi, or Bijhofs-weed.
our fpecies j viz. majus, copticum, glaucifolium,
daucifolium. Auftria, S. Europe, Egypt.
532. BuniuM, or Pig or Earth nut.
Three fpecies j viz. * bulbocaftanum, majus, aro-
maticum. Germany, France.
.533* Conium, or Hemlock.
Four fpecies 5 viz. '* maculatum, rugofum, rigens,
africanum. Europe, Cape.
tnaculatum * C. feeds without prickles ; ftem greatly branched,
fmooth, fpotted.—The whole plant is poifonous, and
many inftances are recorded of its deleterious effe&s ;
but modern experience has proved it to be lefs viru¬
lent than was formerly imagined, and though it may not
cure cancers, it is certainly a very ufeful medicine when
properly prepared. The powder of the dried leaves is
now only prefcribed. Let the leaves be gathered about
the end of June when the plant is in flower. Pick off
the leaves and throw away the leafftalks. Dry thefe
fele&ed little leaves in a hot fun on a tin dropping-pan
or pewter diffi, before a fire. Freferve them in bags
made of ftrong brown paper j or powder them, and
keep the powder in glafs phials, in a drawer, or fome-
thing that will exclude the light j for the light foon
diffipates the beautiful green colour, and wdth its co¬
lour the medicine lofes its efficacy. From 15 to 25
grains this powder may be taken, twice or thrice
a-day. It has been found' particularly ufeful in chro-
nm rheumatifms, and alfo in many of thofe difeafes
which are ufually fuppofed to arife from acrimony.
Phis plant is recommended as well worth the medical
pra&itioner’s attention.
534- Selin um, or Milk Par [ley.
Nine fpecies ■, viz. fylveftre, * paluftre, auftriacum,
fibiricum, carvifolia, chabroei, feguieri, monnieri, de-
ripiens. Europe.
535. Athamanta, or Bafe Spigncl.
11 Ipecies ; viz. * libanotis, cervaria, fibirica, con-
denfata, incana, oreofolinum, ficula, mathioli, creten-
fis, amnia, chinenfis. Europe.—-The feeds of the
Cretenjis or Candy Carrot, are brought from the Le¬
vant. It is an umbelliferous plant wffiich grows in the
iHand of Candy and the fouth of Europe. The feeds
have a warm biting tafte, and an aromatic fmell. They
are faid to be diuretic, but are not at prefent regarded
in medical pra&ice.
Vol. IV. Part L
ANY.
536. Peucedanum.
11 fpecies; viz. * officinale, alpeftre, capillaceum,
tenuifolium, fibiricum, japonicum, * filaus, alfaticum,
aureum, nodofum, geniculatum. Alps, Canaries, Ja¬
pan.
* P* leaves five times divided into three $ thread-ftrap- qfeina/e.
lhaped.—The roots have a ftrong fetid fmell, and an
acrid, bitterifh, unftuous tafte. Wounded in the
fpf!ng> they yield a confiderable quantity of yellow
juice, which dries into a gummy refin, and retains the
ftrong feent of the root. Its virtues have not yet been
afeertained with precifion.
537. Crithmum, or Samphire.
Two fpecies ; viz. * maritimum, latifolium. Sea
fhores, Europe, Canary.
* C. leaves Ipear-lhaped, fleftiy.—Poor people on the maritimutti
fea coaft eat it as a pot-herb, and gather it for fale, it
being much ufed as a pickle. Sheep and cowrs eagerly
feed, and are faid to grow fat upon it.
538. Cachrys.
^ Seven fpecies j viz. odontalgica, libanotis, morifo-
ni, ficula, taurica, cretica, panacisfolia. Spain, Si¬
cily.
539. Ferula, or Fennel-giant.
12 fpecies 5 viz. communis, fibirica, glauca, ra-
blenfis, tingitana, ferulago, orientalis, meoides, nodi¬
flora, canadenfis, affafretida, perfica. Europe, Perfia.
N. America. *
The large umbelliferous plant, with obtufe leaflets,
alternately indented, called ferula ajfafceiida, is a na¬
tive of Perfia, and produces a valuable concrete juice.
This juice exudes from wounds made in the root of
the plant, liquid and white like milk. On being ex-
pofed to the air it turns of a brownilh colour, and
gradually acquires different degrees of confiftency. It
is brought to us in large irregular maffes, compofed of
various little fhining lumps or grains, which are partly
of a whitifh colour, partly reddilh, and partly of a vio¬
let hue. Thefe maffes are accounted the bell, which
are clear, of a pale reddilh colour and variegated,
with a great number of elegant wffiite tears. This
drug has a ftrong fetid fmell, fomewffiat like that of
garlick. It lofes, with age, of its fmell and ftrength,
a circumftance to be attended to in the ufe of it. It
confifts of about one-third part of pure refin, and two-
thirds of gummy matter j the former foluble in refti-
fied Ipirit, the latter in w'ater. Proof fpirit diffolves
almoft the whole into a turbid liquor; the tinfture in
rectified fpirit is tranfparent.
Affafostida is the ftrongeft of the feetid gums, and
of frequent ufe in hyfteric and different kinds of ner¬
vous complaints. It is likewife of confiderable efficacy
in flatulent colics, and for promoting all the fluid fecre-
tions in either fex. The ancients attributed to this
medicine many other virtues, which arc not at prefent
expedted from it. This gummy refin is an ingredient
in the gum pills of the druggifts, fetid tindlure, tinc¬
ture of foot, and fetid volatile fpirit.
540. Laserpitium, or Lafer-wort.
23 fpecies ; viz. latifolium, libanotis, capenfe, trilo *
bum, aquilegifolium, gallicum, anguftiffimum, formo-
fum, anguflifolium, aureum, prutenicum, dauricum,
filafolium, aciphylla, peucedanoides, filex, archange-
T lica,
14-6 B O T
lica, chlronmm, lacidutn, ferulaceum, hirfutum, fca-
brum, fimplex. Europe, New Zealand.
54T. Heraclium, or Cow-parfni/j.
xofpeciesj viz. * fpbondyHum, flavefcens, anguftx-
folium, elegans, fibiricum, panacea, tuberofum, auftria-
cum, alpinum, putnilum. Siber, Auftria, Alps, Italy.
fphondy- * H. leafets wing-cleft, even j flowers radiated.—In
hum. Poland and Lithuania the poor people are faid to. pre¬
pare a liquor from the leaves and feeds of this plant,
which undergoes a fermentation, and is drank inftead
of ale. The ftalks, when peeled, are eaten by the
Kamtfchatkans. The Ruffians take the leaf-ftalks of
the root-leaves, peel them, and hang them in the fun
to dry a little : then they tie them in little bundles,
and hang them up again till they become yellow : in
this flate they put them into bags, and a mealy fub-
flance like fugar forms upon the furface of them. This
they {hake off, and treat their guefts with it as a great
delicacy. They likewife diftil an ardent fpirit from it.
The peelings of the ftalks are acrid. The leaves are
a favourite food of rabbits, hogs, and affes. Cows,
goats, and fheep eat them j but horfes are not fond of
them.
542. Ligusticum, or Lovage.
.13 fpecies; viz. levifticum, * fcoticum, aquilegifo-
lium, nodiflorum, peloponenfe, auftriacum, * cornu-
bienfe, pyrenacum, candicans, peregrinum, baleari-
cum, gingidium, longifolium. Alps, Auftria, Portu¬
gal, Barbary.
fcoticum. * L. leaves doubly threefold.—This plant is much va¬
lued in the ifle of Skye. The root is reckoned a good
carminative, and an infufion of the leaves a good purge
for calves. It is, befides, ufed as food, either as a fa-
lad, or boiled as greens. Horfes, fheep, and goats
eat it. Cow^s refufe it.
543. Angelica.
* Six fpecies \ viz. * archangelica, * fylveftris, razou-
lii, verticillaris, atropurpurea, lucida. N. Europe,
N. America.
fylvefris. * A. leafets equal, egg-fpear-fhaped, ferrated.—It is
warm, acrid, bitter, and aromatic: but the fpecies
cultivated in our gardens, poffeffing thefe properties in
a higher degree, this has been long neglefted. Papi-
lio machaon feeds upon it. Cows, goats, and fwine
eat it. Horfes refufe it.
544. Sium, or Water Parfnip.
18 fpecies ; viz. filifolium, * latifolium, anguftifo*
Hum, * nodiflorum, * repens, fifarum, rigidius, japo-
nicum, falcaria, paniculatum, grandiflorum, patulum,
graecum, decumbens, ficulum, afperum, hifpidum,
villofum. Europe, China, Japan, N. America.
latifolium.* S. leaves winged j leafets egg-fpear-fhaped, regularly
and fharply ferrated j the terminating leafet 3-cleft 5
umbels terminating. Horfes and fwine eat it. Sheep
are not fond of it. The roots are noxious to cattle.
nodiflorutr.* S. leaves winged ; leafets tooth-ferrated j umbels la¬
teral, oppofite the leaves, fitting or on fruitftalks.—It
is faid, that a young lady, fix years old, w'as cured of
an -obftinate cutaneous difeafe, by taking three large
fpoonfuls of the juice twice a-day. Three or four oun¬
ces have been repeatedly given to adults, every morn¬
ing, in fimilar complaints, with the greateft advantage.
ANY. Pentandria.
It is not naufeous, and children take it readily, if mix¬
ed with milk. In the dofes given, it neither affefls
the head, the ftomach, nor the bowels.
545. Si SON, or Bafe Stone-parjley.
Eight fpecies \ viz. * amomum, * fegetura, cana-
denfe, ammi, * inundatum, * verticillatum, falfum,
crinitum. Europe, N. America.
546. Bubon, or Macedonian Parfley.
Five fpecies ; viz. macedonicum, galbanum, laevi-
gatum, gummiferum, rigidius. Greece, Barb. Cape.
547. Cuminum, or Cummin.
One fpecies ; viz. cyminum. Egypt, Ethiopia.—.
This umbelliferous plant refembles fennel in appear¬
ance, but is much fmaller. The feeds ufed in Britain
are brought chiefly from Sicily and Malta. Cummin
feeds have a bitterifh wTarm tafte, accompanied with an
aromatic flavour, not of the moft agreeable kind. An
effential oil is obtained from them by diftillation, in
which their a&ivity is concentrated j and they are not
unfrequently ufed externally, giving name both to a
plafter and cataplafm in medical pra&ice.
548. Oenanthe, or Water Drop-wort.
11 fpecies j viz. * fiftulofa, *crocata, prolifera, glo-
bulofa, peucedanifolia, * pimpinelloides, inebrians, te-
nuifolia, ferulacea, interrupta, exaltata. Europe, Ca¬
rolina.
* O. fending forth fuckers j ftem-leaves winged,
thread-fhaped, hollow-.—Cow-s and horfes refufe this
plant, though, from experiments made on purpofe, it
does not appear to be in the leaft degree noxious
to the former.
* O. all the leaves many-cleft, blunt, nearly equal.—crocata.
The whole of this plant is poifonous '; and Dr Pulteney
remarks, that the root is the moft virulent of all the
vegetable poifons that Great Britain produces : many
inftances of its fatal effe&s are recorded. It is faid,
that an infufion of the leaves, or three tea fpoonfuls of
the juice of the root taken every morning, effefted a
cure in a very obftinate cutaneous difeafe, but not with¬
out occafioning very great difturbances in the conftitur
tion. Some fay, that fhe country people in Weft-
morland, apply a poultice of the herb to the ulcer
w-hich forms in the fore-part of the cleft of the hoof in
horned cattle, and is called the foul. Sheep eat it.
Cows and horfes refufe it.
549. Phellandrium.
Two fpecies; * aquaticum, mutellina. Europe.
* P. ramifications of the leaves ftraddling.—The feeds aquaticum.
are recommended in intermittents, and are faid to be
diuretic, antifeptic, and expe&orant : dofe from one
to three drams daily. The leaves are fometimes added
to difeutient cataplafms. It is generally efteemed a
fatal poifon to horfes, occafioning them to become pa¬
ralytic : but this effedt is owing to an infedt {curculio
paraple&icus), which generally inhabits within the
ftems. The ufual antidote is pig-dung. In the win¬
ter, the roots and ftems diffedled by the influence of
the w-eather, afford a very curious fkeleton or net-work.
Horfes, fheep, and goats eat it. Sw-ine are not fond
of it. Cows refufe it. Chryfomela phellandia, and the
gilt Upturn, are found upon the roots, and the curculio
parapU&icus within the ftems.
550.
Pentandria.
B O T
'5'50. CiCUTA, or Water-Hem/ock.
Three fpecies j viz. * virofa, bulbifera, maculata.—
^ . Europe, N. America.
Viroja. umbels oppofite the leaves; leaf-ftalks bordered,
blunt.—This is one of the rankeft of our vegetable poi-
fons. Numerous inllances are recorded of its fatality
to the human fpecies. Early in the fpring, when it
grows in the water, cows often eat it, and are killed by
it; but, as the fummer advances, and its fcent becomes
ftronger, they carefully avoid it. Though a certain
and fatal poifon to cowrs, goats devour it greedily, and
with impunity. Horfes and (heep eat it with fafety.
551. ALthusa or Fools-parjley.
Four fpecies ; viz. *cynapium, bunius, *meum, fa-
tua. Europe.
Qynapium. * ^ ap[ t}ie ieaves ajjj.e . frujt neariy globular.—This
plant, from its refemblance to common parfley, has
fometimes been miftaken for it, and wEen eaten, it oc-
cafions ficknefs. If the curled-leaved parfley only w7as
cultivated in our gardens, no fuch miftakes would hap¬
pen. Cows, horfes, Iheep, and fwine eat it. It is no¬
xious to geefe.
* ab the leaves divided into many briftle-fhaped
fegments; involucrum 1 leaf; fruit egg-oblong, ta¬
pering at each end.—Linnaeus fays, that the radical
fibres of this plant form the bafis of the calculus a-
gragopila. 1 he roots and feeds are aromatic and acrid.
1 hey have been ufed as flomachics and carminatives.
'I hey are fometimes given to cure tertians; and there
is no doubt but they will often anfwer as well as pep¬
per, and other acrid aromatics.
552. Coriandrum, or Coriander.
1 w'o fpecies ; viz. * fativum, tefliculatum. S. of Eur.
fativum. * C. fruit globular.—The leaves have a very ftrong
and diiagreeable feent. 1 he feeds are grateful to the
tafte, and incrufted with fugar are fold by the confec¬
tioners, under the name of coriander comfits. The Edin
burgh college ufe them as correctors in the bitter in-
fufion, and the preparations of fenna ; nothing fo effec¬
tually covering the difagreeable tafte of that medicine.
1 hey have been confidered as fufpicieus, if not deleteri¬
ous ; but fix drams of them have been taken at once,
without any remarkable effeCt.
553 Scandix, or Shepherds-needle.
x 1 fpecies.; viz. * odorata, * peCten, chilenfis, * ce-
refolium, * anthrifcus, auftralis, nodofa, trichofperma,
infefta, grandiflora, procumbens. Eur. Virginia, Chili.
i>dorata. * S. feeds furrowed : angular.—The feeds are ufed in
the north of England, for polilhing and perfuming oak
doors and furniture.
cerefolium. * S. feeds gloffy, cylindrical and beaked ; umbels late¬
ral, nearly fitting.—It is cultivated in our gardens as
a pot-herb, and for falads. It is flightly aromatic and
aperient. Cows are extremely fond of it. Sheep and
goats eat it. Horfes refufe it.
554. Ch^:rophvllum, or Wild Chervil.
11 ipecies; viz. * fylveilre, bulbofum, ariftatum,
'* temulum, capenfe, fcabrum, hirfutum, aromaticum,
coloratum, aureum, arborefcens. Eur. Virginia. Japan.
Jyhejlre. * C. ftem fmoothifh, fcored, a little fvvoln at the knots.
The roots eaten as parfnips, have been found poifonous.
The umbels afford an indifferent yellow dye ; the leaves
and ffems a beautiful green. Its prefence indicates a
HI
A N Y.
fruitful foil. Neither horfes, flieep, or goatsv, are
fond of it. Swnne refufe it. Rabbits are fond of
jt* In fome parts of the kingdom, in times of fcarcity,
it is ufed as a pot-herb. Cows are fo fond of it; that,
when a pafture is over-run with it, as is often the cafe
about Dudley, they always turn them in to eat it up.
555* Imperatoria, or Majfer-wort.
One fpecies ; viz. oftruthium. Alps of Auftria,
Switzerland Root warm and aromatic, a fudorific,
diuretic, and fialagogue; recommended in dropfy,
debilities of the ftomach and bowels ; and an infufion
of it in wine is faid to have cured quartans that have
refilled the bark. When chewed, it excites a copious
flow of faliva, exciting a warm and not difagreeable
fenfation in the gums, and frequently curing the iheu7
matic toothach.
556. Seseli, or Hart-wort of Marfeilles.
15 fpecies; viz. filifolium, pimpinelloides, montanum,
flriatum, glaucum, arillatum, annuum, chaerophylloi-
des, ammoides, tortuofum, turbith, hippomarathrum,
pyremeum, faxifragum, datum. Germany, S. Europe.
557' F hap si A, or Deadly Carrot.
Five fpecies; viz. viilofa, foetida, afclepium, gargani-
ca, trifolrata. France, Spam, Portugal, Lev. Virginia.
558. Pastinaca, or Parfnip.
Three fpecies; viz. lucida, fativa, opopanax. South
of Europe.
P. leaves Amply wfinged.—The roots, when cxA\\-fativa.
vated, are iweeter than carrots, and are much ufed by
thofe who abftain from animal food in Lent ; they are
highly nutritious. In the north of Ireland, they are
brewed inffead of malt, with hops, and fermented with
yeafl. The liquor thus obtained, is agreeable. The
feeds contain an effential oil, and will often cure intermit- —
tent fevers. Hogs are fond of the roots, and quickly
grow fat with them. See Agriculture Index.
559’ Smyrnium, or Alexanders.
Seven fpecies ; viz. perfoliatum, segyptiacum, late-
rale, * olulatrum, apiifolium, aureum, integerrimum.
Italy, Crete, Egypt, N. America.
S. flem-leaves growing by threes on leaf-flalks, olufatrum.
lerrated.—It was formerly cultivated in our gardens
but its place is now better fupplied by celery? It is
boiled, and greedily eaten by failors returning from long
voyages, who happen to land at the fouth-weff corner
of Anglefea.
_ 56°- Anethum, or Dill.
I hree fpecies ; viz. graveolens, fegetum, * fenicu-
lum. Germany, Spain, Portugal.
* A. leaves with many divilions, hair-like ; feeds mv-foemeutum
oblong, tapering at each end, not bordered.—-The ten-
der buds are ufeful in falads. The leaves, boiCd are
ided in fauce for feveral kinds of fifk, 2„d eaten’raw
with pickled fijh. In Italy the llalks are blanched as
a winter falad. The feeds abound with an effential
oil, which is carminative and diuretic, but not heating.
I he papiho machaon feeds upon it. 6
56i._Carum, or Caraways.
Two fpecies ; *iz. * card, fimplex. Europe.
• C. /I ie young roots, are faid to be better eating than carui.
parli ps ; the tender leaves may be boiled with pot-
heibs The feeds are ufed in cakes. ' Incrufted with fu-
1 2 gaL
148 A B O T
gar, they are called caraway comfits, and are diftilled with
fpirituous liquors, for the fake of the flavour they aftord.
The feeds were formerly recommended by Diofcorides
to pale-faced girls, and in more modern days their ufe
is not forgotten.—They are no defpicable remedy in
tertian agues. They abound with an eflential oil, which
is antifpa'fmodic, and carminative. Sheep, goats, and
fwine, eat it. Cows and horfes are ijot fond of it.
562. Pimpinella, or Burnet Saxifrage.
Ten fpecies j viz. * faxifraga, nigra, * magna, dif-
fefta, glauca, capenfis, peregrina, anifum, dichotoma,
* dioica. Europe, Egypt.
magna. * P. leaves uniform, winged j leafets fpear-fhaped, ir¬
regularly ferrated j floral leaves wing-cleft.—This and
the faxifraga partake nearly of the fame qualities.
The root is very acrid, burning the mouth like pepper.
It affords a blue oil. Its acrimony hath occafioned it
to be ufed to cure the toothach, and to cleanfe the
{kin from freckles. It is chewed to promote the fecre-
tion of faliva, and is ufed in gargles for diffolving vif-
cid mucus in the throat. In Germany it is prefcribed
in the afthma and dropfy. The papiho machaon is found
upon both fpecies.
563. Apium, or Parjley,
Twto fpecies j viz. petrofelinum, * graveolens. Sar¬
dinia, Carolina.
gravea/ens * A. ftem-leaves wedge-fhaped.— The root in its wild
{fate (when it grows near water) is fetid, acrid, and
noxious ; but when cultivated in dry ground it lofes
thefe properties, and the root and knver part of the
leaf-ftalks and ftem, blanched by. covering them up
with earth, are eaten raw, boiled in foups, or Hewed.
In this latter Hate it is called celery. They are faid to
be hurtful to people fubjeft to nervous complaints.
They are certainly good antifcorbutics. The feeds
yield an effential oil. Sheep and goats eat it; cows
are not fond of if, horfes refufe it.
564. JEgopodium, or Gout-zvee</.
One fpecies 5 viz.
podagraria* A. upper leaves three together j lower ones in
triple threes.—The leaves may be eaten early in the
fpring with other pot-herbs. Cows, flieep, and goats
eat it; horfes are not fond of it. Europe.
Order III. TRIGYNIA.
eariaria.
565. Semicarpus.
One fpecies j viz. anacardium. Ceylon.
566. Rhus, or Sumach, or Poifon-tree.
33 fpecies •, viz* coriaria, tiphynum, javanicum, gla-
brum, elegans, vernix, fuccedanium, femialatum, copal-
linum, alatum, pauciflorum, metopium, digitatum, cir-
rhiflorum, tridentatum, radicans, toxicodendron, aro-
maticum, fuaveolens, dentatum, finuatum, cuneifolium,
incifum, tomentofum, villofum, pubefcens, viminale,
anguftifolium, rofmarinifolium, laevigatum, lucidum,
cotinus, aifrum. S. Europe, Cape, China, N. Amer.
R. with winged leaves, and leafets elliptical, bluntly
t oothed, woolly beneath. Called common fumach.—This
tree or ihrub is cultivated in the fouth of Europe on
account of the culinary ufes of its fruits, and for the
purpofes of the dyers, &c. Among us it is met with only
ANY. Pentandria,
in the gardens of the curious, The feeds and berries
are of a red colour, in Ihape round and flat. Both
thefe and the leaves are moderately aftringent, and
have fometimes been exhibited with this intention by
medical praditioners ; but they are not at prefent ufed.
R. with winged entire leaves, w'ith a membranaceous copallinutn,
jointed leaf-ftalk.—This tree grows in New Spain,
and produces a refin called copal, which is brought to
us in irregular lumps, fome tranfparent, of a yellow or
brown colour \ others femitranfparent and wdntilh. It
is ufed for making a very pure and hard varnifh by
painters. It has never come into ufe in medicine in
this country, though it is introduced into fome of the
foreign pharmacopoteias, and may be confidered as an
article deferving attention.
567. Viburnum, or Pliant Mealy-tree.
23 fpecies; viz. tinus, tinoides, villofum, fcandens,
nudum, primifolium, davuricum, dentatum, plicatum,
erofum, * lantana, tomentofum, hirtum, acerifolium,
orientale, * opulus, dilatatum, macrophyllum, cufpida-
tum, lentago, caflinoides, nitidum, Ijcvigatum. S. of
Europe, N. America.
* V. leaves heart-lhaped, ferrated, veined, cottony lantatta>
underneath.—The bark of the root is ufed to make
bird-lime. The berries are drying and aftringent.
568. Cassine, or Cajhew-berry-hujh, South-Sea Pea.
'Four fpecies; viz. capenfis, colpoon, barbara, mau-
rocenia. C. of G. Hope.
569. Sambucus, or Elder-tree.
Eive fpecies; viz. * ebulus, canadenfis, * nigra, ja-
ponica, racemofa. Europe, China, N. America.
* S. tufts with three divifions ; ftipulte leaf-like; ftem ebulus,
herbaceous.—This plant has the fame medical proper¬
ties with the S. nigra, but in fome jefpe&s more vio¬
lent, and therefore lefs manageable : A dram and a
half of the root is a ftrong purge : The berries give
out a violet colour : The green leaves drive away mice
from granaries, and the Silefians ftrew them where their
pigs lie, under a perfuafion that they prevent fome of
the difeafes to which they are liable. Neither cows,
goats, ftieep, horfes, or fwine will eat it..
* S. tufts with five divifions; leaves winged ; leafets nigres,
nearly egg-fhaped, ferrated ; ftem . tree-like—The
whole plant has a narcotic fmell ; it is not wrell to
fteep under its fliade. The wood is hard, tough, and
yellow. It is commonly made into {kewers for but¬
chers ; tops for angling-rods ; and needles for weaving
nets. It is not a bad wood to turn in the lathe. The
inner green bark is purgative, and may be ufed with
advantage where acrid purgatives are requifite. In
fmaller dofes it is diuretic, and has done eminent fervice
in obftinate glandular obftrudlions, and in dropfies. If
flieep that have the rot are placed in a fituation where
they can get at the bark and the young {hoots,_ they
will foon cure themfelves. It is an ingredient in the
black dye. The leaves are purgative like the bark,-
but more naufeous. They are an ingredient in feveral
cooling ointments. If turnip-cabbages, fruit-trees or
corn, which are fubjefl to blight from a variety of in¬
fers are whipped with the green leaves and branches
of elder, the infers will not attack them. A decoc¬
tion of the flowers taken internally, is faid to promote
expe&oration in pleurifies, If the flowers are frefti
gathered
Pentandria. B O T
gathered they loofen the belly. Externally they are
uled in fomentations to eafe pain and abate inflamma¬
tion. Many people ufe them to give a flavour to vine¬
gar. They are fatal to turkies. A rob prepared from
the berries is a gentle opener, and promotes perfpira-
tion. The juice of the berries is employed to give a
red colour to railin or fugar wines. The berries are
poifonous to poultry. The pith being exceedingly
light, is cut into balls ufed in electrical experiments.
Sheep eat it 5 horfes, cows, and goats refufe it. The
aphis fambuci and the phalcena ambucaria are found
upon it.
570. Spathelia.
One fpecies j viz. fimplex. Jamaica.
571. Staphylea, ox Bladder-nut.
Three 1'pecies 5 viz. occidentalis, pinnata, trifolia.
S. Europe, Virginia, Jamaica,
572. Tamaeux, or Taniarijk.
Four fpecies j viz. * gallica, fongarica, germanica,
articulata. Germany, France, Spain, Italy, Barbary.
573. Xylophylla, or Love-Jluwer.
Seven Ipecies ; viz. longifolia, latifolia, arbufcula,
falcata, anguftifolia, montana, ramitlora. Siberia, Ja¬
maica, Bahama ifles,
574. Reichelia.
One fpecies j viz. paluftris.
575. Salmasia.
One fpecies $ viz. racemofa. Guiana.
576. Turn era, or Nettle-leaved Cijlus.
Nine fpecies j viz. ulmifolia, pumilea, rupeflris,
fidoides, frutefcens, rugofa, ciftoides, racemofa, guja-
nenfis. Jamaica, Martinico, Guiana.
577. Telephium, or True Orpine.
Two fpecies \ viz. imperati, oppofitifolium. S. of
France, Italy, Barb.
578. Corrigiola, or Bafe Knot-grafs.
Two fpecies j viz. * littoralis, capenfis. Germany,
France, Arabia.
579. Pharnaceum.
14 fpecies j viz. cerviana, lineare, teretifolium, mi-
crophyllum, marginatum, mollugo, glomeratum, fer-
pyllifolium, quadrangulare, incanum, albens, dichoto-
mum, diflichum, cordifolium. Ruflia, Spain, Afia, Afr.
580. Alsine, or Chick-weed.
Three fpecies; viz. * media, fegetalis, mucronata,
S. Europe, Egypt.
581. Drypis.
One fpecies 5 viz. fpinofa. Italy, Barbary.
582. B A sella, ox Malabar Nightjhade.
Five fpecies ; viz. rubra, alba, lucida, cordifolia,
veficaria. Eaft Indies, China.
583. Sarothra, or Bafe Gentian.
One fpecies} viz. gentianoides. Virginia, Penfyl-
vania.
584. Portulacaria, or Purfane-tree.
One fpecies j viz. afra. Africa.
Order IV. TETRAGYNIA.
585. J*arnassia, or Grafs of Pat'naffus.
Que fpecies 3 viz. * paluftris. Europe.
ANY. 149
586. Evolvulus.
Seven fpecies; viz. mammilarius, gangeticus, cmargi-
natus, alfinoides, hirfutus, Hnifolius, fericeus. Eaft In¬
dies, Jamaica.
Order V. PENTAGYNIA.
f
587. Aralia, or Berry-bearing Angelica.
IO fpecies; viz. arborea, capitata, cordata, japonica,
pentaphylla, feiodaphyllum, fpinofa, chinenfis, race-'
mofa, nudicaulis. China, W. Indies, N. America.
588. Glossopetalum.
Two fpecies ; viz. glabrum, tomentofum. Guiana,
589. Statice, Thrift, or Sea-pink.
37 fpecies; viz. * armeria, juniperifolia, alliacea,
Cephalotes, graminifolia, * limonium, gmelini, fcoparia,
latiiolia, oleaefolia, incana, auricula;folia, cordata, fca-
bra, tetragona, * reticulata, echiodes, fpeciofa, tatarica,
echinus, flexuofa, purpurata, longifolia, minuta, pe6H-
nata, fuftruticofa, monopetala, axillaris, cylindrifolia,
linifolia, aurea, ferulacea, pruinofa, 'finuata, lobata,
fpicata, micronata. Europe, Barbary, Canary, Amer.
* S. ftalk limple, with a head of flowers ; leaves ftrap- armericr,
fhaped.—It is much ufed in gardens as an edging for
borders, and when in full bloffbm gives a glowing
tinge to paftures on the fea coaft. Horfes and goats
eat it; flieep are not fond of it.
590. Li sum, or Flax.
29 fpecies ; viz. * ufitatiflimum, * perenne, vifco-
fum, hirfutum, aquilinum, narbonenfe, reflexum, * te-
nuifolium, felaginoides, proftratum, gallicum, mariti-
num, alpinum, auftriacum, virginianum, flavum, mono-
petalum, ftriftum, monogynum, fuffruticofum, arbo-
reum, campanulatum, africanum, aethiopicum, nodiflo-
rum, * catharticum, * radiola, quadrifolium, verticil-
latum. Europe, Africa, America.
* L. cal. and capfules dagger-pointed ; petals fcol- uHtatiffi.
loped; leaves fpear-fhaped ; Item generally folitary. mum.
This valuable plant originally came from thofe parts
of Egypt which are expofed to the inundations of the
Nile. The feeds yield, by expreflion only, a large
proportion of oil, which is an excellent pectoral, as is
likewife the mucilaginous infufion. They make an
eafy and ufeful poultice in cafes of external inflamma¬
tion ; and they are the food of feveral fmall birds,
After the oil is expreffed, the remaining farinaceous
part, called oil-cake, is given to oxen, wrho foon grow
fat upon it. The oil itfelf differs in feveral refpe&s from
other expreffed oils ; it does not congeal in winter, nor
does it form a folid foap with fixed alkaline falts; and
it a£ls more powerfully as a menftruum upon fulphure-
ous bodies. When heat is applied during the expref-
fion it gets a yellowifh colour, and a peculiar fmell.
In this ftate it is ufed by the painters and the varnifliers.
The fibres of the ftem are manufa£lured into linen,
and this linen, when wmrn to rags, is made into paper..
* L. leaves oppoftte, egg-fpear-fhaped, ftem ioxkzd.catharti-
Cor. pointed.—An infufion of two drams or more oleum,
the dried plant is an excellent purge, and has been
given with advantage in many obftinate rheumatifms.
It frequently a&s as a diuretic. Horfes, flieep, and
goats eat it.
. 59ir*
*5° B O T
591. Aldrovanda.
One fpecxes j viz. veficulofa. Italy, India.
592. Drosera, or iSW-fifczu.
10 fpecies j viz. acaulis, * rotundifolia, cuneifolia,
burmanni, * longifolia, capenfis, lufitanica, ciftifolia,
peltata, indica. Europe, Afia, Africa, America.
rotundi- * X). {talks from the root j leaves circular.—The whole
folia. plant is acrid and fufficiently cauftic to erode the Ikin ;
but fonie ladies know how to mix the juice with milk,
fo as to make it an innocent and fafe application to re¬
move freckles and funburn. The juice that exfudes
from it unmixed will deftroy w’arts and corns. The
plant has the fame effedt upon milk as the pinguicula
•vulgaris, and like that too is fuppofed to occafion the
rot in fheep. The four coagulated milk of the Syrians,
called t'eban or leven, is fuppofed to be at firft prepared
with fome plant of this kind. The name fun-dew feems
to be derived from a very {hiking circumftance in the
appearance of thefe plants ; the leaves are fringed with
hairs, fupporting fmall drops or globules of a pellucid
liquor like dew, which continue even in the hottefl part
of the day and in the fulleft expofure to the fun. Per¬
haps the acrimony of the plant refides in this fecreted
liquor.
593. Gischia.
One fpecies ; viz. pharnacioides. Eafl Indies.
594. Crassula, or Lejfer Orpine.
71 fpecies j viz. coccinea, cymofa, flava, pubefcens,
pruinofa, fcabra, corallina, veilita, argentea, perfoliata,
perforata, fruticulofa, ramofa, mollis, tetragona, muri-
cata, imbricata, obvallata, cultrata, obliqua, fpathula-
ta, pundlata, marginalis, cordata, ladlea, arborefcens,
rupeftris, pinnata, fpinofa, retroflexa, lineolata, cen-
tauroides, dichotoma, glomerata, pulchella, ftrigofa,
A N Y. Fentandria.
mufcofa, pyramidalis, columnaris, hemifphaerica, ale-
oides, capitella, cotyledonis, barbata, ciliata, thyrfiflora,
fpicata, fubulata, alternifolia, rubens,cefpitofa, minima,
mofchata, verticillaris, expanfa, dentata,nudicaulis, tec¬
ta, cephalophora, montana, turrita, alpeftris, margina-
ta, tomentofi, crenulata, deltoidea, orbicularis, fparfa,
diffufa, proftrata, pellucida. Switzerland, Italy, Cape,
China.
595. Mahernia.
Eight fpecies, viz. verticiliata, pinnata, pulchella, ?
diffufa, incifa, glabrata, heterophylla, biferrata. C. of
G. Hope.
596. Commersonia.
One fpecies j viz. echinata. Otaheite.
597. Sibbaldia.
_ Three fpecies 5 viz. * procumbens, erefta, altaica.
Siberia, Alps in Europe.
Order VI. DECAGYNIA.
598. Schefflera.
One fpecies ; viz. digita. South fea ifles.
Order VII. POLYGYNIA.
599. Myosurus, or Moufe-tail.
One fpecies j viz. * minimus. Europe.
600. Zanthorhiza.
One fpecies j viz. apiifolia.
In the clafs Pentandria are
325 Genera, including 2537 Species, of which i63
are found in Britain.
CHASSIS VI.
HEXANDRIA.
Ordo I. MONOGYNIA.
Se£t. I. Flores calyculati, calyce corollctque inJlruBi,
abfque fpathis.
602. Bromelia. Cor. 3-partita. Cal. 3-partitus,
fuperus. Bacca.
603. Pitcairnia. Cor. 3-partita. Cal. 3-partitus,
femifuperus. Capfuls.
604. ’Iillandsia. Cor. 3-petala. Cal. 3-partitus,
inferus. Sem. comofa.
606. Burmannia. Cor. 3-petala. Cal. i-phyllus,
inferus, triquetro-alatus, coloratus.
607. Tradescantia. Cor. 3-petala. Cal. 3-phyl-
lus, inferus. Filamenta barbata.
686. Stephania. Cor. 4-petala; Cah 2-lobus.
Germ, pedicellatum.
CLASS VI.
HEXANDRIA.
Order I. MONOGYNIA.
Se£l. I. Flowers double calyxed, furnijhed with a
calyx and corolla, and without Jheathes,
B. Cor. 3-partite. Cal. 3-partite, fuperior. A
berry.
P. Cor. 3 -partite. Cal. 3-partite, half fuperior. A
capfule.
I. Cor. 3-petalous. Cal. 3-partite, inferior. Seeds
hairy.
B. Cor. 3-petalous. Cal. 1 leaf, inferior, three-
fquare, winged, coloured.
I. Cor. 3-petals. Cal. 3-leaved, inferior. Fila¬
ments bearded.
S. Cor. 4 petals. Cal. 2-lobedi jCermen on a
pedicle.
690.
Hexandria, B O T
690. FrankeniA. Cor. 5-petala. Cal. i-phyllus,
inferus. Capf. i-locularis. polyfperma.
. 675. Cossignea. Cor. 5-petala. Cal. 5 partitus,
Capf. 3-locularis.
684. Loranthus. Cor. 6-partita. Cal. margo
fuperus. Bacca i-fperma.
687. Hillia. Cor. 6-fida. Cal. 6-pliyllus, fuperus.
Fru61:us 2-locularis, polyfpermus.
685. Schradera. Cor. 6-fida. Cal. truncatus.
Bacca polyfperma.
Buroia. Cor. 6-partita. Cal. truncatus. Po-
mum.
671. Richardia. Cor. 6-fida. Cal. 6-fidus, fupe¬
rus. Sem. 3, nuda.
665. Tacca. Cor. 6-petala. Cal. 6-partitus. Bac¬
ca infera.
676. Barbacenia. Cor. 6-petala. Cal. 6-denta-
tus. Filamenta dentata. Capfula.
677. Berberis. Cor. 6-petala. Cal. 6-phyllus,
inferus. Bacca 2 fperma.
644. Leontice. Cor. 6-petala. Cal. 6-phyllus,
inferus. Bacca inflata, fupera.
679. Nandina. Cor. 6-petala. Cal. polyphyllus,
imbricatus. Bacca 2-fperma.
674. Prinos. Cor. 6-fida. Cal. 6-fidus, inferus.
Bacca 6-fperma.
678. Psathura. Cor. 6-fida. Cal. 6-dentatus.
Pomum 6-loculare.
689. Canarina. Cor. 6-fida. Cal. 6-phyllus, fupe¬
rus. Capf. 6-locularis.
673- Achras. Cor. 12-fida. Cal. 6-phyllus, in¬
ferus. Bacca 12-fperma.
683. Capura. Cor. 6-fida. Cal. nullus. Ger-
men fuperum. Bacca.
f Chlora imperfoliata. Port/andia bexandra. Lythra,
aliquot. Fumaria. Cucullaria.
Seel. II. Flores calyculati, calyce, corolla^ fpathifque
inJlruBi.
666. Corypha. Cor. 3-partita. Cal. 3-phyllus.
Brupa.
667. Licuala. Cor. 3-partita. Cal. 3-partitus.
Neftar. fertiforme. Brupa.
608. Mnasium. Cor. 3-dentata. Cal. 3-partit.
Spatha 2-valvis. Antherae foliaceae.
Seel. III. Flores fpathaceis glumacei.
601. Urania. Cor. fupera 3-petala. Spathae al-
ternse.
610. FLemanthus. Cor. fupera, 6-partita. In-
volucrum polyphyllum, maximum.
613. Leucoium. Cor. fupera, 6-petala, campanu-
lata. Stamina aequalia.
614. Strumaria. Cor. 6-petala, plana.
612. Galanthus. Cor. fupera, 6-petala. Nedlarv
campanulatum, extra ftamina.
617. Pan cratium. Cor. fupera, 6-petala. Nefla-
rium campanulatum, ftaminibus terminatum.
622. Amaryllis. Cor. fupera, 6-petala, irregu¬
laris. Stam. intequalia, declinata.
618. Crinum. Cor. fupera, 6-fida, bafi tubulofa.
Stam. diftantia, fauci inferta.
ANY.
F. Cor. 3-petals. Cal. i-leaf, inferior. Capf. x-
cell, many feeds.
C. Cor. 5-petals. Cal. 5-partite. Capf. 3-celled.
L. Cor. 6-partite. Cal. border fuperior. Berry 1
feed.
H. Cor. 6-cleft. Cal. 6-leaved, fuperior. Fruit -2
celled, many feeds.
S. Cor. 6-cleft. Cal. lopped. A berry with many
feeds.
B. Cor. 6-partite. Cal. lopped. An apple.
R. Cor. 6-cleft. Cal. 6-cleft, fuperior, 3 naked
feeds.
T. Cor. 6-petals. Cal. 6-partite. Berry inferior.
B. Cor. 6-petals. Cal. 6-toothed. Filaments tooth¬
ed. A Capfule.
B. Cor. 6-petals. Cal. 6-leaved, inferior. Berry
2-feeded.
X.. Cor. 6-petals. Cal. 6-leaved, inferior. Berry
inflated, fuperior.
N. Cor. 6-petals. Cal. many leaved, tiled. Beny
with 2 feeds.
P. Cor. 6-cleft. Cal. 6-cleft, inferior. Berry 6
feeds.
P. Cor. 6-cleft. Cal. 6-toothed. A 6-celled apple.
C. Cor. 6-eleft. Cal. 6-leaved, fuperior. Capf,
6-celled.
A. Cor. 12-cleft. Cal. 6-leafed, inferior. Berry
12-feeded.
C. Cor. 6-cleft. No calyx. Germen fuperior.
Berry.
Sect. II. Double enlyxed flowers■> furnifhed with a-
corolla and Jheaths.
C. Cor. 3-partite. Cal. 3-leaved. A drupe.
L. Cor. 3-partite. Cal. 3-partite. Nc&ary gar-
land-fhaped. A drupe.
M. Cor. 3-toothed. Cal. 3-partite. Sheath 2-
valved. Anthers leafy.
Se£t. III. Flowers Jheathed hufked.
U. Cor. fuperior, 3-petaled. Sheathes alternate*
H. Cor. fuperior, 6-partite.. The involucrum many¬
leaved, very large.
L.. Cor. fuperior, 6-petaled, bell-lhaped. Stamens
equa1.
S. Cor. 6-petaled, flat.
G. Cor. fuperior, 6-petaled. Nedlary bell-fliaped,
without the ftamens.
P. Cor. fuperior, 6-petaled. Ne&ary bell-fhaped,
ending with the flamens.
A. Cor. fuperior, 6-petaled, irregular. The fta¬
mens unequal, bending.
C. Cor. fuperior, 6-cleft, tubular at the bafe. Sta¬
mens diftant, inferted in the mouth,
621,
*5*
B O T
621. Cvrtanthvs. Cor. fupera, 6-fida, clavata,
Filamenta iimplicia.
620. Eustephia. Cor. fupera, 6-fida, tubulofa,
Filamenta tricufpidata.
619. Agapanthus. Cor, infera, 6-fida, infundxbu-
liformis, regularis.
609. Pontederia. Cor. infera, 6-fida, ringens.
624. Bulbocodium. Cor. infera, 6-petala; ungui-
bus longiffimis ftaminiferis.
615. 7'ulbagia. Cor. infera, 6-petala j tribus in-
ferioribus. Neftarium cylindricum extus petaliferum.
626. Allium. Cor. infera, 6-petala. Petala ovata,
feffilia.
636. Curculigo. Cor. infera, 6-petala. Styl. 3-'
partitus.
625. Aphyllanthes. Cor. infera, 6-petala. Spa-
tbae dimidiatae, glumofae.
611. Massonia. Cor. infera, 6-partita. Stem. ne£t.
inferta.
637. Hypoxis. Cor. fupera, 6-petala. Spathae
glumaceee.
Se£l. IV. Flores nudi.
605. Xerophyta. Cor. 6-partita fupera. Stigma
elavatum.
661. Alstroemeria. Cor. fupera, 6-petala, un-
guibus tubulofis.
655. Lanaria. Cor. fupera, 6-fida, fubcampanu-
lata.
662. Hemerocallis. Cor. infera, 6 partita. Stam.
declinata.
660. Agave. Cor. fupera, 6-fida, limbo ere£to, fi-
lamentis brevior.
635. Gethyllis. Cor. fupera, 6-partita. Bacca
elavata, polyfperma.
659. Aloe. Cor. infera, 6-fida. Filam. recepta-
culo inferta.
657. Aletris. Cor. infera, 6-fida, rugofa. Sta¬
mina fauci inferta.
656. Voltheimia. Cor. infera, 6-fida. Stamina
corollae bafi inferta.
650. Polyanthes. Cor. infera, 6-fida, tubo cur-
vato.
649. Convallaria. Cor. infera, 6-fida. Bacca
trifperma.
648. Sanseviera. Cor. 6-partita, Bacca i-fper-
ina.
652. Hyacinthus. Cor. infera, 6-fida, fubcampa-
nulata. Stamina receptaculo inferta.
651. Drimia. Cor. infera, 6-fida, campanulata. Sta¬
mina tubo corollee inferta.
623. Millea. Cor. infera, 6-fida, infundibulif.
Germen pedicellatum.
642. Asphodelus. Cor. infera, 6-partita, Ne&a-
rii valvulis 6 ftaminiferis.
629. Eucomis. Cor. infera, 6-partita, perfiftens.
Filamenta ne&ario adnata.
642. Anthericum. Cor. infera, 6-petala, plana.
681. Enargea. Cor. infera, 6-petala, petalis al-
terne bafi biglandulofis.
653. Phormium, Cor. infera, 6-petala, inaequalis.
Capf. triquetra.
654. Lachenalia. Cor. infera, 6-petala, inaequalis.
Capf. trialata.
A N Y. Hexandm.
C. Cor, fuperior, 6 cleft, club Ibaped. Filaments
undivided,
E. Cor. fuperior, 6-cleft, tubular. Filaments 3-
pointed.
A. Cor. inferior, 6-cleft, funnel-fliaped, regular.
P. Cor. inferior, 6-cleft, gaping.
B. Cor. inferior, 6-petaled, with very long claws
bearing the ftamens.
T. Cor. inferior, 6-petals *, three inferior, A cylin¬
drical neftary without, bearing the petals.
A. Cor. inferior, 6-petaled, Petals oval, fitting.
C. Cor. inferior, 6-petaled. Styl. 3-partite,
A. Cor. inferior, 6-petaled. Sheaths extending
half round, bulky.
M, Cor. inferior, 6-partke. Stamens inferted in a
neftary.
H. Cor. fuperior, 6.petaled, Sheaths bulky.
Se£l. IV. Floivers naked.
X. Cor. 6-partite fuperior. Stigma club-lhaped.
A. Cor. fuperior, 6-petaled, with tubular claws.
L. Cor. fuperior, 6-cleft, nearly bell-lhaped.
H. Cor. inferior, 6-partite. Stamens bent.
A. Cor. fuperior, 6-cleft, with an ereft border Ihort-
er than the filaments.
G. Cor. fuperior, 6-partite. Berry club-lhaped,
many feeded.
A. Cor. inferior, 6-cleft. Filaments inferted in the
receptacle.
A. Cor. inferior, 6-cleft, wrinkled. Stamens infert¬
ed in the mouth.
V. Cor. inferior, 6-cleft. Stamens inferted in the
bale of the corolla.
P. Cor. inferior, 6-cleft, with a crooked tube.
C. Cor. inferior, 6-cleft. Berry 3-feeded,
S. Cor. inferior, 6-partite. Berry i-feeded.
H. Cor, inferior, 6-cleft, nearly bell-lhaped. Sta¬
mens inferted in the receptacle.
D. Cor, inferior, 6-cleft. Bell-lhaped. Stamens in¬
ferted in the tube of the corolla.
M. Cor. inferior, 6-cleft, funnel-lhaped. Gerttren
on a pedicle.
A. Cor, inferior, 6-cleft. Ne<51ane$ with 6 valves,
bearing the Itamens.
E. Cor. inferior, 6-partite, permanent* Filments
connedled with the ne&ary.
A. Cor, inferior, 6-petals, fiat.
E. Cor. inferior, 6-petals, the petals alternately bi-
glandular at the bafe.
P. Cor, inferior, 6-petals, unequal. Capf. with 3
flat fides,
L. Cor. inferior, 6-petals, unequal. Capf. 3-winged.
639-
Hexandria. B O T
* 639. Ornithogalu'M. Cor. infera, 6-petala, Fi-
lam. alternis bafi dilatatis.
638. Eriospermum. Cor. infera, 6-petala. Filam.
lanceolata. Sem. lanata.
* 640. Scilla. Cor. infera, 6-petala, decidua. Filam.
filiformia.
641. Cyanella. Cor. infera, 6-petala j petalis ex-
terioribus propendentibus.
682. Philesia. Cor. infera, 6-petala, tribus inte-
rioribus duplo longioribus.
680. Lindera. Cor, infera, 6-petala, Capf. 2-
locularis.
647. Drac^na. Cor. infera, 6-petala, Bacca
3-fperma.
* 646. Asparagus. Cor. infera, 6-petala. Bacca
6-fperma.
645. Pollia. Cor. infera, 6-petala. Bacca poly-
fperma.
631. Gloriosa. Cor. infera, 6-petala, reflexa,
caudata.
630. UvulariA. Cor. infera, 6-petala, bafi fovea
ne&arifera $ erecta.
* 628. Fritillaria, Cor. infera, 6-petala, bafi fovea
ne&arifera j ovata.
627. Lilium. Cor. infera, 6-petala j petalis bafi
canaliculato-tubulofis.
* 633. Tulifa. Cor. infera, 6-petala, campanulata
ftylus o.
658. Yucca. Cor. infera, 6-petala, patens. Sty¬
lus o.
634. Albuca. Cor. infera, 6-petala, 3 exteriori-
bus patulis, 3 interioribus conniventibus. Stigma cinc-
,fcum cufpidibus 3.
ANY.
* O. Cor. inferior, 6-petals. The alternate filaments
dilated at the bafe.
E. Cor. inferior, 6-petals. Filaments fpear-fhaped.
Seeds woolly.
* S. Cor. inferior, 6-petals, deciduous. Filam. thread
fhaped.
C. Cor. inferior, 6-petals j outer petals hanging
over.
P. Cor. inferior, 6-petals, the three inner of a double
length.
L. Cor. inferior, 6-petals. Capf. 2-celled.
D. Cor. inferior, 6-petals. A berry, 3-feeded.
* A. Cor. inferior, 6-petals. A berry, 6-feeded.
P. Cor. inferior, 6-petals. Berry many-feeded.
G. Cor. inferior, 6-petals, bent back, tailed,
U. Cor. inferior, 6-petals, with a honey-bearing
hollow at the bafe, eredf.
* F. Cor. inferior, 6-petals, with a honey-bearing hol¬
low at the bafe, oval.
L. Cor. inferior, 6-petals, the petals tubular-chan¬
nelled at the bafe.
* T. Cor. inferior, 6-petals, bell-ftiaped. No ftyle.
Y. Cor. inferior, 6-petals, expanding. No ftyle.
A. Cor. inferior, 6-petaled, the 3 outer open, the
three inner converging. The ftigma furrounded by
3 prickles.
Se£t. V. F/ores incompleti.
Se£t. V. Incomplete Jloivers.
664. Orontium. Spadix multiflorus. Follic. 1-
fpermus.
* 663. Acorus. Spadix multiflorus. Capf. 3-locu-
laris.
669. Calamus. Cal. 6-phyllus. Peric. retrorfura
imbricatum, i-fpermum.
* 670. Juncus. Cal. 6-phyllus. Capf. i-locularis.
668. Thrinax. Cal. 6-dentatus. Drupa.
* 691. Peplis. Cal. 12-fidus. Capf. a-locularis.
O. Sheathed fruit-ftalk, many-flowered. Air-bag
i-feeded.
* A. Sheathed fruitftalk, many flowered. Capf. 3-
celled.
C. Cal. 6-leafed. Seed-vefiel tiled backwards. One
feed.
* J. Cal. 6-leaved. Capf. 1-celled.
T. Cal. 6-toothed. A drupe.
* P, Cal. 12-cleft. Capf. 2-celled.
Se6E VI. Gramina.
693. Bambusa. Cal. o. Cor. 2-valvis.
692. Gahnia. Cal. i-valv. Cor. 2-valvis.
694. Ehrharta. Cal. 2-valv. Cor. duplex.
OrdoII. DIGYNIA.
Sea. VI. Grajfes.
B. No cal. Cor. 2-valved.
G. Cal. i-valved. Cor. 2-valved.
E. Cal. 2-valved. Cor. double.
Order II. DIGYNIA.
679. Falkia. Cal. 5-partitus. Cor. i-petala.
Sem. 4.
698. Atraphaxis. Cal. 2-phyllus. Cor. 2-petala.
Sem. compreffum.
696. Nectris. Cal. 6-partit. Cor. o. Capf. 2,
polyfpermae.
695. Oryza. Gluma i-flora. Cor. 2-glumis. Sem.1,
oblongum.
f Leerjta hexandria. Ehrhartce nonnullce.
F. Cal. 5-partite. Cor. i-petal. Seeds 4.
A. Cal. 2-leaved. Cor. 2-petaled. Seed com*
prefted.
N. Cal. 6-partite. No cor. Capf. 2, many feeded.
O. A hulk, 1-flowered. Cor. with 2 hulks. One
oblong feed.
Ordo
153
Vot. IV. Part L
U
B O
T
A
n y,
Hexandria.
Ordo III. TRIGYNIA,
Seel. I. Flores inferi.
703. Wurmbea. Cor. 6-fida, tubulofa.
* 707. Colchicum. Cal. fpatha. Cor. 6-petaloidea.
704. Melanthium. Cal. o. Cor. 6-petala, pe-
talis rtaminiferis.
705. Medeola. Cal. 0. Cor. 6 petala. Bacca
3-cocca.
708. Helonias. Cal. o. Cor. 6 petala. Capf.
3-locul.
706. Trillium. CaL 3-pbyllus. Cor. 3-petala.
Bacca 3-locularis.
* 702. Triglochin. Cal. 3-phyllus. Cor. tripe-
tala. Capf. ball dehifeen?.
^ 669. Rumex. Cal. 3-pbyllus. Cor. 3-petala. Sem. 1,
triquetrum.
701. Scheuchzeria. Cal. 6-phyllus. Cor. o.
Capf. 3, i-fpermae.
f Xylophylla latifolia.
Seel. II. Flores fuperu
700. Flagellaria. Cal. 6-phyllus. Cor. O. Pe-
ricarpium i-fpermum.
Ordo IV. HEXAGYNIA.
710. Damosonium. Spatha. Cal. 5-partit. Cor.
3-petala. Bacca 10-locularis.
709. Wendlanuia. Cal. 6-phyl. Cor. 6-petala.
Capf. 6, monofpermae.
Ordo V. POLYGYNIA.
* 711. Alisma. Cal. 3-phyllus. Cor. 3-petala. Pe¬
ricarp. plura.
Order III. TRIGYNIA.
Se£I. I. Flowers inferior.
W. Cor. 6-cleft, tubular.
* C. Cal. a fheath. Cor. 6-petaled.
M. No cal. Cor. 6-petaled, with petals bearing
the ftamens.
M. No cal. Cor. 6-petaled. A berry 3-celled.
H. No cal. Cor. 6-petaled. Capf. 3-celled.
T. Cal. 3-leaved. Cor. 3-petaled. Berry 3-celled.
* T. Cal. 3-leaved. Cor. 3-petalous. Capf. open¬
ing at the bafe.
* R. Cal. 3-leaved. Cor. 3-petaled. Seed 1, trian¬
gular.
S. Cal. 6-leaved. No cor. Capf. 3, i-feeded.
Se£t. II. Flowers fuperior.
F. Cal. 6-leafed. No cor. Seed-veffel with i-feed.-
Order IV. HEXAGYNIA.
D. A fheath. Cal. 5-partite. Cor. 3-petaled,
Berry io:celled.
W. Cal. 6-leaved. Cor. 6-petaled. Capf. 6, t-
feeded.
Order I. POLYGYNIA.
* A. Cal. 3-leaved. Cor. 3-petals. Several feed-
veflels.
Order I. MONOGYNIA.
601. Urania.
One fpecies j viz. fpeciofa. Ifle of Madagafcar.
602. Bromelia, or Pine apple, Ananas.
1 o fpecies ; viz. ananas, pinguin, karatas, lingulata,
brafkeata, paniculigera, chryfantha, nudicaulis, humilis,
acanga. W. Indies, S. America.—The ananas is the
moft grateful of all the tropical fruits. It requires a
very powerful heat for its cultivation in hot-houfes.
603. PlTCAIRNIA.
Three fpecies ; viz. bromelioefolia, an guff i folia, lati¬
folia. Jamaica, Santa Cruz.
604, Tillandsia.
16 fpecies j viz. utriculata, ferrata, lingulata, tenui-
folia, flexuofa, fetacea, paniculata, fafciculata, nutans,
polyftachya, monoftachya, pruinofa, canefcens, angufti-
folia, recurvata, ufneoides. North America, Jamaica.
605. Xerophyta.
One fpecies 5 viz. pinifolia. Ifle of Madagafcar,
606. Burmannia.
One fpecies ; viz. difticha biflora. Ceylon, Virginia,
607. Tradescantia, or Virginian Spider-wort.
17 fpecies j viz. virginica, craflifolia, eredla, zano-
nia, difcolor, malabarica, nervofa, divaricata, genicu-
lata, monandra, multiflora, cordifolia, procumbens,
axillaris, formofa, criftata, papilionacea» Virginia,
Maryl. E. and W, Indies.
608. Mnasium.
One fpecies j viz. paludofum. Guiana.
609. PONTEDERIA.
Six fpecies $ viz. rotundifolia, azurea, vaginalis,
limofa, cordata, haftata. Eaft and Weft Indies.
610. H^emanthus, or Blood-flower.
14 fpecies ; viz. coccineus, coarflatus, puniceus,
multiflorus, tigrinus, quadrivalvis, pubefeens, ciliaris,
albiflos,
Hexandria, B O T
albiflos, toxxcanus, lancesefolius, carinatus, punrilis, fpi-
xalis. Africa.
6n. Massonia.
Four fpecies 5 viz. latifolia, anguftifolia, undulata,
echinata. Cape of Good Hope.
612. GALANTHUS,or Snovo-drop,
One fpecies 5 viz. * nivalis. South of Europe.
613, Leuco 1 um, or Greater Snow-drop.
Three fpecies; viz, * vernum, * aeftivum, autum-
nale. Germany, Switzerland, Italy, Cape.
614. SfRUMARIA.
Six fpecies j viz. linguEefolia, truncata, rubella, un¬
dulata, anguftifolia, filifolia.
615. TulbaGia.
Two fpecies j viz. alliacea, cepacea. Cape of Good
Hope.
616. Narcissus, or Daffodil.
17 fpecies $ viz. * poeticus, incomparabilis, * pfeudo-
narciffus, bicolor, minor, mofchatus, triandrus, orien-
talis, trilobus, odorus, * biflorus, calathinus, tazetta,
dubius, bulbocodium, ferotinus, jonquilla. South of
Europe, Levant.
617. Pancratium, or Sea-daffodil.
11 fpecies \ zeylanicum, mexicanum, humile, cari-
baeum, maritimum, fragrans, littorale, fpeciofum,
amoenum, illyricum, amboinenfe. S. Europe, Ameri¬
ca, E. and W. Indies.
618. Crinum, or Afphodellily.
Five fpecies j viz. afiaticum, americanum, erubelcens,
bra&eatum, nervofum. Alia, Africa, America.
619. Agapanthus, or African Blue-lily.
Two fpecies 3 viz. umbellatus, enfifolius. Cape of
Good Hope.
620. Eustephia.
One fpecies j viz. coccinea.
621. Cyrtanthus.
Three fpecies 3 viz. anguftifolius, ventricofus, bbli-
•mus. Guiana.
622. Amaryllis, or Lily-daffodil.
38 fpecies 3 viz. lutea, pumilio, bubifpatha, tub!-
flora, atamafco, maculata, chilenlis, clavata, formofif-
fima, reginas, purpurea, linearis, equeftris, reticulata,
tatarica, belladonna, vittata, falcata, ornata, longifo-
iia, montana, zeylanica, revoluta, latifolia, aurea,
orientalis, farnienfis, marginata, curvifolia, undulata,
radiata, humilis, flexuofa, radula, ftriata, crifpa, ftel-
laris, cafpia. S. Europe, Cape, E. Indies, America.
623. Millea,
One fpecies 3 viz. biflora.
624. Bulbocodium, or Mountain-faffron.
One fpecies ; viz. vernum. Spain.
625. Aphyllanthes.
One fpecies j viz. monfpelienfis. Montpellier.
626. Allium, or Garlick.
53 fpecies 3 viz. * ampeloprafum, porrum, lineare,
fuaveolens,deflexum,rotundum,vi&orialis, fubhirfutum,
magicum, obliquum, ramofum, tataricum, rofeum,
* fativum, fcorodoprafum, * arenarium, * carinatum,
fpheerocephalon, parviflorum, pallafii, defcendens, mo-
fchatum, flavum, pallens, paniculatum, * vineale, * ole-
A N Y. i55
raceum, nutans, afcalonicum, fenefcens, iilyricum, odo-
rum, inodorum, angulofum, ftriatum, narcifliflorum,
pedemontanum, nigrum, canadenfe, * urfinum, clu-
fianuin, triquetrum, cepa, moly, tricoccura, flftulofum,
* fchoenoprafum, libiricum, ftellerianum, capillare, te-
nuiffimum, gracile, chamte-moly. Europe, N. Ameri¬
ca, Jamaica.
* A. umbel globular; ftamens 3-pointed, petals rough ampelopra*
on the heel.—This is eaten along with other pot-herbs.yii/w.
It communicates its flavour to the milk and butter of
cows that eat it.
* A. filaments undivided 3 leaves femi-cylindrical, oleraceum.
rough furrowed underneath 3 (leaves not rough.)—The
tender leaves are very commonly boiled in foups, or
fried with other herbs. Cows, goats, ftieep, and fwine,
eat it.
* A. ftalk 3»fquare3 leaves fpear-fliaped on leaf-ftalks; urjinutrt.
umbel flat-topped.—An infufion of this plant in brandy
is efteemed a good remedy for the gravel. Other
plants growing near it do not flourilh. Cows eat it
in the fpring when grafs is fcarce 3 but it communicates
an offenfive flavour to the milk and butter. '
A.—The roots of this plant, which is the proper gar-fativum,
lick, are of an irregularly roundifli fhape, with feveral
fibres at the bottom 3 each root is compofed of a num¬
ber of leffer bulbs, called cloves of garlick, enclofed in
one common membranaceous coat, and eafily feparated
from each other. All the parts of this plant, but more
efpecially the roots, have a ftrong offenfive fmell, and
an acrimonious, almoft cauftic, tafte. The root ap¬
plied to the Ikin inflames and often exulcerates the part.
Its fmell is extremely penetrating and diffufive. When
the root is applied to the feet, its fcent is foon difcover-
able in the breath 3 and when taken internally its fmell
is communicated to the urine, or the matter of an iffue,
and perfpires through the pores of the fldn.
This pungent root warms and ftimulates the folids,
and attenuates tenacious juices. Hence in cold leuco-
phlegmatic habits, it proves a powerful expe&orant
diuretic, and, if the patient be kept warm, fudorific j
it has alfo been by fome fuppofed to be an emmena-
gogue. In catarrhous diforders of the bread, flatulent
colics, hyfterical and other difeafes, proceeding from
laxities of the folids, it has generally good effects 3 it
has likewife been found ferviceable in many hydropic
cafes. Sydenham relates, that he has feen the dropfy
cured by the ufe of garlick alone 3 he recommends it
chiefly as a w arm {Lengthening medicine ih the begin-
Itiing of the difeafe.
Garlick is with fome alfo a favourite remedy in the
cure of intermittents 3 and it has been faid to have
fometimes fucceeded in obftinate quartans after the
Peruvian bark had failed, particularly when taken to
the extent of one or two cloves daily in a glafs of
brandy or other fpirits. The liberal ufe of garlick,
however, is apt to occafion headachs, flatulencies,
third, febrile heats, inflammatory didempers, and fome¬
times difcharges of blood from the hcemorrhoidal vef-
fels. In hot bilious conditutions, where there is al¬
ready a degree of irritation, and where there is reafoh
to fufpedl an unfound date of the vifcera, this dimula-
ting medicine is manifedly improper, and never fails
to aggravate the didemper.
T he mod commodious form of taking garlick, a
medicine to mod people not a little unpleafant, is that
U 2 of
Hexandria.
is O T
of a bolus or pill. Infufions in fpirit, wine, vinegar,
and water, although containing the whole of its virtues,
are fo acrimonious as to be unfit for general ufe. A
fyrup and oxymel of it were formerly kept in the
fhops ; but it does not now enter any officinal prepa¬
ration in our pharmacopoeias 5 and it is proper that even
the pills fhould always be an extemporaneous prefcrip-
tion, as they fuffer much from keeping.
Garlick made into an ointment with oils, &c. &c.
applied externally, is faid to refolve and difcufs cold
tumours, and has been by fome greatly efteemed in
cutaneous difeafes. It has likewife fometimes been
employed as a repellent. When applied under the
form of a poultice to the pubes, it has fometimes proved
effeftual in producing a difcharge of urine, when re¬
tention has arifen from want of a due action of the
bladder •, and fome have recommended, in certain cafes
of deafnefs, the introduftion of a fingle clove, wrapt in
thin muflin or gauze, into the meatus auditorius or
paffage of the ear. Sydenham affures us, that among
all the fubfiances which occafion a derivation or revul-
fion from the head, none operates more powerfully
than garlick applied to the foies of the feet; hence he
was led to make ufe of it in the confluent fmallpox.
About the eighth day after the face began to fvvell, the
root cut in pieces, and tied in a linen cloth, was ap¬
plied to the foies, and renewed twice a-day till all
danger was over.
The roots of the a/liutn cepa, or onion, are confider-
ed rather as articles of food than of medicine. They
are fuppofed to afford little nourifliment, and when
eaten liberally in their raw ftate, produce flatulencies,
occafion third:, headachs, and troublefome dreams. In
cold phlegmatic habits, where vifcid mucus abounds,
they doubtlefs have their ufe ; as by their ftimulating
quality they tend to excite appetite, attenuate thick
juices, and promote their expulfion : by fome they are
fxrongly recommended in fuppreffions of urine, and in
dropfies. The chief medicinal ufe of onions in the
prefent pradlice is in external applications, boiled as a
cataplafm, for fuppurating tumours.
627. Lilium, or Lily,
16 fpecies j viz. cordifolium, longiflorum, candi-
dum, japonicum, lancifolium, bulbiferum, catefbaei,
fpeciofum, pomponium, chalcedonicum, fuperbum,
martagon, canadenfe, maculatum, kamfchatcenfe,
philadelphicum. Europe, Japan, N. America.—The
Lilium candidum, or white lily, is cultivated in gar¬
dens more for its beauty than utility. The mucilagi¬
nous root is ufed by fome as a poultice j but it pof-
feffes no advantage over the poultices formed of vege¬
table farinse.
628. Fritillaria, or Crown-imperial, Fritillary.
Six fpecies 5 viz. imperalis, perfica, verticillata, pyre-
naica, * meleagris, latifolia. Ault. Pyren. Italy, Perf.
629. Eucomis.
Five fpecies; viz. nana, bifolia, regia, undulata,
pun&ata. C. of G. Hope.
630. UvULARIA.
Six fpecies ; viz. amplexifolia, hirta, lanceolata, per-
foliata, feffilifolia, cirrhofa. Germany, N. Amer. Jap.
' 631. Gloriosa, or Superb Lily.
Two fpecies j viz. fuperba, fimplex. Guiana, E. Indies,
ANY.
632. Erythronium, or Dogs-tooth Violet,
One fpecies; viz. dens canis. Siberia, Italy, Virg,
Carolina.
633. Tun pa, or Tulip.
Five fpecies; viz. * fylveftris, fuaveolens, gefneria-
na, biflora, breyniana. S. Eur. Levant, Cape.
634. Albuca, or Baje Star of Bethlehem.
14 fpecies j viz. altiffima, major, flaccida, minor,
viridiflora, coardlata, falligiata, candata, fetofa, aurea,
abyffinica, fragrans, vifcofa, fpiralis. C. of G. Hope.
635. Gethyllis.
Five fpecies •, x\z. fpiralis, ciliaris, villofa, plicata,
lanceolata. C. of G. Hope.
636. Curculigo.
One fpecies; viz. orchioides.
637. Hypoxis, or Bafe Star-flower.
15 fpecies j viz. eredta, fobolifera, villofa, decum-
bens, obliqua, aquatica, minuta, alba, ovata, veratri-
folia, flellata, ferrata, juncea, fafcicularis, feffilis. N.
Amer. Jamaica, Cape, Japan.
638. Eriospermum.
Three fpecies 5 viz. latifolium, lanceaefolium, par-
vifolium.
639. Ornithogalu m, or Star of Bethlehem.
43 fpecies j viz. uniflorum, ftriatum, bulbiferum,
fpathaceum, bohemicum, *luteum, minimum, circina-
tum, paradoxum, niveum, * umbellatum, * pyrenai-
cum, ftachyoides, lafteum, ovatum, ciliatum, crenula-
tum, pilofum, revolutum, conicum, narbonenfe, latifo¬
lium, altiffimum, fcilloides, longebrafteatum, japoni¬
cum, comofum, pyramidale, tenellum, odoratum, fuave¬
olens, fecundum, fufcatum, barbatum, polyphyllum,
juncifolium, rupeftre, arabicum, thyrfoides, aureum,
coarflatum, candatum, nutans. Eur. Egypt, Madeira,
Cape.
* O. ftalk angular, 2-leaved *, fruitftalks in an un- luteum,
branched umbel.—The bulbous roots of all the fpecies
are nutritious and wholefome, and thofe of this fpecies
have been employed for food in a fcarcity of provifion.
Horfes, goats, and fheep eat it j fvvine are not fond
of it; cows refufe it.
640. Sc 1L la or Squill.
16 fpecies; viz. maritima, lilio-hyacinthus, italica,
tetraphylla, peruviana, japonica, amoena, prsecox, cam-
panulata, * bifolia, * verna, lufitanica, orientalis, hya-
cintboides, * autumnalis, unifolia. Eur. Barb. Madeira,
Japan.
S. flowers naked ; floral leaves bent backwards as \imaritime,
broken.—This is the fquill or fea-onion well known
in medicine. It is a kind of onion growing fpontane-
oully upon dry fandy fhores in Spain and the Levant,
from whence the root is annually brought into Europe.
It (hould be chofen plump, found, frefli, and full of
clammy juice : fome have preferred the red fort, others
the white, though neither deferves the preference to
the other. The only difference perceivable between
them is that of the colour, and hence both may be
ufed promifcuoufly. This root is to the tafte very
naufeous, intenfely bitter, and acrimonious. Much
haqdled it ulcerates the Ikin. With regard to its me¬
dical
Hexandria. B O T
dical virtues, It powerfully ftimulates the folids and at¬
tenuates vifcid juices j and by thefe qualities promotes
expedloration, urine, and, if the patient be kept warm,
fweat : if the dofe be considerable it proves emetic, and
fometimes purgative. The principal ufe of this medi¬
cine is where the prim# vice abound with mucous mat¬
ter, and the lungs are opprefled by tenacious phlegm.
Dr Wagner, in his clinical obfervations, recommends
it given along with nitre in hydropical fwellings, and
in the nephritis; and mentions feveral cures that he
performed by giving from four to ten grains of the
powder for a dofe, mixed with a double quantity of
nitre : he fays, that thus managed, it almoil always
operates as a diuretic, though fometimes it vomits or
purges. In dropfy, dried fquills are often combined
with mercury. The moll commodious form for the
taking of (quills, unlefs when deligned as an emetic,
is that of a bolus or pill : liquid forms are to moll
people too offenfive, though thefe may be rendered lefs
difagreeable both to the palate and flomach by the ad¬
dition of aromatic diltilled waters. This root yields
the whole ot its virtues both to aqueous and to vinous
menftrua, and likewife to vegetable acids. Its officinal
preparations are a conferve of dried fquills, a fyrup,
and vinegar, an oxymel, and pills.
641. Cyanella.
Four fpeeies ; viz. capenlis, orchidiformis, lutea, al¬
ba. C. of G. Hope.
642. Asphodelus, or Afphodel, or Kcings-fpear.
Seven fpecies ; viz. luteus, creticus, ramofus, albus,
fiftulofus, altaicus, liburnicus. Aultria, S. Europe.
643. An thericum, or Spider-zvort.
5J) fpecies j viz. * ferotinum, fragrans, filifolium,
flexbohum, filiforme, exuviatum, elongatum, graecum,
planifolium, fquameum, comofum, floribundum, revolu-
tum, ramofum, datum, falcatum, contortum, vefperti-
mim, graminifolium, japonicum, longifojium, hirfutum,
adenanthera, reflexum, pilofum, undulatum, triflorum,
* canaliculatum, albucoides, liliago, liliaftrum, fpirale,
frutefcens, rolfratum, alooides, nutans, incurvum, lati-
folium, pugoniforme, praemorfum, afphodeloides, longif-
capum, annuum, hifpidum, muricatum, ciliatum, cauda
felis, triquetrum, fcabrum, cirrhatum, crifpum, * offi-
fragum, phyfodes, pufrllum, * calyculatum. Alps of
Swed. S. Eur. Cape, Japan.
ojjfragum * A.—It is believed in Sweden to be noxious to ffieep,
and has been fuppofed to foften the bones of animals
that eat it. Cows and horles eat it; ffieep and fwine
refufe it.
644. Leontice, or Lions Leaf.
Five fpecies ; viz. chryfogonum, leontopetalum, ve-
ficaria, altaica, thalietroides. Levant, N. America.
645. Poll 1 a.
One fpecies 5 viz. japonica. Japan.
646. Asparagus.
20 fpecies 5 viz. * officinalis, declinatus, decumbens,
fiexuofus, fcandens, falcatus, racemoffis, retrofradlus,
aethiopicus, afiaticus, albus, acutifolius, fubulatus, de-
pendens, horridus, aphyllus, lanceus, capenfis, farmen-
# _ tofus, verticillaris. S. Eur. Afia, Africa.
officinalis. * A. Hem herbaceous, cylindrical, upright ; leaves
brillle-ffiaped ; leaf-fcales folitary or in pairs; male and
female flowers foaxetimes on diilinft plants.—The
ANY.
young ffioots of this plant, in its cultivated ftate, are
very univerfally efteemed for their flavour and nutri¬
tious qualities. They impart to the urine the fcent
of water in which they have been boiled. The fpara-
gus chryfomela lives upon it.
647. Dracaena, or Dragon-tree.
14 fpecies; viz. draco, indivifa, umbraculifera, auf-
tralis, cernua, ferrea, terminalis, marginata, llriata, un-
dulata, erefta, enfifolia, borealis, graminifolia. Cape.
E. Indies, China, N. America,
648. Sanseviera.
^ Three fpecies ; viz. guineenfis, zeylanica, lanugino
649. Convallaria, or Lily of the Valley.
11 fpecies; viz. * majalis, japonica, fpicata, # ver-
ticillata, * polygonatum, * multiflora, latifolia, race-
mofa, llellata, trifolia, bifolia. N. Eur. N. America,
Japan.
* C. ftalk naked, femi-cylindrical; flowers fpiked, majalis.
nodding.—The flow’ers are highly fragrant, but when
dried are of a narcotic fcent : reduced to powder, they
excite fneezirig. An ext raft prepared from the flowers,
or from the roots, partakes of the bitternefs as well as
of the purgative properties of aloes. rfhe dofe from
20 to 30 grains. A beautiful and durable green co¬
lour may be prepared from the leaves by the affiftance
of lime. Sheep and goats eat it; horfes, cows, and
fwine, refufe it.
* C. leaves alternate, embracing the Item ; Item 2-poljgona-
edged; fruitftalks axillary, moftly 1-flowered.—In a/W///,
fcarcity of provifions the roots have been made into
bread. Sheep and goats eat it ; horfes, cows, and
fwine refufe it.
* C. leaves alternate embracing the flem ; Item cylin- nwltifora,
drical: fruit-ftalks axillary, many-flow’ered.—-The
young ffioots are eaten by the Turks as afparagus, and
the roots have been made into bread as the C. polygo¬
natum. Cows, goats, and ffieep eat it.
650. Polyanthus, or Tuberose.
Twm fpecies ; viz. tuberofa, pygmaea. E. Indies.
651. Drimia.
Five fpecies; viz. ciliaris, data, pufilla, undulata?
media.
652. Hyacinth us, or Hyacinth.
13 fpecies; viz. * non-lcriptus, cernuus, amethyfti-
nus, orientalis, flexuofus, corymbofus, convallarioides,
brevifolius, romanus, mufcaris, comofus, betryoides,
racemofus. S. Eur. Levant.
* H. blofloms tubular-bellffiaped, with fix divifions, nQn rcr:Lhi
fegments rolled back ; floral leaves in pairs.—The freffi tus J 1"
roots are poifonous: 1 hey may be converted into
ftarch. Phalcena plantaginis lives upon it.
653. Phormium.
One fpecies; viz. tenax.
654. Lachenalia.
24 fpecies ; viz. glaucina, orchioides, pallida, hya-
cinthoides, anguftifolia, contaminata, viridis, ferotina,
pufilla, patula, fragrans, liiiiflora, puftulata, purpureo’
coerulea, violacea, purpurea, lanceaefolia, unifolia, hir-
ta, ifopetala, tricolor, rubida, punftata, pendula. Cape;
New Zealand.
655,
x57
ij8 B O T
655. Lamaria.
One fpecies j viz. plumofa. C. of G. Hope.
656. Veltheimia.
Four fpecies 5 viz. viridifolia, glauca, uvaria, pumi-
la.
657. Aletris, or Bafe Aloe.
Two fpecies; viz. farinofa, fragrans. Afr. N. A-
mer. Ceylon, Japan.
658. Yucca, or Adam's Needle.
Four fpecies ; viz. gloriofa, aloifolia, draconis, fila-
xnentofa. Amer.
659. Aloe, or Aloe.
17 fpecies j viz. dichotoma, fpicata, perfoliata,
pifta, finuata, humilis, arachnoides, margaritifera, ver-
rucofa, carinata, maculata, lingua, plicatilis, variegata,
vifcofa, fpiralis, retufa. Africa.
Thefe plants are chiefly or rather only valuable, on
account of the medicinal virtues of their infpifl'ated
juice. The ancients diftinguifhed two forts of aloes:
The one was pure and of a yellowifh colour inclining
to a red, refembling the colour of a liver, and thence
hamed hepatic 5 the other was full of impurities, and
hence fuppofed to be only the drofs of the better kind.
At prefent various forts are met with in commerce,
•which are diftinguilhed from the place in which they
are produced, or from their fenlible qualities.
1. The Socotorine aloes, faid to be obtained from a
variety of the aloe perfoliata. This is the pureft fort.
It is brought from the ifland Socotora in the Indian oc-
cean wrapt in Ikins. It is of a gloffy furface, clear,
and in fome degree pellucid \ in the lump, of a yellow-
ilh red colour, with a purple call; when reduced to
powder, of a bright golden colour. It is hard and fri¬
able in the winter, and fomewhat pliable in fummer,
and grows foft betwixt the fingers. Its tafte is bit¬
ter, accompanied with an aromatic flavour, but infuffi-
cient to prevent its being difagreeable •, the fmell is
not very unpleafant, and fomewhat refembles that of
myrrh.
2. Barbadoes or hepatic aloes. Hepatic aloes is not
fo clear and bright as the foregoing fort : it is alfo of
a darker colour, more compaft texture, and for the
mofl: part drier. Its fmell is much ftronger and more
difagreeable : the tafte intenfely bitter and naufeous,
with little or nothing of the fine aromatic flavour of
the Socotorine. The beft hepatic aloes comes from
Barbadoes in large gourd {hells : an inferior fort of it
(which is generally foft and clammy), is brought over
in calks.
3. Fetid, caballine, or horfe aloes, may eafily be dif¬
tinguifhed from each of the foregoing, by its ftrong
rank fmell } although in other refpecls it agrees pretty
much with the hepatic, and is not unfrequently fold in
its Head. Sometimes the caballine aloes is prepared
fo pure and bright, as not to be diftinguifhed by the
eye from the Socotorine', but its offenfive fmell, of which
it cannot be diverted, readily betrays it. It has not
now a place in almoft any pharmacopoeia, and is em¬
ployed chiefly by farriers.
All the forts of aloes diffolve in pure fpirit, proof
fpirit, and proof fpirit diluted with half its weight of
water j the impurities only being left. They diflblve
£lfo by the afliftance of heat in water alone; but as the
A N Y. Hexandria
liquor grows cold, the refmous part fubfides, the
gummy remaining united with the water. The he¬
patic aloes is found to contain more refin, and lefs
gum than the Socotorine, and this than the caballine.
1 he refins of all the forts, purified by fpirit of wine
have little fmell; that obtained from the Socotorine
has fcarce any perceptible tafte ; that of the hepatic, a
flight bitterifli reliih ; and the refin of the caballine
a little more of the aloetic flavour. I he gummy ex¬
tracts of all the forts are lefs difagieeable than the crude
aloes: the extradl of Socotorine aloes has very little
fmell, and is in tafte not unpleafant j that of the hepa¬
tic has a fomewhat ftronger fmell, but is rather more
agreeable in tafte than the extraCt of the Socotorine :
the gum of the caballine retains a confiderable fhaie of
the peculiar rank fmell of this fort of aloes, but its tafte
is not much more unpleafant than that of the extra&s
made from the two other forts.
Aloes is a ftimulating cathartic bitter : if given in
fo large a dofe as to purge effeClually, it often occa-
fions an irritation about the anus, and fometimes a dif-
charge of blood. Small dofes of it, frequently repeated,
not only cleanfe the prinue vice, but likewife warm the
habit, quicken the circulation, and promote the uter¬
ine and hemorrhoidal fluxes. 1 his medicine is parti¬
cularly feryiceable in habitual coftivenefs, to perfons of
a phlegmatic temperament and fedentary life, and where
the ftomach is opprefled and weakened. In dry bilious
habits, aloes prove injurious, immoderately heating the
body and inflaming the bowels.
The juice is likewife, on account of its bittemefs, fup¬
pofed to kill worms, either taken internally, or ap¬
plied in plafters to the umbilical region. It is alfo
celebrated for reftraining external hasmorrhagies, and
cleanfing and healing wounds and ulcers.
The ancients gave aloes in much larger dofes than
is cuftomary at prefent. Diofcorides orders half a
dram or a dram for .gently loofening the belly ; and
three drams where intended to have the full effeCI of a
cathartic. But modern praCIice rarely exceeds a feru-
ple, and limits the greateft dofe to two fcruples. For
the. common purpofes of this medicine ten or twelve
grains furtice \ taken in thefe or lefs quantities, it a£!s
as a gentle ftimulating eccoprotic, capable of removing,
il duly continued, very obftinate obftru&ions. Aloes
are much lefs frequently ufed to operate as a purgative
than merely to obviate coftivenefs : and indeed their
purgative effefl is not increafed in proportion to the
quantity that is taken. Perhaps the chief objec¬
tion to aloes, in cafes of habitual coftivenefs, is the
tendency which they have to induce and augment
hgemorrhoidal affe&ions ; and with thofe liable to
fuch complaints they can feldom be employed. Their
purgative effeeft feems chiefly to depend on their proving
a ftimulus to the reftum.
Some are of opinion that the purgative virtue of
aloes reiides entirely in its refin : but experience has
ftiown that the pure refin has little or no purgative
quality; and that the gummy part, feparated from the
refinous, acts more powerfully than the crude aloes.
If the aloes indeed be made to undergo long coefion
in the preparation of the gummy extraft, its cathartic
power will be confiderably leffened, not from the fepara-
tion of the refin, but from an alteration made in the {
juice
Hexandria. B O T
juice xtfelf by the heat. Tlie ftrongcft vegetable ca¬
thartics become mild by a like treatment, without any
remarkable reparation of their parts.
Socotorine aloes, as already obferved, contain more
gummy matter than the hepatic $ and hence are like-
wife found to purge more, and with greater irritation.
The firft fort therefore is moft proper where a ftimulus
is required, as for promoting or exciting the menftru-
al flux; whilft the latter is better calculated to aft as a
common purge. It is fuppofed that the vulnerary and
balfamic virtues of this juice refide chiefly in the refin,
and hence the hepatic aloes, which is molt refinous, is
molt ferviceable in external application.
Aloes enter many of the officinal preparations and
eompofitions, particularly different pills and tinftures ;
and according to the particular purpofes for which thefe
are intended, fometimes the Barbadoes, fometimes the
Socotorine aloes are the molt proper.
660. Agave, or Common American Aloe.
Seven fpecies j viz. americana, vivipara, virginica,
cubenfis, lurida, tuberofa, foetida. America.
661. Alstroemeria.
Six fpecies; viz. pelegrina, puichella, ligtu, falfilla,
ovata, multiflora. Peru, Lima.
662. Hemerocallis, or Day-lily.
Four fpecies *, viz. flava, fulva, lancifolia, japonica.
Siberia, Hungary, Levant, Japan.
663. Acorus, or Sweet-fmelling Rujh.
Two fpecies ; viz. calamus, gramineus. Europe,
India.
elamus. * A. floral leaf very much longer than the fpike.—The
root powdered might fupply the place of our foreign
fpices. It is our only native truly aromatic plant. The
powder of the root has cured agues, wrhen the Peru¬
vian bark has failed. The roots have a Itrong aroma¬
tic fmell, and a warm pungent bitterilh tafte. The
flavour is greatly improved by drying. They are com¬
monly imported from the Levant, but thofe of our own
growth are full as good. The Turks candy the roots,
and think they are a prefervative againft contagion.
Neither horfes, cowts, goats, flieep, or fwine will eat it.
664. Orontium, or 'Floating Arum.
Two fpecies; viz. aquaticum, japonicum. N. A-
ttierica, Japan.
665. Tacca.
One fpecies; viz. pinnatifida. E. Indies, Otaheite.
666. Corvpha, or Mountain Palm.
Two fpecies j viz. umbraculifera, rotundifolia. Eaft
Indies, Carolina.
667. Licuala.
One fpecies $ viz. fpinofa. Africa, Amboyna.
668. Thrinax, or Small Jamaica Fan-palm.
One fpecies 5 viz. parviflora. Jamaica, Hifpaniola.
669. Calamus.
Eight fpecies ; viz. rotang, verus, draco, niger, vi-
minalis, rudentum, equeftris, zalacca. India.
670. Juncus, or RuJ}}.
40 fpecies ; viz. * acutus, * conglomeratus, effufus,
glaucus, * inflexus, arfticus, * filiformis, capillaceus,
ANY. 159
grandiflorus, magellanicus, rubens, * trifidus, * fquar-
rofus, capitatus, capenfis, punftorius, nodofus, * arti-
culatus, fylvaticus, fubverticillatus, tenageja, * bulbo-
fus, tenuis, * bufonius, cephalotes, ftygius, jacquini,
* biglumis, * triglumis, * pilofus, maximus, fpadiceus,
luteus, parviflorus, ferratus, albidus, niveus, *campef-
tris, fudeticus, *fpicatus. Europe, Cape, N. Ameiica.
* J. ftraw ftiff and ftraight 5 panicle lateral, loofe $ effufus.
flowers egg-lhaped, blunt, 3 ftamens in each.—Ruffies
are fometimes ufed to make little balkets. The pith of
this fpecies is ufed inftead of cotton to make the wick
of rulh lights. Horfes and goats eat it.
* J. ftraw rigid j leaves like briftles ^ panicle itxmmTi-fquarrqfuSi
ting, leaflefs,—Horfes eat it. The leaves lying clofe
to the ground elude the ftroke of the fcythe. It indi¬
cates a barren foil.
671. Richardia.
One fpecies $ viz. fcabra. Vera Cruz-
672. Duroia.
One fpecies $ viz. eriopila. Surinam.
673. Achras, or Sapota.
Three fpecies; viz. diffefta, mammofa, fapota. W.
Indies, S. America.
674. Prinos, or Winter-berry.
Seven fpecies; viz. verticillatus, montanus, dioicus,
nitidus, glaber, lucidus, fideroxyloides. N. America,
Jamaica, Montferr.
675. Cossignea.
Two fpecies ; viz. triphylla, pinnata. India.
676. Barbacenia.
One fpecies; viz. brafilienfis.
677. Berberis, or Barberry, or Pipperidge Bujh.
Five fpecies; viz. * vulgaris, ilicifolia, microphylla,
eretica, fibirica. Europe, Canada, Terra del Fuego.
B. fruitftalks forming bunches; thorns 3 together^— vulgaris..
The leaves are gratefully acid. The flow'ers are offen-
five to the fmell when near, but at a proper diftance
their odour is extremely fine. The berries are fo very
acid that birds will not eat them, but boiled with fu-
gar they form a moft agreeable rob or jelly. They are
ufed, likewife, as a dry fweatmeat, and in fugar plumbs.
An infufion of the bark in white wine is purgative.
The roots boiled in lye dye wool yellow. In Poland they
dye leather of a moft beautiful yellow with the bark of
the root. The inner bark of the ftems dyes linen of a fine
yellow, with the affiftance of alum. This ftirub ftiould
never be permitted to grow in corn lands, for the ears
of wheat that grow near it never fill, and its influence
in this refpeft has been known to extend as far as 3 or
4 hundred yards acrofs a field. This very extraordi¬
nary faft well merits inveftigation.
678. Psathura.
One fpecies ; viz. borbonica. Ifle of Bourbon.
679. Nandin'a.
One fpecies; viz. domeftica. Japan.
680. Lindeaa.
One fpecies ; viz. umbellata. Japan.
681. Enargea.
One fpecies; viz. piargmata. Terra del Fuego.
682.
B O T
A
N Y.
Hexandria,
160
682. Philesia.
One fpecxes ; viz. buxifolia. Straits of Magellan.
683. Capura.
One fpecies j viz. purpurata. India.
684. Loranthus.
26 fpeciesviz. fcurrula, tetrapetalus, glaucus, bi-
florus, parvifolius, falcatus, uniflorus, europaeus, longi-
bra&eatus, buddlejoides, nodofus, elevatus, longiflorus,
elafticus, americanus, emarginatus, occidentalis, loni-
ceroides, pedunculatus, feffilis, marginatus, ftelis, pau-
ciflorus, brafilienfis, pentandrus, fpicatus. Europe^ E,
Indies, Jamaica, America.
' 685. Schradera.
Two fpecies ; viz. capitata, cephalotrs.
686. Stephania.
One fpecies ; viz. cleomoides. Guiana.
687. Hillia.
Two fpecies-, viz. longiflora, tetrandra. Jamaica,
South America.
688. Isertia.
Two fpecies ; viz. coccinea, parviflora. Guiana.
689. Can Arina, or Canary Bell-flower.
One fpecies viz. campanula. Canary Hies,
690. Frankenia, or Sea-heath.
Four fpecies j viz. * laevis, nothria, hirfuta, *pul-
verulenta. Europe, Arabia.
691. Peplis, or Water Purjlain.
Two fpecies $ viz. * portula, indica. Europe.
692. Gahnia.
Two fpecies j viz. procera, fchoenoides. New Zea¬
land.
693. Bambusa.
Two fpecies j viz. arundinacea, verticiliata.
694. Ehrharta.
Five fpecies •, viz. cartilaginea, bulbofa, longiflora,
panicea, calycina. Africa.
Order II. DIGYNIA.
693. Oryza, or Rice.
One fpecies ; viz. fativa. E. and W. Indies, N. A-
merica.—Rice is the produce of many countries, par¬
ticularly of the Eaft Indies j but as ufed in Britain, it is
brought chiefly from Carolina, where this plant is cul¬
tivated in large quantities. It is fufliciently nutritious,
and affords an ufeful food in diarrhoeas, dyfenteries,
and other diforders from a thin acrimonious ftate of
the juices.
696. Nectris.
One fpecies $ viz. aquatica. Guiana.
697. Falkia.
One fpecies $ viz. repens. Cape of Good Hope.
698. Atraphaxis.
Two fpecies j viz. fpinofa, undulata. Levant, Cape.
Order III. TRIGYNIA.
699. Rumex, or Dock.
36 fpecies j viz. patientia, *fanguineus, fpathulatus,
verticiilatus, britannica, ^hydrolapathum, *cri!pus, ne«
molapathum, perficarioides, gegyptiacus, dentatus, *ma-
ritimus, divaricatus, *acutus, *obtufifolius, # pulcher,
bucephalophorus, aquaticus, lunaria, veficarius, rofeus,
tingitanus, fcutatus, nervofus, * digynus, lanceolatus,
alpinus, Ipinofus, tuberofus, multifidus, * acetofa, *a-
cetofella, aculeatus, luxurians, arifolius, bipinnatus.
Europe, Egypt, Barbary.
* R. valves ftrongly veined; leaves fpear-fhaped, acute,
waved and curled at the edge.—In Norfolk this plant
is the peft of clover fields. The frefh roots bruifed,
and made into an ointment or deco&ion, cure the itch.
The feeds have been given with advantage in the dy-
fentery. Cows, goats, and horfes refufe it.
* R. valves veinlefs *, leaves oval-fpear-fhaped, uneven
at the edges.—Cows and horfes refufe it. It is^infedled
by the aphis rumicis. The root is ufed by the dyers.
It gives a great variety of fhades, from ftraw colour to
a pretty fine olive, and a fine deep green to cloths
which have been previoufly blued.
* R. leaves fpear-fhaped, fmooth, acute, very entire,
tapering at the bafe. It is a medicine of confiderable//7/y&»»r»
efficacy, both externally applied as a wafh for putrid
fpongy gums, and internally in feme fpecies of feurvy.
In rheumatic pains and chronical difeafes, owing to ob-
ftrufted vifeera, it is faid to be ufeful. I he powdered
root is one of the beft things for cleaning the teeth.
The root has fometimes a reddifh tinge, but foon chang¬
ing to a yellowifh brown when expofed to the air. The
curculio lapathi is found upon the leaves.
* R. leaves heart-oblong, bluntifh, finely notched.— obtuflfolio.
Fallow-deer eat this and the R. acutus with avidity,
biting it clofe to the root, fo that it is very rare to fee
a dock growing in a park.
* R. leaves oblong, anw-ffiaped.—The leaves zxt acetofa.
eaten in fauces and in fallads. The Laplanders ufe them
to turn their milk four. In France they are cultivated
for the ufe of the table, being introduced in foups, ra¬
gouts and fricaffees. In fome parts of Ireland they eat
them plentifully with milk, alternately biting and hip¬
ping. The Iriffi alfo eat them with fifh, and other al-
calefcent food. The dried root gives out a beautiful
red colour when boiled. Hoifes, cows, goats, fheep,
and fwine eat it. The aphis acetofee feeds upon it.
700. Flagellaria.
One fpecies j viz. indica. Eafl Indies, Guiana.
701. Scheuchzeria, or Lejfer Flowering Rujh.
One fpecies j viz. paluftris. Lapland, Sweden,
Helvetia.
702. Trig loch in, or Arrow-headed Grafs.
Three fpecies j viz. * pallultre, bulbofum, * mariti-
mum. Europe.
* T. Capfule 3-celled, nearly ftrap-fhaped.—Cmvs vctpaluflre.
extremely fond of this plant. Horfes, ffieep, goats,
and fwine eat it. . .
* T. Capfule 6 celled, egg-ffiaped.—It is fait to tiwmanti-
tafte j but horfes, goats, ffieep, and fwine are very mum.
fond of it.
7°3-
Hexandriat B O T
703. WURMBEA.
Three fpecies) viz. pumila, campanulata, longiflora.
704. Melanthium.
14 fpecies j viz. virginicum, fibiricum, laetum, ca-
penfe, triquetrum, ciliatum, junceum, fecundum, pha-
langioides, indicum, viride, uniflorum, eucomoides,
pumilum. Siberia, Cape, N. America.
705. Medeola, or Climbing African Afparagus.
Three fpecies ; viz. virginica, afparagoides, angufti-
folia. Cape, Virginia.
706. Trillium, or Three-leaved Nightjhade.
One fpecies j viz. feflile. North America.
707. Colchicum, or Meadow-fajfron.
Three fpecies; viz. * autumnalc, montanum, varie-
gatum. South of Europe, Archipelago.
tutumnale.* C. leaves flat, fpear-fhaped, upright.—This is one of
thofe plants which, upon the concurrent teftimony of
ages, was condemned as poifonous; but Dr Storck of
Vienna hath taught us that it is an ufeful medicine.
The roots have a good deal of acrimony. An infufion
of them in vinegar, formed into a fyrup by the addi¬
tion of fugar or honey, is found to be a very ufeful
pedloral and diuretic; it feems in its virtues very much
to refemble fquill, lout is lefs naufeous, and lefs acri¬
monious, though more fedative. In a pafture in which
ANY.
were feveral horfes, and eaten down pretty bare, the
grafs was clofely cropped, even under the leaves, but
not a leaf bitten.
708. Helonias.
Four fpecies; viz. bullata, borealis, afphodeloides,
pumila. Pennfylvania, Virginia.
Order IV. HEXAGYNIA.
709. Wendlandia.
One fpecies ; viz. populifolia.
710. Damasonium.
One fpecies ; viz. indicura.
Order V. POLYGYNIA.
711. Alisma, or Water-plantain.
Ten fpecies; viz. *plantago, flava, fagittifolia, *da-
mafonium, cordifolia, parnaffifolia, repens, * natans,
* ranunculoides, fubulata. Europe, N. America.
In the clafs Hexandria are
111 Genera, including 784 Species, of which 63
are found in Britain.
CLASSIS VII.
HEPTANDRIA.
Ordo I. MONOGYNIA.
Se£t. I. Flores completi.
* 712. Trientalis. Cal. 7-phyllus. Cor. 7-partita,
plana. Bacca i-locularis, ficca.
713. Disandra. Cal. fubfeptempartitus. Cor. ro-
tata, fubfeptempartita. Capf. 2-locularis, polyfperma.
717. /Esculus. Cal. 5-dentatus. Cor. 5-petala,
inaequalis. Capf. 3-locularis, 2-fperma.
718. Petrocarva. Cal. 5-fidus. Cor. 5-petala.
Drupa carnofa. Nux 2-locul.
716. Pancouia. Cal. 4 partitus. Cor. 4-petala
crifpata. Stam. adfeendentia.
719. Jonesja. Cal. 2-phyllus. Cor. infundibili-
formis. Legumen.
f Pelargonium.
Se£t II. Flores incompleti.
714. Pi sonia. Cal. campanulatus, 5-fidus. Cor. o.
Bacca i-fperma.
715. Petiveria. Cal. 4-phyllus. Cor. o. Stylus
lateralis. Sem. 1.
Vol. IV. Part I.
CLASS VII.
HEPTANDRIA.
Order I. MONOGYNIA.
Se£t. I. Flores completi.
* T. Cal. 7-leaved. Cor. 7-partite, flat. Berry I-
celled, dry.
D. Cal. nearly 7-partite. Cor. wheel-fhaped, near¬
ly 7 partite. Capf. 2-celled, many-feeded.
IE. Ca . 5-toothed. Cor. 5 petaled, unequal. Capf.
3-celled, 2-feeded.
P. Cal. 5-cleft. Cor. 5 petals. Aflefhy drupe. Nut
2-celled.
P. Cal. 4-partite. Cor. 4-petaled, crifped. Sta¬
mens afeending.
J. Cal. 2-leaved. Cor. funnel-fhaped. A legumi¬
nous plant.
Seel. II. Flowers incomplete.
P. Cal. bell-fhaped, 5-cleft. No cor. Berry i-feeded.
P. Cal. 4-leaved. No cor. Style lateral. Seed 1.
X 7*>’
l6l
162 BO T
720. Dracontium. Spatha cymbiformis. Spadix
tcdius. Cal. o. Cor. 5-petala. Bacca.
721. Calla. Spatha ovata. Spadix teftus. Cal. o.
Cor. o. Bacca.
722. Houttuynia. Spatba4-pbylla. Spadix tec-
tus. Cal. o. Cor. o. Capf. 3-locul. ?
Ordo II. DIGYNIA.
725. Limeum. Cal. 5-phyllus. Cor. 5-petala, sequa-
lis. Capf. 2-locularis, polyfperma.
Ordo III. TETRAGYNIA,
724. Astranthus. Cal. o. Cor. hypocrateri-
form. 14-fida. Sem. 1.
725. Saukurus. Cal. amentum. Cor. o. Pill. 4.
Bacca 4, monofperm&e.
Ordo IV. HEPTAGYNIA.
726. Septas. Cal. 7-partitus. Cor. 7-petala. Ger-
mina 7. Capi. 7.
f PhytolaccaJlricla.
A N Y. Heptandria*
D. A boat-lhaped flieath. The ftieathed fruitftalk
covered. No cal. Cor. 5-petals. A berry.
C. An oval (heath. Sheathed fruitftalk covered.
No cal. No cor. A berry.
H. fheath 4 leaved. Sheathed fruitftalk covered.
No cal. No cor. Capf. 3-celled.
Order II. DIGYNIA.
L. Cal. 5-leaved. Cor. 5-petals, equal. Capf. 2-
celled, many-feeded.
Order III. TETRAGYNIA.
A. No cal. Cor. falver-lhaped, 14-cleft. Seed 1,
S. Cal. catkin. No cor. Piftils 4. Berries 4, 1-
feeded.
Order IV. HEPTAGYNIA.
S. Cal. 7-cleft. Cor. 7-petals. Germens 7. Capf. 7,.
Order I. MONOGYNIA.
712. Trientalis, or Chickweed, Winter Green.
One fpecies; viz. * europaea. North of Europe.
713. Disandra.
One fpecies ; viz. proftrata. Madeira.
714. Pi son 1 A, or Fringrtdo.
Five fpecies j viz. aculeata, fubcordata, nigricans,
coccinea, mitis. Weft Indies.
715. Petiveria, or Guinea Hen-weed.
One fpecies j viz. alliacea. Weft Indies.
716. Pancovia.
One fpecies 5 viz. bijuga.
717. ./Esculus, or Horfe-chefnut.
Three fpecies, viz. hippocaftanum, pavia, flava. N.
of Alia, America.
The fruit of this plant has been ufed as food for
fheep and poultry, and as foap for waftring. It was
much employed in powder as a fternutatory by an iti¬
nerant oculift, and has been recommended by fome
others in certain ftates of ophthalmia, headach, &c. in
which errhines are indicated.
Its effefts as a fternutatory may alfo be obtained by
ufing it under the form of infufion or decoflion drawn
up into the noftrils j and it is entirely with a view to
its errhine power that it is now introduced into the
Pharmacopoeia of the Edinburgh college. But befides
this, the bark has alfo been reprefented by fome as a
cure for intermittent fevers, and it is probably with
this intention^, that this part of the hippocaftanum is
introduced as an official article in the Pharmacopoeia
Roflica.
718. Petrocarya.
Two fpecies j viz. montana, campeftris, Guiana,
719. Jones 1 A.
One fpecies ; viz. pinnata.
720. Dracontium', or Dragon"1 s-head.
Six fpecies ; viz. polyphyllum, fpinofum, foetidum?
kamfchatcenfe, lanceaefolium, pertufum. Ceylon, W.
Indies, America.
721. Calla, or Ethiopian Arum.
Three fpecies; viz. sethiopica, paluftris, orientalis,
Europe, Cape.
722. Houttuynia.
One fpecies j viz. cordata. Japan.
Order II. DIGYNIA.
723. Limeum.
Three fpecies j viz. africanum, capenfe, sethiopicum,
C. of G. Hope.
Order III. TETRAGYNIA.
724. Astranthus.
One fpecies \ viz. cochinchinenfis.
725. Saururus, or Lizard's 'Tail.
One fpecies j viz. cernuus. Virginia.
Order IV. HEPTAGYNIA.
726. Septas.
One fpecies j viz. capenfis. C. of G. Hope.
In the clafs Heptandria are
15 Genera, which include 31 Species. Of thefe
only one is found in Britain.
CLAS3»IS
O&andria.
B O T . A N Y.
16
CHASSIS VIII. CLASS VIII.
OCTANDRIA. OCTANDRIA.
Ordo I. MONOGYNIA.
Se£l. I. Flores cofnpleti.
743. Mi mu so ps. Cor. 8-petala. Cal. 8-pliyllus,
inferus. Drupa.
745. Cupania. Cor. 5-petala. Cal. 5-phyllus.
Capf. 3-locularis, loculis monorpermis. Sem. arillatum.
765. Dimocarpus. Cor. 5-petala. Cal. 5-denta-
tus. Baccae 2, monofpermae.
727. Tropaiolum. Cor. 5-petala. Cal. 5-fidus,
inferus, calcaratus. Nuces 3.
779. Bjeckea. Cor. 5-petala. Cal. 5-fidus, fupe-
rus. Capf. 4 locularis.
^ 747. Ephielis. Cor. 5-petala. Cal. 5-partitus.
Capf. i-locul. 2-fperma.
748. Molin^ea. Cor. 5-petala. Cal. 5-partitus.
Capf. 3-locul. 3-valvis.
742. Honckenya. Cor. 5-petala. Cal. 5-phyl¬
lus. Ne£tar. ftaminiformia. Capf. echinata.
751. Hagenia. Cor. 5-petala. Cal. 2-phyllus.
Neftar. 5 phyllum.
766. Memecylon. Cor. 4-petala. Cal. integer-
rimus, fuperus.
734. Combretum. Cor. 4-petala. Cal. 5-denta-
tus, fuperus. Sem. 4.
738. Roxburghia. Cor. 4-petala. Cal. 4-phyl-
lus inferus. Ant ierae neflario infertae. Capf. 2-valvis,
* 732. Epilobium. Cor.4-petala. Cal. 4-fidus, tu-
bulofus, fuperus. Capf. 4-tocularis. Sem. comofa.
731. Gaura. Cor. 4-petala. Cal. 4-fidus, tubulo-
fus, fuperus. Nux i-fperma.
730. Oenothera. Cor. 4-petala. Cal. 4-fidus, tu-
bulofus, fuperus. Capf. 4-locularis. Anther, linea-
res.
735. Vitmannia. Cor. 4-petala. Cal. 4-fidus,
inferus. Nux i-fperma.
729. Rhexia. Cor. 4 petala. Cal.4-fidus. Capf.
4-locularis, fupera. Anth. arcuate.
728. Osbeckia. Cor. 4-petala. Cal. 4-fidus.
Capf. 4-locularis, infera. Anth. roftratae.
737. Tetratheca. Cor, 4 petala. Cal. 4-fidus.
Antherae 4-loculares. Capf. 2-locularis.
736. Grislea. Cor. 4 petala. Cal. 4-dentatus,
inferus. Capf. 1-locularis.
75°. Koebreuteria, Cor. 4-petala, ne&ario cy-
lindrico. Cal. 4-phyllus. Capf. 3-locularis.
752. Persoonia. Cor. 4-petala, neftario cylin-
drico. Cal. 4 partitus. Capf. i-locul. polyfperma.
753. Guarea. Cor. 4-petala, neftario cylindric®.
Cal. 4-dentatus, inferus. Capf. 4-locularis, 4-valvis.
Sem. iblitaria.
Order I. MONOGYNIA.
Sedt. I. Flowers complete.
M. Cor. 8-petaled. Cal. 8-leafed, inferior. A
drupe.
C. Cor. 5-petaled. Cal. 5-leafed. Capf. 3-celled,
1 feed in each cell. Seed coated.
D. Cor. 5-petaled. Cal. 5-toothed. Berries 2.
r-feeded. ’
I. Cor. 5 petals. Cal. 5-cleft, inferior, having: a
fpur. Nuts 3. ’6
B. Cor. 5 petals. Cal. 5-cleft, fuperior. Capf. 4-
celled.
E. Cor. 5 petals. Cal. 5-partite. Capf. 1-celled,
2-feeded.
M. Cor. 5 petals. Cal. 5-partite. Capf. 3-celled,
with 3 valves.
H. Cor. 5-petaled. Cal. 5-leafed, Neftaries in
the form of ftamens. Capf. prickly.
H. Cor. 5-petaled. Cal. 2-leafed. Ne&ary r-
leafed. ' y *
M. Cor. 4-petaled, Cal. very entire, fuperior.
C. Cor. 4-petaled. Cal. 5-toothed, fuperior. Seeds
4*
R. Cor. 4 petals. Cal. 4-leafed, inferior. An¬
thers inferted in the nedlary. Capf. with 2 valves.
* E. Cor. 4 petals. Cal. 4~cleft, tubular, fuperior.
Capf. 4-celled. Seeds hairy.
G. Cor. 4-petaled. Cal. 4-cleft, tubular, fuperior.
Nut, with one feed.
O. Cor. or 4-petaled. Cal. 4-cleft, tubular above.
Capf. 4-celled. Anthers ftrap-lhaped.
V. Cor. 4-petaled. Cal. 4-cleft, beneath. Nut 1-
feeded.
R. Cor. 4-petaled. Cal. 4-cleft. Capf. 4-celled,
above. Anthers bowed.
O. Cor. 4-petaled. Cal. 4-cleft. Capf. 4-celled,
beneath or inferior. Anthers having a beak.
T. Cor. 4-petaled. Cal. 4-cleft. Anthers 4-cell¬
ed. Capf. 2-celled.
G. Cor. 4-petaled. Cal. 4-toothed, inferior. Capf.
i-celled,
K. Cor. 4-petaled, with a cylindrical neftary. Cal.
4-leafed. Capf. 3-celled.
P. Cor. 4-petaled, with a cylindrical neftary. Cal.
4-partite. Capf. 1-celled, many-feeded.
G. Cor. 4-petaled, with a cylindrical ne&ary. Cal,
4-toothed, inferior. Capf. 4-celled, 4-Valved. Seeds
lolitary.
X 2
741.
J64
B O T
741. Correa, Cor. 4-petala. Cal. 4 dcntatus.
Capl. 4-locul. loculis i-fpermis.
733. Antichorus. Cor. 4-petala. Cal. 4-phyl-
lus, inferus. Capi. 4-Iocu]. 4-valvis, polyfperma.
740. Allophvlus. Cor. 4-petala. Cal. 4-phyl-
lus, inferus. Stigma 4-fidum.
739. Ornitrophe. Cor. 4-petala. Cal. 4-phyl-
lus, inferus. Styl. 2 fid us. Baccae 2, monofpermae.
744. Jambolifera. Cor. 4-petala. Cal. 4-denta-
tus, inferus. Filamenta planiufcula. Drupa.
746. Xylocarpus. Cor. 4-petala. Cal. 4-denta-
tus, inferus. Nedt. 8-fidum. Drupa ficca.
757. X1 men 1 a. Cor. 4-petala. Cal. 4-fidus.
Neft. o. Drupa i-fperma.
763. Lawsonia. Cor. 4-petala. Cal. 4-fidus, in¬
ferus. Bacca 4locularis.
749. Melicocca. Cor. 4-petala refrafta. Cal. 4-
partitus. Drupa corticofa. Stigma peltatum, anceps.
755. Amyris. Cor. 4-petala. Cal. 4-dentatus,
inferus. Bacca i-fperma.
764. Melicope. Cor. 4-petala. Cal. 4-partitus.
Capf. 4, monofpermse.
775. Gnidia. Cor. 4-petala. Cal. 4-fidus, corol-
lifer. Nux i-fperma.
758. Fuschia. Cor. 4-petala. Cal. 4-fidus corol-
lif. Bacca 4-locularis, polyfperma. »
754. Hedwtgia. Cor. 4-fida. Cal. 4-dentatus.
Capf. tricocca.
760. Michauxia. Cor. 8-partita. Cal. 16-parti-
tus. Capf. 8-locularis.
* 759. Chlora. Cor. 8-fida. Cal. 8-phyllus, infe-
jus. Capf. i-locul. 2-valvis, polyfperma.
* 768. Vaccinium. Cor. i-petala. Cal. 4-denta¬
tus, fuperus. Filam. receptaculi. Bacca.
769. Menziesia. Cal. repandus inferus. Cor. 1-
petala. Filam. receptaculi. Capfula.
* 770. Erica. Cor. j-petala. Cal. 4-pliyllus, infe¬
rus. Filam. receptaculi. Capfula.
His Jimillima not an da quee ad clq/Jes diverfas pertinent.
Bixophora Mangle. JEfculus Pavia. Monotropa Hy-
popahys. Ruta graveolens. Jiiflicece nonnullee fpecies.
Portulaca quadnjida. Portulaca tneridiana. Cappa-
ndes dace. Dais oBandra. Ammania oBandra.
Fagara oBandra. Melajlonice nonnullce fpecies. Fri-
chilia pallida acuminata. Gilihertia ovata, hetero-
phylla. FJais. Cleome juncea.
Se£t. II. Flores incompleti.
771. Ophira. Cal. o., Involucr. 2-valve, triflorum.
Cor. 4-petala fupera. Bacca i-locularis.
772. Grubbia. Cal. o. Involucr. 2-phyll. triflo-
rum. Cor. 4-petala infera.
767. Buginuillasa. Cal. o. Cor. tubulofa fubin-
tegra. Stam. inclufa.
778. Lachn/ea. Cal. 4-fidus, corollinus, insequa-
lis. Stam. exferta.
774. Dirca. Cal. elimbis, corollinus, inaequalis.
Stam. exferta.
* 773; Oaphne. Cal. 4-fidus, corollinus, aequalis.
Stam. inclufa. Drupa pulpofa, monofperma.
777. Passerina. Cal. 4-fidus, corollinus, aequalis.
Stain, fupra corollam.
A N Y. O&andria’
C. Cor. 4-petaled. Cal. 4-toothed. Capf. 4-celled,
with I feeded cells.
A. Cor. 4-petaled. Cal. 4-leafed, inferior. Capf.
4~celled, 4-valved, many-feeded.
A. Cor. 4-petaled. Cal. 4-leafed, inferior. Stig¬
ma 4-cleft.
O. Cor. 4-petaled. Cal. 4-leafed. Style 2-cleft.
Berries 2, one-feeded.
J. Cor. 4-petaled. Cal. 4-toothed, inferior. Fila¬
ments flattened. A drupe.
X. Cor. 4-petaled. Cal. 4-toothed, inferior. Nec¬
tary 8-cleft. A dry drupe.
X. Cor. 4-petaled. Cal. 4-cleft. No neftary. A
I-feeded drupe.
L. Cor. 4-petaled. Cal. 4-cleft, inferior. Berry
four-celled.
M. Cor. 4-petaled, bent back as if broken. Cal.
4-partite. Drupe barky. Stigma target-fhaped, two-
edged.
A. Cor. 4-petaled. Cal. 4-toothed, inferior. Ber¬
ry 1-feeded.
M. Cor. 4-petaled. Cal. 4-partite. Capf. 4, one-
feeded.
G. Cor. 4-petaled. Cal. 4-cleft, bearing the co¬
rolla. A nut, 1-feeded.
F. Cor. 4-petaled. Cal. 4-cleft, bearing the blof-
fom. Berry 4-celled, many-feeded.
FI. Cor. 4-cleft. Cal. 4-toothed. Capf. 3-celled.
M. Cor. 8-partite. Cal. i6-partite. Capf. 8-cell-
ed.
* C. Cor. 8-cleft. Cal. 8 leafed, inferior. Capf. 1-
celled, 2-valved, many-feeded.
* V. Cor. i-petaled. Cal. 4-toothed, fuperior. Fi¬
lam. of the receptacle. Berry.
M. Cal. ferpentine beneath. Cor. i-petaled. Fi¬
laments of the receptacle. Capfule.
* E. Cor. x-petaled. Cal. 4-leafed, inferior. Fila¬
ments of the receptacle. Capfule.
Se£E II. Flowers incomplete.
O. No cal. Involucrum 2-valved, 3-florvered. Cor.
4-petaled, fuperior. Berry 1-celled.
G. No cal. Involucr. 2-leafed, 3-flowered. Cor.
4-petaled, inferior.
B. No cal. Cor. tubular, nearly entire. Stamens
enclofed.
L. Cal. 4-cleft, bloffom-like, unequal. Stamens
protruding.
D. Cal. not bordered, bloffom-like, unequal. Sta¬
mens protruding.
* D. Cal. 4-cleft, bloffbm-like, equal. Stamens en¬
clofed. A drupe, pulpy, 1-feeded.
P. Cal. 4-cleft, bloffom-like, equal. Stamens above
the corolla.
776.
O&andria. B O T
776. Stellar a. Cal. 4-fidus, corollinus, sequalis.
Stam. inclufa. Nux,
761. Dodonjea. Cal. 4-phyllus. Cor. o. Capf.
3-localaris.
762. Valentinia. Cal. 5-partitus. Cor. o. Capf.
baccata, 4-fperma. 1
756. Cadrota, Cal. 6-partitus. Cor. 0.
Ordo II. DIGYMIA.
783* Codia. Cor. 4-petala. Cal. 4-phyllus. Invo-
lucrum 4-phyllum.
782. Weinmannia. Cor. 4-petala. Cal. 4-phyl-
lus. Capf. 2-locularis, 2-roftris.
784. Moehringia. Cor. 4-petala. Cal. 4-phyl-
. lus. Capf. 1-locularis.
^ 780. Schmiedelia. Cor. 4-petala. Cal. 2-phyl-
lus. Pericarp. 2, pedicellata.
781. Galenxa. Cor. o. Cal. 4-fidus. Capf. 2-I0-
cularis, 2-fperma.
f Chryfoplemum. Polygonutn Penjylvanicum.
Ordo III. TRIGYNIA.
788. Seriana. Cor. 4 petala. Cal. 4-phyllus. Sa-
naarae 3.
787. Paullinia. Cor. 4-petala. Cal. 4-phyllus.
Capf. 3-locularis, i-fperma.
789. Cardiospermum. Cor. 4-petala. Cal. 4-
phyllus. Capf. 3-locul. i-fperma.
791. Pon^a. Cor, 4-petala. Cal. 4-partitus.
Capl. 3-locul. 3-fperma.
79°* Sapindus. Cor. 4-petala. Cal. 4-phyllus.
Bacca 3-cocca, i-fperma.
786. Coccoloba. Cor. o. Cal. 5-partitus. Bac¬
ca calycina, i-fperma.
785. Polygonum. Cor. o. Cal. 5-partitus. Sem,
I, nudum.
A N Y.
S. Cal. 4-cleft, bloffom-like, equal. Stamens en-
clofed. A nut.
D. Cal. 4-leafed. No cor. Capf. 3-celled.
V. Cal. 5-partitc. No cor. Capf. berried, 4-feed-
ed.
C. Cal. 6-pa»tite. No cor.
Order II. DIGYNIA.
C. Cor. 4-petaled. Cal. 4-leafed. Involucrum 4.-
leafed.
_W. Cor. 4-petaled. Cal. 4-leafed. Capf. 2-cclled,
with 2 beaks.
M. Cor. 4-petaled. Cal. 4-leafed. Capf. 1-celled.
S. Cor. 4-petaled. Cal. 2-leafed. Seed-veffels 2,
with pedicles.
G. No cor. Cal. 4-cleft. Capf. 2-celled, 2-feed-
ed.
Order III. TRIGYNIA.
S. Cor. 4-petaled. Cal. 4-leafed. Seed-veffels 3.
P. Cor. 4-petaled. Cal. 4-leafed. Capf. 2-celled.
l-feeded. 5 *
C. Cor. 4-petaled. Cal. 4-leafed. Capf. 3-celled,
i-feeded. 5 ’
P. Cor. 4-petaled. Cal. 4-partite. Capf. 3-celled,
3-feeded.
S. Cor. 4-petaled. Cal. 4-leafed. Berry 3-ceUed,
i-feeded.
C. No cor. Cal. 5-partite. Berry cup-like, 1-
feeded.
* P. No cor. Cal. 5-partite. Seed I, naked.
Ordo IV. TETRAGYNIA.
* 794. Adoxa. Cor. 4.f. 5-fida, fupera. Cal. 2-phyl-
lus. Bacca 4 f. 5-fperma.
792. V erea. Cor. 4-fida. Cal. 4-iidus. Capf. 4,
polyfpermae.
796. Halloragis.._ Cor. 4-petala. Cal. 4-fidus.
.Drupa ficca, 4-locularis.
* 795- Elatine. Cor. 4-petala. Cal. 4-phyllus.
Capi. 4-locularis.
797. Forskolea. Cor. 8-petala. Cal. 4-phyllus.
Sem. 4.
'' Pet wen a cilhciceci. Mynophyllum verticillatutn.
Order IV. TETRAGYNIA.
* A. Cor. 4 or 5-cleft, fuperior. Cal. 2-leafed. Ber¬
ry 4 or 5-feeded.
V. Cor. 4.cleft. Cal. 4-cleft. Capf. many-feeded.
H. Cor. 4-petaled. Cal. 4-cleft. A drupe, dry,
4-celled.
* E. Cor. 4-petaled. Cal. 4-leafed. Capf. 4-celled,,
F. Cor. 8-petaled. Cal. 8-leafed. Seeds 4.
Order I. MONOGYNIA.
727* Frop^olum, or Indian Crejs,
hive fpecies j viz. minus, maius, hybridum, pere-
grinum, pentaphyllum. Peru, Lima. P
7 28. OsbechiA, or Gold-rofe Feather.
I wo fpecies j viz. chinenfis, zeylanica. Ceylo,^'
China.
729* Rhexia, or Soap-wood.
17 fpecies) viz. virginica, mariana, tiichotoma, bx-
valvisj
166
O&andna
enguflifo-
tium.
hirfutum.
EOT
valvis, trivalvis, juffiaeoides, hypericoides, glutinofa,
acifanthera, glomerata, longifolia afpera, inconftans,
latifolia, villofa, aquatica, uniflora. N. America, Ja¬
maica, Brafil.
73°' Oenothera, or Tree-pnmrofe.
15 fpecies; viz. biennis, grandiflora, parviflora, mu-
ricata, longiflora, molliflima, no&urna, villofa, odo-
rata, finuata, tetraptera, fruticofa, pumila, rofea, pur¬
purea. America.
73 r* Oaura, or Virginian Loofe-J}rife.
ipecies ; viz. biennis, fruticofa, mutabilis.
Virginia, Pennfylvania.
732. Epilobium, or Willow-herb.
12 fpecies ; viz. * anguftifolium, anguftiflimum, la-
tifolium, * hirfutum, pubefcens, villofum, * monta-
num, glabellum, rotundifolium, * tetragonum, * pa-
luftre, * alpinum. North of Europe.
* E. leaves fcattered, ftrap-fpear-fhaped j bloffoms ir¬
regular.—Goats are extremely fond of this plant.
Cows and fheep eat it. Horfes and fwine refufe it.
rI he phalcena porcellus and fphinx elpcnor are found up¬
on it. The fuckers of the root are eatable. An infu-
flon of the plant has an intoxicating property, and the
Kamtfchatcadales brew a fort of ale from the pith, and
from the ale make vinegar. The down of the feeds
alfo, mixed with cotton or fur, has been manufactured
into ftockings and other articles of clothing.
* E. leaves egg-fpear-fliaped, hairy, half embracing
the Item ; item very much branched and hairy The
top-lhoots have a delicate fragrance, refembling fcalded
codlings (whence one of its names), but fo tranfitory,
that before they have been gathered five minutes, it
is no longer perceptible. Horfes, (beep, and goats, eat
it. Cows are not fond of it. Swine refufe it.
733. Antichorus.
One fpecies ; viz. depreflus. Arabia.
734. CoMBRETUM.
Jive fpecies ; viz. laxum, fecundum, purpureum, de-
candrum, alternifolium. America.
735. VlTMANNIA.
One fpecies 5 viz. elliptica.
736. Grislea.
1 wo fpecies j viz. fecunda, tomentofa. America.
737. Tetratheca.
One fpecies j viz. pincea.
738. Roxburghia.
One fpecies 5 viz. gloriofoides.
739. Ornitrophe.
Six fpecies ; viz. integrifolia, ferrata, cobbe, comi-
nia, occidentalis, rigida. Ifle of Bourbon.
740. Allophylus.
One fpecies j viz. zeylanicus. Ceyl. Jam. Hifpan.
741. Correa.
One fpecies ; viz. alba.
742. Honckenya.
One fpecies j viz. ficifolia.
743. Mimusops.
Four fpecies ; viz. elengi, hexandra, kanhi, imbri-
.caria. Arabia, India.
A 'N Y.
744. Jambolifera.
One fpecies j viz. pedunculata^
745. Cupania.
Three fpecies ; viz. tomentofa, glabra, faponarioides.
Coromandel, W. Indies.
746. Xylocarpus.
One fpecies j viz. granatum. Ceylon, E. Indies'.
747. Ephielis.
One fpecies $ viz. fraxinea. Guiana.
748. Molinzea.
Three fpecies $ viz. laevis, canefcens, alternifolia,
749. Melicocca.
One fpecies j viz. bijuga. Jamaica.
750. Koelreuteria.
One fpecies j viz. paniculata. China.
751. Hagenia.
One fpecies $ viz. abyflinica. Abyflinia.
752. Persoonia.
One fpecies 5 viz. gaureoides.
753. Gaurea.
One fpecies j viz. trichilioides.
754. Hedwigia.
One fpecies ; viz. balfamifera. Hifpaniola.
753. Amyris, or Shrubby Street wood,
19 fpecies j viz. polygama, elemifera, fylvatica,
maritima, kataf, gileadenfis, opobalfamum, ennean-
dra, heterophylla, gujanenfis, ambrofiaca, decandra,
altiflima, toxifera, protium, dentata, anifata, zeyla-
nica, balfamifera. E. Indies, Carolina, Jamaica.
The 4. elemifera produces a refin, which is brought
from the Spanifh W. Indies, and fometimes from the E.
Indies, in large roundilh cakes, generally wrapped up in
flag leaves. The beft fort is foftilh, fomewhat tranf-
parent, of a pale, whitilh yellow colour, inclining a
little to green ; of a ftrong, not unpleafant fmell. It
almoft totally diffolves in pure fpirit, and fends over
fome part of its fragrance along wuth this mcnftruum
in diftillation : diftilled with water it yields a confide-
rable quantity of pale-coloured, thin, fragrant effential
oil. This refin gives name to one of the officinal un¬
guents, and is at piefent fcarce any otherwife made ufe
of; though it is certainly preferable for internal pur-
pofes to fome others, which are held in greater efteem.
The fruit of the amyris gileadenfs is the produft of the
tree that yields the opobaliam, or balfam of Gilead,
It is about the fize of a pea, of a rvhitiffi colour, en-
clofed in a dark-brown wrinkled bark. This fruit,
when in perfection, has a pleafant warm glowing tafte,
and a fragrant fmell, refembling that of the opobalfam
itfelfi It is very rarely found in the (hops; and fuch
as we now and then do meet with, has almoft entirely
loft its fmell and tafte. It had formerly a place in the
mithridate and theriaca formulae, now' baniffied from
our pharmacopoeias j but even then the college permit¬
ted cubebs to be employed as a fubftitute for the carpo-
balfamum, wffiich could feldom be procured 5 and it is
probably on this account that it has now' no place in
our lifts.
756. Cedrota.
One fpecies j viz. longifoiia. Guiana.
757-
Oftandria,
167
B O T
757. XlMENIA.
Three fpecxes j viz. americana, elliptica, inermis.
Weft Indies, Guiana.
758. Fuschia.
Four fpecies $ viz. triphylla, coccinea, excorticata,
multiflora. Jam, Chili, New Zealand.
759. Cheora, or Telhw Centaury.
Five fpecies j viz. * perfoliata, quadrifolia, dode-
candra, feflilis, imperfoliata. S. Eur. Lev. "Virginia.
760, Michauxia.
One fpecies j viz. campanuloides. Levant.
761. DoDONjEA.
Three fpecies j viz. vifcofa, triquetra, anguftifolia.
Tropical climates, Cape.
762. Valentinja.
One fpecies j viz. iligifolia. Cuba, Hifpaniola.
763. Lawsonia.
Four fpecies ; viz. inermis, purpurea, acronychia,
fpinofa. Egypt, Eaft Indies.
764. Melicope.
One fpecies ; viz. ternata. South fea ifles.
765. Dimocarpus.
One fpecies j viz. litchia.
766. Memecylon.
Four fpecies 5 viz. capitellatum, tin&orium, grande,
cordatum. Ceylon.
767. Buginvilljea.
One fpecies ; viz. fpeftabilis. Brazil.
768. Vaccinium, or Bill-berry, or Whortle-berry.
27 fpecies •, viz. *myrtillus, pallidum, hirtum, fta-
mineum, * uliginofum, album, mucronatum, diffufum,
anguftifolium, corymbofum, brafteatum, ciliatum, fuf-
catum, frondofum, venuftum, liguftrinum, refinofum,
amoetium, virgatum, tenellum, arftoftaphyllos, meridio-
nale, cereum, * vitis-idaea, *oxycoccus, hifpidulum, ma-
crocarpon. N. Europe, Levant, N. America, Jamaica.
myrtillus. * V. fruit-ftalks 1-flowered j leaves ferrated, egg-ftia-
ed j ftem angular.—The berries of this plant are very
acceptable to children, either eaten by themfelves, or
with milk, or in tarts. The moor game live upon them
in the autumn. The juice' ftairis paper or linen pur¬
ple. Goats eat it. Sheep are not fond of it. Horfes
and cows refufe it.
uliginofum.* V. fruit-ftalks 1-flowered •, leaves very entire, in-
verfely egg-lhaped, blunt, fmooth.—-Children are faid
fometimes to eat the berries •, but in large quantities
they occafion dizzinefs and a flight headach, efpecial-
ly when full growm, and quite ripe. Many vintners
in France are faid to make ufe of the juice to colour
their white wines red. Horfes, cows, ftieep, and goats,
eat it. Swine refufe it.
vitis-idaa. * V. bunches terminating, nodding j leaves inverfely
egg ftiaped ; edge very entire, and rolled back, dot¬
ted underneath.—The berries are acid, and not very
grateful; but they are eaten by the Finlanders, and by
the country people in Sweden, and are fent in large
quantities from W. Bothnia to Stockholm for pickling.
They are alfo made into tarts, rob, and jelly. Goats
eat it. Cows, (heep, and horfes, refufe it.
txycoccos. V. fruit-ftalks Angle or in pairs j leaves egg-lhaped,
ANY.
very entire, edges rolled back $ ftem thread-fhaped,
trailing, not hairy.—The berries made into tarts, are
much efteemed ; but, on account of a peculiar flavour,
are difliked by fome. They may be kept feveral years
if wdped clean j and then clofely corked in dry bottles,
or the bottles may be filled with water.—-At Long-
town in Cumberland, 20 or 3ol.’s worth are fold by
the poor people each market day, for five or fix weeks
together. The molt general name, cranberry, proba¬
bly originated from the fruitftalks being crooked at the
top, and before the expanfion of the bloffom, refem-
bling the neck and head of a crane.
769. Menziesia.
One fpecies j viz. ferruginea.
770. Erica, or Heath.
137 fpecies ; viz. glutinofa, lutea, paniculata, depref-
fa, halicacaba, monfoniana, difcolor, denfifolia, cruenta,
nigrita, phylicoides, regerminans, urceolaris, marifolia,
planifolia, hirta, bicolor, articularis, viridi-purpurea,
pubefeens, perfoluta, gracilis, ftrigofa, caflfra, arborea,
ftri&a, florida, mucofa, pitulifera, amoena, * tetralix,
inflata, gilva, abietina, verticillata, patterfonia, mam-
mofa, empetrifolia, fpicata, oflophylla, fafcicularis, ob-
liqua, * vulgaris, gnaphaloides, corifolia, calycina, tri¬
flora, fcoparia, bergiana, formofa, rubens, incarnata,
* cinerea, auftralis, ramentacea, quadriflora, lateralis,
margaritacea, baccans, pendula, phyfodes, cernua, re-
torta, * daboecia, tenuifolia, albens, brafteata, thun-
bergii, tetragona, umbellata, nudiflora, petiolata, bry-
antha, ftelleriana, fucata, axillaris, imbricata, fexfaria,
melanthera, leucanthera, taxifolia, fpumofa, capitata,
bruniades, pafferina, totta, abfynthioides, ciliaris, coe-
rulea, hifpidula, petiverii, bankfii, febana, monadelphia,
plukenetii, verficolor, perfpicua, aitoni, cephalotes, pul-
chella, longifolia, veftita, pinea, leea, coccinea, pur¬
purea, concinna, grandiflora, cylindrica, curviflora, fim-
pliciflora, tubiflora, lanata, procera, confpicua, glandu-
lofa, tranfparens, cerinthoides, fparrmanni, maflbni, ven-
tricofa, ampullacea, faftigiata, incurva, globofa, como-
fa, denticulata, mufeari, vifearia, pyramidalis, mediter-
ranea, multiflora, herbacea, purpurafeens, * vagans, cu-
bica, racemofa. Europe, Madeira, Cape.
* E. leaves arrow'-lhaped.—This plant, but little xz-vulgarity
garded in happier climates, is made fubfervient to a
great variety of purpofes, in the bleak and barren high¬
lands of Scotland. The poorer inhabitants make wTalls
for their cottages, with alternate layers of heath, and
a kind of mortar made of black earth and ftraw, the
woody roots of the heath being placed in the centre,
the tops externally and internally. They make their
beds of it, by placing the roots dowmwards, and the
tops only being uppermoft, they are fufficiently foft to
fleep upon. Cabins are thatched with it. In the ifland
of Hay, ale is frequently made by brewing one part
malt and two parts of the young tops of heath j fome¬
times they add hops. It is faid, that this liquor was
much ufed by the Piets. Woollen cloth boiled in alum
water, and afterwards in a ftrong deco&ion of the tops
of heath, comes out a fine orange colour. The ftalks
and tops will tan leather. In England befoms are
made of it, and faggots to burn in ovens, or to fill up
drains that are to be covered over. Sheep and goats
will fometimes eat the tender (hoots, but they are not
fond of them. Beesextrad a great deal of honey from
i6S B O T
the flowers •, but where heath abounds, the honey has a
teudilh call.
771. Ophira.
One fpecies 5 viz. itricta.—Africa.
772. Grubbia.
One fpecies ; viz. rofmarinifolia. C. of G. Hope.
773. Daphne, or Me%ereon, Spurge-laurel.
30 fpecies; viz. *mezereum, thymeltea, dioica, caly-
cina, pubefcens, vermiculata, villofa, tarton-raira, niti-
da, alpina, * laureola, pontica, pendula, lagetto, poly-
ftachya, monoftachya, tinifolia, gnidium, indica, fcetida,
rotundifolia, odora,occidentalis, cneorum, altaica, fquar-
rofa, glomerata, oleoides, fericea, collina.—Europe,
China, Japan, W. Indies.
mezereum. * D. flowers fitting on the ftem, moftly three together;
leaves fpear-fhaped, deciduous ; berries globular.—An
ointment prepared from the bark or the berries, has
been fuccefsfully applied to ill-conditioned ulcers. The
whole plant is very corrolive ; fix of the berries will
kill a wolf. A woman gave 12 grains of the berries
to her daughter, who had a quartan ague ; (he vomited
blood, and died immediately.—A decoction made of
two drams of the cortical part of the root, boiled in
three pints of water till one pint is wafted, and this
quantity drank daily, is found very efficacious in refol-
ving venereal nodes, and other indurations of the peri-
ofteum. It is faid to have been once givenv in a cafe of
difficulty in fwallowing, feemingly occafioned by a pa¬
ralytic affedfion. The patient was directed to chew a
thin flice of the root, as often as (lie could bear to do
it; and in about two months, ffie recovered her power
of fwallowing. This woman bore the difagreeable ir¬
ritation, and the ulcerations its acrimony occafioned in
her mouth, with great refolution ; but fhe had been re¬
duced to fkin and bone, and for three years before, had
fuffered extremely from hunger, without being able to
fatisfy her appetite, for fhe fwallowed liquids very im-
perfedtly, and folids not at all. This complaint came
on after lying-in.
iaureola. * D. bunches of about five flowers ; axillary leaves
fpear-ffiaped, fmooth.—Very happy effedls have been
experienced from this plant in rheumatic fevers. It
operates as a brifk and rather fevere purgative. It is
an efficacious medicine in worm cafes ; and upon many
accounts deferves to be better known to phyficians ;
but in lefs fkillful hands, it would be dangerous, as it
is poffeffed of confiderable acrimony. The whole
plant has the fame qualities, but the bark of the root is
the ftrongeft. Dr Alfton fixes the outfide dofe at ten
grains.
774. Dirca, or Leather-wood.
One fpecies; viz. paluftris. Virginia.
77::. Gnidia.
16 fpecies ; viz. pinifolia, radiata, filamentofa, cari-
nata, fcabra, fimplex, capitata, laevigata, biflora, race-
mofa, tomentofa, argentea, imbricata, fericea, oppo-
fitifolia, daphnsefolia. Cape, Madagafcar.
776. Stellera, or German Groundfel.
Two fpecies; viz. uaiTerina, chamseiafme. Eur.
777. Passerina, or Sparrow-wort.
26 fpecies *, viz, fi'iformis, hirfuta, ericoides, nervo-
fa, cephalophora, capitata, orieatalis, ciliata, uniflora,
ANY. O&andria*
grandiflora, eanefcens, fpicata, laxa, ftridla, anthyl-
loides, pentandra, C. of G. Hope.
778. Lachn/ea.
Two fpecies; viz. eriocephala, conglomerata. C.
of G. Hope.
779. B^echea.
Two fpecies ; viz. frutefcens, denfifolia. China,
Order II. DIGYNIA.
780. Scumiedelia.
One fpecies ; viz. racemofa. E. Indies.
78 r. Galen ia, or Cape ‘jejfannne.
Two fpecies; viz. afiicana, procumbens.
782. Weinmannia.
Six fpecies; viz. glabra, hirta, tomentofa, trifoliata,
racemofa, parviflora. Cape, Jamaica, New Zealand.
783. Codia.
One fpecies ; viz. montana. New Caledonia,
784. Moehringia, or Mountain Chickweed.
One fpecies ; viz. mufcofa. Alps, S. of Eur.
Order III. TRIGYNIA.
785. Polygonum, or Knot-grafs.
43 fpecies; viz. frutefcens, grandiflorum, * biftorta,
* viviparum, virginianum, lapathifolium, * amphibium,
ocreatum, * hydropiper, filiforme, tinttorium, * minus,
* perficaria, incanum, glabrum, barbatum, tomentofum,
orientale, penfylvanicum, maritimum, * aviculare, bel-
lardi, fetofum, ere&um, articulatum, divaricatum, al-
pinum, undulatum, fericeum, ferratum, corymbofum,
chinenfe, fagittatum, arifolium, craflifolium, perfolia-
tum tartaricum, emarginatum, * fagopyrum, * convol¬
vulus, dumetorum, fcandens, multiflorum. Eur. E.
Indies,’ China, N. Amer.
* P. flowers with cloven piftils; ftipulse fomewhat hydropiper
fringed ; leaves fpear-fhaped.—The whole plant has
an acrid burning tafte. It cures little aphthous ulcers
in the mouth : It dyes rvool yellow. The aflies of this
plant, mixed with foft foap, is a noftrum in a few hands
for diffolving the ftone in the bladder; but it may be
reafonably queftioned, whether it has any advantage
over other femi-cauftic preparations of the vegetable
alkali. Its acrimony rifes in diftillation, and the diftil-
led w'ater drank to the amount of two or three half
pints daily, has been found very effeftual in feme
nephritic cafes. Horfes, cows, goats, ffieep, and fwine,
refufe it.
* P. ftyles 2 ; fpikes egg-oblong ; leaves fpear-fliaped;/>er/5,<rana,
ftipulse fringed.—Its tafte is flightly acid and aftrin-
gent. Woollen cloth, dipped in a folution of alum, ob¬
tains a yellow colour from this plant. Goats, fheep,
and horfes, eat it ; cows and fwine refufe it.
* P. leaves egg fliaped, extended at the bafe along \htbi/lorta<.
leaf-ftalks.—The root is one of the ftrongeft vegetable
aftringents. The young fhoots are eaten in herb-pud-
ditig in the north ot England ; and about IManchefter
they are fubftituted for greens, under the name of pa¬
tience dock, ^ ^
O&andria. B O T
viviparum. * P. leaves fpear-fhaped j ipike terminating Plants
cultivated for four years in a garden, conftantly pro¬
duced perfeft feeds in July, and dowered as conftantly
a fecond time in September, Thefe latter germs ve¬
getated on the Item.
aviculare. * P. flowers axillary 5 leaves fpear-fhaped, Item trailing.
—The feeds are ufeful for every purpofe in which thofe
of the next fpecies are employed. Great numbers of
fmall birds feed upon them. Cows, goats, flieep, horfes,
and fwine eat it. The ftubbles in Sweden are purpled
over with this plant. It affords nouriftiment to the
chryfomela polygonL
fcgopyrum * P. leaves heart-arrow fhaped 5 Item nearly upright,
without prickles ; angles of the feeds equal This
plant is very impatient of cold, dying at the very firft
attack of froft. The feeds furnifh a nutritious meal,
which is not apt to turn acid upon the ftomach. It is
made into thin cakes in fome parts of England called
Crumpits. It is ufual with farmers to fovv a crop of
buckwheat, and to plough it under when fully grown
as a manure to the land. The feeds are excellent food
for poultry. Sheep that eat this plant become unhealth¬
ful. As it dowers late in the fummer, M. du Hamel, in
his obfervations upon the management of bees, advifes
. to move the hives in the autumn to a fituation where
plenty of this plant is fown. Cows, goats, and fheep,
eat it; fwine and horfes refufe it.
eonvolvu- * P* leaves heart-fhaped 5 ftem twining, angular j
lus, dowers blunted.—The feeds of this plant are quite as
good for ufe as thofe of the preceding fpecies, are
produced in greater quantity, and the plant bears cold
better. Cows and goats eat it ; fheep, fwine, and
horfes, refufe it. The phalcena lubricipeda is found
upon feveral of the fpecies.
786. Coccoloba, or Seci-Jtde Grape.
13 fpecies j viz. uvifera, auftralis, pubefcens, diver-
fifolia, davefcens, excoriata, nivea, pundftata, obtufifolia,
microftachya, emarginata, barbadenfis, tenuifolia. W.
Indies, S. America.
787. Paullinia, or Supple-jack.
14 fpecies *, viz. nodofa, curuvu, carthaginenfis, cari-
baea, curaflavica, barbadenfis, polyphylla, tetragona,
vefpertilio, pinnata, tomentofa, caulidora, japonica, di-
verfifolia. E. and W. Indies, Japan, S. America.
ANY. ,69
788. Seriana.
10 fpecies j viz. finuata, divaricata, caracafana, race-
mofa, Ipeftabilis, mexicana, anguftifolia, lupulina, luci-
da, triternata.
789. Cardiospermum, or Heart-pea.
Four fpecies; viz. halicacabum, hirfutum, corin-
dum, grandidorum. E. and W. Indies, Brazil.
790. Sapindus, or Soap-berry.
10 fpecies j viz. faponaria, longifolius, fpinofus,
laurifolius, emarginatus, rubiginofus, tetraphyllus, rigi-
dus, arborefcens, frutefcens. E. and W. Indies, China.
791. P O N AT. A.
One fpecies 5 viz. faponarioides. Guiana.
Order IV. TETRAG YNIA.
792. Verea.
One fpecies; viz. crenata.
793. Paris, or True Love, or One-berry.
One Ipecies j viz.
* P* ^aLl 4~leaved \ petals 4, narrower j berry auadrifolia
ed.— 1 he leaves and berries are faid to partake of the
properties of opium. The juice of the berries is ufeful
in indammations of the eyes. Linnaeus fays the roots
will vomit as -well as ipecacuanha, but it muff be given
in a double quantity. Europe.
794. Adoxa, or Mofchatel.
One fpecies 5 viz. * mofchatellina. Europe.
795. Elatine, or Water-wort.
Two fpecies j viz. hydropiper, * alftnaftrum. Eur.
796. Haloragis.
Two fpecies; viz. cercodia, proftrata. New Zea¬
land, New Caledonia.
797. Forskolea.
Three fpecies; viz. tenaciflima, Candida, anguftifolia.
Egypt, Teneriffe, Cape.
In the clafs Oclandria are
70 Genera, including 493 Species, of which 30
are found in Britain.
CLASSIS IX.
ENNEANDRIA.
Ordo I. MONOGYNIA.
798. Laurus. Cal. o. Cor. 6-petala, calycina.
Bacca i-fperma. Ne&arii glandulae bifetae.
800. Panke. Cal. 4-fidus. Cor. 4-fida. Capf.
monofperma.
799. Anacardium. Cal. 5-partitus. Cor. 5-petala.
Stamine decimo caftrato. Nux receptaculo carnofo.
Vol. IV. Part I.
CLASS IX.
ENNEANDRIA.
Order I. MONOGYNIA.
'• No cal. Cor. 6- petaled, cup or calyx-like. A
berry, i-feeded. The glands of the nettary briftled.
I. Cal. 4-cleft. Cor. 4-cleft. Capf. i-feeded.
A. Cal. 5-partite. Cor. 5-petaled. The 10th
ftamen without an anther. A nut with a deftiy re¬
ceptacle.
801.
Y
170
B O T
801. Plegorhiza. Cal. O. Cor. i-petala. Capf.
l-locul. l-fperma.
802. Cassyta. Cal. o. Cor. 6-partita, calycina.
Bacca i-fperma. Neftarii glandulse truncatse.
f Anacard'ium Jlamine decimo cojlrato. Amyris cnne-
cndra. Brovoncea enneandra. Gardenia Thunbergia.
Ordo II. TRIGYNIA.
803. Rheum. Cal. o. Cor. 6-fida. Sem. i, tri¬
quetrum.
Ordo III. HEXAGYNIA.
804. Butomus. Cal. o. Cor. 6-petala. Capf. 6,
polyfpermae.
A N Y. Enneandria,
P. No cal. Cor. i-petaled. Capf. x-celled, x-
feeded.
C. No cal. Cor. 6-partite, cup-like. Berry i-feed-
ed. The glands of the neftary lopped.
Order II. TRIGYNIA.
R. No cal. Cor. 6 cleft. Seed I, triangular.
Order III. HEXAGYNIA.
B. No cal. Cor. 6-petaled. Capf. 6, many-feededo-
Order I. MONOGYNIA.
798. Laurus, or Bay-tree.
34fpecies j viz. cinnamomum, caffia, camphora, culila-
ban, montana, chloroxylon, glauca, pedunculata, caufti-
ca, nobilis, indica, foetens, perfica, borbonia, martinicen-
fis, exaltata, alpigena, triandra, fanguinea, furinamenfis,
hexandra, falicifolia, coriacea, leucoxyIon, membranacea,
patens, parviflora, pendula, floribunda, lucida, umbel-
lata, aeftivalis, benzoin, faffafras. Of thefe we fhall take
notice of the following, as of confiderable importance.
1. The nobilis, or evergreen bay tree, is a native
of Italy, and hath an upright trunk branching on
every fide from the bottom upward j with fpear-
{haped, nervous, ftifF, evergreen leaves, three inches
long and two broad } and fmall, yellowifh, quadrifid,
dioecious flowers, fucceeded by red berries in autumn
and winter. Of thefe fpecies there are varieties, with
broad, narrow', flriped, or waved leaves. 2. The aefti¬
valis, or deciduous bay, grows naturally in North Ame¬
rica. It rifes, with an upright ftem, covered with a
purplifh bark j having oblong, oval, acuminated, veined,
deciduous leaves, two or three inches long, and half as
broad, growing oppofite 5 with fmall wrhite flowers,
fucceeded by red berries. 3. The benzoin, or benja¬
min tree, is alfo a native of North America ; grows 15
or 20 feet high, divided into a very branchy head ;
with oval, acute, deciduous leaves, three or four inches
long, and half as broad j and fmall yellowilh flowers,
not fucceeded by berries in this country. 4. The faf¬
fafras is a native of the fame country. It hath a fhrub-
like ftraight ftem, garnifhed with both oval and three-
lobed, fliining, deciduous leaves, of different fizes, from
three to fix inches long, and near as broad, with fmall
yellowifh flowers, fucceeded by blackifh berries, but not
in this country. 5. The indica, or Indian bay tree,
xifes with an upright ftraight trunk, branching regu¬
larly 20 or 30 feet high : adorned with very large,
fpear-fhaped, plane, nervous, evergreen leaves on reddifh
footftalks j and bunches of fmall wThitilh green flowers,
fucceeded by large oval black berries which do not ri¬
pen in this country. 6. The borbonia, or Carolina
red bay tree, rifes with an upright ftraight ftem,
branching 15 or 20 feet high j with large, fpear-fhap¬
ed, evergreen leaves, tranfverfely veined j and long
bunches of flowers on red footftalks, fucceeded by
large blue berries fitting in red cups. 7. The cam¬
phora, or camphire tree, grows naturally in the wmods
of the wTeftern parts of Japan, and in the adjacent
iflands. The root fmells ftronger of camphire than any
of the other parts, and yields it in greater plenty. The
bark of the ftalk is outwardly fomewhat rough j but
in the inner furface fmooth and mucous, and therefore
eafily feparated from the wood, which is dry and of a
white colour. The leaves ftand upon {lender foot¬
ftalks, have an entire undulated margin, running out
into a point : have the upper furface of a lively and"
fhining green, the lower herbaceous and filky j and are
furnifhed with a few lateral nerves, which ftretch arch¬
wife to the circumference, and frequently terminate
in fmall warts •, a circumftance peculiar to this fpecies
of laurus. The flowers are produced on the tops of
footftalks, which proceed from the armpits of the
leaves j but not till the tree has attained confiderable
age. and fize. The flow'er-ftalks are {lender, branched
at the top, and divided into very ftiort pedicles, each
fupporting a fingle flower. Thefe flowers are white,
and confift of fix petals, which are fucceeded by a
purple and fhining berry of the fize of a pea, and in fi¬
gure fomewhat top-fhaped, It is compofed of a foft
pulpy fubftance that is purple, and has the tafte of
cloves and camphire 5 and of a nucleus or kernel of the
fize of a pepper, that is covered with a black, fhining,
oily corticle, of an infipid tafte. 8. The cinnamo¬
mum, or cinnamon tree, is a native of Ceylon. It
hath a large root, and divides into feveral branches,
covered with a bark, which on the outer fide is of a
greyifti browm, and on the infide has a reddilh caft.
The wood of the roots is hard, white, and has no fmell.
The body of the tree, which grows to the height
of 20 or 30 feet, is covered, as well as its numerous
branches, with a bark which at firft is green and af¬
terwards red. The leaf is longer and narrower than
the common bay tree \ and it is three-nerved, the
nerves vaniftiing towards the top. When firft unfold¬
ed, it is of a flame colour : but after it has been for
fome time expofed to the air, and grows dry, it
changes to a deep green on the upper furface, and to
a
Enneandria. B O T
a lighter on the lower. The flowers are fmall and
white, and grow in large bunches at the extremity of
the branches: they have an agreeable fmell, fomething
like that of the lily of the valley. The fruit is fhaped
like an acorn, but is not fo large. 9. The caflia, or
bafe cinnamon, has lanceolated leaves, triple-nerved.
10. The perfea, avocada pear tree, or alligator pear,
rifes to a confiderable height, with a ftraight trunk, of
which the bark and wood are of a grayifh colour. The
leaves are long, oval, pointed, of a fubftance like lea¬
ther, and of a beautiful green colour. The flowers are
produced in large knots or clufters at the extremities
of the branches, and confifl: each of fix petals difpofed
in the form of a ftar, and of a dirty white or yellow
colour, with an agreeable odour, which diffufes itfelf
to a confiderable diftance. It is a native of the Weft
Indies. The perfea begins to bear two years and a
half, or at moft three years, after being planted j and,
like moft of the trees in warm climates, bears twice a
year. The other fpecies of this genus are pofleffed
of no remarkable properties.
The firft fpecies are propagated by layers, or by
the berries. In order to raife a quantity of thefe trees
by layers, fome ftools (hould be planted for the pur-
pofe j and after thefe are (hot about a yard high,
the branches muft be brought down to the ground in
the winter, all the preceding fummer’s (hoots laid on
it, and pegged down (being firft (lit in the joint), and
the leaves taken off, which would otherwife be under
ground. In one year’s time thefe layers will have ta¬
ken root ; and in the fpring they (hould be taken up,
and planted in the nurfery a foot afunder, in rows two
feet diftance. After they are planted out, if the wea¬
ther (hould prove dry, they muft be conftantly water¬
ed $ for without fuch care, it is difficult to make this
tree grow. After they have taken well to the ground,
they will require no farther trouble than keeping them
clean from weeds, and digging between the rows each
winter, till they are finally planted out. 2. In order
to raife this tree from the berries, they ought to hang
on the trees till about January before they are gather¬
ed. A well (heltered fpot of ground for the feminary
muft be made choice of; and having the mould fmooth
and fine, they (hould be fown foon after they are ga¬
thered, in beds or drills, rather more than half an inch
deep. Towards the clofe of the fpring the plants will
come up, and during fummer muft be duly attended,
by watering and weeding. In the winter following,
their (heltered fituation muft not be trufted to, to de¬
fend them from the Froft : Furze bulhes, or fome fuch
things, ought to be (luck in rows between the beds or
.drills, to guard them from the black frofts. Indeed,
without this precaution, if the winter (hould prove
very frofty, few of the young feedlings will be alive in
fpring. During the following fummer, weeding and
watering muft be obferved, and the winter after that
they (hould be defended with covering as before ; for
they will be (till in danger of being deftroyed by fevere
frofts. In the enfuing fpring, the ftrongeft may be ta¬
ken out of the feed-beds, and planted in the nurfery
way } though, if they have not by that time made good
(hoots, it will be advifable to let them remain in their
beds till the third fpring j for a fmall plant of this
kind is with more difficulty made to grow than one
which is larger. When they are planted in the nur-
A N Y.
fery, the diftance which (hould be allowed them is the
fame as the layers, a foot afunder and two feet diftance
in the rows ; and this will not be found too clofe j
for notwithftanding the greateft care is exerted in
planting them in the nurfery, even making choice of
rainy and cloudy weather, which muft always be ob¬
ferved in fetting them out, many of them will be loft
by being tranfplanted. After they are thus planted
out in the nurfery, whether layers or feedlings, they
muft be (till watered in dry weather, kept free from
weeds, and the rows dug between every winter. You
will even find, that thofe plants which fuffer leaft by be¬
ing tranfplanted will have met wnth a check, which they
wull not recover in two or three years; and till they
have acquired new ftrength they (hould not be taken
from the nurfery ; but when they appear to be good
ftiff plants, having the year before made a vigorous
(hoot, they will be then proper plants for planting out
where they are to remain. Holes (hould be got ready
for their reception ; and as foon as the firft autumnal
rains fall, the work (hould be fet about, efpecially if
the land be gravelly or dry ; but if it be moift, the
fpring will do as well. Being now planted at one
yard diftance, they will make a poor progrefs for two
or three years more ; but after this, when they have
overcome all thefe difficulties, the)* will grow very
faft, and arrive to be good trees in a few years. Al¬
though this tree flouriffies bell in old gardens, where
the foil has been made rich and deep, and loves the
(hade, Hanbury tells us, “ it thrives neverthelefs ex¬
ceedingly well in our hotted gravels and fands ; and
after it has furmounted the hardships of tranfplanting,
will grow in fuch fituations extremely faft, and arrive
to a large bulk.”
The propagation of the three next forts of trees may
be performed two or three W'ays : 1. By the feeds.
Thefe we receive, from the places where the trees grow
naturally, in the fpring. They (hould be preferved in
fand ; and as foon as they arrive, (hould be fowm in
largiffi pots an inch deep. The foil for their recep¬
tion (hould be taken from a rich pafture at leaft a year
before, with the fward. It (hould alfo be laid in a
heap, and frequently turned, until the fward is grown
rotten, and the whole appears w^ell mixed and fine. If
the pafture from whence it was taken near the furface
is a fandy loam, this is the heft compoft for thefe feeds;
if not, a fmall addition of drift or fea fand (hould be
added, and well mixed with the other mould. After
filling the pots with this foil, the feeds (hould be fown
an inch deep ; and then they (hould be plunged into
common mould up to the rim. If the foil be natural¬
ly moift, it will keep them cooler, and be better ; and
if the place be well (heltered and (haded, it will be bet¬
ter dill. Nothing more than weeding, w hich muft be
conftantly obferved during the fummer, will be necef-
fary ; and in this (lation they may remain until the
March following : about the middle of which month
having prepared a good hot bed, the pots (hould be ta¬
ken up and plunged therein. Soon after the feeds wall
cortie up : and when the young plants have fufficient-
ly received the benefit of this bed, they (hould be inu¬
red by degrees to the open air. Weeding and water¬
ing muft be obferved during the fummer; and at the
approach of the cold weather in the autumn, they
(hould he removed under a hotbed frame, or fome
Y 2 cover,
172 B O T
cover, to be protected from tbe frofts during the win¬
ter. In the fpring, when this danger is over, they
fhould refume their firft ftation ; namely, the pots
Ihould be plunged up to the rim, as wdien the feeds
were firlt fown ; and if this place be well Iheltered,
they may remain there all winter : if not, and fevere
trolls threaten, they fhould be taken up and placed
under cover as before. After they have been thus ma¬
naged three years from the feeds, they fhould be taken
out of the pots with care, and planted in the nurfery
ground at fmall diftances, where they may remain un¬
til they are flrong enough to be finally fet out. By
lowing the feeds in pots, and aflifling them by a hot¬
bed, a year at leaf! is faved ; for they hardly ever
come up, wdien fown in a natural border, under two
years from the feeds ; nay, they have been known to
remain three, and even fome plants to come up the
fourth year after fowing j which at once fhows the
preference of the former praflice, and fhould caution
all wdio have not fuch convenience, not to be too hafty
in diflurbing the beds when the feeds are fown in the
natural ground as, efpecially if they are not w'ell pre-
ferved in mould or fand, thefe may be fome years be¬
fore they appear. Indeed, it is the long time we are
in obtaining thefe plants, either by feeds, layers, &c.
that makes them tt prefent fo very fcarce amongfl us.
2. Thefe plants may alfo be increafed by layers ; but
very flowly j for they wall be two, and fometimes three,
or even four years, before they have ilruck out good
roots j though the benjamin tree is propagated the
fafleft by this method. The young twigs fhould be
laid in the ground in the autumn ; and it will be found
that twilling the wire round the bud, fo as in fome de¬
gree to flop the progrefs of the fap, and taking away
with a knife a little of the bark, is a more effeflual
method of obtaining good roots foon than by the flit
or twdfling, efpecially when praflifed on the faffafras
tree. 3. Plants of thefe forts are likewife fometimes
obtained by fuckers, which they will at all times throw
out, and which may be often taken off with pretty good
roots ; but when they are weak, and with bad roots,
they fhould be planted in pots, and affifled by a mode¬
rate heat in a bed : with fuch management they will
be good plants by the autumn, and in the fpring may
be planted out anywhere. 4. Cuttings of thefe trees,
when planted in a good bark bed, and duly watered,
will alfo oftentimes grow. When this method is prac-
• tifed, and plants obtained, they muff be inured by de¬
grees to the open air, till they are hardy enough to be
finally planted out.
The Indian bay, the camphire, the avocado, and the
cinnamon tree, require the treatment common to green-
houfe plants •, the latter, however, is rather a flove plant
in this country.—Of its culture or propagation in its na¬
tive places, no particular account has been given by bo¬
tanical writers 5 but it muff now become an important con-
fideration wdth us, fince the ifland of Ceylon, where cin¬
namon chiefly grows, now belongs to Great Britain.
Of the advantages promifed by this acquifition we are
indebted for the firft accounts to Dr Wright in 1787 ;
from wdiom alfo we learn that its propagation is very
eafy, and its culture requires little care, as more parti¬
cularly noticed below. Since that time, fome obferva-
tions by Dr Dancer, relative to its cultivation, have
appeared in the Tranfaftions of the Society of Arts,
A N Y. Enneandria,
&c. Thefe obfervations confirm, without adding any
thing effential to, the concife notice of Dr Wright,
We are informed, that as the tree “ puts out numer¬
ous fide branches, with a denfe foliage, from the very
bottom of the trunk j this furnifhes an opportunity
of obtaining plenty of layers, and facilitates the pro¬
pagation of the tree, as it does not perfedl its feeds in
any quantity under fix or feven years; when it be¬
comes fo plentifully loaded, that a fingle tree is fuffi-
cient almoff for a colony. It feems to delight in a
loofe moift foil, and to require a fouthern afpedd ; the
trees, thus planted, flourifliing better than others grow¬
ing in loam, and not fo well expofed to the fun.
When healthy, it is (from layers) of pretty quick
growth, reaching in ergtit years the height of fifteen
or twenty feet, is very fpreading, and furnilhed with
numerous branches of a fit fize for decortication. The
feeds, however, are a long time in coming up, and the
plants make fmall progrefs for the firft year or two.”
It is added, that “ the birds appear to be very fond of
the berries, and w’ill probably propagate this tree in
the fame way they do many others everywhere over
the iiland ; fo that in a fhort time it will grow fpon-
taneoully, or without cultivation.” The age for de¬
cortication, faid above to be eight years, it will be ob-
ferved, is different from that fpecified below for the
trees in Ceylon.
Evelyn fays, he has feen bay trees near 30 feet
high, and almoft two feet in diameter ; and enumer¬
ates the bay amongft ufeful trees. Hanbury catch¬
es at this idea, and tells us in general terms, that “ it
will grow to 30 feet in height, with a trunk of two
feet in diameter ;” and accordingly he arranges it a-
mong his foreft trees : he acknowledges, however, at
the fame time, that the wood is of little value. The
bay is neverthelefs a fine aromatic and a beautiful ever¬
green : It is faid to be the true laurus or laurel of the
ancients, with which they adorned the brows of their
fuccefsful generals. Like the holly, ■ box, and laurel,
the bay will bear the ftiade and drip of taller trees 'r
and it is upon the wThole a very defirable, as being a
very ornamental, evergreen.
The leaves and berries of this tree have a moderate¬
ly ftrong aromatic fmell, and a warm, bitterifti, pun¬
gent tafte : the berries are ftronger in both refpedts
than the leaves, and afford in diftillation a larger
quantity of effential aromatic oil; they yield alfo an
almoft infipid oil to the prefs, in confequence of which
they prove unftuous in the mouth. They are warm
carminatives, and fometimes exhibited in this inten¬
tion againft flatulent colics, and likewife in hyfterical
diforders. Their principal ufe in the prefent praftice
is in glyfters, and fome external applications. The de¬
ciduous bay, in a moift rich foil, in which it princi¬
pally delights, will grow to be about 16 feet high j
but in fome foils, that are poffeffed of the oppofite
qualities, it will hardly arrive at half that height. The
flow7ers are fucceeded in May by large red berries,
which never ripen in England : fo that, notwithftand-
ing the leaves in fummer are very pretty, and the co¬
lour of the bark makes a variety in winter, it is prin¬
cipally the fcarcity of this plant which makes it valu¬
able.
The ben%oin tree will grow to a much larger fize
than the other, and its branches are more numerous.
They
Enneandria. B O T
They are fmooth, and of a fine light green colour.
The leaves on their upper lurface are fmooth and of
a fine light green colour, but their upper furface is ve-
nofe, and of a whitifli cart. When bruifed, they emit
a fine fragrance. This tree was formerly miftaken
for that which produces the drug called benzoin;
which is now known to be obtained from a fpecies of
ftyrax.
„ The fajjafras will grow to nearly the height of the
others, though the branches are not fo numerous. Its
bark is fmooth, and of a red colour, which beautifully
diflinguifhes it in winter ; whilft the fine (hining green
of its leaves conftitutes its greateft beauty in fummer.
In thefe, indeed, there is a variety, and a very extra¬
ordinary one. Some are large and of an oval figure $
others are fmaller, and of the fame fliape ; whilft o-
thers again are divided into three lobes, fo as to re-
iemble the leaves of fome forts of the fig tree. In
America, the faflafras generally hands Angle in the
woods, and along the fences round the fields. It
flowers in May before the leaves come out j and being
entirely covered with them, it is diftinguifhed at a
great diftance by their beautiful yellow colour.
The root of the fafiafras has a fragant fmell, and a
fweetiftr, aromatic, fubacrid tafte ; the bark taftes
much ftronger than any other part, and the fmall
twigs ftronger than the large pieces. It is a warm
aperient and corroborant, and frequently- employed
with good fuccefs for purifying and fweetening the
blood and juices. For thefe purpofes, infufions made
from the rafped root or bark may be drank as tea. In
fome conftitutions indeed, fuch liquors are, by their
fragrance, apt, on firft taking them, to affedt the
head ; but in fuch cafes they may be advantageoufly
freed from their flavour by boiling. A decodlion of
falfafras, boiled down to the confiftence of an extract,
proves limply bitterilh and fubaftringent. Hoffman
affures us, that he has frequently given this extradf to
the quantity of a fcruple at a time, with remarkable
fuccefs, for ftrengthening the tone of the vifcera in ca¬
chexies ; as alfo in the decline of intermittent fevers
and in hypochondriacal fpafms. Saffafras yields in di-
ftillation an extremely fragrant oil of a penetrating
pungent tafte, fo ponderous (notwithftanding the light-
nefs of the drug itfelf) as to fink in water. Redlified
fpirit extradfs the whole tafte and fmell of faffafras ;
and elevates nothing in evaporation : hence the fpi-
rituous extradf proves the moft elegant and efficacious
preparation, as containing the virtue of the root en¬
tire.
The bark of this tree is ufed by the wmmen in Penn-
fylvania and other parts of North America in dying
worfted a fine lafting orange colour, which does not
fade in the fun. They ufe urine inftead of alum in
dying ; and boil the dye in a brafs boiler, becaufe in
an iron veffel it does not yield fo fine a colour. The
wmod is made ufe of for ports belonging to the enclo-
fures, for it is faid to laft a long time in the ground :
but it is likewife faid, that there is hardly any kind of
wood which is more attacked by worms than this when
it is expofed to the air without cover j and that in a
fhort time it is quite worm-eaten through and through.
On cutting fome part of the faffafras tree, or its
ihoots, and holding it to the nofe, it has a ftrong but
pleafant fmell. Som,e people peel the root, and boil
A N Y.
the peel with the beer which they are brewing, be¬
caufe they believe it wholefome. For the fame reafon,
the peel is put into brandy either whilft it is diftilling
or after it is made. Profeffor Kalm informs us, that a
decoffion of the root of faffafras in tvatcr, drank every
morning, is ufed with fuccefs in the dropfy. When
part of a wood is deftined for cultivation, the faffafras
trees are commonly left upon it, becaufe they have a
very thick foliage, and afford a cool fhade to the cattle
during the great heats. Some people get their bed-
pofts made of faffafras wood, in order to expel the
bugs ; for its ftrong fcent, it is faid, prevents thofe
vermine from fettling in them. For two or three years
together this has the defired effedrt, or about as long
as the wood keeps its ftrong aromatic fmell; but after
that time it has been obferved to lofe its effedrt. In
Pennfylvania fome people put chips of faffafras into
their chefts, where they keep all forts of woollen fluffs,
in order to expel the moths (or larvae of caterpillars
of moths or tinies) which commonly fettle in them in
fummer. The root keeps its fmell for a long while :
Profeffor Kalm faw one which had lain five or fix years
in the drawer of a table, and ftill preferved the ftrength
of its fcent. The people alfo gather its flowers, and
ufe them as tea.
The perfeciy or alligator pear-tree, is cultivated uni-
verfally in the Weft Indies by all ranks of people.
The fruit is pear-fhaped, and from one to two pounds
in weight. On removing a green flrin or covering,
wre come to a yellow7 butyraceous fubftance ; and in
the heart find a large round feed or ftone, which is un¬
equal in the furface, and exceedingly hard and wmody.
This fruit is ripe in Auguft and September, and con¬
ftitutes one of the moft agreeable articles of diet for
fix or eight weeks to the negroes. Thefe pears, with
a little fait and a plantain or two, afford a hearty meal.
They are alfo ferved up at the tables of white people
as choice fruit. When the pear is ripe, the yellow7 or
eatable fubftance is firmer than butter, and taftes fome-
w7hat like butter or marrow : hence it is called by fome
the vegetable marrow. But how7ever excellent this
fruit is when ripe, it is very dangerous when pulled
and eaten before maturity. Hr Wright fays, he has
repeatedly known it to produce fever and dyfentery,
w7hich were removed with difficulty. The leaves of
this tree and thofe of the bead-vine or w'ild liquorice
are made into pefloral decoftions by the common peo¬
ple. The large ftone is ufed for marking linen. The
cloth is tied or held over the ftone, and the letters are
pricked out by a needle through the cloth and into the
feed. The ftain is a reddifti brown, which never
w7afties out.—The buds of the alligator tree are faid to
be ufed with fuccefs in ptifans againft the venereal JKf-
eafe. An infufion of them in water, drank in the
morning failing, is ftrongly recommended for diflodg-
ing coagulated blood in the ftomach produced by a
fall or a fevere ftroke on that important entrail. “ The
wild boars in the Fail Indies (fays Labat) eat greedily
of the mammees and avocado pears, which give their
fleih a lufcious and moft agreeable favour.”
CaJJia. The bark of this fpecies is known in the
fliops by the name of cajfia lignea. This bark, which
is imported from different parts of the Eaft Indies and
from China, has a very near refemblance to the cin¬
namon j though diftinguiihable from it by being of a
thicker
l73
B O T
thicker and coarfer appearance, and by its breaking
ftiort and fmooth, while the cinnamon breaks fibrous
and (hivery. It refernbles cinnamon fiill more exactly
in its aromatic flavour than in its external appearance ;
and feems only to differ from it in being fomewhat
weaker, in abounding more with a vifeous mucilagi¬
nous matter, and in being lefs aftringent. According¬
ly, it has not only a place in the Edinburgh Pharma¬
copoeia, but is alfo the bafis of a diftilled water. It is
perhaps furprifing that the London College have given
it no place in their lifts. But although it does not en¬
ter their Pharmacopoeia, yet we may venture to affert,
that it will not be neglefted by the apothecaries. At
prefent it is very common with many of them to fub-
ftitute the caftia in every cafe for the more expenfive
article cinnamon : and indeed almoft the rvhole of what
is at prefent fold under the title either of fimple or fpi-
rituous cinnamon water is entirely prepared from caf-
fia 5 and not even entirely from the bark, but from a
mixture of the bark and buds.
Cinnamon is the under bark of the cinnamomum.
The beft feafon for feparating it from the outer bark,
which is gray and rugged, is the fpring, when the fap
flows in the greateft abundance. It is cut into thin
fiices, and expofed to the fun, and curls up in drying.
The old trees produce a coarfe kind of cinnamon 5
the fpice is in perfection only when the trees are not
older than three or four years. When the trunk has
been ftripped of its bark, it receives no further nou-
rilhment ; but the root is ftill alive, and continues to
throw out frefh flioots. The fruit of the tree is fhaped
like an acorn, but is not fo large. Its feed, when
boiled in water, yields an oil wdiich fwims at top, and
takes fire. If left to cool, it hardens into a white fub-
ftance, of which candles are made, which have an a-
greeable fmell, and are referved for the ufe of the
king of Ceylon. The cinnamon is not reckoned ex¬
cellent unlefs it be fine, fmooth, brittle, thin, of a yel¬
low colour inclining to red, fragrant, aromatic, and
of a poignant, yet agreeable tafte. The connoiffeurs
give the preference to that, the pieces of which are
long, but {lender. That which comes to us is gene¬
rally mixed with the caffia bark •, but this laft is ea-
fily diftinguiftred. Cinnamon fplinters in breaking,
and has a roughnefs along with its aromatic flavour j
while the caflia breaks over fmooth, and has a mucila¬
ginous tafte. Cinnamon is a very elegant and ufeful
aromatic, more grateful both to the palate and fto-
mach than moft other fubftances of this clafs. By its
aftringent quality it likewife corroborates the vifeera,
and proves of great fervice in feveral kinds of alvine
fluxes, and immoderate difeharges from the uterus.
The cinnamon plant, with other valuable ones, was
taken in a French {hip by Admiral Rodney in the laft
war, and prefented by him to the affembly of Jamaica.
One of the trees was planted in the botanic garden in
St Thomas in the Eaft ; the other by Hinton Eaft,
Efq. in his noble garden at the foot of the Blue Moun¬
tains. from thefe parent trees fome hundreds of young
trees are already produced from layers and cuttings,
and difperfed to different parts of the country, in all
which it thrives luxuriantly with little trouble : we
may therefore hope it will foon be a valuable addition
to our commerce. Upon comparing the parts of the
tree with the defeription and figure given by Burman
ANY. Enneandria<
and other botanifts, it appears to be the real Ceylon
cinnamon, and of the beft kind, called by the natives
Rajle Coronde : but the fpecimens of bark taken put it
out of all doubt, being, in the opinion of the bell;
judges, of an equal, if not fuperior, quality to any im¬
ported from India. The fmalleft bit of the bark, Dr
Wright affures us, is quite a cordial. The cinnamon
we have from Holland, he obferves, is often inert,
and gives room to fufpedl that it has been fubjedfed to „
a flight procefs in diftillation.
In regard to the trees growing in Jamaica, Dr Dan¬
cer informs us, in his paper already quoted, that
“ The beft cinnamon bark, according to the differ¬
ent trials I have made, is taken from the fmall branch¬
es, of about an inch diameter, the larger limbs not be¬
ing fo eafily decorticated, and not yielding fo good or
fo ftrong a cinnamon. The fmaller twigs, or thofe
that have not acquired a cineritious bark, are too full
of fap and mucilage, and have little aroma. It is the
Uher, or inner bark, that conftitutes the cinnamon j
from which the two external barks muft be carefully
and entirely feparated, or they vitiate the flavour of
the cinnamon ; to do which with dexterity, and to
raife the bark from the wTood, requires fome pradlice.
The bark being feparated, the fmaller pieces are to be
placed within the larger : which, by expofure to the
fun or the air, prefently coil up, and require no fur¬
ther preparation. A dry feafon is the proper one for
taking the bark ; as it is found to be weakened after
long or heavy rains. Cinnamon, though more reten¬
tive of its virtues than any of the other fpices, yet re¬
quires to be protected when taken, from the air and
moifture, by clofe packing in cedar chefts. The leaves
of this tree, whether recent or dried, are fo ilrcngly
impregnated with an aroma, as to afford a good fucce-
daneum for the bark both in cookery and medicine.
Diftilled, they give an excellent fimple and fpirituous
water, and an effential oil. Powdered, they are a
good aromatic fpecies, or marefchal perfume.”
Camphor^ though folid, is the effential oil of the
laurus camphora ; and is obtained from it by diftillation
in the Eaft Indies. (See the article Camphora).—
The tree is another of the captured plants given to
the inhabitants of Jamaica*, and, if cultivated with care,
will alfo be an ufeful acquifition.
The Abbe Grofier informs us, that in China fomc
of thefe trees are found above ico cubits in height,
and fo thick that 20 perfons cannot enclofe them.
The tree is there called tchang ; and it is faid that the
trunk, when old, emits fparks of fire, but of fo fubtle
a nature as not even to injure the hair of thofe who are
near it. Common camphire cofts only a penny the
ounce at Pe-king ; but it is inferior to that of Borneo,
in the judgment even of the Chinefe.
The manner in which fome authors have fpoken of
camphire (the Abbe obferves), gives us reafon to con¬
clude that they have been entirely ignorant of the pro¬
cefs employed to obtain this falutary gum. The cam¬
phire does not drop to the earth, like the gums of cer¬
tain refinous trees, which are preferved by difeharg-
ing that part of their fubftance which is too oily j
neither does it diftil from the top to the bottom of the
tree through an incifion made in it. The Chinefe
would pradlife this method could it be employed with
fuccefs; for it is very common in China to make fuch
kind
Enneandria, B O T
kind of incilions in refinous trees. The method ufed
by the Chinefe for obtaining camphire is as follows.—
They take feme branches frefh from the tchang, chop
them very fmall, and lay them to deep in fpring water
for three days and three nights. After they have been
foaked in this manner, they are put into a kettle,
where they are boiled for a certain time, during which
they keep continually flirring them with a Hick made
of willow. When they perceive that the fap of thefc
* fmall chips adheres diffidently to the flick in the form
of white froft, they drain the whole, taking care to
throw away the dregs and refufe. This juice is after-
wards poured gently into a new earthen bafon well var-
niffied, in which it is differed to remain one night.
Next morning it is found coagulated, and formed into
a folid mafs. To purify this ftrd preparation, they
procure fome earth from an old earthen wall, which,
when pounded, and reduced to a very fine powder,
they put into the bottom of a bafon made of red cop¬
per •, over this layer of earth they fpread a layer of
camphire, and continue thus until they have laid four
drata. The lad, which is of very fine earth, they co¬
ver up with the leaves of the plant f>o-ho, or penny¬
royal 5 and over the whole they place another bafon,
joining it very clofely to the former by means of a
kind of red earth that cements their brims together.
The bafon thus prepared is put over a fire, which,
mud be managed fo as to keep up an equal heat: ex¬
perience teaches them to obferve the proper degree.
But above all, they mud be very attentive led the
plader of fat earth which keeps the bafons together
fhould crack or fall off; otherwife the fpirituous part
would evaporate, and ruin the whole procefs. When
the bafons have been expofed to the neceffary heat,
they are taken off and left to cool; after which they
are feparated, and the fublimated camphire is found
adhering to the cover. If this operation be repeated
two or three times, the camphire is found purer and in
larger pieces. Whenever it is neceffary to ufe any
quantity of this fubdance, it is put between two earth¬
en veffels, the edges of which are furrounded with fe-
veral bands of wret paper. Thefe veffels are kept for
• about an hour over an equal and moderate fire ; and
when they are cool, the camphire is found in its ut-
mod perfedlion and ready for ufe. This method of
procuring camphire, even from the heart of the tree,
may be pralftifed in all feafons of the year 5 which
would not be the cafe (our author obferves), w^ere it
extracted like other refinous fubdances that only flow
during a certain ffiort fpace of time. Befides, by lopping
the branches of the camphire tree, lefs hurt is done to
it than by making incifions, which are always hazar¬
dous.
799. Ahacardium, or Cafhevj-nut, or Acajou.
One fpecies j viz. occidentale. E. and W. Indies.
800. Pan he.
Two fpecies j viz. tindloria, fonchifolia. Chili.
801. Plegorhiza.
One fpecies j viz. addringens. Chili.
802. Cassyta.
Two fpecies j viz. filiformis, corniculata. Egypt,
E. Indies, S. America.
ANY. 175
*
Order II. TRIGYNIA.
803. Rheum, or Rhubarb.
Eight fpecies ; viz. rhaponticum, undulatum, pal-
matum, compa£lum, tartaricum, ribes, hybridum, leu>
corrhizum. Siberia, Levant, Tartary, India, China.
The rheum palmatum, which is of the dock kind,
grow’s fpontaneoufly in China, and endures the colds
of our own climate. Two forts of rhubarb are met
with in the fltops. The fird is imported from Turkey
and Ruffia, in roundiffi pieces, freed from the bark,
with a hole through the middle of each j they are ex¬
ternally of a yellow' colour, and, on cutting, appear
variegated with lively reddidi dreaks. The other,
which is lefs edeemed, comes principally from China,
in longilh pieces, harder, heavier, and more compact
than the foregoing. The fird fort, unlefs kept very
dry, is apt to grow mouldy and worm-eaten j the fe-
cond is lefs fubjeil to thefe inconveniences. Some of
the more indudrious artids are faid to fill up the worm
holes with certain mixtures, and to colour the outfide
of the damaged pieces with powder of the finej forts of
rhubarb, and fometimes wdth cheaper materials j this
is often fo nicely done, as effedlually to impofe upon
the buyer, unlels he very carefully examines each
piece. The marks of good rhubarb are, that it be
firm and folid, but not flinty ; that it be eafily pulvera-
ble, and appear, when pow'dered, of a fine bright yel¬
low colour: that upon being chew'ed, it imparts to
the fpittle a faffron tinge, without proving llimy or
mucilaginous in the mouth. Its tade is fubacrid, bit-
terifli, and fomewhat adringent; the fmell lightly aro¬
matic.
Rhubarb is a mild cathartic, which operates without
violence or irritation, and may be given wdth fafety
even to pregnant women and to children. In fome
people, however, it always occafions fevere griping.
Befides it purgative quality, it is celebrated for an a-
dringent one, by which it drengthens the tone of the
domach and intedines, and proves ufeful in diarrhoea,
and diforders proceeding from a laxity of the fibres*
Rhubarb, in fubdance, operates more powerfully as a
cathartic than any of the preparations of it. Watery
tinflures purge more than the fpirituous ones; whild
the latter contain, in greater proportion, the aromatic,
adringent, and corroborating virtues of the rhubarb.
The dofe, when intended as a purgative, is from a
fcruple to a dram or more.
The Turkey rhubarb is, among us, univerfally pre¬
ferred to the Ead India fort, though this lad is, for
fome purpofes, at lead equal to the other j it is mani-
fedly more adringent, but has fomewhat lefs of an aro¬
matic flavour. Tindlures drawn from both, wdth rec¬
tified fpirit, have nearly the fame tade ; on diddling
off the mendruum, the extradl left from the tindlure
of the Ead India rhubarb, proved confiderably the
dronged. They are both the produce of the fame
climate, and probably the roots of the fame plant, ta¬
ken up at different times, or cured in a different man¬
ner.
Rhubarb is now' raifed in Britain equal to any that
is imported.
The officinal preparations of this drug are a watery
and
i
B O T
and a vinous infufion, a fimple and a compound tinc¬
ture. It is alfo an ingredient in different compofitions,
fuch as the elixir ex (the et rheo, the piluU J}omachicay
and fome others.
ANY. Decandria.
* B Neither cows, horfes, Iheep, fwine, or gozX.s%umbellatu*
will eat it. It is an ornament to the banks ot our ri¬
vers and marfhy ditches. Europe.
Order III. HEXAGYNIA,
804. Butomus, or Flowering-rujh.
One fpecies j viz. umbellatus.
In the clafs Enneandna are
■7 Genera, including 49 Species, of which one only
is found in Britain.
\
CLASSIS X.
DECANDRIA.
CLASS X.
DECANDRIA.
Ordo I. MONOGYNIA.
Seel. I. Flores polypetali, irregulares.
805. Soph or a. Cor. papilion. vexillo adfeendente.
Lomentum moniliforme.
806. Podalyria. Cor. papilion. vexillo adfeen¬
dente. Legumen ventricofum polyfpermum.
807. PultenjEA. Cor. papilion. Alai vexillo bre-
viores. Legumen difpermum.
808. Anagyris. Cor. papilion. vexillo brevi rec¬
to. Carina alis longiore.
809. Cercis. Cor. papilion. alis vexilliformibus.
Ned. gland, ftyliformis, fubgermine.
8x0. Bauhinia. Cor. patens, unguiculata, adfeen-
dens. Petala lanceolata.
811. HymEn.'ea. Cor. fubaequalis. Legum. lig-
nofum, pulpa farinola.
829. Myroxylon. Cor. petals fupremo latiore.
Legumen i-fpermum apice dilatatum.
812. Parkinsonia. Cor. petals infimo reniformi.
Legum. teres, tortuolum.
815. Cjesalpinta. Cor. petalo infimo pulchriore.
Cal. laciniai inaequales. Legum. compreffum.
828. Toluifera. Cor. petalo infimo majore. Cal.
companulatus.
813. Cassia. Cor. inaequalis. Anth. roftratae.
Lomentum planum.
814. Cub^eA. Cor. fuboequalis, petalis 2 deflexis.
Legumen coriaceum ventricofum. Semina fubreni-
formia.
816. Guilandina. Cor. fubtequal. Calyci infidens.
Legum. rhombeum. Sem. offea.
817. Hyperanthera. Cor. fubaequalis. Legu-
jnen 3-valve. Sem. alata.
837 Gjertnera. Cor. fubaequalis. Cal. 4-parti-
tus. Samara quadrialata.
851. Gomphia. Cor. fubaequalis. Baccae plures
receptaculo magno infertae.
824. Dictamnus. Cor. patula. Filam. pulvera-
xea. Capf. 5, connexse. Sem. arillata.
866. R hod ora. Cor. inaequalis tripetala. Cal. 5-
dentatus. Capf. 5-loculares.
Order I. MONOGYNIA.
Se£t. I. Flowers polypetalous, irregular.
S. Cor. papilionaceous or butterfly-fhaped. The
ftandard afeending. The lomentum bracelet-fhaped.
P. Cor. papilionaceous. The ftandard afeending. A
leguminous plant, bellied, rnany-feeded.
P. Cor. papilionaceous. Wings fhorter than the
ftandard. A leguminous plant, 2-feeded.
A. Cor. papilionaceous. A ftiort ftraight ftandard.
The keel of the wing long.
C. Cor. papilionaceous j with ftandard-lhaped wings.
The glands of the nedary ftyle-fhaped, under the ger-
men.
B. Cor. expanding, clawed, afeending. Petals
fpear-lhaped.
H. Cor. nearly equal. Leguminous, woody, with
a farinaceous pulp.
M. Cor. with the laft leaf broader. Leguminous,
i-feeded, dilated at the extremity.
P. Cor. with the loweft petal kidney-lhaped. Legu¬
minous, tapering, twifted.
C. Cor. with the loweft petal beautiful. Cal. un¬
equal fegments. Leguminous compreffed.
T. Cor. loweft leaf larger. Cal. bell-lhaped.
C. Cor. unequal. Anthers beaked. Lomentum
flat.
C. Cor. nearly equal, with 2 leaves bent down¬
wards. Leguminous, bark-like, bellied. Seeds nearly
kidney-fhaped.
G. Cor. nearly equal, fitting in the cal. Legumi¬
nous, diamond lhaped. Seeds bony, h e. fhining.
H. Cor. nearly equal. Leguminous, 3-valved. Seeds
winged.
G. Cor. nearly equal. Cal. 4-partite. Seed-veflel
4-winged.
G. Cor nearly equal. Berries, feveral inferted in a
large receptacle.
1). Cor. open. Filaments dufty. Capf. 5 con"
nefted. Seeds coated.
R. Cor. unequal, 3-petaled. Cal. 5-toothed. Capf.
5 Cel'S- SdJ.
Decandria.
B O T
ANY,
x77
Se£l. II. Tlores polypetali, a quale s.
820. Cynometra. Cal. 4-phyllus j lacin. oppof. ma¬
jor. Legum. 1 -fpermum, carnofum.
831. Prosopis. Cal. haemifphericus, 4 dentatus.
Legum. polyfpermum.
818. Schotia. Cal. 5-fidus, aequalis. Legum. com-
preffum, polyfpermum.
832. Cadia. Cal. 5-fidus. Petala obcordata. Le-
gumen polyfpermum.
836. Adenanthera. Antlieiis glandula infidens.
Leg. compreffum membranaceum.
830. Hjematoxylon. Piftilli fligma eraarginatum.
Legumen valvis navicularibus.
839. Gilibertia. Neftar. tubulofum truncatum.
Antherse fefliles. Capf. 4-locularls.
840. Trichilia. Nedlar. tubulofum, 5-dentatum.
Capf. 3-locularis, 3-valvis. Sem, baccata.
841. Turraea. Neflar. tubulofum, 10-dentatum,
Capi. 3-cocca. Sem. bina.
84?. Melia. Neel, tubulofum, 1 o-dentatum. Dru-
pa nuce 10-loculari.
842. San Doricum. Neel, tubulofum, 10-dentatum.
Drupa nuetbus 5.
845. Swietenia. Ne£l. tubulofum, 10-dentatum.
Capf. lignofa, 5-valvis. Sem. imbricata, margine
membranaceo.
819. Guaiacum. Cal. laciuiae 2 exteriores minores.
Capf. carnofa, 3 f. 5-locularis, angulata.
827. Ruta. Germen punftis lomelliferis. Capf.
5-fida, 5-locularis, polyfperma.
848. Tribulvs. Piflilli llylus nullus. Capf. 5,
connexae, polyfpermae.
847. Fagonia, Cor. ungues calyci infertae. Capf.
5-locularis, 10 valvis, T-fperma.
846. Zygophyllum. Ne6l. fquamae 10 flamini-
fene. Capf. 5-loculaiis, polyfperma.
850. Zwingera. Capf. 5, coriacese, non-dehifeentes.
■849. Quassia. Capf. 5, bivalves, i-fpermae, infer-
tae receptaculo carnofo.
S61. Ceratopetalum. Cor. 5-petala, pinnatifida.
Cal. 5-fidus, ftaminiferus. Capf. 2-locularis.
852. Thryallis. Cor. 5 petala. Capf. tricocca.
835. Ekebergia. Cor. 4-petala. Bacca 5-fperma.
857. Schousboea. Cor. 5-petala calyci inferta.
Bacca infera 5-gona monofperma.
826. Peta.loma. Cor. 5-petala inter calycis laci-
nias inferta. Bacca i-locularis.
853. Limoni a. Cor. 5-petala. Bacca 3 fperma.
844. Cookia, Cor. 5-petala. Pomum 5-loculare,
loculis monofpermis.
8 i;8. Heisteria. Cor. 5-petala. Drupa infidens
calyci colorato grandifafto.
859. Quisqualis. Cor. 5-petala, calyci infidens fi-
liformi.
'* 854. Monotropa. Cab corollinus, ball gibbus.
Capf. 5-locularis, monofperma.
* 872. Clethra, Piflilli fligmata tria. Capf. 3-I0-
cub polyfperma.
* 873. Pyrola. Antberee furfum bicornes, Capf.
5-locularis, polyfperma.
.865. Ledum. Cor. plana, 5-partita. Capf. 5-I0-
Cub polvfperma.
Ycl. iy. Part I.
Seel. II. Flowers polypetafous, equal.
C. Cab 4-leaved j largeft fegments oppofite. Legu¬
minous, x-feeded, flelhy.
P. Cab hemifpherical, 4-toothed. Leguminous,
many-feeded.
S. Cab 5-cleft, equal. Leguminous, comprefled,
many—feeded.
C. Cab 5-cleft. Petals heart-fhaped reverfed. Le¬
guminous, many-feeded.
A. Gland fitting in the anthers. Leguminous, com-
prefied, membranaceous.
H. Stigma of the pillil notched at the end. Legu¬
minous, with boat-fhaped valves.
G. Nectary tubular-lopped. Anthers fitting. Capf.
4- ceiled.
T. Tubular neftary, 5-toothed. Capf. 3-celled, 3-
valved. Seeds berried.
T. Neflary tubular, lo-toothed. Capf. 5-celled.
Seeds double.
M. Neftary tubular, 10-toothed. Drupe with a 10-
celled nut.
S. Neftary tubular, xo-toothed. Drupe with 5 nuts.
S. Netflary tubular, xo-toothed. Capf. woody, 5*
valved. Seeds tiled, with a membranous border.
G. Tw'o outer fegments of the cab fmalb CapC
flelhy, 3 or 5-celled, angular.
R. Germen with 10 honey-bearing points. Capfi
5- cleft, 5-celled, many-feeded.
T. No ftyle of the piftih Capf. 5, connected, many-
feeded.
E. ClawTs of the cor. inferted in the cal. Capf. 5-
celled, 10 valved, 1-feeded.
Z. Neclary of 10 ftamen-bearing feales. Capf. 5-
celled, many-feeded.
Z. Capf. 5. bark-like, not gaping.
C?rpf. 5, 2-valved, x-feeded, inferted in a flefliy
receptacle.
C. Cor. 5-petaled, wing-cleft. Cab 5-cleft, bear¬
ing the fiamens. Capf. 2-celled.
T. Cor. 5 petaled. Capf. 3 celled.
E. Cor. 4-petaled. Berry 5-feeded.
S. Cor. 5-petals inferted in the calyx. Berry in¬
ferior, 5-gon, 1-feeded.
P. Cor. 5-petals inferted between the fegments of
the cab Berry 1 celled.
L. Cor. 5-petaled. Berry 3 feeded.
C. Cor. 5-petaled. Apple 5-celled, with 1-feeded
cells.
H. Cor. 5-petaled. Drupe fitting in the cab colour¬
ed, enlarged.
Cor. e-petaled, fitting in a thread-lhaped cab
* M. Cab corol like, bulging at the bafe. Capf. 5-
celled, one-feeded.
* C. 3 lligmas of the piftih Caph 3-celled, many-
feeded.
* P. Anthers 2 horned upwards. Capf. 5-celled,
many-leeded.
L, Cor. flat, 5-partite. Capf. 5-celled, many-feeded,
z
855>
B O T
8^5. .DiONiEA. Cal. ^-pliyllus. Stigma fimbriatum,
Capif. i-locularis. Sem. bafi capfulae.
833. Murraya. Bacca i-fperma. Cor. 5-petala.
Ne&ariurn margine cingens germen.
834. Bergera. Bacca 2-fperma. Cor. 5-petala.
Stigma turbinatum.
862. Melastoma. Cor. calyci infidens. Anther,
refraftae. Bacca 5-locularis, calyce veftita.
863. Meriania. Cor. calyci infidens. Antherae
refraftae. Capf. 5-locularis, difiepimentis contrariis.
856. Jussieu A. Cor. 4 f. 5-petala. Capf. infera.
His confundenJa funt Rhexice nonnullce. Concocarpus ra-
cemofa. Combretum decandrmn, alternifolium. Jac-
quinia racemofa. Amyris decandra. Gerania aliquot.
Lythrum cordifolium, ciliatum. Melamum. Grijlea
tomentofa. Anacardium occidentale.
Seel. III. Flores monopetaliy a quale s.
822. Panzera. Petalum unicum laterale. Cal.
4- partitus. Legumen.
825. Nicandra. Cor. tubulofa, 10-fida. Cal. 4-
fidus, insequalis. Bacca 3-locularis.
823. Codon. Cor. campanulata, 10-fida. Cal.
10-partitus. Capf. polyfperma.
875. Inocarpus. Cor. tubulofa, 5-fida. Cal. 2-
fidus. Drupa i-fperma.
838. Strigilia. Cor. 5-fida. Neftar. 10-partitum.
Fruftus 6-locularis.
* 868. Andromeda. Cor. campanulata, rotunda.
Capf. 5-locularis.
867. Rhododendron. Cor. infundibilif. Stam.
declinata. Capf. 5-locularis.
864. Kalmia. Cor. limbo fubtus, 4-corniculato.
Capf. 5-locularis.
869. Epig^ea. Cal. exterior, 3-phyllus. Interior
5- phyllus. Capf. 5-locularis.
870. Gualtheria. Cal. exterior, 2-phyllus. In¬
terior 5-fidus. Capf. 5-locul. calyce baccato.
* 871. Arbutus. Cor. ovata, bafi diaphana. Bac¬
ca 5-locularis.
874. Sty rax. Cor. infundilif. Drupa difperma.
Vaccinia nonnulla. Gardenia Fhunbergia.
Seel. IV. Flores apelaliy feu incompleti.
860. Dais. Cor. i-petala. Involucr. 4-phyllum,
multiflorum.
878. Aquilaria. Cal. 5-fidus. Neftar. 5-fidum,
lobis bifirlis. Capf. 2-locularis, 2-valvis.
879. Augea. Cal. 5-partit. Neft. 10-dentatus.
Capf. 10-locul.
876. Samyda. Cal. 5-partitus. Ne£lar. 10-fidum,
cingens germen ftaminiferum. Capf. baccata, unilocu-
laris, 4-valvis.
877. Casearia. Cal. 5-phyllus. Ne£l. 5-phyl-
lum, foliolis cum filamentis alternantibus. Capf. bac¬
cata, i-locul. 3-valvis.
881. Bucida. Cal. 5-partitus. Bacca i-fperma.
821. Crudia. Cal. 4rpartitus. Cor. O. Samara
orbiculata.
ANY. Decandria.
D. Cal. 5-leaved. Stigma fringed. Capf. i-celled.
Seeds at the bafe of the capf.
M. Berry i-feeded. Cor. 5-petaled. Neclary fur¬
rounding the germen with a border.
B. Berry 2-feeded. Cor. 5-petaled. Stigma tur-
baned.
M. Cor. fitting in the cal. Anthers bent back.
Berry 2-celled, covered with a cal.
M. Cor. fitting in the cal. Anthers bent back.
Capf. 5-celled, with partitions oppofite.
J. Cor. 4 or 5-petaled. Capf. inferior.
Seel. III. Flowers i-petalousy equal.
P. One lateral petal. Cal. 4-partite. Legumi¬
nous.
N. Cor. tubular, xo-cleft. Cal. 4-cleft, unequal.
Berry 3-celled.
C. Cor. bell-draped, 10-cleft. Cal. 10-partite.
Capf. many-feeded.
I. Cor. tubular, 5-cleft. Cal. 2-cleft. Drupe 1-
feeded.
S. Cor. 5-cleft. Nedary 10-partite. Fruit 6-
celled.
* A. Cor. bell-fhaped, round. Capf. 5-celled.
R. Cor. funnel-fhaped. Stamens bent downward.
Capf. 5-celled.
K. Cor. with a border beneath. Capf. 5-celled.
E. Exterior cal. 3-leafed. Interior 5-leafed. Capf,
5-celled.
G. Exterior cal. 2-leafed. Interior 5-cleft. Capf.
5-celled, with a berried cal.
* A. Cor. oval, with a tranfparent bafe. Berry 5-
celled.
S. Cor. funnel-draped. Drupe 2-feeded.
Se£l. IV. Flowers without petals^ or incomplete.
D. Cor. i-petaled. Involucrum 4-leafed, many-
dowered.
A. Cal. 5-cleft. Nedary 5-cleft, with cleft lobes.
Capf. 2-celled, 2-valved.
A. Cal. 5-partite. Nedary 10-toothed. Capf. 10-
celled.
S. Cal. 5-partite. Nedary 10-cleft, furrounding a
germen bearing the ftamens. Capf. berried, 1-celled,
4-valved.
C. Cal. 5-leafed. Ned. 5-leafed, leafiets alternat¬
ing with the filaments. Capf. berried, 1-celled, 3-
valved.
B. Cal. 5-partite. Berry i-feeded.
C. Cal. 4-partite. No cor. Seed-veffel round and
Decandria. B O T
880. Copaifera. Cal, o. Cor. 4-petala. Legu-
men i-fpermum.
Stellera chanuejaftne. Conocarpus racetnofa. Torf-
ko/ea.
Ordo II. DIGYNIA.
* 890. Scleranthus. Cor. o. Cal. 5-fidus, infe-
rus. Sem. 2.
885. Trtanthema. Cor. o. Capf. circumfciffa.
* 886. Chrysosplenium. Cor. o; Cal. fuperus.
Cap!. 2-locularis, 2-roftris.
882. Royena. Cor. i-petala. Cal. ventricofus.
Capf. 4-fperma, 4-valvis.
883. Hydrangea. Cor. 5-petala. Cal. 5-fidus,
fuperus. Capf. 2-locul. 2-roftris, circumfciffa.
* 887. Sax 1 frag a. Cor. 5-petala. Cal. 5-partitus.
Capf. i-locularis, 2-roftris.
888. Tiarella. Cor. 5-petala. Cal. corollife-
rus. Capf. bivalvis, altera majore.
889. Mitella. Cor. 5 petala. Cal. corolliferus.
Capf. bivalvis. Petala peftinata.
884. Cunonta. Cor. 5 petala. Cal. 5-phyllus.
Capf. 2-locularis, acuta.
891. Gypsophila. Cor. 5-petala. Cal. 5-partit.
campanulatus. Capf. i-locul. globofa.
* 892. Saponaria. Cor. 5-petala. Cal. tubulofus,
baft nudus. Capf. x locul. oblonga.
* 893. Dianthus. Cor. 5-petala. Cal. tubulofus,
baft fquamofus. Capf. 1-locul. oblonga.
Ordo III. TRIGYNIA.
900. Brunnichia. Capf. i-fperma. Cor. o. Cal.
5-fidus.
* 897. Arenaria. Capf. i-locul. Pet. integra, pa-
tentia.
* 896. Stellaria. Capf. i-locul. Pet. 2-partita,
patentia.
/ 899. Deutzia. Capf. 3-locul. 3-roftrata. Pet.
integra.
* 894. Cucubalus. Capf. 3-locul. Pet. bifida,
fauce nuda.
* 895. Silene. Capf. 3-locul. Pet. bifida, fauce
coronata.
* 898. Cherleria. Capf. 3-locul. Ne£lar. peta-
loidea calyce minora.
901. Garidella. Capf. 3, diftinftae. Pet. caly-
cina. Neftar. bilabiata. (
906. Erythroxylon. Drupa i-fperma. Pet.
bafi fquama inftrufta.
902. Malpighia. Drupa 3-fperma. Pet. 5, un-
guiculata. Cal. glandulofus.
903. Banisteria. Samarae 3, unialatae. Pet. 5,
unguiculata. Cal. glandulofus.
904. Hirjea. Samaras 3, alis binis oppofitis f.
ala circumdatae. Pet. 5, unguiculata. Cal. eglandu-
lofus.
905. Triopteris. Samarae 3, tri f. quadrialatoe.
Pet. unguiculata. Cal. glandulofus.
A N Y.
C. No cal. Cor. 4-petaled. Leguminous, 1-feed-
ed.
Order II. DIGYNIA.
* S. No cor. Cal. 5-cleft, inferior. Seeds 2.
T. No cor. Cal. cut round.
* C. No cor. Cal. fuperior. Capf. 2-celled, with 2
beaks.
R. Cor. x-petaled. Cal. bulging. Capf. 4-feeded,
4-valved.
H. Cor. 5-petaled. Cal. 5-cleft, fuperior. Capf,
2-celled, 2-beaked, cut round.
* S. Cor. 5-petaled. Cal. 5-partite. Capf. x-celled,
2-beaked.
T. Cor. 5-petaled. Cal. bearing the cor. Capf.
2-valved, unequal valves.
M. Cor. 5-petaled. Cal. bearing the cor. Capf
2-valved. Petals comb-fhaped.
C. Cor. 5-petaled. Cal. 5-leafed. Capf. 2-celled,
acute.
G. Cor. 5-petaled. Cal. 5-partite, bell-ftiaped.
Capf. 1-celled, globular.
* S. Cor. 5-petaled. Cal. tubular, naked at the bafe.
Capf. I-celled, oblong.
* D. Cor. 5-petaled. Cal. tubular, fcaly at the bafe.
Capf. 1-celled, oblong.
Order III. TRIGYNIA.
B. Capf. x-feeded. No cor. Cal. 5-cleft.
* A. Capf. 1-celled. Petals entire, expanding.
* S. Capf. 1-celled. Pet. 2-partite, expanding.
D. Capf 3-celled, 3-beaked. Petals entire.
* C. Capf. 3-celled. Pet. 2-cleft, with a naked
mouth.
* S. Capf. 3-celled. Pet. 2-cleft, with a crowned
mouth.
* C. Capf. 3-celled. Neflary petal-like, lefs than
the calyx.
G. 3 diftindt capfules. Petals cup-like. Nedlary
2-lipped.
E. Drupe i-feeded. Pet. at the bafe, fcaled.
M. Drupe 3-feeded. Petals 5, clawed. Cal. glan¬
dular.
B. Seed-veffels 3, one-winged. Pet. 5, clawed.
Cal. glandular.
H. Seed-Veffels 3, pairs oppofite, or furrounded
with a wung. Pet. 5, clawed. Cal. not glandular.
T. 2 feed-veiTels, 3 or 4-winged. Petals clawed.
Cal. glandular.
Z 2
Taman's Germanica.
Or rw
i8o B O T
Op,no IV. PENTAGYNIA.
911. Onestis. Capf. 5, monofpermae. Cor. 5-
petala.
* 912. Cotyledon. Capf. 5 ad neftaria. Cor. i~
petala.
* 913. Sedum. Capf. 5 ad neftaria. Cor. 5-petala.
914. Penthorum. Capf. 5-loba. Cor. petala ra-
riora.
915. Bergia. Capf. 5-locul. 5-valvisj valvls ho-
rizontaliter defcendentibus.
908. Ionquetia. Capf. i-locul. 5-fperma. Pet.
Integra. Cal. 5-phyllus.
* 922. Spergula. Capf. i-locul. polyfperma. Pet.
Integra. Cal. $-phyllus. '
* 921. Cerastium. Capi. i-locul. Pet. 2-fida.
Cal. 5-phyllus.
* 919. AgrOSTEMMA. Capf. i-locul. oblonga. Cal.
tubulofus, corlaceus.
* 920. Lychnis. Capf. 3‘1°CUL oblonga. Cal. tu¬
bulofus, membranaceus.
* 918. Oxalis. Capf. 5-locularIs, angulata. Cor.
bad fubcobaerens.
910. Roberghia. Drupa nuce i-locularl. Cal.
i-phyllus.
909. Spondias. Drupa nuce 5-loculari. Cal. 1-
pbyllus.
907. Averhoa. Pomum 5-loculare. Cal. 5-
phyllus.
917. Grielum. Sem. 5-diftInfta rautica. Cor. 5-
petala. Styli null!.
916. Suriana. Sem. 5, fubrotunda. Cor. 5-peta¬
la. Styli filiformes, laterales.
Adoxia. Canaria. Gerania. Drofera Lvjuanica.
Qrdo V. DECAG\NIA.
923. Neurada. Cal. 5-partitus. Cor. 5-petala.
Capf. 10-cocca.
924. Phytolacca. Cal. 5-phyllus, corollinus.
Cor. nulla. Bacca 10-cocca.
ANY. Decandria*
Order IV. PENTAGYNIA.
O. Capf. 5, one-feeded. Cor. 5-petaled.
* C. Capf. 5 to the nectaries. Cor. i-petaled.
* S. Capf. 5 to the neftaries. Cor. 5-petaled.
P. Capf. 5-lobed. Petals rare.
B. Capf. 5-celled, 5-valved, the valves horizontally
defcending.
I. Capf. 1-celled, 5-feeded. Petals entire. Cal.
5-leafed.
* S. Capf. i-celled, many-feeded. Pet. entire. Cal.
5-leafed.
* C. Capf. I-celled. Pet. 2-cleft. Cal. 5-leafed. 1
* A. Capf. 1-celled, oblong. Cal. tubular, bark-like.
* L. Capf. 3-celled, oblong. Cal. tubular, membra¬
naceous.
* O. Capf. 5-celled, angular. Cor, adhering to the
bale beneath.
R. Drupe, with a 1-celled nut. Cal. 1-leafed.
S. Drupe, with a 5-celled nut. Cal. 1-leafed.
A. A 5-celled apple. Cal. 5-leafed.
G. 5 diftinft awnlefs feeds. Cor. 5 petaled. No
ftyles.
S. Seeds 5, nearly round. Cor. 5-petaled.
Order V. DECAGYNIA.
N. Cal. 5-partite. Cor. 5-petaled. Capf. 10-celI-
ed.
P. Cal. 5-leafed, corol-like. Cor. none. Berry
lO-celled.
Order I. IVIONOGYNIA.
805. Sophora.
Nine fpecies •, viz. tetraptera, microphylla, flavef-
cens, alopecuroides, tomentofa, occidentalis, japonica,
heptaphylla, monofperma. Levant, Africa, W. In¬
dies, New Zealand.
t. 806. PoDALYRIA.
15 fpecies *, viz. capeniis, aurea, argentea, geni-
floides, ternata, auftralis, tinftoria, alba, lupinoides,
trifoliata, calyptrata, biflora, myrtillifolia, hirfuta,
baxifolia.
807. PULTENAETA.
Six fpecies; viz. ftipularis, paleacea, binophylla,
juncea, villofa, daphnoidcs^
808. Anagyris, or Stinhing-bean Trefoil.
One fpecies •, viz. foetida. Spain, Italy.
809. Cercis, or ’judas-tree.
Two fpecies-, viz. liliquaftrum, canadenfis. S. Eu^
rope, Levant, N. America.
810. Bauhjnia, or Mountain Ebony.
15 fpecies j viz. fcandens, parviflorum, racemofa,
aculeata, divaricata, aurita, porre6ta, ungulata, va-
riegata, Candida, purpurea, tomentofa, acuminata, gu-
janefis, rubefcens. Egypt, E. and W. Indies.
811. Hymenjea, or Locufl-tree.
Three fpecies} viz. courbaril, venofa, verrucofa.
Weft Indies.
812. Par kin son 1 a, or jerufalem Thorn.
One fpecies; viz. aculeata. Weft Indies.
81.3 ;
Decandria.
ANY.
B O T
813. Cassia, or Wild Senna.
39 fpecies ^ viz. diphylla, abfus, viminea, bacilla-
ris, tageia, tora, bicaplularis, emarginata, obtufixrolia,
fennoides, acuminata, corymbofa, longifiliqua, falcata,
fervicea, occidentalis, planifiliqua, patuia, lineata, ato-
maria, pilofa, arborefcens, fenna, rufcifolia, biflora,
chinenfis, multiglandulofa, hirfuta, tomentofa, ferpens,
mexicana, anguftifolia, liguftrina, florida, itipulacea,
alatq marilandica, faftigiata, frondofa, tenuiflima,
virgata, fophera, brafleata, auriculata, brevifolia,
mollis, javanica, grandis, nigricans, polyphylla, cha-
mTecrifta, glandulofa, mimofoides, microphylla, flexu-
ofa, capenfis, fiftula, ni<?litans, procumbens. Egypt,
E. and W. Indies, America.
The fruit of the cajjia jijhila is a cylindrical pod,
fcarcely an inch in diameter; a foot or more in length.
The outflde is a hard brown bark : the infide is divid¬
ed by thin tranfverfe -woody plates, covered wflth a
foft black pulp, of a fweetilh tafte, with fome degree
of acrimony. There are two forts of this drug in the
fhops ; one brought from the Eaft Indies, the other
from the Weft : the canes or pods of the latter are ge¬
nerally large, rough, thick-rinded, and the pulp nau-
feous ; thofe of the former are lefs, fmoother, the
pulp blacker, and of a fweeter tafte : this fort is pre¬
ferred to the other. Such pods fhould be chofen as
are weighty, new, and do not make a rattling noife
(from the feeds being loofe within them) when fhaken.
The pulp fliould be of a bright ftrining black colour,
and a fweet tafte, not harlh, which happens from the
fruit being gathered before it has grown fully ripe, or
fourifh, which it is apt to turn upon keeping. It
Ihould neither be very dry nor very moift, nor at all
mouldy, which from its being kept in damp cellars, or
moiftened, in order to increafe its weight, it is very
fubjeift to be. Greateft part of the pulp diflblves both
in water and in rectified fpirit, and may be extrafted
from the cane by either. The {hops employ water,
boiling the bruifed pod therein, and afterwards evapo¬
rating the folution to a due confiftence.
The pulp of caftfia is a gentle laxative medicine, and
frequently given, in a dofe of fome drams, in coftive
habits. Some direct a dofe of twro ounces or more as
a cathartic, in inflammatory cafes, where the more
acrid purgatives have no place ; but in thefe large
quantities it generally naufeates the ftomach, produces
flatulencies, and fometimes gripings of the bow'els,
efpecially if the caffia be not of a very good kind :
thefe effedls may be prevented by the addition of aro¬
matics, and exhibiting it in a liquid form. Some fay
it does excellent fervice in the painful tenfion of the
belly, which fometimes follows the imprudent ufe of
antimonials; and that it may be advantantageoufty a-
cuated with the more acrid purgatives or antimonial
emetics, or employed to abate their force. Vallifnieri
relates, that the purgative virtue of this medicine is
remarkably promoted by manna : that a mixture of
four drams of caflia, and tw*o of manna, purges as
much as 12 drams of caflia, or 32 of manna alone.
Sennertus obferves, that the urine is apt to be turned
of a green colour, by the ufe of caflia, and fometimes,
w here a large quantity has been taken, blackhh. This
drug gives name to an oftlcinal elefluary, and is an in¬
gredient alfo in another..
814. CuB^EA.
Two fpecies ; viz. paniculata, trigona. Guiana,
815. C^esAlpin 1A, or Brajiletto.
Nine fpecies ; bijuga, pulcherrima, elata, coriaria,
brafilienfis, echinata, fappan, crifta, mimofoides. E,
and W. Indies.
816. Guilandina, or Bonduc, or Nichar Tree.
Five fpecies ; viz. bonduc, bonducella, nuga, pani¬
culata, axillaris. E. and W. Indies.
817. Hyperanthera, or Nephritic-wood.
Four fpecies; viz. decandra, moringa, femidecan-
dra, cochinchinenfis. Egypt, Ceylon, N. America.
818. Schotia.
One fpecies ; viz. fpeciofa. C. of G. Hope.
819. Guaiacum, or Lignum vitce, Pochwood.
Three fpecies; viz. dubium, officinale, ianxftum,
Africa, China, W. Indies.
The wood of the guaiacum officinale is very ponderous,
of a clofe compatft texture ; the outer part is of a yel¬
low colour, the heart of a deep blackiffi green, or va¬
riegated wflth black, green, pale, and brown coloiarsq
the bark is thin, fmooth, externally of a dark grayiih
hue : both have a lightly aromatic, bitterilh, pungent
tafte ; the bark is fomewhat the weakeft. The refin,
which exudes from incifions made in the trunk of the
tree, is brought to us in irregular mafles, ufually fri¬
able, of a dufky greenifh, and fometimes of a reddiflr
caft, with pieces of the wTood among them : its tafte is
more acrid and pungent than that of the wood or
bark.
Their general virtues are thofe of a warm ftimulat-
ing medicine : they ftrengthen the ftomach and other
vifeera ; and remarkably promote the urinary and ar¬
ticular difeharge. Hence, in cutaneous defedations,
and other diforders, proceeding from obftruclions of
the excretory glands, and where fluggiffi ferous hu¬
mours abound, they are eminently ufeful; rheumatic
and other pains have often been relieved by them.
They are alfo laxative. The refin is the moft aftive
of thefe drugs ; and the efficacy of the others depends
upon the quantity of this part contained in them. The
refin is extracted from the wood in part by watery li¬
quors, but much more effedftually by fpirituous ones.
The watery extraift of this wood kept in the fhops,
proves not only lefs in quantity, but confiderably weak¬
er, than one made with fpirit. This laft extract is of
the fame quality with the native refin, and difters from
that brought to us only in being purer. The gum or
extracts, are given from a few grains to a fcruple or
half a dram ; which laft dofe proves, for the moft part,
confiderably purgative. The officinal preparations of
guaiacum are, an extraft of the wood, a folution of
the gum in redified fpirit of wine, and a folution in
volatile fpirit, and an empyreumatic oil diftilled from
the wmod.
Guaiac, in form of deco&ion, has been faid to cure
the venereal difeafe ; and in this country it is frequent¬
ly ufed as an adjuvant to mercury. The refin, dif-
folved in rum, or combined with w’ater by means of
mucilage or the yolk of eggs, or in the form of the
volatile tindure or elixir, is much employed in gout
and chronic rheumatifm. The tindure or elixir has
been
i82 , B O T
been given to die extent of half an ounce twice a-day,
and is lometimes ufefully combined with laudanum.
820. Cynometra.
Tw’o fpecies; viz. cauliflora, ramiflora.
821. Crudia.
Two fpecies ; viz. fpicata, aromatica. Guiana.
822. Panzera.
One fpecies 5 viz. falcata. Carolina.
823. Codon.
One fpecies ; viz. royeni. C. of G. Hope.
824. Dictamnis, or Fraxirulla, White Dittany.
One fpecies ; viz. albus. Germany, France, Italy.
The di&amnus albus grows wild in the mountainous
parts of France, Italy, and Germany. From thence
the cortical part of the root, in a dry ftatc, rolled up
in little quills, is fometimes brought to us. It is of a
white colour, of a weak, not very agreeable fmell,
and of a durable bitter, lightly pungent tafle. It has
been recommended as an alexipharmac, a tonic, and an
anthelmintic •, but it is very feldom ufed, and has no
place in the London Pharmacopoeia.
825. Nicandra.
One fpecies 3 viz. amara. Guiana.
826. Petaloma.
Two fpecies j viz. myrtilloides, muriri. Weft In¬
dies, Guiana.
827. Ruta, or Rue.
Seven fpecies •, viz. graveolens, montana, chalepen-
lis, pinnata, patavina, linifolia, fruticulofa. S. Eu-
x'Ope, Africa.
The ruta graveolens is a fmall ftirubby plant met
with in gardens, where it flowrers in June, and holds
its green leaves all the winter. We frequently find in
the markets a narrowT-leaved fort, which is cultivated
by fume, in preference to the other, on account of its
leaves appearing variegated during the winter with
white ftreaks.
Rue has a ftrong ungrateful fmell, and a bitterilh
penetrating tafte. The leaves, when in full vigour,
are extremely acrid, infomuch as to inflame and blifter
the ikin if much handled. With regard to their me¬
dicinal virtues, they are powerfully liimulating, atte¬
nuating, and detergent. And hence, in cold phleg¬
matic habits, they quicken the circulation, diffolve te¬
nacious juices, open obftruftions of the excretory
glands, and promote the fluid fecretions. The writers
on the materia medica, in general, have entertained a
very high opinion of the virtues of this plant. Boer-
haave is full of its praifes j particularly of the diftilled
oil and the diftilled water, cohobated or re-diftilled fe-
veral times from frelh parcels of the herb : after fome-
what extravagantly commending other waters prepared
in this manner, he adds, with regard to that of rue,
that the greateft commendations he can beftow upon it
fall fhort of its merit. “ What medicine (fays he)
can be more efficacious for promoting fweat and per-
fpiration, for the cure of the hyfleric paffion and of
epilepfies, and for expelling poifon.” Whatever fer-
vice rue may be of in the two laft cafes, it undoubted¬
ly has its ufe in the others: the cohobated water, how¬
ever, is not the raoft efficacious preparation of it. An
extradf, made by redlified fpirit, contains, in a fmall
compafs, the whole virtues of the rue ; this menftruum
ANY. Decandna<
taking up by infufion all the pungency and flavour of
the plant, and elevating nothing in diftillation. With
water its peculiar flavour and wTarmth arife 5 the bit-
ternefs, and a confiderable fltare of the pungency, re¬
maining behind.
The only officinal preparation of rue nowr retained
in our pharmacopoeias is the extrafl •, but it is an in¬
gredient in the compound powTder of myrrh and fome
other compofitions.
828. Toluifep.a, or Balfam of Tolu tree.
One fpecies ; viz. balfamum. Carthagena.
The toluifera balfamum flows from a tree growing
in Tolu in the Spanilh Weft Indies-, from whence the.
balfam is brought to us in little gourd fhells. It is of
a yellowilh brown colour inclining to red ; in confid¬
ence thick and tenacious : by age it grows hard and
brittle, w ithout fuffering any great lofs of its more va¬
luable parts. The fmell of this balfam is extremely
fragrant, fomewhat refembling that of lemons; its
tafte warm and fweetiffi, with little of the pungency,
and nothing of the naufeous relilh, which accompany
the other balfams. It has the fame general virtues
with the balfamum rahafiri, but is much milder; and
for fome purpofes, particularly as a corroborant in
gleets and feminal weakneffes, is fuppofed to be more
efficacious.
829. Myroxylon, or Balfam of Peru.
Three fpecies j viz. peruiferum, pedicellatum, fru-
tefcens. Mexico, Peru.
The myroxylon peruiferum, as brought to us, is
nearly of the confidence of thin honey, of a reddiih
brown colour, inclining to black, an agreeable aroma¬
tic fmell, and a very hot biting tafte. Diftilled with
water, it yields a fmall quantity of a fragrant effential
oil of a reddifh colour 5 and in a ftrong fire, without
addition, a yellowfifli red oil.
Balfam of Peru is a very warm aromatic medicine,
confiderably hotter and more acrid than copaiva. Its
principal effefts are to warm the habit, to ftrengthen
the nervous fyftem, and attenuate vifcid humours.
Hence its ufe in fome kinds of afthmas, gonorrhoeas,
dyfenteries, fuppreffions of the uterine difcharges, and
other diforders proceeding from a debility of the fo-
lids, or a fluggiihnefs or inaflivity of the juices. It is
alfo employed externally for cleanfing and healing
wounds and ulcers, and fometimes againft palfies and
rheumatic pains.
This balfam does not unite with w-ater, milk, ex-
preffed oils, animal fats or v7ax -, it may be mingled
in the cold with this laft, and likewife with the feba-
ceous fubftance called expreJJ'ed oil cf mace ; but if the
mixture be afterwards liquefied by heat, the balfam fe-
parates and falls to the bottom. It may be mixed with
water into the form of an emulfion, after the fame
manner as the balfam of Copaiva. Alkaline lixivia
difl'olve great part of it \ and redlified fpirit the whole.
It is an ingredient in feveral officinal compofitions,
in fome of which it has rather a bad than a good ef-
fe£L
There is another fort of balfam of Peru of a white
colour, and confiderably more fragrant than the for¬
mer. This is very rarely brought to us. It is faid to
be the produce of the fame plant which yields the com¬
mon or black balfam, and to exude from incifions
made
Decandria. B O T
made in the trank ; while the former is alleged to be
obtained by boiling. Befides the white, there is alfo
a third kind, commonly called the red or dry. This
is fuppofed to obtain a different (late from the white,
merely in confequence of the treatment to which it is
fubjefted, after it is got from the tree. In its fra¬
grance it in fome degree approaches to the balfam of
Gilead, held in fo high efleem among the eaftern na¬
tions ; but it is very rarely in ufe in Britain, and al-
moft never to be met with in our (hops.
830. HasMATOXYLON, or Logwood.
One fpecies ■, viz. campechianum. Campeachy, S.
America.—This fpecies is brought chiefly from Cam-
peachy in the bay of Honduras. It is ufually in large
logs, very compaft and hard, of a red colour, and an
aftringent fweet tafte. It has been for a long time
ufed by the dyers, but not till very lately as a medi¬
cine ; a decoflion of it, and the extra#, are in ufe in
our hofpitals, and faid to have proved very ferviceable
in diarrhoea. It frequently tinges the ftools, and fome-
times the urine. The extra# is now received into the
{Imps, and it is found to be a very ufeful aftringent.
831. Prosopis.
One fpecies *, viz. fpicigera. India.
832. Cadia.
One fpecies ; viz. purpurea. Arabia.
833. Murraya.
One fpecies ; viz. exotica. E. Indies, New Guinea.
834. Bergera.
One fpecies j viz. koenigii.
835. Ekebergia.
One fpecies 5 viz. capenfis. C. of G. Hope.
836. Adenanthera, ox Bafe Flower-fence.
Three fpecies ; viz. pavonina, falcata, fcandens.
India.
837. G^ertnera.
One fpecies j viz. racemofa. India.
838. Strigilia.
One fpecies j viz. racemofa. Peru.
839. Gilibertia.
lour fpecies ; viz. decandra, ovata, heterophylla,
oppofitifolia. Ifles of Bourbon and Mauritius.
840. Trichilia.
1 2 fpecies; viz. hirta, fpondoides, emetica, glabra, pal¬
lida, mofchata, fpeftabilis, alliacea, heterophylla, trifo-
liata, nervofa, fpinofa. Jamaica, Hifpaniola, S. America.
841. Turr^xa.
_ ^ve fpecies ; viz. virens, pubefcens, maculata, fe-
ricea, lanceolata. Eaft Indies.
842. Sandoricum.
One fpecies ; viz. indicum. India.
843. Swietenia, or Mahogany Tree.
T1 hree fpecies j viz. mahogoni, febrifuofa, chloroxv-
lon. Weft Indies. ^
844. CoOKIA.
One fpecies; pun#ata. New Holland, China,
845. Melia, or Bead-tree.
Four fpecies ; viz. azedarach, fempervivens, com-
pofita, azadirachtah. Spain, Syria, Eaft Indies.
ANY.
846. Zygophyllum, or Bean-caper.
14 fpecies j viz. {implex, cordifolium, labago, foeti-
dum, maculatum, coccineum, album, morgiana, mi-
crophyllum, fcflilifolium, fpinofum, aeftuans, lanatum,
arboreum. Syria, Cape, Caucafus, South America.
847. Fagonia.
Four fpecies ; viz. cretica, hifpanica, arabica, indi-
ca. Spain, Crete, Arabia, India.
848. Tribulus, or Caltrops.
Four fpecies; viz. maximus, lanugmofus, terreftris,
ciftoides. South Europe, Cape, Jamaica.
849. Quassia, or Simarouba Bark.
Three fpecies; viz. amara, fimaruba, excelfa. W,
Indies, Cayenne, Guiana.
SjO. Z\VINGERA.
One fpecies ; viz. amara. Guiana.
851. Gomphia.
Five fpecies viz. anguftifolia, nitida, jabotapita,
laevigata, laurifolia. Weft Indies.
852. Thryallis.
One fpecies j viz. brafilienfis. Brazil.
853. Limonia.
Eight fpecies 5 viz. monophylla, trifoliata, acidifli-
ma, lucida, mauritiana, pentaphylla, madagafcarenfts,
minuta. Eaft Indies.
854. MonotropA, or Birds-nef.
Two fpecies ; viz. * hypopithys, uniflora. North Eu¬
rope, North America.
855. Dion tea, or Venus''s Fly-trap.
One fpecies; viz. mufcipula. North America.
856. Jussieua. or Tree-primrofe.
12 fpecies; viz. repens, tenella, linearis, linifolia,
peruviana, hirta, pubefcens, o#ovalvis, fuffruticofa,
acuminata, inclinata, ere#a. India, America.
857. Schousboea.
One fpecies ; viz. coccinea. Martinico.
858. Heisteria.
One fpecies 5 viz. coccinea. Martinico.
859* Quisclualis.
One fpecies 5 viz. indica. India.
860. Dais.
Three fpecies 5 viz. conitifolia, difperma, o#andra.
Cape, India.
86r. Ceratopetalum.
One fpecies, viz. gummiferum.
862. Melastoma, or American Goofeberry.
85 Ipecies } viz. calyptrata, crocea, patens, crenatas
rigida, decuffata, montana, procera, adfcendens, af-
pera, ledifolia, ftrigofa, holofericea, velutina, feflili-
foha, ramiflora, glabra, chryfophylla, quadrangularis,
tnnervia, repens, grofiularioides, parviflora, fuccofa, ar.“
borefcens, longifolia, prafma, agreftis, fcandens, alata,
flavefcens, hirta, fpicata, acinodendron, cymofa, gran-
diflora, elegans, rufefcens, rubra, majeta, hetero'phyl-
la, phyfiphora, purpurea, argentea, data, impetiolaris,
fragilis, coriacea, grofla, malabathrica, ftrigillofa, ta-
monea, albicans, capitata, fplendens, Isevigata, crif-
pata, hirfuta, microphylla, micrantha, capiilaris, ru-
bens,^ glabrata, glandulofa, hirtella, triflora, o#andra,
divaricata, tetrandra, fafcicularis, anguftifolia, pur-
pur a fcensj.
183
E84 B O T
purafcens, alplna, verticlllata, acuminata, lateriflora,
eiaeagnoides, fcabrofa, virgata, umbrofa, hifpida, fefli-
liflora, pilofa, difcolor, coccinea. America, Weil In¬
dies.
863. Meriania.
Two fpecies j viz. leucantha, purpurea.
864. Kalmia, or Dwarf American Laurel.
Four fpecies 5 viz. latifolia, anguftifolia, glauca, hir-
futa. North America.
865. Ledum, or Marjh Cijlus.
Three fpecies j viz. paluftre, latifolium, buxifolium.
North Europe, North America.
866. Rhodora.
One fpecies j canadeniis. North America.
867. Rhododendron, or Dwarf Rofe-bay.
10 fpecies j viz. ferrugineum, dauricum, camtfchati-
cum, hirfutum, chamaeciftus, caucaflcum, chryfanthum,
ponticum, maximum, pun&atum. Siberia, Alps,
Gibraltar, Levant, North America.
The rhododendrum chryfanthum is a native plant of
Siberia, where a weak infufion of it is ufed as tea. The
Siberians ufe a kind of deco&ion of it in rheumatifm and
gout. They put about two drams of the dried (hrub
in an earthen pot with about ten ounces of boiling water,
keeping it near a boiling heat for a night, and this they
take in the morning. It is faid to occafion heat, thirfl:,
a degree of delirium, and a peculiar creeping-like fen-
fation in the parts affe&ed. The ufe of liquids is not
allowed during its operation, as this is apt to induce
vomiting. In a few hours the pain and difagreeable
fymptoms are relieved ; and it is faid, two or three
dofes generally complete the cure. The powder has
alfo been ufed in dofes of a few grains.
Hitherto it has been fo little employed in Britain,
that it has no place in the London Pharmacopoeia:
but in fome cafes, in which it has been ufed at Edin¬
burgh, it has been produ&ive of good effe&s •, and ac¬
cordingly it is now introduced into the Edinburgh
Pharmacopoeia, as well as into the Pharmacopoeia RoJJicay
where it had firft a place.
868. Andromeda, or Bafe Heath.
26 fpecies $ viz. tetragona, ericoides, hypnoides, ly-
copodioides, empetrifolia, myrlinites, mariana, ferru-
ginea, fafciculata, jaipaicenfis, oftandra, pulverulenta,
* polifolia, falicifolia, buxifolia, japonica, paniculata,
arborea, racemofa, catefbaei, axillaris, coriacea, acu¬
minata, rupeftris, anaftomofans, calyculata. North
Europe, America, Cape, Jamaica.
869. Epig.’EA, or Trailing Arbutus.
Two fpecies j viz. repens, cordifolia. Virginia, Cana¬
da, Gual.
870. Gualtheria.
Two fpecies *, viz. procumbens, antipoda.
871. Arbutus, or Strawberry Tree.
10 fpecies; viz.* unedo, laurifolia, andrachne, fer -
ruginea, acadienfis, * alpina, * uva urfi, mucronata, mj-
crophylla, pumila. Europe, North America, Terra
del Fuego.
unedo. * A. ftem tree like: leaves fmooth, bluntly ferrated:
panicle terminating ; berries with many feeds.-—It is a
beautiful ornament to our Ihrubberies, not only on ac-
A N Y. Decandria.
count of its foliage and flowers, but of its fruit, which
is pleafing to the eye, though not grateiul to the tafte.
The country people, however, in Ireland eat it, but
always drink water after.
* A. ftems trailing : leaves wrinkled, fomewhat fer- alpina.
rated, and fringed with hairs.—The berries have fome-
thing of the flavour of black currants, but they are
not fo good. Goats refufe it.
* A. ftems trailing •, leaves oblong egg-fliaped, vzry uva urjt.
entire, veined like net-work underneath.-—The berries
of this plant are infipid, pulpy, and mealy. The plant
is much ufed in Sweden, to dye an afh colour, and to
tan leather. Half a dram of the powdered leaves, given
every, or every other day, has been found ufeful in
calculous cafes. It was firft ufed for this purpofe at
Montpelier, and afterwards by Dr. De Haen at Vienna,
who relates feveral cafes, in which it proved of the
greateft fervice. Its fuccefs in England has been un¬
certain. Sometimes the patients found no relief, but
thought their complaints rather aggravated than al¬
leviated ; while, in other calculous and nephritic cafes,
the fymptoms have been almoft entirely removed. Per¬
haps, upon the whole, we ftiall find it no better than
other vegetable aftringents j fome of which have been
long ufed by the country people in gravelly complaints,
and with very great advantage, though hitherto un¬
noticed by the regular pra&itioners. Horfes, cows,
goats, and (heep, refufe it.
873. Clethra.
Four fpecies; viz. aluifolia, paniculata, arborea, tini-
folia. N. America, Jam. Madeira.
873. Pyrola, or Winter-green.
Six fpecies ; viz. * rotundifolia, * minor, * fecunda,
umbellata, maculata, * uniflora. N, Europe, Alia,
America,
874. Styrax, or Star ax tree.
Four fpecies ; viz. officinale, grandifolium, benzoin,
laevigatum. Italy, Levant, S, Carolina.
The fyrax officinale is an odoriferous refinous fub-
ftance, exuding from a tree growing in the warmer
climates.
It has been cuftomary to diftinguiffi three forts of
ftorax, though only one is ufually met with in the fhops.
1. Styrax ca/amita, or for ax in the cane ; fo called
from its having been formerly brought inclofed in reeds
from Pamphylia. It is either in fmall diftinft tears, of
a whitiffi or reddifh colour, or in larger mafles com-
pofed of fuch.
2. Star ax in the lump, or red forax. This is in
mafles of a uniform texture, and yellowifh red or
browniffi colour; though fometimes, likewife, inter-
fperfed with a few whitilh grains. Of this fort, there
has been fome lately to be met with in the Ihops, un¬
der the name offorax in the tear.
3. The common ftorax of the (hops, is in large tnafies,
confiderably lighter and lefs compail than the forego¬
ing ; it appears upon examination, to be compofed of
a refinous juice, mixed with faw-duft. For what pur¬
pofe this addition is made, it is difficult to fay ; but it
can fcarcely be fuppofed to be done with any fraudulent
view, fince the faw-duft appears at fight. This com¬
mon ftorax is much lefs efteemed than the two firffc
forts; though, when freed from the woody matter, it
proves fuperior in point of fragrance to either of them.
Rectified
Decandria, B y ■L
Reflified fpirit, tlie common menftruum of refins, dif-
folves the ftorax, leaving the wood behind ; nor does
this tindlure lofe conllderably of its valuable parts, in
being infpiffated to a folid confidence 5 whilft aqueous
liquors elevate almoil all the fragrancy of the ftorax.^
Storax is one of the mod agreeable of the odori¬
ferous refins, and may be exhibited to great advantage
in languors, and debilities of the nervous fydem; it is
not, however, much ufed in common pra&ice.
875. Inocarpus.
One fpecies; viz. edulis. Otaheite.
876. Samyda.
Nine fpecies} viz. nitida, macrophylla, multidora,
villofa, glabrata, fpinefcens, pubefcens, ferrulata, poly-
andra. Wed Indies, S. America.
877. Casearia.
12 fpecies 5 viz. fpinofa, nitida, ramifiora, hirta, par-
vidora, parvifolia, fylvedris, macrophylla, feirulata, el-
liptica, ovata, hirfuta. Jamaica, S. America.
878. Aquilaria.
One fpecies j viz. ovata. Wed Indies.
879. Augea.
One fpecies •, viz. capenfis.
880. CopaiPera, or Balfam of Capivi tree.
One fpecies ; viz. officinalis. Brazil, Antilles.
The tree which produces this balfam, is a native of
the Spanidi Wed India iflands, and of fome parts of the
continent of South America. It grows to a large fize,
and the balfamum copaiva fiowTs, under the form of a
refinous juice, from incifions made in the trunk.
The juice is clear and tranfparent, of a whitilh or
pale yellowilh colour, an agreeable fmell, and a bit-
teridi pungent tade. It is ufually about the confidence
of oil, or a little thicker} when long kept, it becomes
nearly as thick as honey, retaining its clearnefs j but
has not been obferved to grow dry or folid, as mod of
the other refinous juices do. We fometimes meet with
a thick fort of balfam of copaiva, which is not at all
tranfparent, or much lefs fo than the foregoing, and
generally has a portion of turbid watery liquor at the
bottom. This fort is probably either adulterated by
the mixture of other fubdances, or has been extra&ed
by codlion from the bark and branches of the tree ; its
fmell and tade are much lefs plealant than thofe of the
genuine balfam.
Pure balfam oLcopaiva diffolves entirely in re&ified
fpirit, efpecially if the mendruum be previoully alka¬
lized ; the folution has a very fragrant fmell. Didd¬
led wfith water, it yields a large quantity of a limpid
effential oil, and in a drong heat, without addition, a
blue oil.
The balfam of copaiva is a ufeful corroborating de¬
tergent medicine, accompanied with a degree of irrita¬
tion. It drengthens the nervous fydem, tends to loofen
the belly ; in large dofes proves purgative, promotes
urine, and cleans and heals exulcerations in the urinary
paflages, which it is fuppofed to perform more effeftual-
ly than any of the other balfams. Fuller obferves, that
it gives the urine an intenfely bitter tade, but not a
violet fmell, as the turpentines do.
This balfam has been principally celebrated in gleets
and the duor albus, and externally as a vulnerary.—
Vol. IV. Part I.
ANY. 18
The author above-mentioned recommends it likewife
in dyfenteries, in Icorbutic cachexies, in difeafes of the
bread and lungs, and in an acrimonious or putrefeent
date of the juices: he fays, he has known very dan¬
gerous coughs, which manifedly threatened a confump*
tion, cured by the ufe of this balfam alone *, and, that
notwithdanding its being hot and bitter, it has good
effedls, even in he61ic cafes. Mod phyficians feem now,
however, to confider balfams and refins too llimulant
to be ventured on in phthifical affedlions.
The dofe of this medicine rarely exceeds 20 or 30
drops, though fome direft fixty, or more. It may be
'Conveniently taken in the form of an elaeofaccharum,
or in that of an emulfion, into-which it may be reduced
by triturating it with almonds, or rather with a thick
mucilage of gum arabic, till they are well incorporated,
and then gradually adding a proper quantity of water.
881. Bucida.
Two fpecies ; viz. buceras, capitata. Jamaica.
Order II. DIGYNIA.
882. Royena, or African Bladder nut.
Seven fpecies j viz. lucida, villofa, pallens, glabra,
hirfuta, polyandra, angudifolia. C. of G. Hope.
883. Hydrangea.
Four fpecies j viz. arborefeens, hortenfis, radiata,
quercifolia. Virgmia, Carolina.
884. Cunonia.
One fpecies •, viz. capenfis. C. of G. Hope.
885. Trianthema, or Horfe Purfain.
Seven fpecies \ viz. monogyna, crydallina, pentan-
dra, fruticofa, humifufa, anceps, decandra. Egypt, In¬
dia, Jamaica.
886. Chrysosplenium, or Golden Saxifrage..
Two fpecies 5 viz. * alternifolium, * oppofitifolium.
N. Europe, Canada.
887. Saxifraga, or Saxifrage.
49 fpecies; viz. cotyledon, aizoon, mutata, penfyl-
vamca, hieracifolia, androfacea, caefia, burferiana, fe-
doides, tenella, bryfides, bronchealis, * ftellaris, craffi-
folia, * nivalis, bellardi, davurica, farmentofa, pundla-
ta, * umbrofa, hirfuta, cuneifolia, geum, * oppofiti-
folia, afpera, * hirculus, * aizoides, autumnalis, ro-
tundifolia, * granulata, bulbifera, * cernua, rivularis,
geranioides, ajugifolia, fibirica, rupefiris, * tridaftylites,
petraea, adfeendens, * mofehata, mufeoides, caefpitofa,
tricufpidata, cymbalaria, hederacea, orientalis, cuneata,
* hypnoides.
888. Tiarella, or American Sanicle.
Two fpecies; viz. cordifolia, trifoliata. North of
Afia and America.
889. Mitella, or Bafe American Sanicle.
Three fpecies ; viz. diphylla, cordifolia, nuda, N.
of Afia, America.
890. ScleRanthus, or Knawcl, German Knot-grafs.
Three fpecies; viz. * annuus, * perennis, * polycar¬
pus. Europe.
* S. calyx, fegments thornlefs, tapering to a point;
open when the fruit is ripe.'—The Swedes and Germans
A a are
/
iS6 B O T
are faid to receive the vapour arifing from a deco&ion
of it into their mouths to cure the toothach. Goats
and fheep eat it ; cows refuie it.
perennis. * S. cal. fegments blunt, clofed when the fruit is ripe.
—The Poliih cochineal {coccuspolonicus') is found upon
the roots in the fummer months.
891. Gypsophila.
13 fpecies } viz. repens, proftrata, paniculata, vifco-
fa, adfcendens, altiflima, arenaria, ftruthium, fadigiata,
perfoliata, muralis, rigida, faxifraga. Europe.
892. Saponaria, or Soap-wort.
Nine fpecies j viz. * officinalis, vaccaria, cretica,
porrigens, illyrica, ocymoides, orientalis, lutea, belli-
difolia. Europe.
The fcponaria officinalis grows wild, though not very
common, in low wet places, and by the fides of run¬
ning waters *, a double-flowered fort is frequent in our
gardens. The leaves have a bitter not agreeable tafte j
agitated with water, they raife a faponaceous froth,
which is faid to have nearly the fame effe&s with fo-
lutions of foap itfelf in taking out fpots from clothes
and the like. The roots tafte fweetiih, and fomewhat
pungent, and have a light fmell like thofe of liquorice ;
digefted in rectified fpirit, they yield a ftrong tinfture,
which lofes nothing of its tafte or flavour in being in-
fpiflated to the confiftence of an extra#. This elegant
root has not come much into practice among us, though
it promifes from its fenfible qualities to be a medicine
of confiderable utility. It is much efteemed by the
German phyficians as an aperient, corroborant, and fu-
dorific, and preferred by the college of Wirtemberg,
by Stahl, Neumann and others, to farfaparilla.
893. Dianthus, or Pink, Carnation.
32 fpecies 5 viz. * barbatus, carthufianorum, atroru-
bens, ferrugineus, * armeria, japonicus, * prolifer,
diminutus, * caryophyllus, fylveftris, pomeridianus,
* deltoides, albens, crenatus, chinenfis, monfpeliacus,
libanotis, plumarius, crinitus, fuperbus, attenuatus, pur-
gens, virgineus, arenarius, repens, * caefius, cefpitofus,
fcaber, alpinus, pumilus, arboreus, juniperinus. Eu¬
rope, Cape, China, America.
Of the fpecies called caryophyllus, or clove july-
flower, a great variety is met with in our gardens j
thofe made ufe of in medicine ought to be of a deep
rrimfon colour and a pleafant aromatic fmell, fome-
tvhat like that of cloves •, many forts have fcarce any
fraell at all. The caryophy/la rubra are faid to be
cardiac and alexipharmac. Simon Paulli relates that he
has cured many malignant fevers by the ufe of a de*
co#ion of them, which he fays powerfully promotes
fweat and urine, without greatly irritating nature, and
idfo raifes the fpiiits and quenches thirft. At prefent
the flowers are chiefly valued for their pleafant fla¬
vour, wffiich is entirely loft even by light coftion; hence
the college dire# the fyrup, which is the only officinal
preparation of them, to be made by infufion.
Ordo III. TRIGYNIA.
894. Cucubalus, ox Berry-bearing Chickweed.
j.8 fpecies j viz. * behen, fabarius, vifcofus, ftellatus,
tegyptiacus, italicus, multiflorus, iruticulofus, tartaricus,
iibiricus, catholicus, mollifljmus, * otites, parviftorus,
ANY. Decandrla4
reflexus, faxifragus, fpergulifolius, polygonoides. Eu¬
rope, Egypt, North America.
* C. cal. nearly globular, fmooth, with a net-wmrk otbehen,
veins ; leaves egg-fpear-flraped, glaucous, fmooth The
leaves boiled have fomething of the flavour of peafe, and
proved of great ufe to the inhabitants of the ifland of
Minorca in the year 1685, when a fwarm of locufts
had deftroyed the harveft. The Gothlanders apply
the leaves to eryfipelatous eruptions.
895. Silene, or Vifcous Campion.
56 fpecies 3 viz. * anglica, lufitanica, * quinquevul-
nera, ciliata, fericea, no#urna, gallica, ceraftoides, mu-
tabilis, chlorantha, * nutans, amoena, paradoxa, fruti-
cofa, bupleuroides, longiflora, gigantea, craffifolia, vi-
ridiflora, * conoidea, * conica, bellidifolia, dichotoma,
vefpertina, behen, ftri#a, pendula, baccifera, * mari-
tuna, procumbens, * no#iflora, ornata, undulata, vir-
ginica, antirrhina, fedoides, apetala, rubella, inaperta,
clandeftina, portenfis, cretica, mufcipula, polyphylla,
* armeria, orchidea, aegyptiaca, catefbaei, cordifolia,
chloraefolia, alpeftris, rupeftris, faxifraga, vallefia, pu-
mila, * acaulis. Europe, Perfia, Africa, N. America.
896. Stellaria, or Greater Chickweed.
17 fpecies 3 viz. * nemorum, dichotoma, radians,
bulbofa, * holoftea, * graminea, paluftris, craffifolia,
alfine, undulata, * ceraftoides, multicaulis, humifufa,
biflora, groenlandica, arenaria, fcapigera. Europe,
North America.
897. Arenaria, or Sandwort.
36 fpecies 3 viz. * peploides, tetraquetra, biflora,
lateriflora, * trinervia, ciliata, balearica, multicaulis,
* ferpillifolia, procumbens, polygonoides, triflora, mon-
tana, * rubra, * media, bavarica, gypfophiloides, cucu-
baloides, dianthoides, faxatilis, csefpitofa, * verna, hif-
pida, verticillata, * juniperina, * tenuifolia, * larici-
folia, recurva, lanceolata, ftriata, filifolia, fafciculata,
auftriaca, grandiflora, liniflora, gerardi. Europe.
898. Cherleria.
One fpecies 5 viz. * fedoides. Alps of Auftria,
Switzerland.
899. Deutzia.
One fpecies 3 viz. fcabra. Japan.
900. Brunnichia.
One fpecies 3 viz. cirrhofa. Bahama ifles.
901. Garidella, or Cretan FennelJlower.
One fpecies 3 viz. nigellaftrum. S. France, Italy,
Crete.
902. Malpighia, or Barbadoes Cherry.
20 fpecies 3 viz. glabra, biflora, pumicifolia, faginea,
glandulofa, tuberculata, nitida, armeniaca, dubia, mens,
anguftifolia, canefcens, craffifolia, fpicata, altiffima,
verbafcifolia, lucida, coriacea, aquifolia, coccifera. W.
Indies, America.
903. Banisteria.
24 fpecies 3 viz. angulofa, palmata, fagittata, auri-
culata, ciliata, emarginata, quapara, finemarienfis, pur¬
purea, microphylla, chryfophylla, laurifolia, coerulea,
nitida, muricata, leona, fericea, ferruginea, longifolia,
dichotcma, ovata, fulgens, heterophylla, bracbiata. W.
Indies, Guiana.
904. Hir/EA.
Three fpecies 3 viz. redinata. odorata, pinnata.
Carthagena.
9°5>
Decandria.
Ulephium.
Here.,
B O T
905. Triopteris.
Eight fpecies ; viz. jamaicenfis, indica, ovata, rigida,
acutifolia, acuminata, buxifolia, citrifolia. Jamaica,
Hifpaniola.
906. Erythroxylon.
12 fpecies ; viz. arcolatum, hypericifolium, buxi-
folium, ferrugineum, rufum, havanenfe, coca, fide-
roxyloides, fquamatum, macrophyllum, laurifolium,
longifolium. Weft Indies.
Ordo IV. PENTAGYNIA.
907. Averrhoa.
Two fpecies*, viz. bilimbi, carambola. India.
908. JoNCQUETIA.
One fpecies *, viz. paniculata. Guiana.
909. Spondias, or Hog-plum.
Four fpecies ; viz. mombin, myrobalanus, mangifera,
dulcis. Weft Indies, South America.
910. Robergia.
One fpecies j viz. frutefcens. Guiana.
911. Cnestis.
Four fpecies *, viz. glabra, polyphylla, corniculata,
trifolia. Me of Madagafcar.
912. Cotyledon, or Navel-wort.
24 fpecies $ viz. orbiculata, paniculata, fafcicularis,
c.uneata, fpuria, purpurea, teretifolia, cacalioides, re¬
ticulata, pupillaris, mamillaris, hemffphaerica, triflora,
coccinea, malacophyllum, ferrata, * umbilicus, * lutea,
lanceolata, laciniata, alternans, nudicaulis, hifpanica,
vifcofa. Sib. France, Spain, Cape, Eaft Indies.
913. Sedum, or 'LeJJer Houfeleek, Stonecrop.
29 fpecies j viz. verticillatum, * telephium, ana-
campferos, divaricatum, aizoon, hybridum, populifo-
lium, ftellatum, alfmefolium, cepaea, libanoticum,
* dafyphyllum, * reflexum, virens, * rupeftre, faxatile,
quadrifidum, hifpanicura, lineare, coeruleum, * album,
* acre, * fexangulare, * anglicum, annuum, pubefcens,
* villofum, atratum, nudum. Europe, Madeira, Ja¬
pan.
* S. leaves flattilh, ferrated; corymbus leafy, ftem
upright.—A deco&ion of the leaves in milk is a for¬
cible diuretic. It has been given with fuccefs to cure
the piles. Cows, goats, flieep, and fwine, eat it. Horfes
refufe it.
* S. leaves nearly egg-ftiaped, growing to and fitting,
bulging, nearly upright, alternate ; tuft with three di-
vifions. —This fpecies of fedum is a fmall perennial,
fucculent, evergreen plant ; growing in great abun¬
dance on the tops of walls and roofs of houfes. It has
a faint fmell, and at firft an herbaceous tafte ; but it
afterwards ftrow’s confiderable acrimony, exciting a
fenfe of biting heat in the mouth and fauces. In its
recent ftate it (hows very aftive powers, proving eme¬
tic, purgative and diuretic. The exprelfed juice, ta¬
ken to the quantity of a table fpoonful, has been faid
to prove a very draftic medicine ; but the plant in its
dried ftate lhow7s little or no aftivity. In this country
it is hardly employed, and has no place in our phar¬
macopoeias. Its activity, however, points it out as a
fubjeft deferving attention. Goats eat it*, cows, horfes,
ftieep, and fwine, refufe it.
ANY. 187
* S. leaves awl-fhaped in five rows, crowded, loofe ztrupejlre.
the bafe ; flowers in tufts.—Both this and the S. re-
Jlexum are cultivated in Holland and Germany, to
mix with lettuces in fallads. It is acrid to the tafte.
914. Penthorum.
One fpecies ; viz. iedoides. Virginia.
915. Bergia.
Two fpecies j viz. verticillata, glomerata. Cape of
Good Hope.
916. Suriana.
One fpecies ; viz. maritima. Jamaica.
917. Grielum.
One fpecies ; viz. tenuifolium. Ethiopia.
918. Oxalis, or Wood-Jorrel.
93 fpecies ; viz. monophylla, lepida, roftrata, afini-
na, lanceaefolia, leporina, crifpa, fabaefolia, laburnifolia,
fanguinea, ambigua, undulata, fufcata, glandulofa, tri¬
color, rubro-flava, flaccida, exaltata, variabiiis, grandi-
flora, fulphurea, purpurea, brevifcapa, fpeciofa, * ace-
tofella, magellanica, marginata, pulchella, obtufa, la-
nata, truncatula, ftrumofa, punftata, luteola, macro-
gonya, fallax, tenella, minuta, pufilla, comprefla, feri-
cea, megalorhiza, tetraphylla, violacea, caprina, cer-
nua, dentata, livida, ciliaris, arcuata, linearis, cuneata,
cuneifolia, glabra, bifida, filicaulis, longiflora, nutans,
convexula, verficolor, elongata, reclinata, polyphylla,
tenuifolia, macroftylis, hirta, tubiflora, fecunda, multi¬
flora, rubella, rofacea, repens, reptatrix, difticha,
incarnata, conorhiza, crenata,lateriflora, dillenii, ftrifla,
* corniculata, plumieri, pentantha, rhombifolia, rofea,
barrelieri, burmanni, tomentofa, lupinifolia, peilinata,
flabellifolia, flava, fenfitiva. S. Europe, Cape, North
America.
* O. ftalk with one flower; leaves three together; rffe/o/e//#,
leafets inverfely heart-ftiaped, hairy.—An infufion of
the leaves is an agreeable liquor in ardent fevers, and
boiled with milk they make an agreeable whey. Sheep,
goats, and fwine eat it. Cowrs are not fond of it.
Horfes refufe it. The juice is gratefully acid. The
London college directs a conferve to be made of the
leaves, beaten with thrice their weight of fine fugar.
The expreffed juice depurated, properly evaporated,
and fet in a cool place, affords a cryftalline acid fait in
confiderable quantity, which may be ufed whenever ve¬
getable acids are wanted. It is employed to take iroiy
moulds out of linen, and is fold under the name of
effential fait of lemons. We are lately affured that
the leaves and (talks wrapped in a cabbage leaf, and
macerated in warm afhes until reduced to a pulp, have
been fuccefsfully applied to fcrophulous ulcers. This
poultice fhould remain on the fore for 24 hours, and be
repeated four times. Afterwards the ulcer is to be
dreffed with a poultice made of the roots of the
meadow-fweet bruifed, and mixed up with the fcum
of four butter-milk.
919. Agrostemma, or Rofe Campion, Wild Lychnis.
Four fpecies ; viz. * githago, coronaria, flos jovis,
coeli-rofa. Europe.
920. Lychnis, or Campion.
T 1 fpecies ; viz. chalcedonica, * flos cuculis, coro-
nata, quadridentata, * vifcaria, alpina, magellanica,
A a 2 fibirica,
i88 B O T
fibirica, laeta, * dloica, apetala. RuHia, Alps of
Europe, China.
921. Cerastium, or Motif e-ear Chichweed.
20 fpecies ; viz. perfoliatum, * vulgatum, anomalum,
* vifcofum, * femidecandrum, pentandrum, * arvenfe,
lineare, dichotomum, longifolium, * alpinum, repens,
ftriftum, fufFruticofum, maximum, * aquaticum, dioi-
cum, * latifolium, * tomentofum, manticum. Europe.
922. Spergula, or Spurrey.
Seven fpecies ; viz. * arvenfis, pentandra, nodofa,
laricina, faginoides, * fubulata, glabra. Europe.
flfvsnjls. ^ S. leaves in whirls 5 flowers with more than five fla-
mens •, ftems thick at the joints.—Poultry are fond of
the feeds ■, and the inhabitants of Finland and Norway
make bread of them when their crops of corn fail. Ex¬
perience (hows it to be very nutritious to the cattle that
ANY. Dodecandriai
eat it. Horfes, flieep, goats, and fvvine eat it, Cows
refufe it.
Order V. DECAGYNIA.
923. Neurada.
One fpecies 5 viz. procumbens. Numidia, Egypt,
924. Phytolacca, or American Nightjlcade.
Six fpecies; viz. oftandra, ftricta, abyflinica, de-
candra, icofandra, dioica. Eaft Indies, Africa, Ame¬
rica.
In the c/afs Decandria are
119 Genera, which include 987 Species. Of thefe
84 are found in Britain.
CLASSES xr.
DODECANDRIA O).
CLASS XL
DODECANDRIA.
Ordo I. MONOG1NIA.
927. Bocconia. Cor. o. Cal. 2-phyllus, inferus.
Capf. 2-valvis, i-fperma.
* 925. As arum. Cor. O. Cal. 3-fidus, fuperus.
Capf. 6-locularis.
933. StErculia. Cor. o. Cal. 5-partit. Nec¬
tar. flaminiferum. Germen pedicellatum. Capf. 5*
931. Rhizophora. Cor. 4-partita. Cal. 4-par-
titus, inferus. Sem. I, clavatum, receptaculo carnofo.
938. Garcinia. Cor. 4-petala. Cal. 4-phyllus,
inferus. Bacca 8-fperma, coronata.
943. Crat^eva. Cor. 4-petala. Cal. 4-fidus, in¬
ferus. Bacca 2-locularis, pedicellata.
928. Dodecas. Cor. 4-petala. Cal. 4-fidus. Capf.
l-locul. 4-valvis.
932. Crenjea. Cor. 4-petala. Cal. 4-fidus. Capf.
5-locularis, polyfperma.
939. Halesia. Cor. 4 hda. Cal. 4'dentatus, fu¬
perus. Pericarp. 4-fperr*aum, 4-allgulattim.
933. Apactis. Cor. 4-petala. Cal. o. Stam. 16.
926. Tornex. Cor. 5-petala. Cal. o. Involu-
crum 4 f. 5 phyllum, 5-12-florum. Bacca i-fperma.
945. Eurya. Cor. 5-petal. Cal. duplex. Capf.
5-localaris.
944. Triumfetta. Cor. 5-petala. Cal. 5-phyllus,
inferus. Capf. 4-locul. 2-iperma, muricata.
946. Peganum. Cor. 5-petala. Cal. 5-phyllus,
inferus. Capf. 3-locul. Stam. 15.
954. Kleinhofia. Cor. 5-petala. Cal. 5-phyll.
Order I. MONOGYNIA.
B. No cor. Cal. 2-leafed, inferior. Capf. 2-val-
ved, l-feeded.
* A. No cor. Cal. 3-cleft, fuperior. Capf. 6-celled.
S. No cor. Cal. 5-partite. Nedlary bearing the
ftamens. Germ, on a pedicle. Capf. 5.
R. Cor. 4-parted. Cal. 4-parted, inferior. Seed I,
club-fhaped, in a flefhy receptacle.
G. Cor. 4-petaled. Cal. 4-leafed, inferior. Berry
8-feeded, crowned.
C. Cor. 4-petaled. Cal. 4-cleft, inferior. Berry
2- celled, with a pedicle.
D. Cor. 4-petaled. Cal. 4-cleft. Capf. 1-celled,
4-valved.
C. Cor. 4-petaled. Cal. 4-cleft. Capf. 5-celled,
many-feeded.
H. Cor. 4-cleft. Cal. 4-too :'ed, fupe ior. Seed-
veffel 4-feeded, 4-angled.
A. Cor. 4-petaled. No cal. Stam. 16.
T. Cor. 5-petaled. No cal. Involucrum 4 or 5-
leafed, 5-12-flowers. Berry 1-feezed.
E. Cor. 5-petaled, Cal. double. Capf. 5-celled.
T. Cor. 5-petaled. Cal. 5-leafed, inferior. Capf.
4-ceIled, 2-feeded, covered with fharp points.
P. Cor. 5-petaled. Cal. 5>leafed, inferior. Capf.
3- celled. Stamens 15.
K. Cor. 5-petaled. Cal. 5-leafed. Neftary bear-
Nedtar.
(a) Thus far the claffeshave received their denomination from the number of ftamens contained in the flowers.
The name given to the prefent clafs would feem to imply, that the flowers arranged under it, contained only 12
ftamens but it is in fadt an affemblage of plants, whofe flowers contain from 11 to 19 ftamens, inclufive.
Dodecandm. B O T
Neflar. fl-amlniferura. Germen pedicillatum. Capf.
5-angularis, inflata.
948. Nithraria. Cor. 5-petala. Cal. 5-fidus, iu-
ferus. Drupa i-fperma. Stam. 15.
941. Aristotema. Cor. 5-petala. Cal. 5 partitus.
Bacca 3-locularis.
937. Grangeria. Cor. 5-petala. Cal. 5-fidas.
Drupa monofperma.
936. Vatica. Cor. 5-perala. Anth. 15 quadrilo-
culares ; loculis interioribus brevioribus.
947. Hudsonia. Cor. 5-petala. Cal. 3-phyllus,
inferus. Cap), i-locularis, 3-valvis, 3-fperma.
942. Canella. Cor. 5-petala. Cal. 3-lobus, in¬
ferus. Bacca i-locul. 2 f. 4-fperma. Neftarium an-
tberiferum.
949. Portulaca. Cor. 5-petala. Cal. 2-fidus, in¬
ferus. Capf. i-locul. circumfcifl'a.
950. Talinum. Cor. 5-petala. Cal. 2-phyllus.
Capf. i-locularis, trivalvis. Sem. arillata.
* 951. Lythrum. Cor. 6-petala. Cal. 5-fidus, in¬
ferus. Capf. 2-locularis.
952. Cuphea. Cor. 6-petala, insequalis. Cal, 6-
dentatus, inaequalis. Capf. i-locul. ante maturitatem
dehifcens.
953. Ginoria. Cor. 6-petala. Cal. 6-fidus, infe¬
rus. Capf. i-locul. 4-valvis.
934. Blakea. Cor. 6-petala. Cal. 6-phyllus.
Flos fuperus, indivifus. Capf. 6-locularis. Anthe-
rae connexae.
929. Agathophyllum. Cor. 6-petala. Cal.
truncatus. Drupa monofperma.
935. Befaria. Cor. 7-petala. Stam. 14. Bacca
exfucca, 7-locularis.
930. Bassia. Cor. 8-fida. Stam. 16. Drupa 5-
fpertna.
940. Decu MARIA. Cor. 10-petala. Cal. 10-phyl-
lus, fuperus.
Cleome vifcofa dodecandra. Chlora dodecandra. Sa-
myda pubefcens, ferrulata. Rivina oBandra. Paf-
ferina capitata.
OrdoII. DIGYNIA.
956. Heliocarpus. Cor. 4-petala. Cal. 4-phyl-
lus. Capf. 2-locul. I-fperma, compreffo-radiata.
* 957. Agrimonia. Cor. 5-petala. Cal. c-fidus.
Sem. 1 f. 2.
ANY.
ing ftamens. Germ, on a pedicle. Capf. 5-angular,
inflated.
N. Cor. 5-petaled. Cal. 5-cleft, inferior. A drupe
I-feeded. Stamens 15.
A. Cor. 5-petaled. Cal. 5-partite. Berry 3-celled.
G. Cor. 5-petaled. Cal. 5-cleft. Drupe i-feeded.
V. Cor. 5-petaled. Anth. 15, 4 celled, the inner
cells fliorter.
H. Cor. 5-petaled. Cal. 3-leafed, inferior. Capf.
I-celled, 3-valved, 3-feeded.
C. Cor. 5-petaled. Cal. 3-lobed, inferior. Berry
1-celled, 2 or 4-feeded. Nedary bearing the anthers.
P. Cor. 5-petaled. Cal. 2-cleft, inferior. Capf.
1- celled, cut round.
T. Cor. 5-petaled. Cal. 2-leafed. Capf. i-celled,
3-valved. Seeds coated.
* L. Cor. 6-petaled. Cal. 12-cleft, inferior. Capf.
2- celled.
C. Cor. 6-petaled, unequal. Cal. 6-toothed, un¬
equal. Capf. 1-celled, opening before maturity.
G. Cor. 6 petaled. Cal. 6-cleft, inferior. CapC
1-celled, 4-valved.
B. Cor.'6-petaled. Cal. 6-leafed. Flower fuperior,
undivided. Capf. 6-celled. Anthers united at the
bafe.
A. Cor. 6-petaled. Cal. lopped. Drupe i-feeded.
B. Cor. 7-petaled. Stam. 14. Berry dry, 7-
celled.
B. Cor. 8-cleft. Stamens 16. Drupe 5-feeded,
D. Cor. 10-petaled. Cal. 10-leafed, fuperior.
Order II. DIGYNIA.
H. Cor. 4-petaled. Cal. 4-leafed. Capf. 2-celledj
I-feed, compreffed, radiated.
* A. Cor. 5-petaled. Cal. 5-cleft. Seeds 1 or 2.
Ordo III. TRIGYNIA.
* 958. Reseda. Cor. petalis multifidis. Cal. parti¬
tus. Capf. 3-locularis, hians.
960. Visnea. Cor. petalis ellipticis. Cal. 5-phyll.
Nux.
* 959. Euphorbia. Cor. petalis peltatis. Cal.ven-
tricofus. Capf. 3-cocca.
Ordo IV. TETRAGYNIA.
962. Aponogeton. Cor. o. Cal. o. Capf. 4.
961. Calligonum. Cor. o. Cal. 5-partitus. Nux
monofperma.
‘Tormentilia ereBa, Refedce aliquot.
Order III. TRIGYNIA.
* R. Cor. with many-cleft petals. Cal. partite. Capf.
3-celled, gaping.
V. Cor. with elliptical petals. Cal. 5-leafed. A
nut.
* E. Cor. with target-fliaped petals. Cal. bellied.
Capf. 3-celled.
Order IV. TETRAGYNIA.
A. No cor. No cal. Capf. 4.
C. No cor. Cal. 5-partite. i-feeded nut.
185
Ordo
B O T
ANY.
Dodecandria.
£90
Ordo V. PENTAGYNIA.
963. Glinus. Cor. o. nifi fetulge. Cal. 5-phyllus.
Capf. 5-locul.
964. Blackwellia. Cor. 15-petala. Cal. 5-fid,
Capf. i-locul. polyfperma.
Refeda purpurafcens.
Ordo VI. DODECAGYNIA.
* 965. Sempervivum. Cor. i2-petala. Cal 12-
partitus. Capf. 12.
AHfma cordifolia.
Order V, PENTAGYNIA.
G. No cor, except little briftles. Cai. 5 leafed.
Capf. 5-celled.
B. Cor. 15-petaled. Cal. 5-cleft. Capf. 1-celled,
many-feeded.
Order VI. DODECAGYNIA.
* S. Cor. 12-petaled. Cal. 12-partite. Capf. 12.
Order I MONOGYNIA.
925. Asarum, or Afarabacca.
Three fpecies j viz. * europaeum, canadenfe, virgi-
nicum. Europe, N. America.
europttutn. * A. leaves kidney-fhaped, blunt, in pairs.—This is
a very low plant, growing naturally in France, Italy,
and other warm countries. It grows readily in our
gardens j and although the dried roots have been ge¬
nerally brought from the Levant, thofe of our own
growth do not feem to be weaker. Both the roots
and leaves have a naufeous, bitter, acrimonious, hot
tafle. Their fmell is ftrong, and not very difagree-
able. Given in fubftance from half a dram to a dram,
they evacuate powerfully both upwards and dowmwards.
It is faid, that tindhires made in fpirituous menftrua,
poflefs both the emetic and cathartic virtues of the
plant: that the extraft, obtained by infpiflating thefe
tin&ures, a£ts only by vomiting, and with great mild-
nefs : that an infufion in water proves cathartic, rarely-
emetic : that aqueous decofHons, made by long boil¬
ing, and the watery extraft, have no purgative or e-
metic quality, but prove good diaphoretics, diuretics,
and emmenagogues. The principal ufe of this plant
among us is as a fternutatory. The root of afarum is
perhaps the ftrongeft of all the vegetable errhines,
white hellebore itfelf not excepted. Snuffed up the
nofe in the quantity of a grain or two, it occafions a
large evacuation of mucus, and raifes a plentiful fpit-
ting. The leaves are confiderably milder, and may
be ufed, to the quantity of three, four, or five grains.
Geoffrey relates, that after fnuffing up a dofe of this
errhine at night, he has frequently obferved the dif-
charge from the nofe to continue for three days to¬
gether ; and that he has known a paralyfis of the
mouth and tongue cured by one dofe. He recom¬
mends this medicine in ftubborn diforders of the head,
proceeding from vifeid tenacious matter, in palfies, and
foporific diftempers. The leaves are the principal in¬
gredient in the/w/wV Jiernutatoriusy orpulvis afaricom^
pojitus, as it is now teimed, of the flops.
926. Tornex.
Three fpecies 5 viz. japonica, tetranthera, febifera.
Arabia.
927. Bacconia.
Two fpecies j viz. frutefeens, cordata.
928. Dodecas.
One fpecies ; viz. furinamenfis. Surinam.
929. AgATHOPH YLLUM.
One fpecies j viz. aromaticum. Eaft Indies.
930. Bassia.
Three fpecies $ viz. longifolia, latifolia, obovata,
Malabar.
93 l* Ehizophora, or Mangrove-candle of India.
Five fpecies ; viz. conjugata, gymnorhiza, candel,
mangle, cylindrica. India, Malabar, Molucca.
932. Crenaea.
One fpecies ; viz. maritima. Guiana.
933. Apactis.
One fpecies j viz. japonica. Japan.
934. Blakea.
Three fpecies j viz. trinervia, triplinervia, pulveru-
lenta. Jamaica, Surinam.
935. Befaria.
Two fpecies ; viz. refinofa, aeftuans. New Granada.
936. Vatica.
One fpecies; viz chinenfis. China.
937. Grangeria.
One fpecies 5 viz. borbonica. Ifle of Bourbon.
938. Garcinia, or Mangojlan.
l our fpecies j viz. mangoftana, celebica, cambogia,
cornea. Eaft Indies.
939" Halesia, or Snow-drop Tree.
Two fpecies 5 viz. tetraptera, diptera. Carolina.
940. Decumaria.
J wo fpecies $ viz. barbara, farmentofa. Carolina.
941. Aristotelia.
One fpecies 5 viz. macqui. Chili.
942. Canella, or White Cinnamon.
One fpecies ; viz. alba. Weft Indies.
I he bark of the canella alba is brought to us rolled
into
Dodecandria. B O T
into long quills, thicker than cinnamon, and both out¬
wardly and inwardly of a whitilh colour, lightly inclin¬
ing to yellow. It is the produce of a tall tree, grow¬
ing in great plenty in the low lands in Jamaica, and
other American iflands. Infulions of it in water, are
of a yellovvifh colour, and fmell of the canella $ but
they are rather bitter than aromatic. Tin6tures in rec¬
tified fpirit have the warmth of the bark, but little of
its fmell. Proof fpirit difiblves the aromatic, as well as
bitter matter of the canella, and is therefore the belt
menftruum. The cunella is the interior bark, freed
*from an outward thin rough one, and dried in the
fhade. The (hops diftinguilh two forts of canella, dif¬
fering from each other in the kntgth and thicknefs of
the quills j they are both the bark of the fame tree,
the thicker being taken from the trunk, and the thin¬
ner from the branches. This bark is a warm pungent
aromatic, not of the moft agreeable kind, nor are any
of the preparations of it very grateful. Canella alba
is often employed where a warm ftimulant to the fto-
mach is neceffary, and as a corrigent of other articles.
It is now, however, little ufed in compofition by the
London college, the only officinal formula which it
enters being the pulvis aloeticus ; but with the Edin¬
burgh college it is an ingredient in the tin&ura amara,
vinum amarum, vinum rhei, <b'c. It is ufeful as cover¬
ing the tafte of fome other articles.
943. Crat^va, or Gar lick-pear.
Five fpecies ; viz. gynandra, tapia, obovata, religi-
ofa, marmelos. E. and W. Indies.
944. Triumfetta, or Bur-bark tree.
11 fpecies ; viz. lappula, glandulofa, bartramia, ve-
lutina, procumbens, hirta, femitriloba, grandiflora, ma-
crophylla, rhombeaefolia, annua. E. and W. Indies,
Brazil.
945. Eurya.
One fpecies 5 viz. japonica. Japan.
946. Peganum, or Wild Syrian Rue.
Four fpecies ; harmala, crithmifolium, retufum, dau-
ricum. Siberia, Spain, Syria.
947. Hudsonia.
One fpecies j viz. ericoides. Virginia.
948. Nitraria.
Two fpecies $ viz. fcboberi, tridentata. Siberia.
949. Portulaca, or Purjlane.
Five fpecies •, viz. oleracea, pilofa, quadrifida, hali-
moides, meridiana. Europe, Cape, India, America.
The portulaca oleracea is cultivated in gardens for
culinary ufcs. The feeds are ranked among the lefler
cold feeds, and have fometimes been employed in emul-
fions and the like, along with the others of that clafs.
950. Talinum.
Seven fpecies j viz. triangulare, craffifolium, ana-
campferos, patens, cuneifolium, decumbens, fruticofum.
951. Lythrum, or Willow-herb.
16 fpecies 4 viz. * falicaria, virgatum, acuminatum,
triflorum, verticillatum, petiolatum, racemofum, cilia-
tum, pemphis, dipetalum, lineare, parfonia, melanium,
cordifolium, * hyffopifolia, thymifolia. Europe, N.
America, Weft Indies.
ANY. 191
952. CuPHEA.
One fpecies5 viz. vifcoffiffima. America.
953. Ginoria.
One fpecies ; viz. americana. America.
954. Kleinhofia.
One fpecies j viz. hofpita. Eatt Indies.
9^5. Sterculia.
Eight fpecies j viz. lanceolata, balanghas, crinita,
cordifolia, colorata, urens, platanifolia, foetida. Ara¬
bia, Eaft and Weft Indies, China.
Order II. DIGYNIA.
956. Hemocarpus, or Sun-weed.
One fpecies j viz. americana. Vera Cruz.
957. Agrimonia, or Agrimony.
Five fpecies j viz. * eupatoria, odorata, repens, par-
viflora, agrimonoides. Europe, N. America.
* A. ftem-leaves winged, the odd leafet on a eupatorigz
fruit hifpid.—The Canadians are faid to ufe an infufion
of the roots in burning fevers, and with great fuccefs.
An infufion of fix ounces of the crown of the root, in
a quart of boiling water, fweetened with honey, and
half a pint of it drank three times a-day, Dr Hill fays,
is an effeftual cure for the jaundice. He advifes to be¬
gin with a vomit, afterwards to keep the bowels folu-
ble, and to continue the medicine as long as any fymp-
toms of the difeafe remain. Sheep and goats eat it.
Cows, horfes, and fwine refufe it. The flowers freflu
gathered fmell like apricots.
Order III. TRIGYNIA.
958. Reseda, or Mignonette, Bafe-rocket.
13 fpecies j viz. * luteola, canefcens, glauca, di-
petala, purpurafcens, fefamoides, fruticulofa, alba, un¬
data, * lutea, phyteuma, mediterranea, odorata. S.
Europe, Egypt, Cape.
* R. leaves fpear-ffiaped, entire, with a tooth on eachluteofar
fide the bafe 5 cal. 4-cleft.—This plant affords a moft
Beautiful yellow dye for cotton, woollen, mohair, filk,
and linen, and is that which is moft commonly ufed by
the dyers for that purpofe, as it gives the brighteft dye.
Blue cloths dipped in a. deco&ion of it become greens
The yellow colour of the paint called Dutch pink is
got from this plant. The colouring quality refides in
the ftems and roots, and it is cultivated in fandy foils,
rich foil making the ftalk hollow and not fo good.
Cattle will not eat it, but ftieep fometimes browfe it a
little.
959. Euphorbia, or Burn, Thorny-plant, Spurge.
124 fpecies j viz. antiquorum, canarienfis, virofa,,
heptagona, mammillaris, cereiformis, officinarum, tria-
culeata, nereifolia, hyftrix, tribuloides, ftellata, cucu-
merina, meloformis, caput medufse, tuberculata, ana-
cantha, clava, bupleurifolia, lophogona, mauritanica,
pifcatoria, balfamifera, tirucalli, laurifolia, pyrifolia,
lithymaloides, heterophylla, cyathophora, nudiflora,
cotinifolia, mellifera, glabrata, linarifolia, linifolia, cu-
neata, ocymoidea, laevigata, origanoides, atoto, hype-
rkifolia,
192 B O T
ricifolia, proftrata, rofea, tnaculata, fcordifolia, pida,
hirta, pilulifera, bralilienfis, hyffopifolia, thymifolia,
parviflora, canefcens, chamaefyce, granulata, * peplis,
potygonifolia, linearis, graminea, ipecacuanha, portu-
lacoides, adiantoides, myrtifolia, imbricata, elliptica,
rubra, herniariaefolia* * peplus, falcata, * exigua, ob-
literata, fpathuiata, micrantha, dracunculoides, tuberofa,
lathyris, terracina, dilFufa, apios, laeta, geniftoides, fpi-
nofa, epithymoideS, villofa, dulcis, ambigua, carnioli-
ca, angulata, pithyufa, * portlandica, faxatilis, * para-
lias, juncea, aleppica, pinea, fegetalis, provincialis,
* heliofcopia, pubefcens, ferrata, * verrucofa, glauca,
punicea, corollata, corallioides, pilofa, orientalis, fqua-
mofa, * platyphyllos, literata, efula, gerardiana, * cy-
' pariffias, nicacenfis, myrfinites, paluftris, pallida, emar-
ginata, *hiberna, falicifolia, dendroides, amygdaloi-
des, fylvatica, * characias. Eur. Alia, Afr. Am.
The Euphorbia ojficinarum, or gummi-refinous f\ib-
ftance, is a fpontaneous exudation from a large oriental
tree. It is brought to us immediately from Barbary,
in drops of an irregular form, fome of which, upon be¬
ing broken, are found to contain little thorns, fmall
twigs, flowers, and other vegetable matters*, others are
hollow, without any thing in their cavity. The tears are
in general of a pale yellow colour externally, fomewhat
white withinfide j they eafily break between the fingers.
Slightly applied to the tongue they affeft it with a very
fharp biting tafte j and upon being held for fome time
in the mouth, prove vehemently acrimonious, ihflaming
and exulcerating the fauces, &c. Euphorbium is ex¬
tremely troublefome to pulverize, the finer part of the
powder, which flies off, affe&ing the head in a violent
manner. The acrimony of this fubftance is fo great,
as to render it abfolutely unfit for internal ufe; feveral
correctors have been contrived to abate its virulence,
but the belt of them are not to be trufted to ; and as
there feems to be no real occafion for it, unlefs for
fome external purpofes, fome think that it ought to be
expunged from the catalogue of internal medicines; and
accordingly, it has now no place in the London or
Edinburgh pharmacopoeias ; but it is ftill retained in
moft of the foreign ones, and is fometimes ufed as a
fternutatory.
characias. * £, umbel with many fpokes, fpokes forked ; involu-
cellums perforated, notched at the end; leaves very en¬
tire ; ftem fhrub-like.—The powdered leaves in dofes
of 15 to 25 grains operate as a purge. The juice of
A N Y. Icofandria*
every fpecies of fpurge is fo acrid, that- it corrodes and
ulcerates the body wherever it is applied; lo that phy-
ficians have feldom ventured to ufe it internally. Warts
or corns anointed with the juice prefently difappear.
A drop of it put into the hollow of a decayed and
aching tooth, deftroys the nerve, and confequently re¬
moves the pain. Some people rub it behind the ears,
that it may blifler and by that means give relief.
960. Visnea.
One fpecies ; viz. mocanera. Canary Ifles.
Order IV. TETRAGYNIA.
961. Calligonum.
Three fpecies; viz. polygonoides, comofum, pallofia.
Ruflia, Siberia.
962. Aponogeton.
Four fpecies; viz. monoftachyon, crifpum, difta-
chyon, angullifolium. Cape. E. Indies.
Order V. PENTAGYNIA.
963. Glinus.
Three fpecies; viz. lotoides, fetiflorus, diCtamnoides.
Spain, Levant, Egypt.
964. Blackwellta.
Three fpecies; viz. integrifolia, paniculata, axillaris.
Weft Indies.
Order VI. DODECAGYNIA.
965. Sempervivum, or Houfe-leek.
14 fpecies; viz. arboreum, canarienfe, glutinofum,
glandulofum, * teClorilm, globiferum, villofum, tortu-
ofum, ftellatum, arachnoideum, hirtum, montanum,
fediforme, monanthos. Eur. Canaries, Madeira.
* S, leaves fringed ; offsets expanding.—The juice of teBorum.
this plant either applied by itfelf, or mixed with cream,
gives prefent relief in burns, and other external in¬
flammations. Mixed with honey, it is a ufeful appli¬
cation in aphthous cafes. Sheep and goats eat it.
In the clafs Dodecandria are
41 Genera, including 273 Species, of which 18
are found in Britain.
CLASSIS XII.
ICOSANDRIA (*).
Ordo I. MONOGYNIA.
CLASS XII.
ICOSANDRIA.
Order I. MONOGYNIA.
966. Cactus. Cal. fuperus, i-phyllus. Cor. mul-
tifida. Bacca l-locul. polyfperma.
C. Cal. fuperior, i-leaved.
1-celled, many-feeded.
Cor. many-cleft. Berry
972.
(b) Although this is called the clafs of twenty ftamens, becaufe the flowers arranged under it generally contain
about
Icofaudna. B O T
972. Eugenia. Cal. iupcrus, 4-partItus. Cor. 4-
petala. Bacca i-locularis, l-fperma.
967. Philadelphus. Cal. fuperus, 5 f. 4-parti*
tus. Cor. 5 f. 4-petala. Stigma 4-fidum. Capf. 5-
4- locul. polyfperma.
968. Leptospermum. Cal. fuperus, 5-fidus. Pe*
tala 5-unguiculata, ftaminibus longiora. Stigma capi-
tatum. Capf. 4 f. 5-locularis.
969. Fabricia. Cal. fuperus, 5-fidus. Petala 5
feffilia. Stigma capitatum. Capf. multilocularis.
970. Metrosideros. Cal. fuperus, 5-fidus, Peta»
la 5. Stam. longifiima exferta. Stigma firoplex. Capf,
3 f. 4-locularis.
971. Psidium. Cal. fuperus, 5-fidus. Cor. 5-pe-
tala. Bacca i-locularis, polyfperma.
973. Mvrtus. Cal. fuperus, 5*fidus. Cor. fub
5- petala. Bacca 3-locularis, polyfperma,
980. Punica. Cal. fuperus, 5-fidus. Cor. 5-pe¬
tala. Pomum 10-loculare, polyfpermum.
985. Robinsonia. Cal. fuperus, 5-dentatus, Pe¬
tala 5. Bacca ftriata, 7-locularis. ,
974. Cauyptranthes. Cal. fuperus, truncatus,
operculo te£lus. Cor. o. Bacca i-locul. 1-4-fperma.
975. Eucalyptus. Cal. fuperus, truncatus, oper¬
culo te&us. -Cor. o. Capf. 4-locularis, polyfperma.
978. Foetidia. Cal. fuperus, 4-fidus, Cor. o.
Capf. 4-locularis, lignofa.
986. Sonneratia. Cal. inferus, 6-fidus, Petala 6.
.Bacca multilocularis, loculis polyfpermis.
981. Amygdalus. Cal. inferus, 5-fidus. Cor. 5-
petala. Drupa, nucleo foraminofo.
* 982. Prunus. Cal. inferus, 5-fidus. Cor. J-pe-
tala. Drupa, nucleo integro.
984. Chrysobalanus. Cal. inferus, 5-fidus. Cor.
5-petala. Drupa fulcata.
976. Banara. Cal. inferus, 4-fidus. Petala 4.
Bacca r-locularis, polyfperma.
977. Antherylivm. Cal. inferus, 4-partitus.
Petala 4. Capf. i-locularis, 3-valvis, polyfperma.
979. Scolopia. Cal. inferus, 3 f. 4-partitus. Pet.
3 f, 4. Bacca l-locularis. Semina arillata.
Cleame icofandra.
Ordo il digynia.
* 987. Crataegus. Cal. fuperus, 5-fidus. Cor. 5-
petala. Bacca 2-fperma.
988. Waldsteinia. Cal. 10-fidus, lacinils alter-
nis. Petala 5. Semina 2, obovata.
Ordo III. TRIGYNIA.
* 989. Sorbus. Cal, fuperus, 5-fidus. Cor. 5-pe¬
tala. Bacca 3-fperma.
990. Sesuvium. Cal. inferus, 5-fidus. Qor. nul¬
la. Capf. 3-locularis, circumfciffa.
f Spiraa opulifolia.
Vol. IV. Part I.
A N Y* 193
E. Cal. fuperior, 4-partxte, Cor. 4-petaled. Berry
I-celled, 1 feeded.
P. Cal. fuperior, 5 or 4-partite. Cor. 5 or 4-petaled,
Stigma 4-cleft. Capf. 5 or 4-celled, many leeded.
L. Cal. fuperior, 5-cleft. Petals 5-clawed, longer
than tbe ftamens. Stigma rvith a little head. Capf. 4
or 5-celled.
F. Cal. fuperior, 5-cleft, Petals 5, fitting. Stig¬
ma with a little head. Capf. many-celled.
M. Cal. fuperior, 5-cleft. Petals 5. Very long pro¬
truded ftamens. Stigma fimple. Capf. 3 or 4-celled.
P. Cal. fuperior, 5-cleft, Cor. 5-petaled. Berry
I-celled, many-feeded.
M, Cal. fuperior, 5 eleft. Cor, nearly 5-petaled,
Berry 3-celled, many-feeded,
P. Cal. fuperior, 5-cleft. Cor. 5-petaled, An ap¬
ple, 10-celled, many-feeded.
R. Cal. fuperior, 5-toothed. Petals 5. Berries
ftriped, 7-celled.
C. Cal. fuperior, lopped, covered with a lid. No
cor. Berry 1-celled, 1 to 4-feeded. t
E. Cal. fuperior, truncated, covered with a lid. No
cor. Capf. 4 celled, many-feeded.
F. Cal, fuperior 4-cleft. No cor. Capf. 4-celled,
woody.
S. Cal. inferior, 6-cleft. Petals 6. Berry many-
celled, with many-feeded cells.
A. Cal. inferior, 5 cleft. Cor. 5-petaled. Drupe
with a kernel full of holes.
* P. Cal, inferior, 5-cleft, Cor. 5-petaled. Drupe
with an entire kernel.
C. Cal. inferior, 5-cleft. Cor. 5 petaled. Drupe
furrowed.
B. Cal. inferior, 4-cleft, Petals 4. Berry 1-celled,
many-feeded.
A. Cal. inferior, 4-partite. Petals 4. Capf. !•
celled, 3-valved, many-feeded.
S. Cal. inferior, 3 or 4 partite. Petals 3 or 4. Ber«
ry j-celled. Seeds coated.
Order II. DIGYNIA.
* C. Cal. fuperior 5-cleft. Cor. 5-petaled. Berry 2-
feeded.
W. Cal. 10-cleft, with alternate fegments. Petals
5. Seeds 2, nearly oval.
Order. III. TRIGYNIA.
* S. Cal. fuperior, j-cleft. Cor. 5-petaled. Berry
3-feeded.
S. Cal. inferior, 5-cleft. Cor. o. Capf. 3-celled,
cut round.
B b ^ Ordo
about that number; yet tbe mark or charafter of the clafs is not to be taken merely from the number of fta¬
mens, but from attending alfo to the following circumftances : x. The calyx, confifting ufually of une-concave
leaf j 2. Petals, fixed by claws to tbe infide of the calyx 5 and, laftly, Stamens, more than 19, {landing upon
the petals or the calyx, but not upon the receptacle. Very few are poifonous.
4
*94
B O T
ANY.
Icofandria,
Ordo IV. PENTAGYNIA.
Order IV. PENTAGYNIA.
993. Tetragonia. Cal. fuperus, 5 f. 4-fidus. Cor.
O. Peric. nucleo 5 f. 4-loculari.
991. Mespilus. Cal. fuperus, j-fidus. Cor. 5-
pctala. Bacca 5-fperma.
^ 992. Pyrus. Cal. fuperus, 5-fidus. Cor. 5-peta-
la. Pomum 5-loculare, polyfpermum.
994. Mesembryanthemum. Cal. fuperus, 5-fidus.
Cor. multifida. Capf. carnofa, locularis, polyfperma.
99c. Aizoon. Cal. inferus, 5-fidus. Cor. 5-peta-
la. Capf. plures congeftce.
* 996. Spir^a. Cal. inferus, 5-fidus. Cor. 5-peta-
la. Capf. plures congeftae.
Ordo V. POLYGYNIA.
* 997. Rosa. Cal. 5-fidus. Cor. 5-petala. Cal.
baccatus, polyfpermus.
* 998. Rubus. Cal. 5-fidus. Cor. 5-petala. Bac¬
ca compofita.
* 1001. Tormentilla. Cal. 8-fidus. Cor. 4-petala,
Bern. 8 mutica.
* 1003. Dryas. Cal. 8-fidus. Cor. 8-petala. Sem.
plurima arifta lanata.
* 999. Fragaria. Cal. 10-fidus. Cor. 5-petala.
Sem. plurima fupra receptaculum baccatum, decidua.
* 1000. Potentilla. Cal. 10-fidus. Cor. 5-petala.
Sem. plurima mutica.
* 1002. Geum. Cal. io-fidus. Cor. 5-petala. Sem.
plurima. Arifta geniculata.
* 1004. Comarum. Cal. 10-fidus. Cor. 5-petala.
Sem. plurima lupra receptaculum carnofum, perfiftens.
1005. Calycanthus. Cal. fquamofus, corollinus.
Cor. o. Sem. caudata calyce.
Bpircca Jilipendu/a, ulmaria. Phytolacca icofandra*
Mejembryanthema aliquot.
T. Cal. fuperior, 5 or 4-cleft. No cor. A feed vef.
fel with a kernel 5 or 4-celled.
M. Cal. fuperior, 5-cleft. Cor. 5-petaled. Berry
5-feeded.
* P. Cal. fuperior, 5-cleft. Cor. 5-petaled. An ap¬
ple, 5-celled, many-feeded.
M. Cal. fuperior, 5-cleft. Cor. many-cleft. Capf.
flefhy, celled, many-feeded.
A. Cal. inferior, 5-cleft. Cor. J-petaled. Capf,
feveral, heaped together.
* S. Cal. inferior, 5-cleft. Cor. 5-petaled. Capf.
feveral, heaped together.
Order V. POLYGYNIA.
* R. Cal. 5-cleft. Cor. 5-petaled. Cal. berry-like,
many-feeded.
* R. Cal. 5-cleft. Cor. 5-petaled. Berry compound.
* T. Cal. 8-cleft,
lefs.
* D. Cal. 8-cleft.
Cor. 4-petaled. Seeds 8,jawn-
Cor. 8-petaled. Seeds many, with
a woolly awn.
* F. Cal. I O-cleft. Cor. 5-petaled.
upon a berried receptacle, deciduous.
* P. Cal. 10-cleft. Cor. 5-petaled.
awnlefs.
* G. Cal. 10-cleft. Cor. 5-petaled.
Awn knee-jointed.
* C. Cal. 10-cleft. Cor. 5-petaled.
above a fleftiy receptacle, permanent.
C. Cal. fcaly, corol-like. No cor.
tailed cup.
Seeds many,.
Seeds many.
Seeds many.
Seeds many*
Seed, with %
Order I. MONOGYNIA.
966. Cactus, or Melon Thiflle.
24 fpecies viz. mamillaris, melocattus, pitajaya,
heptagonus, tetragonus, hexagonus, pentagonus, re-
pandus, lanuginofus, peruvianus, royeni, grandiftorus,
flagelliformis, parafiticus, triangularis, moniliformis,
opuntia, ficus indica, tuna, cochenillifer, curalfavicus,
phyllanthus, pereftiia, portulacifolius. Weft Indies,
America.
967. Philadelphus, or Mod Orange, Syringa.
Two fpecies ; viz. coronarius, inodorus. S. Eur.
Carolina, New South Wales.
971. Psidium, or Guar a, or Bay Plum.
Three fpecies 5 viz. pyriferum, pomiferum, decafper-
num. Eaft and Weft Indies.
972. Eugenia, or Pomey-rofe, Yamboo.
Seven fpecies ; viz. malaccenfis, jambos, pfeudo-pfi-
dium, uniflora, cotinifolia, acutangula, racemofa. E.
Indies, Jamaica, S. America.
973. Myrtus, or Myrtle.
14 fpecies j viz. communis, brafiliana, biflora, an-
guftifolia, Itevis, lucida, cumini, dioica, chytraculiar
zuzyginum, zeylanica, androfaemoides, caryophyllata,
pimenta. S. Europe, Afia, Africa, America.—The
myrtus communis is an evergreen fhrub, growing in
Italy, and cultivated in our botanic gardens. The
leaves and berries have been fometimes made ufe of as
aftringents, but not at prefent regarded. The pimenta
is the fruit of a large tree growing fpontaneoufly in the
mountainous parts of Jamaica, called by Sir Hans Sloan,
myrtus arborea aromatica, fohis launnis. 1 he fmell of
this fpice refembles a mixture of cinnamon, cloves, and
nutmegs; its tafte approaches to that of cloves, or a
mixture of the three foregoing •, whence it has receiv¬
ed the name of all-fpice. The {hops have, been for
fome time accuftomed to employ this aromatic as a fuc-
cedaneum to the more coftly fpices, and from them it.
has been introduced into our hofpitals.
Pimento is now in our pharmacopoeias the balls of a
diftilled water, a fpirit, and an elfential oil j and thefe
are
Icofandria. B O i
are not unfrctjncntly employed, where aromatics are
indicated.
980. Punica, or Pomegranate tree.
Two fpecies \ viz. granatum, nana. Spain, Italy,
Barb. W. Indies.—The pomegranate is a low tree, or
rather (lirub, growing wild in Italy, and other coun¬
tries in the fouth of Europe : it is fometimes met with
in our gardens ^ but the fruit, for which it is chiefly
valued, rarely comes to fuch perfeftion as in warmer
climates. This fruit has the general qualities of the
other fweet fummer fruits, allaying heat, quenching
third, and gently loofening the belly. The rind is a
ftrong aftringent, and as iuch, is occafionally made ule
of. The flowers are of an elegant red colour, in ap¬
pearance refembling a dried red rofe. I heir tafte is
bitterifh and aftringent. They are recommended in
diarrhoeas, dyfenteries, and other cafes where aftringent
medicines are proper.
981. Amygdalus, or Almond tree.
Four fpecies j viz. perfica, communis, pumila, nana.
Perfia- Jordan, Barbary.—The flowers of the amygda¬
lae perjlca have an agreeable fmell, and a bitterifti
tafte. Diftilled without any addition, by the heat of a
water bath, they yield one fixth their weight, or more,
of a whitifh liquor ; which, as Mr Bolduc obierves,
communicates to a large quantity of other liquids, a
flavour like that of the kernels of fruits. An infufion
in water, of half an ounce of the frefh gathered flowers,
or a dram of them when dried, fweetened with fugar,
proves for children a ufeful laxative and anthelmintic 5
the leaves of the tree are, with this intention, fome-
what more efficacious, though leis agreeable. The
fruit has the fame quality with the other fweet fruits,
that of abating heat, quenching thirft, and gently
loofening the belly.
The almond of the amygdalae communis, is a flattifh
kernel, of a white colour, covered with a thin brownifh
tkin, of a foft fweet tafte, or a difagreeable bitter one.
The fkins of both forts are unpleafant, and covered
with an acrid powdery fubftance •, they are very apt
to become rancid on keeping, and to be preyed on by
a kind of infeft which eats out the internal part, leav¬
ing the almond to appearance entire. To thefe cir-
cumftances regard ought to be had, in the choice of
them.
The fruit which affords thefe kernels, is the produce
of a tree nearly refembling the peach. The eye dif-
tinguifhes no difference betwixt the trees which pro¬
duce the fweet and bitter, or betwixt the kernels tbem-
i'elves it is faid, that the fame tree, has by a difference
in culture, afforded both.
Both forts of almonds yield, on expreffion, a large
quantity of oil, which has no fmell, or any particular tafte j
this oil feparates, likewife, upon boiling the almonds in
water, and is gradually colle&ed on the furface 5 but
on triturating the almonds with water, the oil and wa¬
ter unite together, by the mediation of the other mat¬
ter of the kernel, and form an unfluous milky liquor.
Sweet almonds are of greater ufe in food than as
medicines, but they are reckoned to afford little nou-
jrilhment \ and when eaten in fubftance, are not eafy of
digeftion, unlefs thoroughly comminuted. They are
fuppofed, on account of their foft untluous quality, to
obtund acrimonious juices in the prinue vim. Peeled
ANY. 19S
fweet almonds, eaten fix or eight at a time, fometimes
give prefent reliei in the heartburn.—Bitter almonds
have been found poifonous to dogs, and fundry other
animals $ and a water diftilled Bom them, when made
of a certain degree of ftrength, has had the fame ef-
fefts. Neverthelefs, when eaten, they appear innocent
to men, and have been not unfrequently ufed as medi¬
cines. Boerhaave recommends them in fubftance, as
diuretics which heat but moderately, and which may
therefore be ventured upon in acute difeafes.
The oils obtained by expreflion from both forts ot
almonds, are in their fenfible qualities the fame. The
general virtues of thefe oils are, to blunt acrimonious
humours, and to foften and relax the folids ; hence
their ufe, internally, in tickling coughs, heat of urine,
pains and inflammations ; and externally in tenfion,
and rigidity of particular parts.-—-The milky folutions
of almonds in watery liquors, commonly called emul»
{ions, contain the oil of the fubjeft, and participate iq
fome degree of its emollient virtue ; but have this ad¬
vantage above the pure oil, that they may be given in
acute or inflammatory diforders, without danger of the
ill effedfts which the oil might fometimes produce; fince
emulfions do not turn rancid or acrimonious by heat,
as all the oils of this kind in a little time do. Several
un&uous and reftnous fubftances, of themfelves not mif-
cible with water, may, by trituration with almonds, be
eafily mixed with it into the form of an emulfton ; and
are thus excellently fitted for medicinal ufe. In this
form camphor and the refmous purgatives may be com-
modioufty taken. The only ofticinal preparations of
almonds, are the expreffed oil and emulfton. The com¬
mon emulfton, or the lac amygdala, as it is now’ called
by the London college, is prepared from the fweet aL
mond alone ; but in the emulfion of the Edinburgh
college, a fmall proportion of bitter almonds is added,
which has a much better effeft in improving its tafte,
than the fugar added by the London college.-—An
emulfion formed entirely of bitter almonds, taken to th<*
quantity of a pint or two daily, is faid to have been
given in obftinate intermittents with fuccefs.
982. Prunus, or Plum tree,
22 fpecies; * padus, virginiana, canadenfis, lufitani-
ca, lauro-cerafus, elliptica, paniculata, mahaleb, arme-
niaca, fibirica, pumila, * cerafus, * avium, penfylvanica,
* domeftica, * infititia, * fpinofa, afpera, japonica, glan-
dulofa, incifa, tomentofa. Europe, N. America, W.
Indies,
# P. flowers in bunches; leaves deciduous, with txvopadus.
glands at the bafe on the under fide..—This plant grows
well in woods, groves, or fields, but not in a moift foil.
It bears lopping, and fuffers the grafs to grow under it,-
The fruit is naufeous, but bruifed and infufed in wine
or brandy, it gives it an agreeable flavour, A ftrong
deco&ion of the bark is ufed by the Finlanders to cure
venereal complaints, which pra&ice is corroborated by
the teftimony of M. Broerland. He direifts fix ounces
of the dry, or eight of the frelh bark, to be boiled in
eight to four pints of water. The dofe is four ounces,
four times a-day. It alone cures the flighter infections,
and combined with mercury facilitates the cure of the
feverer ftates of the difeafe ; and a decoCtion of the
berries is fometimes given with fuccefs in the dyfentery, ’
The wood being fmooth and tough, is made into han-
B G T
dies for knives and whips. Sheep, goats, and fwine
eat it. Cows are not fond of it. Horfes refufe it.
* P. umbels moftly on flioit fruitftalks ; leaves egg-
fpear-lhaped, fmooth, doubled together.-—This plant
loves a Tandy foil and an elevated fituation. The gum
that exudes from this tree is equal to gum arabic. It
is laid, that mote than loo men during a liege were
kept alive for near two months, without any other fuf-
tenance than a little of this gum taken into the mouth
fometimes and fullered gradually to diffblve. The com¬
mon people eat the fruit either frefh or dried ; and it
is frequently infufed in brandy for the fake ol its da-
'Vour. The wood is hard and tough. It is ufed by
the turner, and is formed into chairs, and ftained to
imitate mahogany. This tree is the original dock from
which many of the cultivated kinds are derived.
* P. umbels fitting *, leaves egg-fpear-fhaped, downy
underneath, doubled together.—This plant grows belt
in a rich foil on the fides of hills, unmixed with other
trees. It bears cropping, and fullers the grafs to grow
under it. In Hertfordlhlre there is a cultivated varie¬
ty, called carronSf which are larger and much finer fla¬
voured than the common fort.
domejlica. * P. fruitllalks moftly folitary; leaves fpear-egg-lha-
ped, coiled j branches thornlefs.—-This plant loves a
lofty expofure, and is favourable to pafturage. The
varieties have probably originated from the red and
white cultivated plums, either fown by defign or ac¬
cident. The cultivated garden plums are derived from
this fpecies. The bark dyes yellow. Its medical effefts
are to abate heat and gently loofen the belly 5 which
they perform by lubricating the pallage, and foftening
the excrement. They are of confiderable fervice in
coftivenefs, accompanied with heat and irritation, which
the more ftimulating cathartics would tend to aggra¬
vate. Where prunes are not of themfelves fufficient,
their effefts may be promoted by joining with them a
little rhubarb or the like j to wdiich may be added fome
carminative ingredient, to prevent their occafioning
flatulencies.
'infititia. * P. fruitftalks in pairs j leaves egg-fhaped, flightly
wooly, coiled j branches with thorns.—The fruit is a-
cid, but fo tempered by a fvveetnefs and roughnefs, as
not to be unpleafant, particularly after it is mellowed
by the frofts. A conferve is prepared by mixing the
pulp with thrice its weight of fugar. The bark of the
root and branches is confiderably ftyptic. An infufion
of the flovvei-s, fweetened with fugar, is a mild purga¬
tive, not improper for children.
fpinofa. * P. fruitftalks folitary 5 leaves fpear-fhaped, fmooth j
branches thorny.—This plant is not well adapted to
grow in hedges, becaufe it fpreads its roots wide, and
encroaches upon the pafturage ; but it makes a good
dead fence. The wmod is hard and tough, and is formed
into teeth for rakes, and walking .flicks. From fome
effedls which have been repeatedly obferved to follow
the prick of the thorns, there is reafon to believe there
is fomething poifonous in them, particularly in autumn.
The tender leaves dried are fometimes ufed as a fubfti-
tute for tea, and are thought the beft fubftitute that
has yet been tried. The fruit bruifed and put into
wine, gives it a b "mtiful red colour, and a pleafant
fubacid roughnefs. An infufion of a handful of the
flowrers is a fafe and eafy purge. The bark powdered,
in dofes of 2 drams, will cure fome agues. Letters
ANY. Icofandri%,
written upon linen or woollen with the juice of the fruit
will not wafh out. Sheep, goats, and horfes eat the
leaves. The different fpecies of Prunus furnifh nourifti-
ment to various infefts.
983. Pun 1 A.
Two fpecies; viz. crocea, pendunculata. Surinam,
Brazil.
984. Chrysobolanus, or Cocoa Plum.
One fpecies j viz. icaco. W. Indies, S« America'.
986. Sonneratia.
One fpecies} viz. acida. Eaft Indies,- China.
968. Leftospermum
Has 1 2 fpecies 5 viz. fcoparium, thea, flavefcens, at-
tenuatum, lanigerum, pubefcens, parvifolium, arach-
noideum, juniperinum, baccatum, ambiguum, virgatum.
New Holland.
969. Fabricia
Has two fpecies 5 viz. myrtifolia, laevigata. New
Holland.
970. Metrosideros.
14 fpecies•, viz. hifpida, fioribunda, coftata, diffufa,
villofa, florida, glomulifera, anguftifolia, ciliata, linea¬
ris, lanceolata, faligna, viminalis, capitata. N. Hol¬
land, N. Zealand, C. of G Hope.
974. Calyptranthes.
Six fpecies j viz. fuzygium, guineenfis, caryophylli-
folia, jambolana, chrytraculia, rigida. Jamaica, Gui¬
nea, Eaft; Indies.
975. Eucalyptus.
12 fpecies j viz. robufta, pilularis, tereticornis, re-
finifera, capitellata, faligna, botryoides, hsemaftoma,
piperita, obliqua, corymbofa, paniculata. N. Holland.
976. Banara.
One fpecies } viz. fagifolia. Cayenne.
977. Antherylium.
One fpecies } viz. rohrii. W. Indies.
978. Foetidia.
One fpecies } viz. mauritiana. Ifle Mauritius. i
979. Scolopia.
One fpecies 5 viz. pufilla. Ceylon.
985. Robinsonia.
One fpecies; viz. melianthifolia. Guiana.
Order II. DIGYNIA.
987. Cratageus, or Wild Service Tree.
15 fpecies; viz. * avia, * torminalis, coccinea, vi-
ridis, pun£lata, crus galli, tomentofa, indica, * oxya-
cantha, monogyna, azarolus, maura, villofa, Isevis,
glabra. Europe, India, N. America.
* c. leaves egg-fhaped, cut, ferrated, cottony under-
neath.—It loves dry hills and open expofures, and
llourifhes either in gravel or clay. It bears lopping,
and permits the grafs to grow. The wood, being
hard, tough, and fmooth, is ufed for axle-trees, wheels,
walking-flicks, carpenters and others tools. The fruit
is eatable when mellowed by the autumnal frofts, and
an ardent fpirit may be diftilled from it. It feldom
bears a good crop of fruit two years together. Sheep
I96
cerafus.
avium.
fcofandria, 13 Q 1
and goats eat it. The wool! affords an excellent char*
coal for the makers of gunpowder.
oxyacan- * C. leaves moftly 3-cleft •, fegments blunt, ferrated.
rfjQ' —Upon account of the ftiflfntfs of its branches, the
fharpnefs of its thonrs, its roots not fpreading wide,
and its capability of bearing the fevered winters with¬
out injury, this plant is univerfally preferred for mak¬
ing hedges, whether to clip or to grow at large. The
wood is tough, and is formed into axle-trees arid han¬
dles for tools. The berries are the winter food of
thrufhes and many other birds. Its different fpecies af¬
ford nourifliment to various infe£!s.
988. Waldstenia.
One fpecies } viz. geoides. Hungary.
Order III. TRIGYNIA.
989. Sorb us, or Service-tree.
Three fpecies j viz. * ancuparia, * hybrida, * do-
meftica. Europe.
ancuparia. * S. leaves winged, fmooth on both fides.—It grows
either in woods or open fields, but beft on the fides of
hills and in fertile foil. It will not bear lopping.
Plants grow well in its fhade. The wood is fotr,
tough, and folid. It is converted into tables, fpokes
for wheels, drafts, chairs, &c. The roots are formed
into handles for knives and wooden fpoons. The ber¬
ries, dried and reduced to powder, make wholefome
bread } and an ardent fpirit may be diftilled from
them, which has a fine flavour, but it is fmall in quan¬
tity. The berries too, infufed in water, make an acid
liquor fomewhat like perry, which is drank by the
poorer people in Wales. In Germany, the fowlers
ufe the berries to entice the redwings and fieldfares
into noofes of hair, fufpended in the woods j hence its
trivial name.
dome/lica. * S. leaves winged, woolly underneath.—The fruit is
mealy and auftere, not much unlike the medlar. The
wood is valuable for making mathematical rulers and
excifemen’s gauging flicks.
990. Sesuvium.
One fpecies; viz. portulacaftrum. W. Indies.
Order IV. PENTAGYNIA.
991. Mespilus, or Medlar-tree.
Eight fpecies *, viz. pyracantha, * germanica, arbu-
tifolia, amelanchia, chamae-mefpilus, canadenfis, ja-
ponica, gotoncaffer. Europe, N. America.
grrmamca. * M. thornlefs 5 leaves fpear-fhaped, cottony under¬
neath ; flowers folitary, fitting.—Many people are
fond of the fruit when it becomes foft by keeping ; it
is fomewhat auftere, and binds the bowels.
992. Pyrus, or Pear-tree.
Nine fpecies; viz. * communis, pollveria, * malus,
baccata, coronaria, cydonia, nivalis, falicifolia, japo-
nica.
cvmmums. * P. leaves ferrated, fmooth •, flowers forming a co-
rymbus.—This plant loves a fertile foil and Hoping
ground ; but will not thrive well in moift bottoms. It
ftands the fevereft winters, and does not deftroy the
grafs. The wood is light, fmooth, and compa<ff j it
is ufed by turners, and to make joiners tools} and for
ANY, 1
pi£fure frames to be ftained black. The leaves afford
a yellow dye, and may be ufed to give a green to blued
cloths. The fruit is auftere : but when cultivated,
highly grateful, as is proved by the great variety of
excellent pears which the induftry of mankind has rai¬
led, for they all originate from this. The juice of the
fruit, fermented, is called perry, large quantities of
which are raffed in Worcefterftiire and Herefordflure
for that purpofe. The fquafti, the Oldfield, and the
Barland perrys are reckoned the beft, and are little in¬
ferior to wune. Horfes, cows, fheep, and goats, eat
the leaves, wEich afford nourilhment to various in¬
fers.
* P. leaves ferrated ; flowers in umbels, fitting.—This
plant flouriihes better on declivities and in fnady places,
than in open expofures or boggy lands. Grals, and
even corn, will grow beneath it. It is much ufed as a
ftock, on which to ingraft the better kind of apples,
becaufe its fruits are neither killed by froft nor eaten
by field-mice. The bark affords a yellow' dye. The
wood is tolerably hard •, it turns very clean, and when
made into cogs for wheels, obtains a polifh and wrears
a long time. The acid juice of the fruit is called by
the country people verjuice, and is much ufed in fprains
and in other cales, as an aftringent or repellent. With
a proper addition of fugar, it is probable, that a very
grateful liquor might be made with the juice, but lit¬
tle inferior to old hock. Horfes, cows, ftieep, and
goats, eat it. Swine are very fond of the fruit.
The fruit of the pyrus cydonia have a very auftere
acid tafte 5 taken in fmall quantity, they are fuppofed
to reftrain vomiting and alvine fluxes, and, more libe¬
rally, to loofen the belly. The feeds abound wuth a
mucilaginous fubftance of no particular tafte, wdiich
they readily impart to watery liquors \ an ounce will
render three pints of water thick and ropy, like the
white of an egg. A mucilage of the feeds is kept in
the fhops. A fyrup of the fruit had formerly a place,
but is now rejedfted.
993. Tetragonia.
Seven fpecies j viz. fruticofa, herbacea, ivaefolia,
hirfuta, fpicata, expanfa, japonica. Cape, Peru, New
Zealand.
994. Mesembryanthemum, or Fig-marygold.
50 fpecies j viz. nodiflorum, cryftallinum, copticum,
geniculiflorum, nodliflorum, fplendens, umbellatum,
expanfum, tripolium, calamiforme, apetalum, criniflo-
rum, cordifolium, bellidifolium, deltoides, barbatum,
hifpidum, villofum, fcabrum, emarginatum, uncina-
tum, fpinofum, tuberofum, tenuifolium, ftipulaceum,
craflifolium, glomeratum, loreum, filamentofum, fal-
catum, forficatum, edule, bicolorum, ferratum, mi-
cans, glaucum, corniculatum, tortuofum, pomeridia-
num, veruculatum, papulofum, pinnatifidum, roftra-
tum, ringens, dolabriforme, difforme, albidum, lin-
guoeforme, pugioniforme, capillare. Greece, Cape,
New Zealand.
995. Aizoon.
Ten fpecies; viz. canarienfe, hifpanicum, lanceola-
tum, farmentofum, paniculatum, perfoliatum, glinoides,
fecundum, fruticofum, rigidum. Spain, Cape, Ca¬
nary.
996. Spiraea, or Spiked Willow, Dropwort.
18 fpecies j viz, laevigata, * falicifolia, tomentofa,
callofa,
198 B O T
callofa, liyperlcifolia, cliainoedrifolia, incifa, crenata,
argentea, triloba, opulifolia, forbifolia, aruncus, * fi-
lipendula, * ulmaria, lobata, palmata, tvifoliata. Eu¬
rope, N. America.
Jilipcndula. * S. leaves interruptedly winged } leafets ftrap-fpear-
fhaped, irregularly ferrated, very fmooth j flowers
in tufts.—The tuberant pea-like roots of this plant,
dried and reduced to powder, make a kind of bread,
which in times of fcarcity is not to be defpifed. Hogs
are very fond of them. When expanded and enlarged
by cultivation, it is a beautiful addition to the flower-
garden.
ulmaria* * S. leaves interruptedly winged j leafets egg-fhaped,
double ferrated, hoary underneath ; flowers in tufts.—.
The flowers, infufed in boiling water, give it a fine fla¬
vour, which rifes in diftillation. Sheep and fwine eat
it. Goats are extremely fond of it. Cows and horfes
refufe it.
Order V. POLYGYNIA.
997. Rosa, or Ro/e.
2l fpecies ; viz. eglanteria, * rubiginofa, cinnamo-
mea, * arvenfis, pimpinellifolia, * fpinofiflima, rugo-
fa, Carolina, *villofa, finica, fempervivens, centifolia,
gallica, pumila, alpina, canina, collina, indica, pen-
dulina, alba, multiflora. Europe, Perfia, China, N.
America.
fpinojijjima * R. germens and fruitflalks fmooth ; ftem and leaf-
ftalks fully fet with ftraight prickles $ leafets circular,
fmooth.—The ripe fruit is eaten by children ; it has a
grateful fubacid tafte. The juice of it, diluted with
water, dyes filk and muflin of a peach colour, and,
with the addition of alum, a deep violetbut it has
very little effeft on woollen or linen. Its dwarfifh
growth, and the Angular elegance of its little leaves,
which referable thofe of the upland burnet, entitle it
to a place in the flower-garden.
Canina, * R. germens and fruitflalks fmooth •, ftem and leaf-
ftalks prickly.—A perfumed water may be diftilled
from the bloflbms. The pulp of the berries, beat up
with fugar, makes the conferve of hips of the Lon¬
don difpenfatory. Mixed with wine, it is an accept¬
able treat in the north of Europe. Several birds feed
upon the berries. The leaves of every fpecies of rofe,
but efpecially of this, are recommended as a fubftitute
for tea, giving out a fine colour, a fub-aftringent tafte,
and a grateful fmell, when dried, and infufed in boil¬
ing water. It is a difficult matter to fay, which are
fpecies, and which are varieties only, in this genus $
fome think that there are no certain limits prefcribed
by nature. Various infefls are nourifhed by the dif¬
ferent fpecies; and thofe mofly prickly excrefcences
which are frequently found upon the branches of rofes,
efpecially upon the laft fpecies, are the habitations of
the cynips rofce. This excrefcence was formerly in re¬
pute as a medicine, and was kept in the {hops under
the name of bedeguar. An infufion of the full blown
bloflbms of all the rofes, efpecially the paler kinds, is
purgative ; but the petals of the red rofes, gathered
before they expand, and dried, are aftringent.
The rofa centifolia is an elegant flower, common in
our gardens. Its fmell is very pleafant, and almoft
-imiverfally admired ■, its tafte bitterilh and fubacrid.
In diftillation with water, it yields a itnall portion of a
A N Y. Icofandru,
butyraceous oil, whofe flavour exaflly refembles that
of the rofes. This oil, and the diftilled water, are
very ufeful and agreeable cordials. Hoffman ftrongly
recommends them as of a lingular efficacy for railing
the ftrength, cheering and recruiting the fpirits and
allaying pain 5 which they perform without raifing any
heat in the conftitutisn, rather abating it when inor¬
dinate. Damafk rofes, befides their cordial aromatic
virtue, wffiich refides in their volatile parts, have a
mildly purgative one, which remains entire in the de-
co&ion left after the diftillation ; this with a proper
quantity of fugar forms an agreeable laxative fyrup,
wrhich has long kept its place in the fnops.
The rofa gallica has very little of the fragrance of
the foregoing pale fort, and inftead of its purgative
quality, a mild gratefully aftringent one, efpecially
before the flow’er has opened : this is confiderably im¬
proved by hafty exficcation ; but both the aftringency
and colour are improved by flow drying. In the (hops
there are prepared a conferve, an infufion, a honey,
and a fyrup of this flower.
998. Rubus, or Rafpberry,
20 fpecies j viz. * idaeus, occidentalis, hifpidus,
parvifolius, jamaicenfis, triphyllus, * caefius, * frutico-
fus, canadenfis, odoratus, moluccanus, palmatus, villo-
fus, incifus, japonicus, trifidus, * faxatilis, * arfticus,
* chamaemorus, dalibarda. North Europe, Alia, Ame¬
rica.
* R. leaves winged with five or three leafets, ftera idceus*
prickly $ leaf-ftalk channelled.—-The fruit of this plant
is extremely grateful as nature prefents it, but made
into a fweatmeat with fugar, or fermented with wine^
the flavour is improved, It is fragrant, fubacid, and
cooling. It diffolves the tartarous concretions of the
teeth j but for this purpofe it is inferior to the ftraw-
berry. The white berries are fweeter than the red,
but they are generally contaminated by infe&s. The
frelh leaves are the favourite food of kids.
* R. leaves winged with three or five leafets j ftem zn^fruticoftii,
leaf-ftalks prickly $ panicle oblong.-—The berries when
ripe are black, and do not eat amifs with wine. The
green twdgs are of great ufe in dying wmollen, filk,
and mohair, black. Cows and horfes eat it. Sheep
are not fond of it. Silk worms wdll fometimes feed
upon the leaves in deleft of thofe of the mulberry,
* R. leaves Ample, lobed $ ftem without prickles, with chamamtd
one flower; male and female flowers on different rus,
plants,—The berries are not unpleafant, and held to be
an excellent antifcorbutic. The Norwegians pack
them up in wooden veffels and fend them to Stock¬
holm, where they are ferved up in deferts or made into
tarts. The Laplanders bury them under the fnow,
and thus preferve them frefli from one year to another.
They bruife and eat them with the milk of the rein
deer. In the Highlands of Scotland alfo they are
fometimes brought to table with the defert.
999, Fracarja, or Strawberry,
Three fpecies; viz. * vefca, monophylla, * fterilis.
North Europe, America,
* F. leaves three together; runners creeping.—The
berries eaten either alone or with fugar, or with milk,
are univerfally efteemed a moft delicious fruit. They
are grateful, cooling, fubacid, juicy, and have a de¬
lightful fmell. Taken in large quantities, they feldom
difagree.
Icofandria. B O T
difagree with the ftomach. They promote perfpiration,
impart a violet fcent to the urine, and diffolve the tar-
tarous incruftations upon the teeth. People alfli£led
with the gout or done, have found great relief from
ufing them largely. The bark of the root is aftringent.
Sheep and goats eat it. Cows are not fond of it.
Horfes and fwine refufe it.
1000. Potentili-A, or Cinquefoil.
31 fpecies \ viz. * fruticofa, *anferina, feracea, mul-
tifida, fragarioides, * rupeflris, bifucca, pimpinelloides,
penfylvanica, fupina, redla, argentea, intermedia, hirta,
ilipularis, opaca, * verna, * aurea, aftracanica, cana-
denfis, * alba, caulefcens, elufiana, nitida, valderia,
* reptans, monfpelienfis, norvegica, nivea, grandiflora,
fubacaulis. Europe, North America.
fruticofa. * p. leaves winged, Hem fhrub-like.—The beautiful
appearance of its numerous flowers has gained it ad¬
mittance into gardens. Befoms are made of it. Cows,
horfes, goats, and flieep eat it. Swine refufe it.
anfenna. * p leaves winged, ferrated j flem creeping j fruit-
ftalks with one-Hower.—The leaves are mildly aftrin-
gent. Dried and powdered they have been given
with fuccefs in agues. The ufual dofe is a meal fpoon-
ful of the powder every three hours between the fits.
The roots in the winter time eat like parfnips. Swine
are fond of them. Cows, horfes, goats, and fwine eat
it. Sheep refufe it.
reptans. * p. leafets five together, Item creeping ; fruit-ftalks
one-flow^ered.— The red cortical part of the root is
mildly aftringent and antifeptic. A deco&ion of it is
a good gargle for loofe teeth and fpongy gums. Horfes,
cows, goats, and fheep, eat it.
1001. Tormentilla, or Tormentil.
Two fpecies ; viz. erefta, * reptans. Europe.—
The tormentil is found wild in woods and on com¬
mons 5 it has long {lender ftalks, with ufually feven
long narrow leaves at a joint j the root is for the moft
part crooked and knotty, of a blackifh colour in the
outfide, and reddifh within. This root has an auftere
ftyptic tafte, accompanied with a flight kind of aroma¬
tic flavour ; it is one of the moft agreeable and ef¬
ficacious of the vegetable aftringents, and is employed
with good effefl in all cafes where medicines of this
clafs are proper. It is more ufed both in extempo-
A N Y. 199
raneous prefcription, and officinal compofition, than
any of the other ftrong vegetable aftringents. It is an
ingredient in the two compound powders of chalk.
A tinfture made from it with redlified fpirit, poffeffes
the wdiole aftringency and flavour of the root, and lofes
nothing of either in infpiffating.
1002. Geum, or Avensy Herb-bennet.
Eight fpecies 3 viz. virginianum, * urbanum, cana-
denfe, japonica, * rivale, hybridum, montanum, rep¬
tans. Europe, North America.
* G. flowers upright 3 fruit globular, woolly 3 wns urbanutttt
hooked, bare 3 root-leaves lyre-fhaped 3 Item-leaves in
threes.—The roots gathered in the fpring before the
Item grows up, and put into ale, give it a pleafant fla¬
vour, and prevent its growing four. Infufed in wane it is
a good ftomachic. Its tafte is mildly,auftere and aroma¬
tic, efpecially when it grows in a warm dry fituation 3
but in fhady and moift places it has little virtue. Cows,
goats, fheep, and fwine eat it.
* G. flowers nodding, fruit oblong; awns feathered,rival?.
twifted ; petals blunt, roundifh, wedge-fhaped 3 leaves
winged. The powdered root will cure tertian agues,
and is daily ufed for that purpofe by the Canadians.
Sheep and goats eat it. Cows, horfes, and fwine are
not fond of it. It is made ufe of to cure ropy malt
liquor.
1003. Dryas.
Three fpecies 3 viz. anemonoides, geoides, # odtope*
tala. Alps of Europe, Kamtfchatka.
1004. Com arum, or Marfh-cinquefoil.
One fpecies 3 viz. * paluftre. Europe.
* C. leaves winged, petals fmaller than the c^lyx.pa[uJlrer
The root dyes a dirty red. The Irifh rub their milking
pails with it, and it makes the milk appear thicker and
richer. Goats eat it. Cows and fheep are not fond of
it. Horfes and fwine refufe it.
1005. Calycanthus, ox Carolina Allfpice.
Two fpecies. viz. floridus, praecox. Carolina, Flo¬
rida, Japan.
In the clafs Icofandria are
39 Genera, including 346 Species, of which 42'
are found in Britain.
CLASSIS XIII.
POLYANDRIA(c).
Ordo I. MONOGYNIA.
Se£t. I. Mompetali.
1054. Swartzia. Cal. 4-partitus. Petalum pla-
tum laterale. Legumen.
CLASS XIII.
POLYANDRIA.
Order I. MONOGYNIA.
Se£t. I. Monopetali.
S. Cal. 4-partite. A flat lateral petal. Legumi^-
1006.
(c) The flowers of this clafs have, as its title implies, many ftamens, that is from 20 to 1000 or more 3 fo that it
is unneceffary to attempt to count them further, than to be fatisfied that they amount to 20 or upwards. The
ftamens
B O T
1006. Marcgravia. Cal. 6-pliyllus, imbricatus*
Cor. i-petalu, claufa. Bacca multilocularis.
1007. Ternstroemia. Cal. 5-partitus. Cor, ro-
tata, limbo campanulato, 5-partito. Bacca exfucca,
bilocularis.
Seel. II. Tripetali.
1008. Trilix. Cal. 3-phyllus. Bacca 5-locula-
rxs, polyl’perma.
j- Sterbeckia lateriflora. Tetracers nonnnlIce,
Se<5l. III. Tetrapetali.
1023. Mammea. Cal. 2-phyllus. Bacca i-locu*
laris. Setn. callofa.
* 10x5. Pap aver. Cal. 2-phyllus. Capf. x-locul.
coronata.
* 1014. Chelidonium. Cal. 2-phyllus. Siliqua.
1022. Sparrmannia. Cal. 4-phyllus. Capf. pen-
tagona quinque-locularis, loculis difpermis.
1010. Capparis. Cal. 4-phyllus. Bacca pedicel-
lata, corticofa.
* 1011. Actasa. Cal. 4-phyllus. Bacca i-locularis,
Sem. gemino ordine.
1026. Calophyelum. Cal. 4-phyllus. Drupa
globofa. Nucleus lubglobofus.
1025. Grias. Cal. 4-fidus. Drupa i-fperma.
Nucleus 8-fulcatus.
ValleaJlepularis. Legnotis elliptica. Cleome chelcdonio*
felina. Tetracer a nit'ida.
Seel. IV. Pentapetali.
1044. Sterbeckia. Capf. cylindracea corticofa,
Semina imbricata in pulpa nidulantia.
1043. Loasa. Capf. femi-infera, i-locularis, femx-
trivalvis, polyfpertna.
1042. Mentzelia. Capf. infera, x-locularis, 3-
valvis, polyfperma.
1050. Bonnetia. Capf. fupera, 3-locularis, 3-val-
vis, polyfperma. Cal. 5-partitus.
1049. Vallea. Capf. fupera, 4-f. 5-angularis, uni-
locularis, polyfperma.
1036. Legnotis. Capf. fupera, 3-locularis, 3-val-
vis. Sem. folitaria. Cal. 5-fidus.
1046. Freziera. Bacca exfucca, 3-locularis. Cal,
5-phyllus. . . ,
1034. Marila. Capf. 4-loculans, 4-valvis, poly¬
fperma. Cal. 5-phyllus.
* 1048. Cistus. Capf. fubrotunda. Cal. 5-phyllus,
foliola 2 minora.
1038. LemnisCiA. Pericarp. 5-loculare. Cal. 5-
dentat. Neclarium cyathiforme.
1052. Chorchorus. Capf, fub 5-locularis. Cal,
5-phyllus, longitudine corollae, deciduus.
1018. Sarracenia. Cap)'. 5-locularis. Stigma cly-
peatum. Cal. exter. 3-phyllus, fuper, 5-phyllus.
ANY, Folpndm.
M. Cal. 6-leafed, tiled. Cor. t-petaled, clofed. Ber¬
ry many-celled.
T. Cal. J-partite. Cor. wheel-fhaped, with a beU-
fliaped border, 5-partite. Dry, 2-celled berry,
Se£t. II. Three~petaled.
T. Cal, 3-leafed. Berry 5-celled, many feeded.
Se£l. III. Four-petaled.
M. Cal. 2-leafed. Berry 1-celled. Seeds callous,
* P. Cal. 2-leafed. Capf. x-celled, crowned,
* C. Cal. 2-leafed. A long pod.
S. Cal, 4-leafed, Capf. a 5-celled pentagon, 2-feeds
in each cell.
C. Cal. 4-leafed, Berry pedicled, i. t. with a foot-
ftalk, bark-like,
* A, Cal, 4-leafed, Berry 1-celled. Seeds in a double
row.
C. Cal. 4-leaved. Globular drupe. Kernel, nearly
globular.
G. Cal, 4-cleft. Drupe x-feeded. Kernel 8-furrowed,
Setl. IV. Five-petaled.
S. Capf. cylindrical, bark-like. Seeds tiled, difperf-
ed in the pulp.
L. Capf, half-inferior, i-celled, half 3-valved, many-
feeded.
M. Capf, inferior, i-celled, 3-valved, many-feeded.
B, Capf. fuperior, 3-celled, 3-valved, many-feeded.
Cal. 5.parted.
V. Capf. fuperior, 4 or 5~angular, 1-celled, many-
feeded.
L. Capf, fuperiox*, 3-celled, 3-valved. Seeds foli-
tary. Cal, 5-cleft.
F. Berry dyy, 3-celled, Cal, 5-leaved.
M. Capf. 4-celled, 4-valved, many-feeded. Cal,
5-leaved.
* C. Capf, nearly round. Cal. 5-leaved, 2-leaflets
fmall.
L. Pericarp, 5 celled. Cal. 5-toothed. Ne&ary
glafs-ihaped.
M. Pericarp. 5-celled. Cal. 5-leaved, of the length
of the corolla, deciduous.
S. Capl". 5 celled. Stigma fhield-like. Cal. ex¬
ternal 3-leaved, fuperior 5 leaved.
1028.
    —          ——    —      t  
flamens Hand upon the receptacle. If the exadl fituation of the ftamens may be readily perceived by care¬
fully and {lowly puiling off the petals and fegments of the calyx, if the ftaroens remain in their place they may
then be confidered as growing upon the receptacle. Very many plants of this clais are poifonous.
Polyandria. B O T
* 1028. Tilia. Capf. 5-locul. coriacea, i-fperma.
Cal. ckciduus.
1022. Aueletia. Capf. echinata, 10-locularis,
polyfperma. Cal. coloratus.
1024. Ochna. Baccae 5, in receptaculo carnofo.
Petala unguibus elongatis.
1039. Ascium. Bacca unilocularis, polyfperma.
Cal. 5-phyllus.
1031. Grewia. Drupa 4-loba, 4-locularis. Cal.
5-phyllus.
1017. Muntingia. Bacca 5-locularis, umbilicata.
Cal. partitas.
1035. EljEOCArpus. Drupa nuce crifpa. Petala
lacera.
1033. Microcos. Drupa nuce triloculari. Petala
Hnearia.
f Delphinium confolida. Ajacis. Aconiti. Lcetia completa.
Se£t. V. Hexapetali.
1016. Argemone. Cal. 3-phyllus. Capf. i-locu-
laris, femivalvis.
1045. Lagerstroemia. Cal. 6-fidus. Stam. 6, ex-
teriora majora. Capf. 6-locul. polyfperma.
1041. Alangium. Cal. 6-10-dentatus, fuperus.
Petala 6, f. 10. Bacca corticofa, 2-3-fperma.
1047. The a. Cal. 5 f. 6-phyllus. Petala 6 f. 9.
Capf. 3 locularis. Sem. folitaria.
1040. Lecythos. Cal. 6-phyllus. Stam. neftario
lingulato connata. Capf. circumfcilfa.
f Ternjlrcemia meridionalis.
Se£t. VI. Odlopetali.
1012. Sanguinaria. Cal. 2-phyllus. Capf. 2-val-
■vis, polyfperma.
Se£l:. VII. Enneapetali.
1013. Podophyllum. Cal. 2-phyllus. Capf. 2-
valvis, polyfperma.
Se<T. VIII. Decapetali.
1020. Bixa. Cal. 5-dentatus. Cor. 5-petala, du¬
plex. Capf. 2-valvis.
Alangium decapetalum.
ANY.
* T. Capf. 5-celled, leather-like, i-feeded. Cal. deci¬
duous.
A. Capf. prickly, 10-celled, many-feeded. Cal.
coloured.
O. Berries 5, in a flelhy receptacle. Petals with
long claws.
A. Berry 1-celled, many-feeded. Cal. 5-leaved.
G. Drupe 4-lobed, 4-celled. Capf. 5-leaved.
M. Berry 5-celled, dimpled. Cal. parted.
E. Drupe wdth a curled nut. Petals ragged.
M. Drupe with a 3-celled nut. Petals ftrap-lhaped.
Se£t. V. Six-petaled.
A. Cal. 3-leaved. Capf. i-celled, half-valved.
L. Cal. 6-cleft. Outer ftamens greater. Capf. 6-
celled, many-feeded.
A. Cal. 6 to 10 toothed, fuperior. Petals 6 or 10.
Berry bark-like, 2-3-feeded.
T. Cal. 5 or 6-leaved. Petals 6 or 9. Capf. 3-
celled. Seeds folitary.
L. Cal. 6 leaved. Stamens united at the bafe to a
tongue-lhaped ne&ary. Capf. cut round.
Se£t. VI. Eight-petaled.
S. Cal. 2-leaved. Capf. 2-valved, many-feeded.
Se£t. VII. Nine-petaled.
P. Cal. 2-leaved. Capf. 2-valved, many-feeded.
Se£L VIII. Ten-petaled.
B. Cal. 5-toothed. Cor. 5-petaled, double. Capf,
2-valved.
Se£t. IX. Polypetali.
* 1019. Nymph^a. Bacca multilocul. corticofa.
Cal. magnus.
Se£l. X. Apetali.
1051. Prockia. Cal. 3-phyllus. Peric. 5-locu-
lare.
1032. M^rua. Cal. 4-fidus, tubo neftarifero. Pe¬
ric. pedicellatum.
1009. Ludia. Cal. 4 f. 9-partitus. Pericarp,
uniloculare, polyfpermum.
1021. Sloanea. Cal. 5-9-fidus. Peric. echinatum,
3-6-loculare, 3-6-valve. Semina arillata.
Vol. IV. Part I.
Seel. IX. Many-petaled.
* N. Berry many-celled, bark-like. Cal. large.
Sett. X. No petals.
P. Cal. 3-leaved. Peric. 5-celled.
M. Cal. 4-cleft, wdth a honey-bearing tube. Peric.
pedicled.
L. Cal. 4 or 9-parted. Seed-veffel 1-celled, many-
feeded.
S. Cal. 5-9-cleft. Seed-veffel prickly, 3-6-celled,
3-6-valved. Seeds coated.
C c
261
1030.
202
B O T
1030. Ryan 1 A. Cal. 5-phyllus. Pericarp, uni-
loculare, polyfpermum. Semina arillata.
1029. L^tia. Cal. 5-phyllus. Peric. i-loculare,
3-valve, polyfpermum.
1053. Seguieria. Cal. 5-phyllus. Peric. i-fper,
mum, alatum.
Cratceva marmelos, tetracera farmentofa.
Ordo II. DIGYNIA.
1057. Fothergilla. Cal. integerrimus. Cor.
nulla. Capf. 2-locularis. Sem. bina.
1056. Curatella. Cal. 5-phyllus. Cor. 4-peta-
la. Capf. 2-partita, 2-fperma.
1055. P/eon 1 a. Cal. 5-phyllus. Cor. 5-petala.
Capf. polyfperma. Sem. colorata.
1058. Trichocarpus. Cal. 4 f. 5-partitus. Cor.
o. Capf. fetofa, polyfperma.
1059. Lacis. Cal. o. Cor. o. Capf. 2-valvis, poly¬
fperma.
Tetracera he vis.
Ordo III. TRIGYNIA.
* 1061. Delphinium. Cal. nullus. Cor. 5-petala,
fupremo petalo cornuto. Ne&ar. 2-fidum, lefhle.
1062. Aconitum. Cal. nullus. Cor. 5-petala,
fupremo galeato. Neftar. 2-pedicillata.
1060.' Homalium. Cal. 6-7-partitus. Cor. 6-7-
petala. Stamina per tria aggregata.
Rcfeda lutcola. Corchorus djluans.
Ordo IV. TETRAGYNIA.
1063. Wintera. Cal. integer. Cor. 6-petala.
Eaccae 4, 4-fpermge.
1067. Cimicifuga. Cal. 4-phyllus. Cor. nefta-
riis 4, urceolatis. Capf. 4. Sem. fquamofa.
1066. Wahlbomia. Cal. 4-phyllus. Cor. 4-pe-
tala. Peric. 4-roftrata.
1064. Tetracera. Cal. 6-phyllus. Capf. 4, mo-
nofpermge. Stamina dilatata utrinque antherifera.
1065. Caryocar. Cal. 5-partitus. Cor. 5-petala.
Drupa nucibus 4.
Ordo V. PENTAGYNIA.
* 1068. Aquilegia. Cal. nullus. Cor. 5-petala.
Neftaria 5, inferne cornuta.
1069. Nigella. Cal. nullus. Cor. 5-petala. Nec¬
tar. 8, fuperne 2 labiata.
1070. Reaumuria. Cal. 5-phyllus. Cor. 5-pe¬
tala, nedtariis 10, adnatis, ciliatis. Capf. 5-locularis,
polyfpernja.
Aconita et Delphinia nonnulla.
Ordo VI. POLYGYNIA.
1091. Hydrastis. Cal. nullus. Cor. 3-petala.
Bacca compofrta acinis i-fpermis.
ANY.
R. Cal. 5-leaved-,
ed j feeds coated.
L. Cal. 5-leaved,
many-feeded.
L. Cal. 5-leaved.
Polyandria.
Seed-veffel 1-celled, many-feed-
Seed-veffel, 1-celled, 3-valved,
Seed-velfel x-feeded, winged.
Order II. DIGYNIA.
F. Cal. entire. No cor. Capf. 2-celled. Seeds 2.
C. Cal. 5-leaved. Cor. 4-petaled. Capf. 2-parted,
2-feeded.
P. Cal. 5-leaved. Cor. 5-petaled. Capf. many-
feeded. Seeds coloured.
T. Cal. 4 or 5-parted. No cor. Capf. brillly,
many-feeded.
L. No cal. No cor. Capf. 2-valved, many-feeded.
Order III. TRIGYNIA.
* D. No cal. Cor. 5-petaled, the laft petal horn-
fhaped. Neftary 2-cleft, fitting.
A. No cal. Cor. 5-petaled, the laft helmet-fhaped.
Ne£lar. 2-pedicled.
H. Cal. 6-7-partite. Cor. 6-7-petaled. Stamens
incorporated by threes.
Order IV. TETRAGYNIA.
W. Cal. entire. Cor. 6-petaled. Berries 4, 4-feed-
ed.
C. Cal. 4-leaved. Cor. with 4-pitcher-fhaped nec¬
taries. Capf. 4. Seeds fcaly.
W. Cal. 4-leaved. Cor. 4-petaled. Seed-vefiels
4-beaked.
T. Cal. 6-leaved. Capf. 4, i-feeded. Stamens
dilated on both fides bearing the anthers.
C. Cal. 5-parted. Cor. 5-petaled. Drupe with 4-
nuts.
Order V. PENTAGYNIA.
* A. No cal. Cor. 5-petaled. Ne&aries 5, horned
beneath.
N. No cal. Cor. 5-petaled. Neftaries 8, two-lip¬
ped above. . '
R. Cal. 5-leaved. Cor. 5-petaled, with 10 ne&aries
connefted, fringed. Capf. 5-celled, many-ieeded.
Order Vi. POLYGYNIA.
H. No cal. Cor. 3-petaled.
i-feeded granulations.
Berry compound with
1082.
Polyandria. B O T
1082. AtrAGEne. Cal. nullus. Cor. 4-petala,
major ; interior polypetala. Sem. plurima, criftata.
* 1083. Clematis. Cal. nullus. Cor. 4-petala.
Sem. plurima ariftata.
* 1084. Thalictrum. Cal. nullus. Cor. 4-5-peta-
la. Sem. plurima, fubmutica, nuda.
1088. Isopyrum. Cal. nullus. Cor. 5-petala,
decidua. Neftaria 5. Capf. polyfpermae.
* 1089. Helleborus. Cal. nullus. Cor. 5-petala,
perfiftens. Neftaria plura. Capf. polyfpermae.
* 1090. Caltha. Cal. nullus. Cor. 5-petala. Capf.
plurimae. Ne£laria nulla.
* 1081. Anemone. Cal. nullus. Cor. 6-petala. Sem.
plurima.
1076. Michelia. Cal. truncatus. Cor. 8-petala.
Baccae 4-fpermae, glomeratse.
* 1087. Trollius. Cal. nullus. Cor. T4-petalse.
Nedtaria linearia. Capf. polyfpermae.
1079. Xylopia. Cal. 3-phyHus. Cor. 6-petala.
Capf. i f. 2-fpermae, in receptaculo haemifpherico.
1080. Unona. Cal. 3-phyllus. Cor. 6-petala.
Baccae moniliformes, 2-fpermae, in receptaculo hoemi-
fpherico.
1077. Uvaria. Cal. 3-phyllus. Cor. 6-petala.
Baccae polyfpermae, recept. longo affixae.
1078. Annona. Cal. 3-phyllus. Cor. 6-petala.
Bacca cortice imbricato, polyfperma.
1073. Liricdendrum. Cal. 3-phyllus. Cor. 6-
petala. Samarae plurimae, lanceolatae, imbricate.
1074. Magnolia. Cal. 3-phyllus. Cor. p-petala.
Capf. glomeratae, 2-valves. Sem. pendula.
1075. Nelumbtum. Cal. 4-5-phyllus. Cor. poly¬
petala. Nuces monofpermae, receptaculo immerfae.
1071. Dillenia. Cal. 5-phyllus. Cor. 5-petala.
Sem. plurima. Petala ungue neftarifero.
* 1086. Ranunculus. Cal. 5-phyllus. Cor. 5-
petala. Sem. plurima, petala ungue nedlarifero.
1072. Illicium. Cal. 6-phyllus. Pet. 27. Capf.
I -fperma, in orbem.
* 1085. Adonis. Cal. 5-phyllus. Cor. 5 f. 10-pe-
tala. Sem. plurima, angulata, corticata.
Nigel/a nonnullce.
ANY. 205
A. No cal. Cor. 4-petaled, large 5 within, many-
petaledi Seeds many, crefted.
* C. No cal. Cor. 4-petaled. Seeds many, awned.
* T. No cal. Cor. 4-5-petaled. Seeds many, nearly
awnlefs, naked.
I. No cal. Cor. 5-petaled, deciduous. Nedtaries 5.
Capf. many-feeded.
* H. No cal. Cor. 5-petaled, permanent. Nedlaries
feveral. Capf. many-feeded.
* C. No cal. Cor. 5-petaled. Capf. many. Nedtaries
none.
* A. No cal. Cor. 6-petaled. Seeds many.
M. Cal. truncated. Cor. 8-petaled. Berries 4-
feeded, congregated.
* T. No cal. Cor. 14 petals. Ned!, flrap fhaped,
Capf. many-feeded.
X. Cal. 3-leaved. Cor. 6-petaled. Capf. one or
2-feeded, in a hemifpherical receptacle.
U. Cal. 3-leaved. Cor. 6-petaled. Berries brace-
let-fhaped, 2-feeded, in a hemifpherical receptacle.
U. Cal. 3 leaved. Cor. 6-petaled. Berries many-
feeded, affixed to a long receptacle.
A. Cal. 3-leaved. Cor. 6-petaled. Berry many-
feeded, with a tiled bark.
L. Cal. 3-leaved. Cor. 6-petaled. Seed-veffels
many, fpear-ffiaped, tiled.
M. Cal. 3-leaved. Cor. 9-petaled. Capf. congre¬
gated, 2-valved. Seeds pendulous.
N. Cal. 4-5-leaved. Cor. many-petaled. Nuts one-
feed ed, immerfed in the receptacle.
D. Cal. 5-leaved. Cor. 5-petaled. Seeds many.
Petals with a honey-bearing claw.
* R. Cal. 5-leaved. Cor. 5-petaled. Seeds many.
Petals with a honey-bearing claw.
I. Cal. 6-leaved. Petals 27. Capf. i-feeded, in a
circle.
* A. Cal. 5-leaved. Cor. 5 or lopetaled. Seeds
many, angled, bark-like.
Order I. MONOGYNIA.
1006. Marcgravia,
Two fpecies j viz. umbellata, coriacea. Weft
Indies.
1007. Ternstroemia.
Five fpecies *, viz. meridionalis, elliptica, punclata,
japonica-, dentata. Japan, Weft Indies, Guiana.
1008. Trilix.
One ipecies j viz. lutea. Carthagena.
1009. Ludia.
Three fpecies •, viz. heterophylla, myrtifolia, feffili-
dora. lile of Mauritius.
toio. Capparis, or Caper-bujh.
30 fpecies: viz. fpinofa, ovata, asgyptia, tomentofa,
acuminata, zeylanica, horrida, erythrocarpos, fepiara,
citrifolia, corymbofa, mariana, panduriformis, badduc-
ca, torulofa, longifolia, frondofa, ferruginea, grandis,
jamaicenfis, odorotiffima, verrucofa, ampliffima, cyno-
phallophora, faligna, pulcherrima, tenuifiliqua, line¬
aris, breynia, hailata. S. Europe, Eaft and Weft In¬
dies, South America.—-The bufti of the capper is fpi¬
nofa is a low -prickly buffi, found wild in Italy and
other countries ; it is raifed with us by fowing the feeds
upon old walls, where they take root between the
bricks, and endure for many years. The bark of the
root is pretty thick, of an afti colour, with feveral tranf-
verfe wrinkles on the furface ; cut in Dices and laid to
dry, it rolls up into quills. This bark has a bitterifh
acrid tafte ; it is reckoned aperient and diuretic, and re¬
commended in feveral chronic diforders for opening
obftruftions of the vifeera. The buds pickled with
vinegar, &c. are ufed at table. They are fuppofed to
C c 2 excite
204
fpicata.
inajus.
rhaas.
fvmnfe-
rum.
B O T
excite appetite an(i promote digeftion } and to be par¬
ticularly ufeful, as detergents and aperients, in obftruc-
tions of the liver and fpleen. Their tafte and virtues
depend more upon the faline matter introduced into
them, than on the caper buds.
I o 11. A c t .u A, or Herb-chriflopher.
Three fpecies^ viz. * fpicata, racemofa, japonica.
Europe. North America, Japan.
* A. bunch egg-fhaped ; fruit berry-like.—The plant
is a powerful repellent. The root is ufeful in fome
nervous cafes, but it mull be adminiftcred with caution.
The berries are poifonous in a very high degree. It
is faid that toads, allured by the fcetid fmell of this
plant, refort to it •, but it grows in (hady places, and
toads are fond of damp and fliady fituations. Sheep
and goats eat it. Cows, horfes, and fwine refufe it.
1012. Sanguinaria, or Puncoon, Blood-root.
One fpecies *, viz. canadenfis. North America.
1013. Podophyllum, or Ducks-foot or May apple.
Two fpecies ; viz. peltatum, diphyllum. North
America.
1014. Chelidonium, or Celandine.
Five fpecies ; viz. * majus, japonicum, * glaucium,
* corniculatum, * hybridum. Europe, Egypt, Japan.
* C. fruit-ftalks forming umbels.—This plant grows
upon old walls, among rubbilh, and in wafte fhady pla¬
ces. The bark is of a bluifh green colour ; the root
of a deep red ; both contain a gold-coloured juice.
Their fmell is difagreeable, the talk fomewhat bitter-
ifh, very acrid, biting and burning the mouth ; the
root is the moft acrid. The juice of celandine has
long been celebrated in diforders of the eyes ; but it
is too fharp, unlefs plentifully diluted, to be applied
with fafety to that tender organ. It has been fome-
times ufed, and it is faid with good fuccefs, for extir¬
pating w7arts, cleaning old ulcers, and in cataplafins
for the herpes miliaris. This acrimonious plant is
rarely given internally. The virtues attributed to it
are thole of a ftimulating aperient, diuretic, and fudo-
rific \ it is particularly recommended in the flow kind
of jaundice, where there are no lymptoms of inflamma¬
tion, and in dropfies. Some fuppofe the root to have
been Helmont’s fpecific in the hydrops afcitcs. Half
a dram or a dram of the dry root is diredkd for a
dofe } or an infufion in wine of an ounce of the frefh
root.
1015. Papaver, or Poppy.
Nine fpecies *, viz. * hybridum, * argemone, alpi-
num, nudicaule, rhceas, dubium, * fomnnerum, ’* cam-
bricum, orientale. Europe.
* P. capfules fmooth, urn fhaped ; fkm hairy, many-
flowered ; leaves wing-cleft, jagged. — 1 he petals give
out a fine colour when infufed, and a fyrup prepared
from the infufion is kept in the (hops. It partakes in
a fmall degree of the properties of opium.
* P. calyx and capfules fmooth } leaves embracing the
ftem, lagged.—Opium is the juice of this plant. T his
juice has of late been collefted by way of experiment,
bv certain individuals, from poppies cultivated in Great
Britain, and has been found not inferior in quality to
that brought from the warmer climates. It is obtain¬
ed by making wounds with a fmall (harp inftrument in
the fraocth capfule of the plant when nearly ripe, and
ANY. Folyandrla*
thereafter collefting the juice that exfudes from the
wounds. It is probable, however, that the high price
of labour will fcarcely permit the rearing of Britifli
opium to become an important obje£t of agriculture.
Egypt, Perfia, and Hindoftan, have hitherto fupplied
us with this commodity : in thofe countries large
quantities of poppies are cultivated for this pur-
pofe. The opium prepared about Thebes in Egypt,
hence named Phebaic opium, has been ufually efkem-
ed the beft j but th.s is not now diflinguifhed from
that collefkd in other places. This juice is brought
to us in cakes or loaves covered with leaves and
other vegetable matters, to prevent their flicking
together : it is of a folid confiftence, yet fomewhat
foft and tenacious-, of a dark reddifli-brown colour in
the mafs, and when reduced into powder yellow \ of
a faint difagreeable fmell, and a bitterifh talk, accom¬
panied with a pungent heat and acrimony.
In the province of Bahar in the Eaft Indies, it is
faid, the poppy feeds are fown in 06tober or Novem¬
ber, at about eight inches diflance 5 and are well wa¬
tered till the plants are about half a foot high, when
a compofl of nitrous earth, dung, and allies, is fpread
over the areas $ and a little before the flowers appear
they are again watered profufely till the capfules are
half grown : and then the opium is collefed ; for
when fully ripe they yield little juice. Two longitu¬
dinal incifions, from below upwards, without penetra¬
ting the cavity, are made at funfet for three or four fuc-
celfive evenings ; and then they are allowed to ripen
their feeds. In the morning the juice is feraped off
with an iron fcoop, and w-orked in an earthen pot, in
the fun’s heat, till it be of a confiftence to be formed
into thick cakes of about four pounds weight, which
are covered over with the leaves of poppy or tobacco,
and dried. It is faid to be adulterated with various un¬
known! fubftances, with the extradf of the poppy plant
procured by boiling, and even with cow-dung. It is
purified by reducing it to a pulp with hot-water, and
ftrongly prefling it while hot through a linen cloth
from its impurities. It is then evaporated by a water-
bath, or other gentle heat, to its original confiflence.
This extradl is found to contain a refin, a kind of ef-
fential oil, a principle of odour, an effential fait, and a
foapy extrafl.
Opium has a reddifti brown colour, a ftrong peculi¬
ar fmell, a talk at firft naufeous and bitter, but foon
becoming acrid, with a flight warmth : and it appears
to have fome aftringency, as a watery tinfture of it
forms an ink with a chalybeate folution.
The external and internal effefts of opium appear to
be various in different conftitutions, and in the fame at
different times. By fome, when applied to the tongue,
the nofe, the eye, or any part deprived of {kin, it has
been faid to ftimulate, and to induce, in the eye in par¬
ticular, a flight degree of rednefs. But if this efleft
do take place, it is at the utmoft extremely inconfider-
able, particularly when compared wdth the effedt of
volatile alkali, ardent fpirit, or a variety of other ar¬
ticles applied to the fame organ. And there can be
no doubt, that in a very fhort time the fenfibility of the
part to which it is applied, even when there has not
taken place the flighteft mark of preceding ftimulus
or inflammation, is very confiderably diminifhed. Some
allege, that when applied to the {kin, it allays pain
Polyandria. B O T
and fpafm, procures fleep, and produces all the other
falutary or dangerous eftefts which refult from its in¬
ternal ufe •, while others allege, that thus applied, it
has little or no effe£t whatever. This variety proba¬
bly arifes from differences in the condition of the fub-
cutaneous nerves, and of the fenfibility of the furface,
as being more or lefs defended. But there is no doubt
that when mixed with cauftic, it diminifhes the pain,
which would otherwife enfue, probably by deadening
the fenfibility of the part. It fometimes allays the pain
from a carious tooth ; and a watery folution of it has
been ufed in various ulcers, certain ophthalmias, and
virulent gonorrhoea, when pain and inflammation have
before that given very great di ft refs.
Opium, when taken into the flomach to fuch an ex¬
tent as to have any fenfible effect, gives rife to a plea-
fant ferenity of mind, in general proceeding to a cer¬
tain degree of languor and drowfinefs. The adlion of
the fanguiferous fyftem is diminifhed, the pulfe be¬
coming for the moll part fofter, fuller, and flower than
it was before. There often take place fwelling of the
fubcutaneous veins, and fweating ; both probably the
confequences of a diminution of refiftance at the fur-
face, from a diminution of mufcular adtion, as is par¬
ticularly exemplified in its effedt of binding the belly.
Opium taken into the ftomach in a larger dofe, gives
rife to confufion of head and vertigo. The power of
all ftimulating caufes, as making impreflions on the
body, is diminiftied 5 and even at times, and in fituations,
when a perfon would naturally be awake, deep is irre-
fiftibly induced. In ftill larger doles, it adls in the
fame manner as the narcotic poifon, giving rife, not
only to vertigo, fieadach, tremours, and delirium, but
to convulfions alfo •, and thefe terminating in a ftate
of ftupor, from which the perfon cannot be roufed.
This ftupor is accompanied with flownefs of the pulfe,
and with ftertor in breathing *, and the feene is termi¬
nated in death, attended with the fame appearances as
take place in apoplexy.
From thefe effedls of opium, in a ftate of health, it
is not wonderful that recourfe ftiould have been had to
it in difeafe, as mitigating pain, inducing fleep, allay¬
ing inordinate adlion, and diminifhing morbid fenfibi¬
lity. That thefe eftedls do rcfult from it is confirmed
by the daily experience of every obferver j and as an-
fwering one or other of thefe intentions, moft, if not
all, of the good confequences derived from it in a6lual
praftice are to be explained. If, therefore, by a fe-
dative medicine, we mean an article capable of allay¬
ing, aflfuaging, mitigating, and compofing, no fubftance
can have a better title to the appellation of fedative
than opium.
As anfwering the purpofes of mitigating pain, in¬
ducing deep, allaying inordinate aflion, and diminifh¬
ing fenfibility, it naturally follows, that opium may be
employed with advantage in a great variety of differ¬
ent difeafes. Indeed there is hardly any affedlion in
which it may not, from circumftances, be proper 5 and
in all defperate cafes, it is the moll powerful means of
alleviating the miferies of patients.
Some pradlitioners are averfe to its ufe where there
takes place an active inflammation ; but others have re¬
courfe to it in fuch cafes, even at an early period, efpe-
cially after blood-letting; and where fuch affedlions
are attended, not only with pain and fpafm, but with
ANY. 3°5
w7atchfulnefs and cough, it is often produ£live of the
greateft benefit. Opium, combined with calomel, has
of late been extenfively employed in every form of
adlive inflammation, and with the greateft fuccels. It
is found alfo to be of very great fervice in allaying
the pain and preventing the fymptomatic fever liable
to be induced by wounds, fradtures, burns, or fimilar
accidents.
In intermittents, it is faid to have been ufed with
good eftedl before the fit, in the cold llage, in the
hot ftage, and during the interval. Given even in the
hot ftage, it has been obferved to allay the heat, thirft,
headach, and delirium-, to induce fweat and fleepj to
cure the difeafe with the lefs bark, and without leav¬
ing abdominal obftrudlions or dropfy.
It is often of very great fervice in fevers of the ty¬
phoid type, when patients are diftreffed with watchful-
nefs or diarrhoea. But where thefe or fimilar circum¬
ftances do not indicate its ufe, it is 'often diftrefling to
patients, by augmenting thirft and conftipation.
In fmallpox, when the convuliions before eruption
are frequent and confiderable, opium is liberally uied.
It is likewife given from the fifth day onwards; and is
found to allay the pain of fuppuration, to promote the
ptyalifm, and to be otherwile ufeful.
In dyfentery, after the ufe of gentle laxatives, or
along with them, opium, independently ot any eflfedt
it may have on the fever, is of confequence in allaying
the tormina and tenefmus, and in obviating that laxi¬
ty of bowels which is fo frequently a relidl of that
difeafe.
In diarrhoea, the difeafe itfelf generally carries off
any acrimony that may be a caufe, and then opium is
ufed wdth great effedl. Even in the wTorlt fymptoma¬
tic cafes it feldom fails to alleviate.
In cholera and pyrofis it is almoft the only thing
trufted to. In cholic it is employed with laxatives j
and no doubt often prevents ileus and inflammation, by
relieving the fpafm. Even in ileus, and in incarcera¬
ted hernia, it is often found to allay the vomiting, the
fpafms, the pain, and fometimes to diminiih the inflam¬
mation, and prevent the gangrene of the ftrangulated
gut. It is given to allay the pain and favour the def-
cent of calculi, and to relieve in jaundice and dyfuria
proceeding from fpafm.
It is of acknowdedged ufe in the different fpecies of
tetanus, affords relief to the various fpafmodic fymp-
toms of dyfpepfia, hyfteria, hypochondriafis, althma,
rabies canina, &c. and has been found ufeful in fome
kinds of epilepfy.
Of late, in dofes gradually increafed to five grains,
three, four, or even fix times a-day, it has been ufed in
fyphilis 5 and fome inftances are recorded in W'hich it
would feem, that by this remedy alone a complete
cure had been obtained : In other inftances, how-ever,
after the faireft trial for a confiderable length of time,
it has been found ineffedlual j and upon the whole, it
feems rather to be ufeful in combating fymptoms, and
in counterafting the effedls refulting from the impro^-
per ufe of mercury, than in overcoming the venereal
virus.
It is found ufeful in certain cafes of threatened abor¬
tion and lingering delivery, in convulfions during par¬
turition, in the after-pains and exceflive flooding.
The only form perhaps neceflary for opium, is that
of
/
206 B O T
of pill ^ and as it is fo foluble in every menfiruum,
there feems the lefs occafion for the addition of either
gum or foap. This form is more apt to fit on the fto-
mach than any liquid form, but requires rather more
time to produce its eft'efts. The adminiftration of
opium to the unaccuftomed, is fometimes very difficult.
The requifite quantity of opium is wonderfully differ¬
ent in different perfons, and in different dates of the
fame perfon. A quarter of a grain will, in one adult,
produce effects, which ten times the quantity will not
do in another *, and a dofe that might prove fatal in
cholera or colic, would not be perceptible in many
cafes of tetanus or mania. The loweft fatal dofe to
the unaccuftomed, as mentioned by authors, feems to
be four grains ; but a dangerous dofe is fo apt to puke,
that it has feldom time to occafion death. When giv¬
en in too fmall a dofe, it is apt to produce difturbed
fieep and other difagreeable confequences j and in fome
cafes, it feems impoflible to be made agree in any dofe
or form. Often, on the other hanc^ from a fmall
dofe, found fieep and alleviation of pain will be pro¬
duced, while a larger one gives rife to vertigo and de¬
lirium. Some prefer the repetition of fmall dofes,
others the giving of a full dofe at once. In fome, it
feems not to have its proper effeft till after a confider-
able time. The operation of a moderate dofe is fup-
pofed to laft, in general, about eight hours from the
time of taking it.
Pure opium is partially foluble in water and in rec¬
tified fpirit, and totally in proof fpirit, wdne, or vine¬
gar. Water, rubbed with opium, and decanted re¬
peatedly till it come off colourlefs, yields, on gentle
evaporation, an extraft which fome ufe and recom-
-mend as one of the beft preparations of this fubftance,
and which requires to be given in double the dofe of
common opium.
It is faid that alkalies diminifti its foporific effefts 5
that the fixed render it diuretic, the volatile determine
it to the Ikin j and that acids deftroy its a&ivity al-
moft entirely. But wffien conjoined with acids, parti¬
cularly the diluted vitriolic acid, it often fits eafily on
the ftomach, when it would not otherwife be retained,
and afterwards produces all its fedative effedls.
The chief officinal preparations of opium are, the
opium purijicatum, pilulce ex opio, pulvis opiatux, tinBura
opii, and tinBura opii camphorata. Befides this, it
enters a great variety of different compofitions, as the
pulvis fudorificus, balfamum anodynum, eleBuarium ja-
ponicutn, pulvis e creta compojitus, &c.
The occafional bad effedis of opium may refult from
the fame power, by which in other ftates of the fy-
ftem it proves beneficial. The methods, therefore,
propofed of corredling thefe by roafting, fermentation,
long-continued digeftion, repeated folutions and diftil-
lations, have not fucceeded.
1016. Argemone, or Prickly Poppy.
I hree fpecies 5 viz. mexicana, armeniaca, pyrenai-
ca. Weft Indies, Mexico, Pyrennees.
1017. Muntingia.
One fpecies 5 viz. calabura. Weft Indies.
1018. Sarracenia, or Side-faddle-jlo'iver.
Four fpecies j viz. tlava, minor, rubra, purpurea.
North America.
A N Y. Polyandria.
1619. Nymph/ea, or Water Lily.
Seven fpecies ; viz. *lutea, advena, * alba, odorata,
fteilata, lotus, pubefcens. Europe, India, Africa,
America.
* N. leaves heart-fhaped, very entire j cal. 5-leaved,
much larger than the petals.—The roots, rubbed with
milk, deftroy crickets and cockroaches. Swine eat it.
Goats are not fond of it. Cows, ffieep, and horfes re-
fufe it. An infufion of a pound of the frefh root, to
a gallon of water, taken in the dofe of a pint night
and morning, cured a leprous eruption of the arm.
* N. leaves heart-fhaped, very entire j calyx 4-cleft. <7/^,
—It extends itfelf by long runners, which form a root
at the end, and fend up leaf-ftalks in deep water. The
root is bulbous. It is one of the moft beautiful of the
Englifh plants, and may be propagated by tranfplant-
ing the bulbous roots in winter. The petals gradually
leflen as they approach the centre of the flower, where
the outer filaments expanding in breadth, gradually af-
fume the form of petals, as is generally the cafe in the
double flowers of our gardens. The roots are ufed in
Ireland, and in the iiland of Jura, to dye a dark-brown.
Swine eat it. Goats are fond of it. Cows and horfes
refufe it.
1020. Bixa, or Anotta.
One fpecies j viz. orellana. Weft Indies.
1 o 2 t. Sloanea, or Apeiba of the Brazils.
Three fpecies } viz. dentata, maffbni, finemarienfis.
Brazil, Caribbee iiles.
\
1022. Aubletia.
Four fpecies 5 viz. tibourbon, petonmo, afpera, lae-*
vis. Guiana.
1023. Mammea, or Mammee-tree.
Two fpecies 5 viz. americana, humilis. Jamaica,
Hifpaniola.
1024. Ochna.
Two fpecies; viz. fquamofa, parvifolia. Africa,
Eaft and Weft Indies.
1025. Grias.
One fpecies ; viz. cauliflora. Jamaica.
1026. Calophyllum.
Two fpecies ; viz. inophyllum, calaba. Eaft and
Weft Indies.
1027. Sparrmannia.
One fpecies; viz. africana. Africa.
1028. Tima, or Lime-tree.
Four fpecies ; viz. * europtea, americana, pubefcens,
alba. Europe, N. America.
* T. flowers without a nectary ; berry 4-celled.— europea.
This plant flouriihes beft on the fide of hills, but it will
live very well in meadow grounds. It is eafily tranf-
planted, and grafs grows beneath it : it is ufeful to
form ftiady walks and clipped hedges. The wood is
foft, light, and fmooth ; clofe grained, and not fubjeft
to the worm. It makes good charcoal for gunpowder
and for defigners. It is ufed for leather-cutters boards,
and for carved works. It is alfo employed by the
turner. The leaves are dried in fomc countries as
winter food for flreep and goats. Cows eat them in
the autumn ; but they give a bad tafte to the milk.
The bark, macerated in water, may be made into
ropes
Polyandria, B O T
ropes and fifliing nets. The flowers are fragrant, and
afford the beft honey for bees. The fap, infpifl'ated,
affords a quantity of fugar.
1029. LiETlA.
Four fpecies 5 viz. apetala, guidonia, thamnia, com-
pleta. Jamaica.
1030. Ryania.
One fpecies j viz. fpcciofa.
1031. Gravia.
11 fpecies ; viz. occidentalis, populifolia, orientalis,
mallococca, Igevigata, glandulofa, hirfuta, excelfa, afia-
tica, tiliaefolia, velutina. Afia, Cape, Amer. S. feas.
1033. Microcos.
One fpecies; viz. paniculata.
1034. Marila.
One fpecies j viz. racemofa. Weft Indies.
1035. El^ocarpus.
Five fpecies •, viz. ferratus, dentatus, dicera, inte-
grifolius, copalliferus. India, New Zealand.
1036. Legnotis.
Two fpecies •, viz. elliptica, caffipourea. Weft In¬
dies, Guiana.
1037. Myrodendrum.
One fpecies j viz. amplexicaule. Guiana.
1038. Lemniscia.
One fpecies j viz. floribunda. Guiana.
1039. Ascium.
One fpecies ; viz. violaceum. Guiana.
1040. Lecythis.
Eight fpecies; viz. ollaria, minor, grandiHora, a-
mara, zabucajo, idatimon, parviflora, brafteata. A-
merica.
1041. Alangium.
Two fpecies j viz. decapetalum, hexapetalum. Coaft
of Malabar.
1042. Mentzelia.
Two fpecies j viz. afpera, hifpida. America.
1043. Loasa.
Six fpecies ; viz. hifpida, contorta, acanthifolia,
grandiflora, chenopodifia, nitida.
1044. Sterbechia.
One fpecies; viz. lateriflora.
1045. Lagerstroemia.
Five fpecies ; viz. indica, reginae, hirfuta, munch-
haufia, parviflora. Eaft Indies, China.
1046. Freziera.
Two fpecies 5 viz. theacoides, undulata.
1047. Thea, or Tea-tree.
Two fpecies j viz. bohea, viridis. China, Japan.
The feveral forts of tea met with among us, are the
leaves of this fame genus colle£led at different times,
and cured in a fomewhat different manner ; the fmall
young leaves very carefully dried, are the finer green,
the older afford the ordinary green and bohea. The
two firft have a fenfible flavour of violets, the other of
rofesj the former is the natural odour of the plant, the
latter, as Neumann obferves, is probably introduced by
art. Some of the dealers in this commodity in Europe,
are not ignorant that bohea tea is imitable by the leaves
ANY.
of certain plants, artificially tin&ured and impregnated
with the rofe flavour. The tafte of both forts is light¬
ly bitterifli, fubaftringent, and fomewhat aromatic. The
medical virtues attributed to thefe leaves are fufficient-
ly numerous, though few of them have any founda¬
tion ; little more can be expected from the common in-
fufions than that of a diluent acceptable to the palate
and ftomach j the diuretic, diaphoretic, and other vir¬
tues for which they have been celebrated, depend more
on the quantity of warm fluid, than any particular qua¬
lities which it gains from the tea. Nothing arifes in
diftillation from either fort of tea with reftified fpirit;
water elevates the whole of their flavour.
Good tea, in a moderate quantity, feems to refrefh
and ftrengthen ; but if taken in a recent highly fla¬
voured ftate, and in confiderable quantity, its ufe is
apt to be fucceeded by w’eaknefs and tremors, and o-
ther fimilar confequences, refulting from the narcotic
vegetables j yet it is highly probable that many of the
bad, as well as good effefts, faid to refult from it, arc
confequences of the warm water.
1048. Cistus, or Rock-rofe.
79 fpecies 5 viz. capenfis, villofus, populifolius, lau-
rifolms, vaginatus, ledon, ladaniferus, monipelienfis,
laxus, falvifolius, heterophyilus, incanus, creticus, par-
viflorus, albidus, fericeus, hybridas, crifpus, formofus,
halimifolius, elongatus, libanotis, umbellatus, laevipes,
calycinus, fumana, canus, fcabrofus, cinereus, ocymoi-
des, italicus, marifolius, origanifolius, mollis, dichoto-
mus, * anglicus, vinealis, oelandicus, alternifolius, glo-
bularifolius, tuberaria, plantagineus, ferratus, * gutta-
tus, canadenfis, punftatus, ledifolius, * falicifolius, ni-
loticus, segyptiacus, fquamatus, lippii, fefliliflorus, el-
lipticus, * furrejanus, polyanthos, glaucus, nummula-
rius, canarienfis, ferpillifolius, violaceus, linearis, Icevis,
ftricftus, glutinofus, thymifolius, pilofus, lavandulifo-
lius, racemofus, ciliatus, anguftifolius, *helianthemum,
mutabilis, foetidus, croceus, hirtus, apenninus, * poli-
folius, arabicus. Alps, S. Europe, Egypt, Cape.
1049. Vallea.
One fpecies j viz. ftipularis. New Granada*
1050. Bonnetia.
One fpecies j viz. paluftris. Guiana.
1051. Prockia.
Four fpecies; viz. crucis, ferrata, theaeformis, inte-
grifolia. life of Santa Cruz.
1052. Corchorus, or fevos-mallow.
14 fpecies 5 viz. olitorius, ttilocularis, tridens, cef-
tuans, acutangulus, fafcicularis, capfularis, fcandens,
ferratus, hirfutus, japonicus, flexuofus, hirtus, filiquofus.
1053. Siguieria.
One fpecies j viz. americana.
1054. Swartia.
Six fpecies; viz. fimplicifolia, grandiflora, dodecan-
dra, triphylla, pinnata, alata. Caribbee Ifles, Guiana.
Order II. DIGYNIA.
1055. PjEOnia, or Peony.
Seven fpecies; viz. officinalis, corallina, albiflora,
humilis, anomala, hybrida, tenuifolia. Switz. Ukraine.
The
a 8
Polyandm;
tonfolida
B O T
The pcrania officinalis is cultivated in our gardens on
account of the beauty of its flowers. The female peony,
which is the largeft and moft elegant, and for this rea-
fon the moft common, is the only one with which the {hops
are fupplied. In quality they are fcarce fenfibly diffe¬
rent 5 and hence they may be taken promifcuoufly.
The roots and feeds of peony have, wrhen recent, an
unpleafant fcent, approaching to that of the narcotic
plants, and a fomew’hat glutinous fubacrid tafte, w?ith a
light degree of bitternefs and aftringency the leaves
alfo difcover an aftringent quality, both to the tafte,
and by changing chalybeate folutions of a purple co¬
lour; the flowers have little tafte, and a very faint not
agreeable fmell. The parts which have chiefly been
ufed for medicinal purpofes, are the roots and feeds.
Thefe are looked upon as emollient, corroborant, and
lightly anodyne, and fuppofed to be of fervice in feme
k'nds of obftruftions, erofions of the vifeera, heat of
urine, pains in the kidneys, and the like. The virtue
they are chiefly celebrated for, is that of curing ipaf*
modic and epileptic complaints, wdiich many have been
abfurd enough to believe, that the root of this plant
would do by being only worn about the neck.
1056. CuRATELLA.
One fpecies; viz. americana. America,
1057. Fothergilla.
One fpecies; viz. alnifolia. North America.
1058. Trichocarpus.
One fpecies; viz. laurifolia. Guiana,
1059. Lacis.
One fpecies; viz. fluviatilis. Guiana.
Order III. TRIGYNIA.
1060. Homauum.
Two fpecies; viz. racemofum, racoubea. Jamaica,
Guiana.
1061. Delphinium, or Larhfpur.
14 fpecies; viz. * confolida, ajacis, aconiti, ambi-
guum, peregrinum, grandiflorum, intermedium, datum,
hybridum, exaltatum, urceolatum, puniceum, ftaphi-
fagria, pentagynum. Europe, N. America.
* D. capfule Angle ; ne61ary of one leaf; ftem fubdi-
divided.—The exprefled juice of the petals, with the
addition of a little alum, makes a good blue ink ; the
feeds are acrid, and poifonous. When cultivated, the blof-
foms often become double. Sheep and goats eat it.
Horfes are not fond of it. Cows and fwine refufe it.
1062. Aconitum, or Wolfsbane, Monkshood.
15 fpecies; viz. lycoftonum, japonicum, pyrenai-
cum, ochroleucum, anthora, album, feptentrionale, na-
pellus, neomontanum, tauricum, volubile, cornuum,
variegatum, cammarum, uncinatum. Europe, North
America, japan.
Order IV. TETRAGYNIA.
1063. Wintera, or Winter's-hark.
Three fpecies; viz. aromatica, granadenfis, axillaris.
New Granada, S. Seas.
ANY.
1064. Tetracera.
12 fpecies; viz. farmentofa, tomentofa, afpera, do-
liocarpus, ftrifta, calinea, obovata, nitida, euryandra,
volubilis, laevis, alnifolia. Ceylon, W. Indies, South
fea ifles.
1065. Carvocar.
Three fpecies ; viz. nuciferum, butyrofum, tomen-
tofum. Barbary.
1066. Wahlbomia.
One fpecies ; viz. indica.
1067. Cimicifuga.
One fpecies; viz. foetida. Siberia.
Order V. PENTAGYNIA.
1068. Aquieegia, or Columbine.
Five fpecies ; viz. vifeofa, * vulgaris, alpina, cana-
denfis, viridiflora.
* A. neftaries bovred inwards, nearly equal to the pe- vulgaris.
tals ; leafets all on leaf-ftalks ; lobes diftant, roundilh,
bluntifh. The beauty of its flowers has long introdu¬
ced it into our flower borders. Goats eat it. Sheep
are not fond of it. Cowrs, horfes, and fwine, refufe it.
1069. Nigella, or Fennelflower.
Five fpecies ; viz. damafeena, fativa, arvenfis, hifpani-
ca, orientalis. Germany, S. Europe, Egypt.
1070. Reaumuria.
Two fpecies; viz. vernicuiata, hypericoides. Sicily,
Syria, Egypt.
Order VI. POLYGYNIA.
1071. Dillenia.
Eight fpecies; viz. fcandens, integra, fpeciofa, el-
liptica, ferrata, pentagyna, retufa, dentata. India.
1072. Illxcium, or Anifeed-tree.
Twto fpecies; viz. anifatum, floridanum. Florida,
China, Japan.
1073. Liriodendron, or Tulip-tree.
Four fpecies ; viz. tulipifera, coco, Ago, liliifera.
Amboyna, N. America.
1074. Magnolia, or Laurel-leaved Tulip-tree.
Eight fpecies; viz. grandiflora, plumieri, glauca,
obovata, tomentofa, acuminata, tripetala, auriculata.
N. America.
1075 Nelumbium.
Four fpecies; viz. fpeciolum, luteum, pentapetalum,
reniforme.
1076. Michelia.
Two fpecies ; viz. champaea, tfiampsea. Indies.
IO77. UVARIA.
11 fpecies ; viz. zeylanica, lanceolata, cerufoides,
fuberofa, tomentofa, odorata, monofperma, lutea, ligu-
laris, longifolia, japonica. Ceylon, Japan, Jamaica,
Surinam.
1078. Annona, or Cuflard-apple,
j 8 fpecies; viz. muricata, tripetala, fquamofa, palu-
dofa, longifolia, punftata, hexapetala, paluftris, glabra,
triloba,
Polyandria. B O T
triloba, afiatxca, ambotay, africana, pygmsea, obovata,
grandiflora, amplexicaulis. Egypt, E. andW. Indies,
America.
1079. Xylopia, or Bitter-xvood.
Three fpecies 5 viz. muricata, frutefcens, glabra.
America.
1080. Unona.
Four fpecies ; viz. difcreta, tomentofa, difcolor, con-
color.
io8r. Anemone, or Wind-flower.
29 fpecies ; viz. hepatica, patens, cernua, vernalis,
halleri, * pulfatilla, * pratenlis, alpina, apiifolia, coro-
naria, hortenfis, palmata, fibirica, baldenfis, fylvedris,
virginiana, decapetala, triternata, penfylvanica, dicho-
toma, trifolia, quinquefolia, * nemorofa, * apermina,
reflexa, * ranunculoides, narciflitlora, umbellata, tha-
liftroides, Europe, N. America.
pratenjis. * A. leaves doubly winged *, petals the ends turned
back.—This is the mod acrid of the anemonies *, and
is recommended by Dr Stoerk in the quantity of half
an ounce of the diftilled water, or five grains of the
extraft, twice or thrice a-day, in venereal nodes, pains,
ulcers with caries, chronic eruptions, amenorrhoea, va¬
rious chronic affe&ions of the eye, particularly blind-
nefs from obfcurities of the cornea. Its common effe&s
are naufea or vomiting, an augmented difcharge of
urine, diarrhoea, and increafe dpain at firft in the affedt-
ed part.
pulfatilla. * A. leaves doubly winged j petals ftraight.—The
whole plant is acrid, and blifters the fkin. The juice
of the petals ftains paper green. Goats and fheep eat
it. Horfes, cows, and fwine, refufe it.
nemorofa. A. feeds pointed 5 leafets fnipt j petals roundilh $
Hem moftly 2-flowered.—The flowers fold up in a cu¬
rious manner againft rain. The whole plant is acrid.
When (beep are unaccuftomed to eat it, it brings
on a bloody flux. Goats and fheep eat it. Horfes,
cows, and fwine, refufe it. This plant is fometimes
found with yellow dots on the under furface of the
leaves.
1082. Atragene.
Six fpecies $ viz. alpina, ochotenfis, japonica, capen-
fis, tenuifolia, zeylanica. Alps of Europe, Ceylon,
Cape.
1083. Clematis, or Virgins-bower.
24 fpecies j viz. cirrhol’a, florida, viticella, viorna,
crifpa, calycina, orientalis, glauca, hexapetala, triflora,
vdrginiana, japonica, trifoliata, dioica, indivifa, panicu-
lata, * vitalba, chinenfis, flammula, maritima, angufti-
folia, eredfa, ochroleuca, integrifolja. Europe, N. A-
merica.—The clematis ereBa is introduced into but
few of the modern pharmacopoeias, and has never been
found in Britain. As well as many other adiive ar¬
ticles, fuppofed to be of a poifonous nature, it was
fometime ago recommended to the attention of pradti-
tioners by Dr Stoerk of Vienna. Its leaves and flowers
are fo acrid as to blifter. Dr Stoerk recommends it
in venereal, cancerous, and other cutaneous affedlions,
in thofe headachs, pains of the bones, and wallings of
the habit, the confequences of lues venerea. External¬
ly the acrid pow’der is fprinkled on the ulcers, and the
forms for internal ufe, are thofe of infufion and extradf.
1084. Thalictrum, or Meadow-rue.
2 3 fpecies; viz. * alpinum, foetidura, tuberofum,
'Vol. IV. Part I.
A N Y. 209
cornuti, dioicum, datum, * maju4, medium, * minus,
rugofum, fibiricum, fquarrofum, purpuralcens, angufti-
folium, * flavum, nigricans, fimplex, lucidum, aquilegi-
folium, contortum, petaloideum, flyloideum, japonicum.
Europe, N. America.
* T. ftem furrowed, leafy, leafets acute, 3-cleft j pa-JlavUtn.
nicle much branched, upright, compadt *, flowers up¬
right.—A cataplafm made of the leaves has been known
to give relief in the fciatica. The root dyes wool yel¬
low. Cows, horfes, goats, and ftieep, eat it. Swine
are not fond of it.
1085. Adonis, or Pheafants Eye.
Eight fpecies j viz. * aeftivalis, * autumnalis, flam-
mea, vernalis, apennina, filia, capenfis, veficatoria. S.
Europe, Cape.
1086. Ranunculus, or Crow-foot.
61 fpecies j viz. * flammula, * reptans, # lingua, no-
diflorus, * gramineus, pyrenaeus, parnaflifolius, ophio-
gloflbides, amplexicaulis, bullatus, falfuginofus, * fica-
ria, frigidus, thora, creticus, caflubicus, * auricomus,
abortivus, trilobus, * fceleratus, aconitifolius, platanifo-
lius, fpicatus, illyricus, flabellatus, afiaticus, japonicus,
rutaefolius, glacialis, feguicri, nivalis, montanus, gonani,
alpeftris, lapponicus, hyperboreus, monfpeliacus, pen*-
fylvanicus, ternatus, * bulbofus, philonotis, polyrhizos,
* repens, polyanthemos, * acris, cappadocicus, lanugi-
nofus, chterophyllus, millefoliatus, parvulus, oxyfper-
mus, * arvenfis, muricatus, * parviflorus, orientalis,
grandiflorus, falcatus, polyphyllus, *hederaceus, *aqua-
tilis, fluviatilis. Europe, Alia, N. America.
* R. leaves heart fliaped, angular, on leaf-rtalks j ftemfcariat
I-flowered; flowers with eight petals; calyx with three
leaves.—This is a very fmall plant, found in moft mea¬
dows, and by hedge fides. The roots confift of flender
fibres with fome little tubercles among them, wrhich are
fuppofed to refemble the hamiorrhoids ; from thence it
has been concluded, that this root muft needs be of
wonderful efficacy for the cure of that diftemper. To
the tafte it is little other than mucilaginous; and al¬
though ftili retained in feveral of the foreign pharma¬
copoeias, it is hardly in ufe in this country.
* R. leaves egg-fpearlhaped, on leaf-ftalks ; ftem fe-fammula,
dining.—This plant is veiy acrid ; applied externally,
it inflames and blifters the fkin. Horfes eat it. Cows,
ffieep, goats, and fwine refufe it. Its acrimony riles in
diftillation. Some years ago, a man travelled in feve¬
ral parts of England adminiftering vomits, which, like
white vitriol, operated the inftant they wrere fwallowed.
The diftilled water of this plant was his medicine. It
is faid, that in the cafe of poifon being fwallowed, or
other circumftances occuring, in which it is defire-
a fte to make a patient vomit inftantaneouftv, it is pre¬
ferable to any other medicine yet known, and does not
excite thofe painful contradlions in the upper part of
the ftomach, which the white vitriol fometimes does,
thereby defeating the intention for which it was
given.
* R. lower leaves hand-ffiaped, the upper fingered fceleratus*
fruit oblong.—The whole plant is very corrofive ; and
beggars are faid to ufe it to ulcerate their feet, which
they expofe in that ftate to excite compaffion. Goats
eat it. Cows, horfes, and ffieep refufe it.
* R. cal. expanding; fruit-ftalks cylindrical; leaves oerw,
with three divifions, and many clefts, the uppermoft
I) d ftrap„
210 B O T
ftrap-fliaped.—Sheep and goats eat it. Cows, horfes,
and fwine refufe it. Cows and horfes leave this plant
untouched, though their palture be ever lb bare. It is
very acrid, and eafily blilters the Ikin.
arvenjis. * R. feeds prickly 5 upper leaves doubly compound,
ftrap-lhaped.—It has lately been faid that cows, horfes,
and Iheep, in Italy, eat it greedily, though it is fo a-
crid as to poifon the latter. Three ounces of the juice
killed a dog in four minutes. Its growing chielly, if
not folely, in corn fields where cattle are excluded,
may poffibly be the reafon why we have not heard of
mifchief being done by it in this country.
1087. Trollius, or Globe-ranunculus.
Two fpecies; viz. * europaeus, afiaticus. Europe,
Afia.
1088. Isopyrum.
Three fpecies; viz. fumarioides, thaliflroides, aquile-
gioides. Siberia, Alps of Auilria, Italy.
1089. Helleborus, or Black Hellebore.
Eight fpecies •, viz. hyemalis, ranunculinus, niger,
* viridis, orientalis, * foetidus, lividus, trifolius. Au-
ftria, Italy, Canada.
fcctidus. * H. Item many flowered, leafy *, leaves bird-footed.
Bearsfoot, or Hel/eborajler.—The leaves of this plant,
taken in feveral different forms, have been by fome re¬
commended as a very powerful anthelmintic. They are
particularly extolled by Dr Biffett, in his effay on the
medical conftitution of Great Britain, efpecially under
the form of fyrup, made by moiftening the leaves of
the freih herb in vinegar, and then prefling out their
juice, which was formed into a fyrup with coarfe fugar.
Of this fyrup, Dr Biflett gave to children from two to
fix years of age, one tea fpoonful at bed-time, and ano¬
ther in the morning, for two or three days fucceflively.
The dofe wTas increafed or diminifhed according to the
ftrength of the patient j and in this way he found it
very fuccefsful in the expulfion of lumbrici.
Where the helleborafter is to be employed, this
form is perhaps the bell, and we doubt not that it
£ may fucceed where others have failed ; but it Ihould
not, we apprehend, be employed till fafer anthelmintics
have been tried in vain. For we have heard of fome
inftances where the imprudent adminiftration of it has
been attended even with fatal confequences.
The fpecies called helleborus niger, black helle¬
bore or melampodium, grows wild in the mountain¬
ous parts of Switzerland, Auftria, and Stiria 5 the
earlinefs of its flowers, which fometimes appear in De¬
cember, has gained it a place in our gardens. In
fome parts of Germany, a fpecies of black hellebore
has been made ufe of, which not unfrequently produ¬
ced violent and fometimes deleterious effefls ; this the
Wirtemburg college particularly caution againll, though
without mentioning any marks by which it may be dif-
tinguifhed, or even giving the precife name of the plant.
It appears to be the fcetid hellebore of Linnaeus, called
in England wdiere it grovrs, fetterwort, fettlewort, or
baftard hellebore j the roots of this may be diftinguilh-
td from the officinal fort by their being lefs black.
The roots of the poifonous aconites referable in ap¬
pearance thofe of the black hellebore *, and in the
£ re flaw colleflions we find fome inftances of fatal ef-
fcfls occafioned by miilaking the former for the latter;
ANY. Polyandria.
thefe alfo are happily difcoverable by their colour ; the
aconitum being lighter coloured than even the palefl
of the black hellebores. The faculty of Paris, by al¬
lowing the ufe of one of the paler hellebores (the
green-flowered which grows wild in England, and is
called by our farriers peg-root) have in fome degree
deprived the ftiops of the benefit of this criterion.
Since, therefore, the two noxious roots which the buyer
is moft apt to miftake for this, are diftinguilhable from
it by their colour, but have no other external mark
by which they may be with certainty known, particu¬
lar regard ought to be had to this circumftance •, only
the deepeft black being chofen, and all the paler roots
rejefled.
The tafte of the hellebore is acrid and bitter. Its
acrimony is firft felt on the tip of the tongue, and then
fpreads immediately to the middle, without being much
perceived on the intermediate part ; on chewing it for
a few minutes the tongue feems benumbed and affecled
with a kind of paralytic ftupor, as when burnt by eat¬
ing any thing too hot ; the fibres are more acrimoni¬
ous than the head of the root from which they iffue.
Black hellebore root, taken from fifteen grains to halt
a dram, proves a ftrong cathartic, and as fuch has been
celebrated for the cure of maniacal and other difor-
ders proceeding from what the ancients called the atra
bills ; in thefe cafes medicines of this kind are doubt-
lefs occafionally of ufe, though they are by no means
poffefled of any fpecific power. It does not however
appear, that our black hellebore a6!s wdth fo much
violence as that of the ancients, .whence many have
fuppofed it to be a different plant; and indeed, the
defcriptions which the ancients have left us of their
hellebore, do not agree to any of the forts ufually ta¬
ken notice of by modern botanifts. Another fpecies
has been difcovered in the Eaftern countries, which
Tournefort diftinguifhes by the name of black oriental
hellebore, with a large leaf, a lofty ftern and purplifti
flower j and fuppofes to be the true ancient hellebore,
from its growing in plenty about Mount Olympus, and
in the ifland of Anticyra, celebrated of old for the pro-
duftion of this antimaniacal drug j he relates that a
fcruple of this fort given for a dofe, occafioned con-
vulfions.
Our hellebore is at prefent looked upon principally
as an alterative j and in this light is frequently em¬
ployed in fmall dofes, for attenuating vifcid humours,
promoting the uterine and urinary difcharges, and open¬
ing inveterate obftruftions of the remoter glands ^ it of¬
ten proves a very powerful emmenagogue in pletho¬
ric habits, where Heel is ineffedlual or improper. An
extraft made from this root wdth wrater, is one of
the mildeft, and, for the pupofes of a cathartic, the
moft effe&ual preparations of it : this operates fuffi-
ciently, wdthout occafioning the irritation which the
pure refin is accompanied with. A tinfture drawm with
proof fpirit contains the whole virtue of the helle¬
bore, and feems to be one of the beft preparations of
it when defigned for an alterative} this tinfture and
the extract are kept in the {hops.
The melampodium is the bafis of Bacher’s tonic
pills for the dropfy. The root is ordered to be ma¬
cerated in reflified fpirit of wdne 5 the liquor expreffed
is repeatedly mixed with wTater, and duly evaporated.
This is made up into pills, wdth an extract of myrrh
and
21
Polyandria. B O T
and powder of carduus benedictus. They are faid to
be cathartic and diuretic, and at the fame time ftrengthen-
ers of the folids.
1090. Caltha, or Marfh-marygold.
Two fpecies viz. * paluftris, natans. Europe.
fyalujlris. * C. The flowers of this plant gathered before they
expand, and preferved in faked vinegar, are a good
fubftitute for capers. The juice of the petals, boiled
with a little alum, ftains paper yellow. The remark¬
able yellownefs of butter in the fpring has been fup-
pofed to be caufed by this plant j but cows will not
ANY.
eat it, unlefs compelled by extreme hunger, and then,
as fome fay, it occafions fuch an inflammation that
they generally die. Upon May day the country
people in England ftrew the flowers before their doors.
1091. Hydrastis, or Yellow-root.
One fpecies $ viz, canadenfis. Carolina, Canada.
In the clafs Polyandria are
85 Genera, including 563 Species, of which 50
are found in Britain.
CLASSIS XIV.
DIDYNAMIA (d).
Ordo I. GYMNOSPERMIA.
Se£t. I. Calyces fubquinquejidi.
1103. Perilla. Styli duo. Stam. diftantia.
* 1105. Glecoma. Antherarum paria cruciata.
1096. Hyssopus. Filam. diftantia, re£ta. Cor.
ringens, labio inferiore tripartite, fuberenato.
1098. Elsholtzia. Filam. diftantia, re<fta. Cor.
ringens, labio inferiore indivifo.
noi. Bystropogon. Filam. diftantia, refta. Cor.
ringens, labio inferiore trilobo.
* 1102. Mentha. Filam. diftantia, refta. Cor. fub-
aequalis.
1104. Hyptis. Filam. declinata. Cor. ringens j
labio fup. bifido, inferiore trifido, lacinia media con-
cava.
1100. Sideritis. Stigma alterum vaginans alte-
rum.
1099. Lavandula. Corolla refupinata.
* 1093. Teucrium. Cor. labium fuperius nullum,
fed fiflura loco labli.
* 1092. Ajuga. Cor. lab. fuperius ftaminibus bre-
vius.
1113. Phlomis. Cor. lab. fuperius hirtum, cora-
preffum.
* 1112. Leonurus. Cor. labium fuperius eredlum,
indivifum, planum. Stamina fauce longiora.
1108. Betonica. Cor. lab. fuperius planum, ad-
feendens, tubo cylindrico. Stam. longitudine faucis.
* 1106. Lamium. Cor. lab. inferius utrinque dente
fetaceo.
* 1107. Galeopsis. Cor. lab. inferius lateribus re-
flexum. Stam. deflorata ad latera deflexa.
CLASS XIV.
DIDYNAMIA, OR two stamens longer.
Order I. GYMNOSPERMIA, or Seeds naked.
Sett. I. The Calyxes or Cups nearly $-cleft.
P. Styles 2. Stamens far afunder.
* G. Pairs of anthers crofs-fhaped.
H. Filaments afunder, ftraight. Cor. gaping, with
the inferior lip 3-cleft, nearly fcolloped.
E. Filaments far afunder, ftraight. Cor. gaping,
with the inferior lip undivided.
B. Filaments far afunder and ftraight. Cor. gap¬
ing, with the inferior lip 3-lolled.
* M. Filaments far afunder and ftraight. Cor. nearly
equal.
H. Filam. declining. Cor. gaping *, the fuperior lip
2-cleft, the inferior 3-cleft, the middle fegments con¬
cave.
S. The one ftigma flieathing the other.
L. Cor. horizontally turned upfide down.
* T. Cor. with no fuperior lip, but a fiffure in place
of a lip.
* A. Cor. having the upper lip fhorter than the fta-
mens.
P. Cor. the upper lip rough-haired, comprefled.
* L. Cor. the upper lip erett, undivided, flat. The
ftamens longer than the mouth.
B. Cor. the upper lip flat, afeending with a cylin¬
drical tube. Stamens of the length of the mouth,
* L. Cor. the inferior lip on both fides with a briftle-
fhaped tooth.
* G. Cor. the inferior lip bent back to the fides. The
ftamens bent to the fides after the anthers have flied
their pollen.
D d 2 I097*
(d) The eflential chara&er of this clafs confifts of the flowers of the plants which it contains having four fta¬
mens, two of which are long, and two fliort. The fhort ftamens ftand next together, and adjoining to the ftyle
of the piftil. They are covered by the corolla or bloflbm, which is irregular in its fhape.
212
B O T
* 1097. Nepeta. Cor. lab. mferius crenatum. Faux
jnargine rtflexo.
1094. Satureia. Cor. laciniis fubaequalibu?.
Stam. remota.7
* 1110. Ballota. Cal. 10-ftriatu?. Cor. labium
fuperius fornicatum.
mi. Marrubium. Cal. 10-ftriatus. Cor. lab.
fuperius rectum.
1114. Molucella. Cal. campanulatus, corolla
amplior, dentibus fpinofis.
Verbena fpedes aliquot. Monarda didyrna.
Se£t. II. Calyces bilabiati.
* 1124. Scutellaria. Cal. fruftiferus, operculatus.
* 1117. Thytvius. Cal. fauce villis claufus.
1122. Plectranthus. Cor. refupinata ball furfum
calcarata. Filamenta fubulata.
1121. Ocimum. Cor. refupinata ball nuda. Fi¬
lamenta bins, ball proceffu.
* 1125. Prunella. Filamenta omnia apice bifurca.
1126. Cleonia. Filamenta bifurca, apici altero
antherifero. Stigma quadrifidum.
1123. Trichostema. Filamenta longiflima.
1119. Dracccephalum. Corollae faux inflato-di-
latata.
* 1116. Origanum. Strobilus calyces colligens.
* 1115. Clinopodium. Involucrum calyces colli¬
gens.
1095. Thymbra. Calyx utrinque linea ciliata ca-
rinatus. Stylus femibifidus. Cor. labia plana.
* 1120. Melittis. Cal. tubo corolla amplior. Co¬
rolla; lab. fuperius planum, integrum. Antherae cru-
ciatae.
* 1118. Melissa. Cal. angulatus, fcariofus, labio
fuperiore adfcendente.
1127. Prasium. Semina baccata.
1128. Phryma. Sem. unicum. Cor. ringens.
1129. Selago. Sem. unicum. Corolla; limbo
quinquefido ina;quali.
Ordo II. ANGIOSPERMIA.
Se£t. I. Calyces indivifi.
1185. Aiginetia. Capf. multilocularis. Cor.
eampanulata. Cal. indivifus, fpathaceus.
1161. Tanz-ecium. Bacca corticofa. Cor. tubu-
lofa, fubaequalis. Cal. tubulofus, truncatus.
Seel. II. Calyces bifid'u
1184. Obolaria. Capf. i-locularis. Cor. campa-
nulata, 4-fida. Filam. ex divifuris corollae.
* 1186. Ororancwe. Capf. i-locularis. Cor. fub¬
aequalis, 4-fida. Glandula fub ball germinis.
1172. He ben streitia. Capf. 2-fperma. Cor. 1-
labiata, 4-fida. Stam. margini lateral! corollae inferta.
1149. Torenia. Capf. 2-locularis. Cor. perfonata.
Filam. duo bifida.
1205. Castilleia. Capf. 2-locularis. Cor. bila-
biata, labio inferiore brevifiimo. Cal. upUabiatus, bi-
dentatus.
A N Y. Didynamia*
* N. Cor. the inferior lip fcolloped. The mouth with
a border bent back.
S. Cor. with fegments nearly equal. Stamens re¬
mote.
* B. Cal. 10-ftriped. Cor. the fuperior lip vaulted.
M. Cal. 10-ftriped, Cor. the upper lip ftraight.
M. Cal. bell-lhaped. Cor. large, with prickly teeth.
Seel. II. Calyxes 2-lipped.
* S. Cal. fruit-bearing, covered with a lid.
* T. Cal. with a mouth (hut wdth foft hairs.
P. Cor. horizontally turned upfide down at the bale,
upwards, having a fpur. Filaments awl-lhaped.
O. Cor. naked, horizontally turned up at the bafe.
Filaments 2, with an enlargement at the bafe.
* P. Filaments all with a 2-forked top.
C. Filaments 2-forked. The alternate apex bearing
an anther. Stigma 4-cleft.
T. Filaments very long.
H. Mouth of the cor. inflate-dilated.
* O. A cone colledling the calyxes.
* C. Involucrum collecting the cups.
T. Cal. keeled on both fides with a fringed line.
Style half 2-cleft. Cor. flat lips.
* M. Cal. with a tube larger than the cor. the upper
lip of the cor. flat, entire. Anthers crofs-fliaped.
* M. Cor. angled, Ikinny, the upper lip afeending.
P. Seeds berry-like.
P. Seed I. Cor. gaping.
S. Seed 1. Border of the cor. unequal, 5-cleft.
Order II. ANGIOSPERMIA, or with Seeds in
a Capfule.
Se£l. I. Cups undivided.
AL. Capf. many-celled. Cor. bell-lhaped. Cal. un¬
divided, chaffy.
T. Berry barked. Cor. tubular, nearly equal. Cal,
tubular, lopped.
Se£t. II. Cups 2-cleft.
O. Capf. i-celled. Cor. bell-lhaped, 4-cleft. Fi¬
lam. from the divifions of the corolla.
* O. Capf. I-celled. Cor. nearly equal, 4-cleft,
Gland under the bafe of the germen or feed-bud.
H. Capf. 2-feeded. Cor. 1-lipped, 4-cleft. Sta¬
mens inferted in the lateral margin of the cor.
T. Capf. 2-celled. Cor. gaping. Filam. 2, two-
cleft.
C. Capf. 2-celled. Cor. 2-lipped, under lip very
Ihort. Cal. i-lipped, z-toothed.
I2ii.
V
Didynatma. v B O T
12n. Acanthus. Capf. 2-locularis. Cor. i-la-
biata, 3-fida. Antherae villofse.
1164. Premna. Drupa i-fperma, nuce 4-loculari.
Cor. 4-fida, inaequalis.
1160. Crescentxa. Bacca l-locularis, corticofa.
Cor. tubo campanulata. Germen pedicellatum.
ANY.
A. Capf. 2-celled. Cor. I-lipped, 3-cleft. An¬
thers woolly.
P. Drupe i-feeded, with a 4-celled nut. Cor. 4-
cleft, unequal.
C. Berry 1-celled, bark-like. Cor. with a bell-
fhaped tube. Germen on a pedicle or footHalk.
Se£l:. III. Calyces trifldi.
Se£t. III. Cups 'y-cleft.
uyg. Halleria. Bacca 2-locub Cor. 4-fida, la-
bio fuperiore longiore.
H. Berry 2-celled. Cor. 4-cleft; the upper lip
longer.
Sect. IV. Calyces quadrijidi.
Se£L IV. Cups j\-cleft.
1189. Lippia. Capf. 2-fperma, 2-locularis. Cor.
hypocraterif. Cal. compreffus.
1134. LathrasA. Capf. i-locularis. Cor. perfo-
nata. Glandula fub germine.
1130. Bartsia. Capf. 2-locularis. Cor. perfo-
nata. Cal. coloratior.
* 1132. Euphrasia. Capf. 2-locularis. Cor. per-
fonata. Antherae inferiores fpinofe.
* 1131. Rhinanthus. Capf. 2-locularis. Cor. per-
fonata. Capf. cornprefla.
* 1133. Melampyrum. Capf. 2-locularis. Cor.
perfonata. Sem. bina gibbofa.
1135. Schwalbea. Capf. 2-locularis ? Cor. per¬
fonata. Cal. laclniae fuperiores fenfim minores.
1196. Barleria. Capf. 2-locularis. Cor. infun-
dibil. Sem. bina. Capf. elaftica.
1168. Loeselia. Capf. 3-locular. Cor. laciniis
fecundis. Stam. petalo adverfa.
1162. Gmelina. Drupa nuce 2-locul. Cor. bila-
biata. Antherae binae crafliores, bipartitce.
1165. Lantana. Drupa nuce 2-locul. Cor. hy¬
pocraterif. Stigma uncinatum.
L. Capf. 2-feeded, 2-celled. Cor. falver-lhaped.
Cal. flattened.
L. Capf. 1-celled.. Cor. gaping. A gland under
the feed-bud.
B. Capf. 2-celled. Cor. gaping. Cal. coloured.
* E. Capf. 2-celled. Cor. gaping. Inferior anthers
thorny.
* R. Capf. 2-celled. Cor. gaping. Capf. compref-
fed.
* M. Capf. 2-celled. Cor. gaping. Seeds 2, bulg¬
ing.
S. Capf, 2 celled ? Cor. gaping. Upper fegments
of the cor. gradually lefs.
B. Capf. 2-celled. Cor. funnel-fliaped. Seeds 2.
Capf. elaftic.
L. Capf. 3-celled. Cor. with fegments pointing
one way. Stamens oppofite to the petals.
G. Drupe, with a 2-celled nut. Cor. 2-lipped.
Two coarfe anthers, 2-parted.
L. Drupe, with a 2-celled nut. Cor. falver-fhaped*-
Stigma hooked at the end.
Sedh. V. Calyces quinquejidi.
1209. Avicennia. Capf. i-locularis, coriacea.
Cor. labio fuperiore quadrato. Sem. unicum.
1136. Tozzia. Capf. i-locul. Cor. hypocrate¬
rif. Sem. unicum.
1179. Phaylopsis. Capf. i-locularis. Cor. rin-
gens, labio fuperiore minimo. Semina quatuor.
* 1178. Limosella. Capf. l-locul. Cor. campan.
regular. Sem. plurima.
1175. Browallia. Capf. i-locul. Cor. hypocra¬
terif. Sem. numerofa.
1151. Brunfelsia. Capf. i-locul. baccata. Cor.
infundibiliformis.
1193. Holmskioldia. Capf. i-locul. ? Cor. rin-
gens. Cal. ampliat.
1170. Lindernia. Capf. l-locular. Cor. ringens.
Stam. inferiora dente terminal!.
1182. Conobea. Capf. i-locularis. Cor. ringens.
Stylus pilofus.
1210. Columnea. Capf. i-locularis. Cor. rin¬
gens, fupra bafin gibba. Antheras connexse.
1180. Vandellia. Capf. i-locul. Cor. ringens.
Stam. inferiora difco labii enata.
1181. Russelia. Capf. i-locularis. Cor. bilabiata.
1213. Alectra. Capf. 2-locularis didyma. Cor.
infundibiliformes. Filamenta barbata. Semina foli-
taria.
Se£t. V. Cups 5-cleft.
A. Capf. 1-celled, leather-like. Cor. with an up¬
per lip fquared. Seed I.
T. Capf. I-celled. Cor. falver-fhaped. Seed I.
P. Capf. 1-celled. Cor. gaping, upper lip fmalL
Seeds 4.
* L. Capf. I-celled. Cor. bell-fhaped, regular. Seeds
many.
B. Capf. 1-celled. Cor. falver-fhaped. Seeds nu¬
merous.
B. Capf. 1-celled, berry-like Cor. funnel-fhaped-
H. Capf. 1-celled ? Cor. gaping. Cal. enlarged.
L. Capf. 1-celled. Cor. gaping. Inferior ftamens
with a terminal tooth.
C. Capf. I-celled. Cor. gaping. Style hairy.
C. Capf. I-celled. Cor. gaping, bulged above the
bafe. Anthers conne61ed.
V. Capf. i-celled. Cor. gaping. Inferior ftamens
rifing from the furface of the lip.
R. Capf. i-celled. Cor. 2-lippcd.
A. Capf. 2-celled, double. Cor. funnel-fhaped.
Filam. bearded.- Seeds folitary.
SI
1143,
214
Didynamia*
B O T
1143. Gesnerja. Capf. 24ocu1. Cor. fupera in-
cmvata.
1141. Cyrilla. Capf. 2-locularis. Cor. fupera
declinata. Rudimentum filamenti quinti.
* 1152. Scrophularia. Capf. 2-locul. Cor. refu-
pinata. Lab. fegmento intermedio interne.
1183. Sternodia. Capf. 2-locul. Cor. inasqualis.
Siam, bifida. Antherae geminae.
1190. Achimenes. Capf. 2-locularis. Cor. fub-
.aequalis, 4-fida.
1153. Celsia. Capf. 2-locul. Cor. rotata. Fi-
lamenta lanata.
1154. Hemimeris. Capf. 2-locular. Cor. rotata,
ringens.
* 1177. Sibthorpia. Capf. 2-locul. Cor. rotata.
Stam. 2, et 2 approximata.
1169. Capraria. Capf. 2-locul. Cor. campanu-
lata. Stigm. cordatum, bivalve.
* 1155. Digitalis. Capf. 2-locularis. Cor. cam-
pan. iubtus ventricofa. Stam. declinata.
1157. Bignonia. Capf. 2-locul. Cor. campanu-
lata. Sem. alata, imbricata. Rudimentum filamen¬
ti quinti.
1156. Incarvillea. Capf. 2-locularis. Cor. in-
fundibiliformis. Semina alata. Rudimentum filamen¬
ti quinti nullum.
1195. Ruellia. Capf. 2-locul. Cor. campanulata.
Stam. per paria approximata.
1174. Buchnera. Capf. 2-locul. Cor. hypocra-
terif. Limbi laciniis obcordatis aequalibus.
1173. Erinus. Capf. 2-locul. Cor. bilabiata j
labio fuperiore breviflimo, reflexo.
1163. Petrea. Capf. 2-locul. Cor. rotata, caly-
ce colorato minor. Sem. folitaria.
1171. Manulea. Capf. 2-locul. Cor. limbus 5-
partitus j lacinia infima profundiore, reflexa.
* 1144. Antirrhinum. Capf. 2-locul. Cor. per-
fonata, fubtus nedtario prominente.
1145. Anarrhinum. Capf. 2-locularis, multival-
vis. Cor. bilabiata, fauce pervia.
1138. Gerardia. Capf. 2-locul. Cor. hypocrat.
inaequal. Capf. ball dehifeens.
* 1137. Pedicularis. Capf. 2-locul. Cor. perfo-
nata. Sem. tunicata.
1194. Mimulus. Capf. 2-locul. Cor. perfonata.
Cal. prifmaticus.
1188. Dodartia. Capf. 2-locul. Cor. perfonata j
labio fuperiori brevi adfeendente.
1139. Chelone. Capf. 2-locularis. Cor. perfo¬
nata, inflata, claufa. Rudiment, filamenti quinti gla-
brum.
1140. Pentsternon. Capf. 2-locularis. Cor. bila-
0 biata, ventricofa. Rudimentum filamenti quinti bar-
batum.
1191. Sesamum. Capf. 2-locul. Cor. campan.
inaequal. Rudim. filam. quinti.
1142. Gloxinia. Capf. Semibilocularis. Cor.
campanulata. Rudiment, quinti filamenti cum reliquis
receptaculo infertum.
1147. Tourettia. Capf. 4-locularis, hamata. Cor.
unilabiata.
1148. Martynia. Capf. 4-locul. Cor. campanu-
,|ata. Rudim. filam. quinti.
1204. Maurandia. Capfulae 3, coalitae apice, femi-
A N Y.
G. Capf. 2-celled. Cor. bent inwards above.
C. Capf. 2-celled. Cor. at the upper part bent
downwards. Rudiment of a 5th filament.
* S. Capf. 2-celled. Cor. horizontally turned upfide
down. Lip, with an internal intermediate fegment.
S. Capf. z celled. Cor. unequal. Stamens 2-cleft.
Anthers in pairs.
A. Capf. 2-celled. Cor. nearly equal, 4-cleft.
C. Capf. 2-celled. Cor. wheel-lhaped. Filaments
cottony.
H. Capf. 2-celled. Cor. wheel-lhaped, gaping.
* S. Capf. 2-celled. Cor. wheel-lhaped. Stam. 2, and
2 approximated.
C, Capf. 2-celled. Cor. bell-fhaped. Stigma heart-
fhaped, 2-valved.
* D. Capf. 2-celled. Cor.bell-fhaped, underneath
bellied. Stamens declining.
B. Capf. 2-celled. Cor. bell-lhaped. Seeds wing¬
ed, tiled. Rudiment of a 5th filament.
I. Capf. 2-celled. Cor. funnel-lhaped. Seeds
winged. No rudiment of a 3th filament.
R. Capf. 2-celled. Cor. bell-lhaped. Stamens near
together by pairs.
B. Capf. 2-celled. Cor. falver-lhaped. Segments
of the border equal, inverfely heart-lhaped.
E. Capf. 2-celled. Cor. 2-lipped j upper lip very
fliort, turned back.
P. Capf. 2-celled. Cor. wheel-lhaped, lefs than the
coloured cal. Seeds folitary.
M. Capf. 2-celled. Cor. with a 5-parted border,
lower fegment deeper, bent back.
* A. Capf. 2-celled. Cor. gaping, a ne&ary promi¬
nent from underneath.
A. Capf. 2-celled, many-valved. Cor. 2-lipped,
with an open mouth.
G. Capf. 2-celled. Cor. falver-lhaped, unequal.
Capf. open at the bafe.
* P. Capf. 2-celled. Cor. gaping. Seeds coated.
M. Capf. 2-celled. Cor. gaping. Cal. prifmatic.
D. Capf. 2-celled. Cor. gaping j upper Ihort lip
afeending.
C. Capf. 2-celled. Cor. gaping, inflated, Ihut.
Smooth rudiment of a fifth filament.
P. Capf. 2-celled. Cor. 2-lipped, bellied. Barbed
rudiment of a fifth filament.
S. Capf. 2-celled. Cor. bell-lhaped, unequal. Ru¬
dim. of a 5th filament.
G. Capf. half 2-celled. Cor. bell-lhaped. Rudim.
of a 5th filam. inferted wfith the reft in the receptacle.
T. Capf. 4-celled, hooked. Cor. 1-lipped.
M. Capf. 4-celled. Cor. bell-lhaped. Rudiment
of a 5th filament.
M. Two capfules united at the point, half 5-valved.
quinquevalves.
215
Didynamia. B O T
quinquevalves. Cor, campanulata, intequalis. Fila-
menta bafl callofa.
1200. Mallingtonia. Siliqua ? Corolla regulans,
quadrifida. Anther* deforme*.
1192. Tortula, Nuces 2, biloculares, extern*,
rugofse. Corolhe tubus fpiralis.
1214. Pedalium. Nux bilocularis.
* 1176. Linnjea. Bacca 3-locularis, ficca. Cor.
campan. Cal. fuperus.
1167. Cornutia. Bacca l-fperma. Cor. ringens.
Stylus longiffimus.
xi99. Ovieda. Bacca 4-fperma. Cor. longifiima j
limbo 3-fido. Cal. fru&iferus, campanulatus.
1207. Amasonia. Bacca 4-fperma. Cor. fubae-
qualis.
1190. Besleria. Bacca polyfperma, unilocularis.
Cor. inaequalis.
1208. Bontia. Drupa monofperma. Cor. labium
inferius revolutum. Sem. plicatum.
1166. Spielmannia. Drupa monofperma, nuce
2-loculari. Cor. hypocrateriformis.
1206. Vitex. Drupa monofperma, nuce 4-loculari.
Cor. ringens, labio fuperiore 3-fido.
1198. Myoporum. Drupa difperma, nuce 2-locu¬
lari. Cor. campanulata, fubsequalis.
1158. Citharexylon. Drupa difperma, nuce 2-
loculari. Cor. infundibiliformis, fubaequalis.
120f. Volkameria. Drupa difperma, nuce 2-la-
culari. Cor. hypocrateriformis, laciniis fecundis.
1202. Clerodendron. Drupa tetrafperma, nuce
uniloculari. Cor. bilabiata.
1197. Duranta. Drupa tetrafperma, nuce 2-lo¬
culari. Cor. fubaequalis, tubo curvo.
Gratiola Monnieria*
Se£t. VI. Calyces multijldi.
1187. Hyobanche. Capf. 2-locul. Cor. unilabi-
ata. Cal. heptaphyllus.
1212. Lepidagathis. Capf. 2-locul. Cor. bila¬
biata. Cal. 2, polyphylli, imbricati.
1146. Cymbaria. Capf. 2-locul. Cor. ringens.
Cal. 10-dentatus.
1203. Thunbergia. Capf. 2-locul. Cor. campa¬
nulata. Cal. duplex, exterior diphyllus, interior 12-
dentatus.
ANY.
Cor. bell-fhaped, unequal. Filaments hard at the
bafe.
M. A long pod ? Cor. regular, 4-cleft. Anthers
deformed.
T. Nuts 2, 2-celled, external, wrinkled. Tube of
the cor. fpiral.
P. A 2 celled nut.
* L. Berry 3-celled, dry. Cor. bell-ihaped. CaL
fuperior.
C. Berry i-feeded. Cor. gaping. Style very long,
O. Berty 4-feecJed. Cor. very long, with a border
3-cleft. Cal. fruit-bearing, bell-lhaped.
A. Berry 4-feeded. Cor. nearly equal.
B. Berry many-feeded, 1-celled. Cor. unequal.
B. Drupe l-feeded, under lip of the cor. rolled
back.* Seed plaited.
S. Drupe i-feeded, with a 2-celled nut. Cor. fal-
ver-lhaped.
V. Drupe i-feeded, with a 4-celled nut. Cor. gap¬
ing, with the upper lip 3-cleft.
M. Drupe 2-feeded, with a 2-celled nut. Cor.
bell-lhaped, nearly equal.
C. Drupe 2-feeded, with a 2-celled nut. Cor. fun-
nel-lhaped, nearly equal.
V. Drupe 2-feeded, with a 2-celled nut. Cor. fal-
ver-lhaped, with fegments pointing one way.
C. Drupe 4-feeded, with a 1-celled nut. Cor. 2-
lipped.
D. Drupe 4-feeded, with a 2-celled nut. Cor. near¬
ly equal, with a crooked tube.
Seel. VI. Cups many-cleft.
H. Capf. 2-celled. Cor. t-lipped. Cal. 7-leafed.
L. Capf. 2-celled. Cor. 2-lipped. Cups 2, many-
leafed, tiled.
C. Capf. 2-celled. Cor. gaping, Cal. 10-toothed,
T. Capf. 2-celled.. Cor. bell-fhaped. Cal. double,
the outer 2-leafed, the inner 1 2-toothed.
Se£l. VII. Polypetali.
Se£l. VII. Many-petaled.
I2r'5. Melianthus. Capf. 4-locul. 4-loba.. Cor. M. Capf. 4-celled, 4-lobed. Cor. 4-petaled, con-
4-petal, labium inferius conftituens., ftituting the lower lip..
A
Order I. GYMNOSPERMIA.
1092. Ajuga, or Bugle.
10 fpecies •, viz. orientalis, decumbens, * pyramida-
lis, alpina, #genevenfis, *reptans, * chamsepithys, chia,
iva, falicifolia. Europe.
chanuepi- * a. leaves 3-cleft, flrap-lhaped, very entire $ flow-
tbys. ers fitting, lateral, folitary j Item fpreading.—This
plant has a degree of bitternefs and acrimony $ but
its real ufe is far from bemp; afeertained. It Hands re¬
commended in the gout, jaundice, and intermitting
fevers.
1093. Tevcrium, or Germander.
64 fpecies j viz. campanulatum, laevigatum, orien-
tale, parviflorum, botrys, niiTolianum, trifidum, pfeu-
do-chamaepithys, fruticans, brevifolium, creticum, ma-
rum, quadratulum, multiflorum, regium, laxmamii,
fibiricum, afiaticum, cubenfe, arduini, canadenfe, vir-
ginicum^
ziG B O T
ginicum, japonicum, inflatum, villofum, hyrcanicum,
abutiloides, * icorodonia, pfeudo-fcorodonia, betoni-
cura, refupinatum, maffdienfe, falviaftrum, * fcordium,
fcordioides, * chamaedrys, heterophyllum, brafteatum,
lucidum, nitidum, flavum, montanum, fupinura, thy-
mifolium, pyrenaicum, rotundifolium, buxifoliurn, au-
reum, flavefcens, gnaphalodes, achaemenis, polium,
trifoliatum, pfeudhyiTopus, vralentinum, capitatum, lu-
lltanicum, pycnophyllum, verticillatum, libanitis, pu-
milam, anguftiffimum, coelefte, fpinofum. Europe,
Perfia, N. America, W. Indies.
fcorodonia. * 1'. leaves heart-fhaped, ferrated, on leaf-ftalks j
floxvers in lateral bunches, pointing one way j Item up¬
right.—The people of Jerfey are laid to make ufe of
this plant in brewing. It pofleffes the bitternefs and a
good deal of the flavour of hops j but, upon trial, it
gave too much colour to the liquor.
Jcordium. * T. leaves oblong, fitting, toothed, nakedifh ; flow¬
ers in pairs, on fruitftalks, axillary ; Item pubefcent,
ipreading -—The frefli leaves of this plant are bitter,
and fomewhat pungent. Powdered, they deftroy
worms. A decodlion of this plant is a good fomen¬
tation in gangrenous cafes. If cows eat it, when com¬
pelled by hunger, their milk gets a garlick flavour.
Sheep and goats eat it. Horfes, cows, and fwine, re-
fufe it.
chattice- * T. leaves wedge-egg-flraped, cut, fcolloped, on
drys. leaf-ftalks •, flowers 3 together 5 ftems fomewhat hairy.
—This plant is bitter, with a degree of aroma, and
may be ufed with advantage in weak and relaxed con-
ftitutions. It is an ingredient in the celebrated gout
powders.
The teucrium chamcepithys is a low hairy plant, clam¬
my to the touch, of a ftrong aromatic refinous fmell,
and a little roughifh tafte. It is an aperient and vul¬
nerary, and is ufed alfo in gouty and rheumatic pains.
The teucrium marum is a fmall fhrubby plant, grow¬
ing fpontaneoufly in Syria, Candy, and other warm
climates, and cultivated with us in gardens. The
leaves have an aromatic bitterifti tafte, and, when rub¬
bed betwixt the fingers, a quick pungent fmell, which
foon affe&s the head and occafions fneezing. Diftilled
with water, they yield a very acrid, penetrating, ef-
fential oil, refembling one obtained by the fame means
from fcurvy grafs. Thefe qualities fufticiently point
out the ufes to which this plant might be applied : at
prefent, it is little otherwflfe employed than in cepha¬
lic fnuffs.
1094. Satuheja, or Savory.
11 fpecies : viz. Juliana, nervofa, thymbra, gracea,
filiformis, montana, rupeftris, hortenfis, capitata, fpino-
fa, viminea. S. Europe, Jamaica.—The herb of the
fatureja hortetijis is railed annually in gardens for cu¬
linary purpofes. It is a very wTarm aromatic, and af¬
fords in diftillation with water, a fubtile eflential oil,
of a penetrating fmell, and very hot acrid tafte. It
yields little of its virtues by infufion to aqueous li¬
quors j redlified fpirit extracts the whole of its tafte
and fmell, but elevates nothing in diftillation.
i°95. Thymbra, or Mountain-hyjfop.
T hree Ipecies •, viz. fpicata, verticillata, ciliata.
Spain, Italy, Levant.
1096. Hyssopus, or Hyjfop.
Four fpecies j viz. officinalis, lophanthus, nepetoides,
A N Y. DiJynamia.
fcrophularifolius. Siberia, S. Europe, N. America.—
The leaves of hyflbp have an aromatic fmell, and a
warm pungent talle. Befides the general virtues of
aromatics, they are particularly recommended in hu¬
moral afthmas, coughs, and other diforders of the
breaft and lungs; and faid to promote expedloration :
but fo little dependence is put upon any property of
this kind, that hyflbp has now noplace in the Pharma¬
copoeia of the London college.
1097. Nepeta, or idtp, or Cat-mint.
27 fpecies j viz. * cataria, anguftilolia, crifpa, helio-
tropifolia, pannonica, ccerulea, violacea, incana, japoni-
ca, ucranica, nepetella, nuda, meliflaefolia, hirfuta,
italica, multibradleata, reticulata, tuberofa, lanata, fcor-
dotis, virginica, malabarica, indica, amboinica, mada-
gafcarienfis, multifida, botryoides. Europe, India, N.
America.
* N. flowers in fpikes : whirls on fliort fruit-ftalks : cataria*
leaves on leave-ftalks, heart-ftiaped, tooth-ferrated.
—An infufion of this plant is deemed a fpecific in chlo¬
rotic cafes. Two ounces of the expreffed juice may
be given for a dole. Cats are fo delighted writh this
plant that they can hardly be kept out of the garden
wherein it grows. Mr Miller fays, that cats will not
meddle with it if it is raifed from feeds *, and in fupport
of this opinion quotes an old faying, “ If you fet it,
the cats will eat it j if you fow it, the cats will not
know it.” It cannot w7ell be planted without being
more or Ids bruifed. Sheep eat it 5 cows, horfes,
goats, and fwine, refufe it.
1098. Elsholtzia.
Two fpecies j viz. criftata, paniculata.
1099. Lavandula, or Lavender.
Eight fpecies ; viz. fpica, ftoechas, viridis, dentata,
pinnata, multifida, abrotanoides, carnofa. S. Europe,
Madeira, E. Indies.
There are different varieties of the lavandula fpicav
particularly the narrow and broad leaved. The flowers
of both have a fragrant fmell, to moft people agreeable,
and a warm pungent bitterilh tafte j the broad-leaved
fort is the ftrongeft in both refpe&s, and yields in dif¬
tillation thrice as much eflential oil as the other j its
oil is alfo hotter and fpecifically heavier : hence in the
fouthern parts of France, where both kinds grow wild,
this only is made ufe of for the diftillation of what is
called oil offpike. The narrow-leaved is the fort com¬
monly met with in our gardens.
Lavender is a warm ftimulating aromatic. It is
principally recommended in vertigoes, palfies, tremours,
fuppreflion of the menftrual evacuations ; and in gene¬
ral in all diforders of the head, nerves, and uterus. It
is fometimes alfo ufed externally in fomentations for
paralvtic limbs. The diftilled oil is particularly cele¬
brated for deftroying various cutaneous infers. If
foft fpongy paper, dipt in this oil, either alone or mix¬
ed with that of almonds, be applied at night to the
parts infefted by the infefts, they will certainly be all
found dead in the morning. The officinal preparations
of lavender are, the eflential oil, a Ample fpirit, and a
compound tinflure.
The Lavendula Jlcechas is a fhrubby plant, confider-
ably fmaller than the common lavender. The flowery
heads are brought from Italy and the fouthern parts of
France;
2,7
D'ulynamia. B O T
France j they are very apt to grow mouldy in the paf-
fage *, and even when they efcape this inconvenience,
are generally much inferior to thofe raifed in our gar¬
dens. The belt ftoechas which we receive from abroad
has no great fmell or tafte j Pomet affirms, that fuch
as the (hops of Paris are fupplied with is entirely def-
titude of both $ whilft that of our own growth, either
when freffi, or when carefully dried, has a very fra¬
grant fmell, and a warm, aromatic, bitteriffi, fubacrid
tafte: diftilled with water, it yields a confiderable
quantity of a fragrant effential oil j to reftified fpirit it
imparts a ftrong tin&ure, which infpiffated proves an
elegant aromatic extradl. This aromatic plant is rare¬
ly met with in prefcription j the only officinal compo-
fttions into which it was admitted were the mithridate
and theriaca.
There is another plant called Jlcechas, which from
the beauty and durability of its flowers has of late
years had a place in our gardens, and whofe aromatic
qualities render it worthy of attention $ this is the
gnaphalium arenarium, the golden ftoechas, goldilocks,
or yellow caffidony ; its flowers ftand in umbels on the
tops of the branches j they are of a deep (hining yel¬
low colour, which they retain in perfeftion for many
years j their fmell is fragrant and agreeable, fome-
what of the mulky kind their tafte warm, pungent
and fubaftringent; they impart their flavour to water
in diftillation and by infufion to re&ified fpirit.
l too. Sideritis, or Iron-wort.
20 fpecies j viz. canarienfis, candicans, cretica,
montana, elegans, romana, fyriaca, taurica, diftans,
perfoliata, ciliata, incana, virgata, glauca, hyffopifo-
lia, fcordioides, fpinofa, hirfuta, ovata, lanata. S.
Europe, Canary, Madeira.
iioi. Bystropogon.
Seven fpecies j viz. peftinatum, fidaefolium, fuave-
olens, plumofum, origanifolium, canarienfe, pun&atum.
Madeira, Canary, Japan.
1102. Mentha, or Mint.
2 2 fpecies *, viz. auricularia, * fylveftris, nemorofa,
gratiffima, niliaca, glabrata, * viridis, * rotundifolia,
crifpa, * hirfuta, * aquatica, citrata, * piperita, fativa,
dentata, * gentilis, * arvenfis, auftriaca, canadenfis,
* pulegium, cervina, perilloides. Europe, Egypt, Ca¬
nada.
'Otridis. * M. fpikes oblong j leaves fpear-ffiaped, naked, fer-
rated, fitting j ftamens longer than the bloifom.—-The
flavour of this fpecies being more agreeable than that
of the others, it is generally preferred for culinary and
medicinal purpofes. A conferve of the leaves is very
grateful, and the diftilled waters, both Ample and fpiri-
tuous, are univerfally thought pleafant. The leaves
are ufed in fpring fallads j and the juice of them, boiled
up with fugar, is formed into tablets. The diftilled
waters, and the eflential oil, are often given to flop
retching, and frequently with fuccefs. Dr Lewis fays,
that dry mint digefted in rectified fpirit of wine, gives
out a tindture which appears, by daylight of a fine dark-
green, but in candlelight of a bright red colour. The
fadl is, that a fmall quantity of this tindture is green
either by daylight, or by candlelight j but a large
quantity of it feems impervious to common daylight:
Vol. IV. Part I.
ANY.
however, when held between the eye and a candle,
or between the eye and the fun, it appears red j fo
that if put into a flat bottle, it appears either green or
red, as it is viewed through the flat fide or through
the edge of the bottle.
* M. leaves egg-ffiaped, on leaf-ftalks ; ftamens (hotterpiperita.
than the bloffom.—The ftem and leaves of it are befet
with numbers of very minute glands, containing the
eflential oil, which rifes plentifully iu diftillation. Pep¬
permint-water is well known as a carminative and an-
tifpafmodic. The eflence of peppermint is an ele¬
gant medicine, and polfelfes the mod adtive properties
of the plant.
* M. leaves egg-ffiaped, acute, ferrated ; ftamens arvenfis.
long as bloflbms.—This fpecies prevents the coagula¬
tion of milk *, and when cows have eaten it, as they
will do largely at the end of fummer when the paftures
are bare, and hunger diftrefles them, their milk can
hardly be made to yield cheefe j a circumftance which
fometimes puzzles the dairy maids. Horfes and goats
eat it j ffieep are not fond of it j cows and fwine re-
fufe it.
* M. leaves egg-ffiaped, blunt, fomewhat fcolloped
ftems roundiffi, creeping •, ftamens longer than the
bloffom.-—The expreffed juice of this plant, with a lit¬
tle fugar, is not a bad medicine in the hooping cough.
A Ample and a fpirituous water, diftilled from the
dried leaves, are kept in the (hops. They are pre-
fcribed in hyfterical affedtions, and are not without
confiderable antifpafmodic properties. An infufion
of the plant may be ufed with the fame intention.
1103. Perilla.
One fpecies j viz. ocymoides. India.
1104. ^Hyptis.
Four fpecies; viz. verticillata, capitata, radiata, cha-
maedrys.
1105. Glechoma, or Gi/l, or Ground ivy.
One fpecies $ viz. hederacea. N. of Europe.
G. leaves kidney-ffiaped, fcolloped.—The leaves of
this plant, thrown into the vat with ale, clarify it and
give it a flavour. Ale thus prepared is often drank as
an antifcorbutic. The expreffed juice, mixed with a
little wine, and applied morning and evening, deftroys
the white fpecks upon horfes eyes. The plants that
grow near it do not flouriffi. It is faid to be hurtful to
horfes if they eat much of it. Sheep eat it $ horfes are
not fond of it; cows, goats, and fwine, refufe it. Lit¬
tle protuberances, compofed of many cells, are fome¬
times found upon the leaves, and are occafioned by in-
fefts.
1106. Lamium, or Dead-nettle.
13 fpecies j viz. ovvala, Isevigatum, rugofum, gar-
ganicum, maculatum, * album, molle, * purpureum,
incifum, bifidum, tomentofum, * amplexicaule, multifi-
dum. Europe.
* L. leaves heart-ffiaped, tapering to a point, ferrated, album.
on leaf-ftalks j flowers about 20 in a whirl.—This plant
grows wild in hedges j and flowers in April and May.
The flowers have been particularly celebrated in ute¬
rine fluors and other female weakneffes, and alfo in
diforders of the lungs j but they appear to be of very
weak virtue, and are at prefent little ufed in Britain.
E e 1107.
218
officinalis.
fylvatica.
B O T
1107. GAtEOPSis, ox Hedge-mule.
Four fpecies ; viz. * ladanum, * grandiflora, * te-
trahit, * cannabina. Europe.
1108. Betonica, or Betony.
Eight fpecies j viz. * officinalis, ftri£fa, incana, ori-
entalis, alopecuros, hirfuta, grandiflora, heraclea.
* B. fpike interrupted : blofToms, upper lip entire 5
lower lip, the uppSf fegment notched : calyxes fmooth-
ifh.—This is a low plant, growing in woods and fhady
places, in feveral parts of England 5 the flowers come
forth in June and July; they are of a purplifh colour,
and fland in fpikes on the tops of the ffalks. The
leaves and flowers have an herbaceous, roughifh, fome-
what bitterifh tafle, accompanied with a very weak
aromatic flavour. This herb has long been a favourite
among writers on the materia medica, who have not
been wanting to attribute to it abundance of good qua¬
lities. Experience does not difeover any other virtue
in betony than that of a mild corroborant ; as fuch, an
infufion or light decodlion of it may be drank as tea,
or a faturated tinfture in reftified fpirit given in fuita-
ble dofes, in laxity and debility of the vifeera, and dif-
orders proceeding from thence. The powder of the
leaves, fnuffed up the nofe, provokes fneezing; and
hence betony is fometimes made an ingredient in fter-
nutatory powders : this effeft does not feem to be ow¬
ing, as is generally fuppofed, to any peculiar ftimula-
ting quality in the herb, but to the rough hairs which
the leaves are covered with. The roots of this plant
differ greatly in quality from the other parts j their
tafte is bitter, and very naufeous } taken in a fmall dofe,
they vomit and purge violently, and are fuppofed to
have fomewhat in common with the roots of hellebore.
It is pretty lingular, if true, that betony affefts thofe
who gather any confiderable quantity of it, with a dif-
order refembling drunkennefs, as affirmed by Simon
Paulli and Bartholinus. From thefe fenfible qualities
and operative effefts, although it has now no place in
our pharmacopoeias, yet it is perhaps to be confidered
as a vegetable deferving farther attention.
1109. Stachys^ ox Bafe Horehound.
26 fpecies, viz. * fylvatica, circinata, coccinea,
* paluftris, alpina, * germanica, intermedia, lanata,
cretica, heraclea, tenuifolia, glutinofa, fpinofa, orien-
talis, palseftina, maritima, aethiopica, hirta, lavanduli-
folia, rugofa, refta, arenaria, annua, * arvenfis, lati-
folia, artemifia. Europe, Barbary, Cape, Carolina.
* S. fix flowers in a whirl 5 leaves heart-fhaped, on
leaf-ftalks.—It will dye yellow. The whole plant has
a foetid fmell, and toads are thought to be fond of liv¬
ing under its fliade. Sheep and goats eat it. Horfes,
cows, and fwine refufe it.
mo. Ballota, ox Black Horehound.
Four fpecies, viz. * nigra, alba, lanata, diflicha.
Europe, Eaft Indies.
B. leaves heart-fhaped, undivided, ferrated $ calyx,
teeth tapering to a point It ftands recommended in
hyfterical cafes. The Swedes reckon it almofl a uni-
verfal remedy in the difeafes of their cattle. Horfes
cows, fheep, and goats refufe it.
mi. Marrubium, or Horehound.
14 fpecies, viz. alyffum, aftracanicum, peregrinum,
creticum, candidiffimum, fuperium, catariaefolium,
A N Y. Didynamia*
* vulgare, africannm, crifpum, hirfutum, hifpanicum,
pfeudo-didtamnus, acetabulofum.
* M. teeth of the calyx, briftle ftiaped, hooked.—It vulgare,
is very bitter to the tafle, and not altogether unplea-
fant to the fmell. It was a favourite medicine with
the ancients in obflrudfions of the vifeera. In large
dofes it loofens the belly. It is a principal ingredient
in the negro Csefar’s remedy for vegetable poifons.
A young man who had occafion to take mercurial
medicines, was thrown into a falivation which continu¬
ed for more than a year Every method that was
tried to remove it rather increafed the complaint. At
length Linnaeus preferibed an infufion of this plant,
and the patient got well in a fhort time. Horfes,
cows, fheep and goats refufe it.
1112. Leon u ru s, or Lions-tail.
Seven fpecies, viz. crifpus, * cardiaca, marrubiaf-
trum, galeobdolon, fupinus, tataricus, fibiricus. Ruf-
fia, Siberia, Auflria.
* L. ilem-leaves fpear-fhaped, 3-lobed.—The leaves cardiaca,
have a flrong but not agreeable fmell, and a bitter
tafle. Goats, fheep, and horfes eat it. Cows are not
fond of it. Swine refufe it.
1113. Phlomis, ox Jerufalem Sage.
27 fpecies, viz. fruticofa, purpurea, italica, niffolii,
armenica, lychnites, laciniata, famia, crinita, biloba,
pungens, herba venti, alpina, tuberofa, zeylanica,
martinicenfis, urticifolia, decemdentata, biflora, chi-
nenfis, indica, moluccoides, glabrata, alba, nepetifolia,
leonurus, leonites. South Europe, Cape, Eaft and
Weft Indies.
1 114. Molluccella, or Molucca Balm.
Six fpecies, viz. fpinofa, Levis, tuberofa, perfica,
frutefeens, grandiflora. Siberia, Levant, India.
1115. Clinopodium, ox Field Bajil.
Three fpecies, viz. * vulgare, aegyptiacum, ineft-
num. Europe, Egypt, North America.
1116. Origanum, or Wild Marjoram.
16 fpecies, viz. aegyptiacum, diftamnus, fipyleum,
tournefortii, ciliatum, benghalenfe, creticum, fmyr-
naeum, heracleoticum, * vulgare, glandulofum, onites,
fyriacum, maru, majorana, majoranoides. S. Europe,
Egypt, Carolina.
* O. fpikes roundifh, panicled, cluflered j floral leaves rf
egg-fhaped, longer than the calyx.—The whole plant * *
is a warm aromatic. The dried leaves, ufed inftead
of tea, are exceedingly grateful. The effential oil of
this plant is fo acrid, that it may be confidered as a
cauftic, and is much ufed with that intention by farriers.
A little cotton wool moiflened with it, and put into
the hollow of an aching tooth, frequently relieves the
pain. The country people ufe the tops to dye pur¬
ple. Goats and fheep eat it. Horfes are not fond
of it. Cows refufe it.
The origanum di&amnus is a kind of origanum faid
to grow plentifully in the ifland of Candy, in Dalma¬
tia, and in the Morea; it has been found hardy enough
to bear the ordinary winters of our climate. The leaves,
which are the only part in ufe with us, come from
Italy. The beft fort are well covered over with a
thick white down, and now and then intermixed with
purplifh flowers. In fmell and tafte they fomewhat
refemble lemon thyme ; but have more of an aromatic
flavour,
219
Didynamia. B O T
flavour, as well as a greater degree of pungency.
When frefh they yield a confiderable quantity of an ex¬
cellent eflential oil *, but they have now no place ei¬
ther in the London or Edinburgh Pharmacopoeias.
The origanum majorana is raifed annually in our gar¬
dens for culinary as well as medicinal ufes \ the feeds
are commonly procured from the fouthern parts of
France, where the plant grows wild. It is a moder¬
ately warm aromatic, yielding its virtues both to aque¬
ous and fpirituous liquors by infufion, and to water in
diftillation. It is principally ufed in diforders of the head
and nerves, and in the humoural afthmas and catarrhs
of old people. An eflential oil of the herb is kept in
the Ihops. The powder of the leaves proves an agree¬
able errhine, and enters the officinal fternutatory pow¬
der.
1117. Thymus, or Thyme.
2 2 fpecies 5 viz. * ferpyllum, lanuginofus, laeviga-
tus, vulgaris, lanceolatus, numidicus, zygis, marffial-
lianus, inodorus, * acinos, patavinus, alpinus, monta-
nus, piperella, brownei, filiformis, cephalotus, ftriatus,
villofus, maflichina, tragoriganum, virginicus. Eur-
ope, North America, Jamaica.
jerpyllum. * flowers in heads •, ftems creeping j leaves flat,
blunt, fringed at the bafe.—The whole plant is fra¬
grant, and yields an eflential oil that is very heating.
An infulion of the leaves removes the headach occa-
fioned by the debauch of the preceding evening. A
general opinion prevails, that the flefli of fheep that
feed upon aromatic plants, particularly upon thyme, is
much fuperior in flavour to common mutton: but fome
fay this is a vulgar error, that ffieep are not fond of
aromatic plants ; that they will carefully pufh afide the
thyme to get at the grafs growing beneath it j and that
they never touch it unlefs when walking apace, and
then they will catch at any thing. The attachment
of bees to this and other aromatic plants is well known.
Sheep and goats eat it. Swine refufe it.
1118. Melissa, ox Balm.
Seven fpecies-, viz. officinalis, grandiflora, * cala-
mintha, #nepeta, pyrenaica, cretica, fruticofa. South
of Europe.
The tneliJJ'a officinalis, tvhen in perfefHon, has a plea-
fant fmell, fomewhat of the lemon kind, and a weak
roughiffi aromatic tafte. The young (hoots have the
ftrongeft flavour-, the flowers, and the herb itfelf when
old, or produced in very moift rich foils, or rainy fea-
fons, are much weaker both in fmell and tafte. Balm,
the herb of this plant, is appropriated by the writers
on the materia medica, to the head, ftomach, and ute¬
rus j and in all diforders of thefe parts is fuppofed to do
extraordinary fervice. So high an opinion have fome
of the chemifts entertained of balm, that they have ex-
pefted to find in it a medicine which fhould prolong
life beyond the ufual period. The prefent praflice,
however, holds it in no great efteem, and ranks it,
where it certainly deferves to be, among the weaker
corroborants. In diftillation it yields an elegant eflen¬
tial oil, but in very fmall quantity ; the remaining de-
coftion taftes roughifh. Strong infufions of the herb,
drank as tea, and continued for fome time, have done
fervice in a weak lax ftate of the vifcera -, thefe li¬
quors, lightly acidulated with juice of lemons, turn
A N Y.
of a fine reddifh colour, and prove an ufeful, and to
many a very grateful, drink in dry parching fevers.
1119. Dracocephalum, or Dragon'1 s-head.
18 fpecies; viz. virginianum, denticulatum, canarl-
enfe, pinnatum, origanoides, palmatum, peregrinum,
fruticulofum, auftriacum, ruyfchiana, grandiflorum, al-
taienfe, fibiricum, moldavica, canefcens, peltatum, nu¬
tans, thymiflorum. N. Europe, N. America, Canaries.
1120. Melittis, or Bafe-ba/m.
Two fpecies $ viz. * meliflbphyllum, japonica.
11 21. OciMUM, or Bajil.
27 fpecies j viz. thyrfiflorum, inflexum, virgatum,
monachorum, gratiflimura, album, tomentofum, gran-
dillorum, bafilicum, minimum, integerrimum, fandlum,
rugofum, crifpum, fcabrum, americanum, verticillatum,
acutum, tenuiflorum, polyftachyon, ferpyllifolium, men-
thoides, molle, adicendens, fcutellarioides, proftratum,
capitellatum. Perfia, E. Indies, Japan, Chili.
1122. Plectranthus.
Six fpecies; viz. fruticofus, galeatus, nudiflorus, ior-
fkolaei, craffifolius, punclatus. Africa.
1x23. Trichostema.
Two fpecies; viz. dichotoma, brachiata. North
America.
1124. Scutellaria, or Scull-cap.
17 fpecies ; viz. orientalis, albida, alpina, lupu-
lina, lateriflora, *galericulata, haftifolia, * minor, inte-
grifolia, havanenfis, purpurafcens, hyflbpifolia, peregri-
na, columnse, indica, altiflima, cretica. Europe, China,
N. America.
* S. leaves heart-fpear-fliaped; fcolloped flowers a-xil-galericu-
lary.—When the bloflbm falls off, the cup clofes upon lata%
the feeds, wdiich wffien ripe, being ftill fmaller than the
cup, could not poffibly open its mouth, or overcome its
elaftic force, as the down of the feeds do in the com¬
pound flowers, and muft confequently remain ufelefs,
without a poffibility of efcaping. But nature, ever full
of refources, finds a method to difcharge them. The
cup grows dry, and then divides into two parts; fo
that the feeds, already detached from the receptacle, fall
to the ground. Cows, goats, and flieep eat it; horfes
and fwine refufe it.
1125. Prunella, or Self-heal.
Three fpecies; viz. * vulgaris, grandiflora, hyflbpi¬
folia. Europe, Barbary.
1126. Cleonia.
One fpecies; viz. lufitanica. Spain, Portugal.
1127. Prasium, or Shrubby Hedge-nettle.
Two fpecies; viz. majus, minus. Spain, Italy, Ca¬
rolina.
1128. Phryma.
Two fpecies; viz. leptoftachia, dehifcens. North
America.
11 29. Selago.
20 fpecies; viz. corymbofa, cinerea, polyftachya,
verbenacea, rapunculoides, fpuria, hirta, rotundifolia,
fafciculata, polygaloides, ovata, coccinea, canefcens,
geniculata, divaricata, capitata, triquetra, fruticofa,
hifpida, ciliata. C. of G. Hope.
E e 2
Or|>er
220 B 0 T
Order II. ANGIOSPERMIA.
1130. Bartsia.
Five fpecies j viz. coccinea, pallida, * vifcofa, gym-
nandra, * alpina. Alps of Europe, Hudfon Bay.
1131. Rhinanthus, or Elcphants-head.
10 fpecies; viz. orientalis, elephas, * crifta-galli,
trixago, maximus, verficolor, capenfis, indicus, vir-
ginicus, trifidus. Europe, Cape, India, Virginia.
1132. Euphrasia, or Eye-bright.
12 fpecies; viz. latifolia, * officinalis, falifburgenfis,
tricufpidata, cuneata, * odontites, lutea, linifolia, vif¬
cofa, purpurea, longiflora, afpera. Europe.
'officinalis. * E. leaves egg-fhaped, ferrated, fharply toothed.—It
is a weak aftringent, and was formerly in repute as a
remedy for impaired vifion. It will not grow but when
furrounded by plants taller than itfelf. Cows, horfes,
goats, and flieep eat it. Swine refufe it.
1133. Melampyrum, or Cow-wheat.
Seven fpecies; viz. ♦criltatum, *arvenfe, barbatum,
nemorofum, * pratenfe, * fylvaticum, lineare. Eur.
arvenfe. M. fpikes conical, loofe ; floral leaves, with briftle-
fhaped teeth, coloured.—The feeds when ground with
corn give a bitterifh and greyiih caff to the bread, but
do not make it unwholefome. Cows and goats eat it.
Sheep refufe it.
pratenfe. * M. flowers lateral, pointing one wray: leaves in dif-
tant pairs; bloflbms clofed.—Where this plant abounds,
the butter is yellow and uncommonly good. Swine
are very fond of the feeds. Sheep and goats eat it.
Cows are very fond of it. Horfes and fwine refufe it.
1134. Lathr^a.
Three fpecies ; viz. clandeftina, aublatum, * fqua-
maria. Europe.
1135. Schwalbea.
One fpecies; viz. americana. N. America.
1136. Tozzia.
One fpecies; viz. alpina. Alps of Auftria, Italy,
Pyrennees.
1137. Pedicularis, or Rattle-coxcomb.
34 fpecies ; viz. * paluftris, *fylvatica, euphrafioides,
myriophylla, fpicata, refupinata, fceptrum carolinum,
triftis, lapponica, afplenifolia, flava, ftriata, fudetica,
recutita, elata, foliofa, canadenlis, grcenlandica, in-
earnata, uncinata, interrupta, verticillata, acaulis,
flammea, hirfuta, rofea, roftrata, tuberofa, gyroflexa,
fafciculata, rubens, compa&a, achilleifolia, comofa.
Europe, N. America.
palujlns. * P. ftem branched ; calyx crefted with callous dots;
lip of the bloflbm flanting.—This plant is an unwhole¬
fome gueft in meadow’s, being very difagreeable to cat¬
tle. Goats eat it. Horfes, flieep, and cows refufe it.
Swine are not fond of it.
Jylvatica. * P. item branched; calyx oblong, angular, fmooth ;
lip of the bloflbm heart-fhaped.—The exprefled juice,
or a decoftion of this plant, has been ufed vrith advan¬
tage as an injection for finuous ulcers. It is faid, that
if the healthieft flock of fheep be fed with it, they be¬
come fcabby and fcurfy in a fhort time ; the wool will
get loofe, and they will be overrun with vermine.
Cows and fwine refufe it.
A N Y. Didynamia.
1138. Gerardia.
12 fpecies; viz. tuberofa, delphinifolia, purpurea,
tenuifolia, tubulofa, nigrina, flava, fcabra, pedicula-
ria, japonica, glutinofa, feffilifolia, E. Indies, China,
Japan, N. America.
1139. Chelone, or Humming-bird Tree.
Four fpecies ; viz. glabra, obliqua, ruellioides, bar-
bata. N. America.
1140. Pentstemon.
Four fpecies ; viz. hiriuta, pubefeens, laevigata,
campanulata. N. America.
1141. Cyrilla.
One fpecies ; viz. pulchella. Jamaica.
1142. Gloxinia.
One fpecies; viz. maculata. Guiana.
1143. Gesneria.
11 fpecies ; viz. humilis, corymbofa, acaulis, pumila,
craniolaria, grandis, tomentofa, fcabra, exferta, caly-
cina, ventricofa. Jamaica, Hifpan. S. America.
1144. Antirrhinum, or Snap-dragon, Calves-fnout.
70 fpecies; viz. * cymbalaria, pilofum, lanigerum,
dentatum, heterophyllum, * elatine, elatinoides, #fpu-
rium, cirrhofum, aegyptiacum, fruticofum, hexandrum,
triphyllum, latifolium, virgatum, triornithophorum,
purpureum, verficolor, linarioides, * repens, monfpef-
fulanum, fparteum, bipun&atum, amethyftinum, laxi-
florum, trifle, haelava, thymifolium, fupinum, fimplex,
* arvenfe, peliflerianum, parviflorum, flavum, faxatile,
micranthum, vifeofum, aparinoides, multicaule, reti-
culatum, marginatum, glaucum, alpinum, aphyllum,
bicorne, macrocarpum, villofum, origanifolium, flexu-
ofum, * minus, dalmaticum, hirtum, geniftifolium,
junceum, *linaria, linifolium, lagopodioides, cana-
denfe, chalepenfe, reflexum, pedunculatum, * majus,
ficulum, fempervirens, * orontium, papilionaceum, afa-
rina, molle, pinnatum, unilabiatum. Europe, Egypt,
Barbary, Cape.
* A. leaves heart-fhaped, 5-lobed, alternate; Items cymbalo*
trailing.—Its trailing branches, varioufly intewoven, ria.
often cover old moift wralls with a thick tapeftry, and
when in bloflbm, make a beautiful appearance.
* A. leaves halberd-fhaped, alternate ; Items trailing.
—This is confidcrably more bitter than the other fpe¬
cies, and is faid to have been ufed fuccefsfully in cafes
of foul ulcers, and in cutaneous eruptions.
* A. leaves fpear-ftrap-fhaped, crowded; Item upright ylinarioi
fpikes terminating, fitting.—An infufion of the leaves
is diuretic and purgative. An ointment, prepared from
them, gives relief in the piles. The exprefled juice,
mixed with milk, is a poifon to flies, as is likewife the
fmell of the flowers. Cows, horfes, and fvvine, refufe
it. Sheep and goats are fond of it.
* A. bloflbms without a fpur ; flowers in fpikes ; cups majus,
rounded.—Though the feeds of this plant vegetate on
the ground, it is only in dry foils and fituations that
the plant continues to live long enough to produce
flowers.
1145. Anarrhinum.
Five fpecies ; viz. bellidifolium, pedatum, frutico¬
fum, craflifolium, tenellum.
1146. Cy MB ARIA.
One fpecies} viz. daurica, Dauria.
U 47,
221
Didynamia, B O T
1147. Tourrettia.
One fpecles j viz. lappacea. Ifle of Bourbon.
1148. Martynia.
Four fpecies ; viz. diandra, carniolaria, probofcidea,
longidora. Cape, America.
1149. Torenia.
Two fpecies j viz. afiatica, hirfuta. India.
1150. Besleria.
Eight fpecies •, viz. multifolia, lutea, violacea, in-
carnata, ferrulata, criftata, coccinea, bivalvis. Welt
Indies, S. America.
1151. Brunfelsia.
Two fpecies j viz. americana, undulata. W. Indies.
1152. Scrophularia, ox Fig-wort.
26 fpecies *, viz. marilandica, * nodofa, * aquatica,
auriculata, appendiculata, * fcorodonia, glabrata, be-
tonicifolia, orientalisy frutefcens, rupeltris, heterophyl-
la, altaica, * vernalis, arguta, trifoliata, fambucifolia,
mellifera, hifpida, canina, lucida, variegata, chinen-
lis, meridionalis, coccinea, peregrina. Europe, Bar¬
bary, Madeira, America.
nodoja. * S. leaves oblong-heart-lhaped, 3-fibred at the bafe,
corners of the Item acute.—This plant is hardly known
in modern praftice ; but the rank fmell and bitter talte
of the leaves feem to. indicate fome active properties.
Swine that have the fcab are cured by walhing them
with a decodtion of the leaves. Goats eat it. Cows,
horfes, Iheep, and fwine refufe it.
1153. Celsia.
Five fpecies; viz. orientalis, arfturus, coromandeli-
na, cretica. Crete, Levant, E. Indies.
1154. Hemimeris.
Five fpecies j viz. montana, fabulofa, diffufa, urti-
cifolia, coccinea. C. of G. Hope.
1155. Digitalis, ox Fox-glove.
12 fpecies j viz. * purpurea, minor, thapfi, parvi-
flora, lutea, ambigua, ferruginea, orientalis, lanata,
obfcura, canarienlis, fceptrum. S. Europe, Canary,
Madeira.
purpurea. * D. fegments of the calyx egg-fhaped, acute ; blof-
fom blunt, upper lip nearly entire.— This fpecies is
certainly a very aftive medicine, and merits more at¬
tention than modern praftice till very lately bellowed up¬
on it. It grows wild in woods and on uncultivated heaths :
the elegant appearance of its purple flowers (which hang
in fpikes along one fide of the llalk), has gained it a
place in fome of our gardens. The leaves have been
ftrongly recommended, externally, againft fcrophulous
tumours, and likewnfe internally in epileptic diforders :
what fervice they may be capable of doing in thefe cafes,
is not afcertained by accurate experiment. Several ex¬
amples are mentioned by medical writers of their occa-
fioning violent vomiting, hypercatharfis, and diforder-
ing the whole conftitution j infomuch that Boerhaave
accounts them poifonous. Their tafte is bitter, and
very naufeous. Digitalis, however, has lately been
employed with great fuccefs in other difeafes. A trea-
tife has lately been publifhed by Dr Withering, pro-
fefledly on the fubjeft of its ufe in medicine, and con¬
taining many important and ufeful obfervations.
An infufion of tw7o drams of the leaf, in a pint of
water, given in half-ounce dofes every two hours or
ANY.
fo, till it begin to puke or purge, is recommended in
dropfy, particularly that of the bread. It is faid to
have produced an evacuation of water fo copious and
fudden, in afcites, by llool and urine, that the com-
preflion of bandages was found neceffary. The plen¬
tiful ufe of diluents is ordered during its operation.
The remedy, however, is inadmiflible in many weakly
patients. But befides being given in infufion, it has
alfo been employed in fubftance j and wdren taken at
bed-time, to the extent of one, two, or three grains of
the dried powder, it often in a fliort time operates as a
very powerful diuretic, without producing any other
evacuation. Even this quantity, however, will fome-
times excite very fevere vomiting 5 and that too, oc¬
curring unexpectedly. During its operation, it has
often very remarkable influence in rendering the pulfe'
flower } and it frequently excites very confiderable ver¬
tigo, and an affeftion of vifion.
Befides dropfy, digitalis has of late been employed
in fome inftances of hsemoptyfis, of phthifis, and of
mania, with apparent good effefts. But its ufe in
thefe difeafes is much lefs common than in dropfy.
1156. Incarvill^ea.
One fpecies 5 viz. finenfis.
1157. Bignonia, ox Frumpet-jlo'wer.
54 fpecies 5 viz. catalpa, longiflima, tomentofa, li¬
nearis, fempervirens, tenuifiliqua, caflinoides, obtufi-'
folia, microphylla, unguis, itaminea, aequinoCtialis, al-
liacea, fpeClabilis, laurifolia, rigefcens, laCliflora, pa-
niculata, elongata, corymbifera, crucigera, grandifo-
lia, capreolata, pubefcens, villofa, echinata, hetero-
phylla,triphylla, mollis, hirfuta, pentaphylla, orbiculata,
chryfantha, fluviatilis, leucoxylon, ferratifolia, radi-
ata, radkrans, grandiflora, flans, africana, bijuga, ra-
cemofa, comprefla, fpathacea, chelonoides, variabilis,
alba, peruviana, indica, longifolia, procera, coerulea,
brafiliana. E. and W. Indies, America.
1158. Citharexylum, ox Fiddle-wood.
Six fpecies ; viz. cinereum, caudatum, villofum, fub-
ferratum, quadrangulare, melanocardium. W. Indies.
1159. Halleria, ox African Fly-honeyfuclle.
Two fpecies 5 viz. lucida, elliptica. Cape of Good
Hope.
1160. Crescentia, or Calabafh Tree.
Two fpecies ; viz. cujete, cucurbitina. Virginia^
Jamaica, Brazil,
1161. Tanaecium.
Three fpecies j viz. parafiticum, jaroba, pinnatumu
Jamaica.
1162. Gmelina.
One fpecies 5 viz. afiatica. Afia.
1163. Petrea.
One fpecies j viz. volubilis. S America.
1164. Premna.
Three fpecies; viz. integrifolia, tomentofa, ferrati¬
folia. E. Indies.
1165. Lantana, ox American Viburnum.
15 fpecies; viz. milla, trifolia, viburnioides, annua,
flridta, radula, camara, involucrata, reCla, odorata,
lavandulacca, falvifolia, melifltefolia, fcabrida, aculea-
ta. Weil Indies, S. America.
u66y
222
BOX
1166. Spielmannia,
One fpecies ; viz. africana, C, of G. Hope.
1167. CORNUTJA.
Two fpecies j viz. pyramidata, pun&at^. W. Ind„
1168. Loeselia.
One fpecies j viz. ciliata. Vena Cruz*
1169. Capraria, ox Sweet-weed.
Six fpecies •, viz. biflora, lucida, lanceolata, femi-
ferrata, undulata, humilis, E. and W. Indies, Cape,
S. America.
1170. Lindernia.
Three fpecies *, viz. pyxidaria, dianthera, ]aponica.
Japan, Virginia, Hifpaniola.
1171. Manulea.
17 fpecies viz. cheiranthus, corymbofa, altiflima,
pinnatifida, plantaginis, capitata, antirrhinoides, thyr-
fisflora, argentea, tomentofa, rubra, capillaris, cunei-
folia, coerulea, heterophylla, integrifolia, microphylla,
C. of G. Hope.
1172. Hebenstreitia.
Six fpecies ; viz. dentata, ciliata, integrifolla, eri-
noides, fruticofa, cordata. C. of G. Hope.
1173. Erinus.
Seven fpecies •, viz. alpina, maritimus, africanus,
lychnidea, fragrans, peruvianus, triftis. Alps, Py¬
renees, Cape, Peru.
" II74* Buchnera.
14 fpecies ; viz. americana, elongata, cernua, cu-
neifolia, cordifolia, grandiflora, aethiopica, vifcofa, ca-
penlis, humifufa, aiiatica, euphrafioides, gefnerioides,
pinnatifida. Cape, Ceylon, China, America.
1175. Browallia.
Three fpecies; viz. demiffa, elata, alienata. South
America.
1176. Linn^a.
One fpecies j viz. * borealis. N. Europe, Afia,
and America.
1177. Sibthorpia, or Bafe Money-wort.
One fpecies $ viz. europ?ea. Europe, Africa.
1178. Limosella, ox Mud-wort.
Two fpecies j viz. * aquatic a, diandra. North of
Europe.
1179. Phaylopis.
One fpecies} viz. parviflora.
1180. Vandellia.
Two fpecies 3 viz. diffufa, pratenfis. Ille of St
Thomas.
1181. Russelia.
One fpecies ; viz. farmentoi'a.
1182. Conobea.
One fpecies 3 viz. aquatica. Guiana.
1183. Sternodia.
Five fpecies 3 viz. maritima, durantifolia, rudcralis,
camphorata, aquatica. Jamaica.
1184. Obolaria.
One fpecies 3 viz. virginica, N. America.
1185. Aiginatia.
One fpecies j viz. indica.
A N Y. Didynamia*
1186. Orobanche, ox Broom-rape.
18 fpecies 3 viz. * major, foetida, caryophyllacea,
coerulefcens, elatior, purpurea, minor, alba, gracilis,
americana, virginiana, uniflora, ceerulea, phelyptea,
tinftoria, cernua, * ramofa, coccinea, Europe, Ma¬
labar. N. America.
1187. Hyobanche.
One fpecies 3 viz. fanguinea. C. of G. Hope.
xi 88. Dodartia.
Two fpecies} viz. orientalis, indica. Levant, Ind.
1189. Lippia.
Five fpecies 3 viz. americana, hirfuta, umbellata,
cymofa, hemifphcerica. Cape, America,
1190. Achimenes.
One fpecies 3 viz. fefamoides. E, Indies.
1191. Sesamum, or Oily Purging-grain.
Four fpecies 3 viz, orientale, luteum, indicum, laci»-
niatum. E. Indies.
1192. Tortula.
One fpecies; viz. afpera.
1193. Holmskioleia.
One fpecies 3 viz. fanguinea.
1194. Mjmulus, ox Monhey-Jlower.
Four fpecies 3 viz. ringens, glutinofus, alatus, lu-
teus. Virginia, Canada, Peru.
1195. Rueelia.
46 fpecies 3 viz. blechum, blechioides, anguftifolia,
ovata, ftrepens, patula, pallida, fragrans, la&ea, clan-
deftina, violacea, rubra, macrophylla, gullata, imbri-
cata, ariflata, intrufa, paniculata, tuberofa, tentacula-
ta, biflora, crifpa, fafciculata, molliflima, undulata,
involucrata, repanda, ringens, coccinea, repens, uligi-
nofa, pilofa, hirta, depreffa, cordifolia, fecunda, rep-
tans, japonica, alopecuroidea, barbata, balfamea, fali-
cifolia, longiflora, difformis, rupeftris, fcabrofa. E-
gypt, E, and W, Indies, Japan, America.
1196. Barleria,
13 fpecies } viz. longifqlia, folanifolia, hyftrix, prio-
nitis, trifpinofa, bifpinofa, buxifolia, nodiflora, acan-
thoides, criftata, ftrigofa, pungens, longiflora,
1197. Duranta.
Three fpecies3 viz. plumieri, ellifia, mutifri. WeR
Indies, S. America.
1x98. Myoporum.
Four fpecies 3 viz. laetum, pubefcens, craflifolium,
tenuifolium. South fea illes. <3
II99. OVIEDA.
Two fpecies 3 viz. fpinofa, mitis, Java, W. Indies.
1200. Mallingtonia.
One fpecies 3 viz. hortenfis.
1201. Volkameria.
Eight fpecies 3 viz. aculeata, leguftrina, inermis, ca¬
pitata, ferrata, fcandens, japonica, ksempferi, E. and
\V. Indies, Japan.
1202. Clerodendrum.
Eight fpecies 3 viz. infortunatum, fortunatum, ca-
lamitofum, phlomoides, fquamatum, trichotomum, di-
verfifolium, pamculatum. E. Indies, Japan.
1203.
Tetradynamia. B O T
1203. Thunbergia.
Two fpecics} viz. capenfis, fragrans. C. of G.
Hope.
1204. Maurandia.
One fpecies j viz. i’emperflorens.
1205. Castilleja.
Two fpecies; viz. integrifolia, fiflifolia. Egypt,
E. Indies, S. America.
1206. Vitex, or Chajle Tree.
13 fpecies; viz. ovata, triflora, divaricata, pubef-
cens, altifllma, agnus caftus, incifa, leucoxylon, trifo¬
lia, umbrofa, capitata, negundo, pinnata. Naples,
Sicily, E. and W. Indies.
The vitex agnus cajlus is a fmall tree, or rather
fhrub, growing fpontaneoufly in Italy, &c. and raifed
with us in gardens. Its fruit, which is about the fize
of a pepper corn, contains four longilh feeds, which
are faid to be of an aromatic fmell and an acrid bitter-
iflr tafte, but which are found, on examination, to be
almoft inodorous and infipid. Thefe feeds have been
celebrated as antiphrodifiacs, and were formerly much
ufed by the monks for allaying the venereal appetite :
but experience does not warrant their having any fuch
virtues.
1207. Amassonia.
Two fpecies ; viz. erefta, punicea. Surinam.
120S. Bontia, or BarbaJoes Wild-olive.
One fpecies j viz. daphnoides. W. Indies.
ANY.
1209. Avicennia.
Three fpecies; viz. tomentofa, relinifera, nitida.
Martinico, Carthagena.
1210. Columnea.
Four fpecies; viz. fcandens, hirfuta, rutilans, hif-
pida. Martinico, Jamaica.
1211. Acanthus, ox Bcars-brecch.
14 fpecies; viz. mollis, carduifolius, fpinofus, ar-
boreus, diofcorides, ilicifolius, ebrafteatus, capenfis,
furcatus, procumbens, integrifolius, repens,, edulis,
maderas-patenlis. S. Europe, Cape, W. Indies.
1212. Lepidagathis.
One fpecies ; viz. crirtata.
1213. Alectra.
One fpecies; viz. capenfis.
1214. Pedalium.
One fpecies; viz. murex. E. Indies.
1215. Melianthus, ox Honey-flower.
Three fpecies; viz. major, minor, comofus. C. of
G. Hope.
In the clafs Didynamia are
123 Genera, which include 1006 Species. Of thele
72 are found in Britain.
CLASSIS XV.
TETRADYNAMIA. (*)
Ordo I. SILICULOSiE.
Se£t. I. Silicula Integra, nec apice emarginata.
* 1225. Draba. Silic. valvulis planiufculis. Stylus
nullus.
1234. Lunaria. Silic. valvulis planis pedicellata.
Stylus exfertus.
* 1224. Subularia. Silic. valvulis femiovatis. Sty¬
lus brevior filicula.
* 1216. Myagrum. Silic. valvulis concavis. Sty¬
lus perfillens.
CLASS XV.
TETRADYNAMIA, or four long and two
SHORT STAMENS.
Order I. SILICULOSiE, or thofe having a
Pouch, or broad Pod.
Se£t. I. The Pouch etitire, not notched at the point.
* D. Pouch with flattened valves. No ftyle.
L. Pouch on a pedicle with flat valves. Style pro¬
truding.
* S. Pouch with half-oval valves. Style {hotter than
the pouch. ___
* M. Pouch with concave valves. Style permanent.
(e) In the flowers of this clafs of plants there are fix ftamens, four of them long and two flrort. It is alfo
moft worthy of notice, that the flowers of this clafs have uniformly four petals, a circumflance which renders it
eafy to diftinguifh them. The difference in length of the ftamens is not ahvays very obvious, but as the Hex-
andria clafs contains no plants wuth four petals, this laft circumftance readily diftinguifhes the plants of the prefent
clafs. The orders are two, and are diftinguiftied by the figure of the feed-veffel, which in the firft order is a
broad and ftiort pouch ; that is, a roundiftr flat feed-veffel furniftied with zflyle, which is fometimes as long as
the feed-veffel itfelf. In the fecond order, the feed veffel is a long pod; that is, a very long feed-veffel, without
anv remarkable ftyle. This is a natural rather than an artificial clafs. The plants belonging to it are called
sntifcorbutic, and their tafte is acrid and watery; They lofe moft of their virtues by drying. None of them
324
B O T
* 1222. Vella. Silic. valvulis diffepimento dimidio
brevioribus.
1219. Cakile. Silic. lanceolata biarticulata, artx-
culis monofpermis, articulo fupremo fecedente.
*218. Pugionium. Silic. tranfverfalis utrinque
roftrata, evalvis, monofperma.
* 1217. Bunias. Silic^ tetraedra, evalvis, bi f. quadri-
locularis, rugofa.
* 1220. Cram be. Silic. globofa, unilocularis, mono-
fperma, evalvis.
Sect. II. Silicula emarginata apice.
* 1229. Iberis. Petala duo exteriora majora.
1230. Alyssum. Filamenta quaedam latere inte-
riore dente notata. Silicula bilocularis.
1131. Clypeola. Silic. orbiculata, valvulis pla-
nis, decidua.
1232. Peltaria. Silic. orbiculata, compreflb-pla-
na, non dehifeens.
* 1228. Cochlearia. Silic. cordata, valvulis obtu-
iis, gibbis.
* 1226. Lepidium. Silic. cordata, valvulis acute
carinatis.
* 1227. Th las pi. Silic, obcordata, valvulis mar-
ginato carinatis.
* 1221. Isatis. Silic. obcordata, valvulis carinatis,
bipartibilis, i-fperma, diffepimento feneftrato.
I233* Biscutella. Silic. biloba fupra infraque,
margine carinato.
1223. Anastatica. Silic. retufa. Valvulis diffepi-
tnento raucronato longioribus.
%
Ordo II. SILIQUOSiE,
Seel. I. Calyx claufus foliolis longitudinaliteT con-
niventibus.
* 1247. Raphanus. Siliq. articulata.
* 1239. Erysimum. Siliq. tetragona.
* 1240. Cheiranthus. Siliq. germine utrinque glan-
dula notato.
* 1242. Hesperis. Glaudula intra flamina brevio-
ra. Petala obliqua.
* IH3- Arabis. Glandule 4 intra foliola calycina.
Stigma fimplex.
* 1245. Brassica. Glandulse 2 intra ftamina bre-
viora, 2 extra ftamina longiora.
1248. Cordylocarpus. Siliq. torulofa, femine
lupremo inarticulo difereto.
* 1244. T urritis. Petala eredla.
* 1236. Dentaria. Siliq. valvis revolutis dehifeen-
tibus.
1235’ Ricotia. Siliq. unilocularis.
Se6l. II. Calyx hians, foliolis fuperne cliff antibus.
1249. Cleome. Siliq. dehifeens, unilocularis.
A N Y. Tetradynamk*
* V. Pouch with valves ftiorter by half than the par¬
tition.
C. Pouch fpear-fhaped, 2-jointed, with l-feeded
joints, the laft joint retiring.
P. Pouch placed crofsways, beaked on both fides, no
valves, i-feeded.
* B. Pouch 4-fided, without valves, 2 or 4-celled,
wrinkled.
'* C. Pouch bulging, r-celled, i-feeded, without
valves.
SeiSl. II. Pouch ’with a notched end.
* I. Two outer petals large.
A. Some filaments in the inner fide toothed. Pouch
2-celled.
C. Pouch round and flat, with flat valvis, deciduous.
P, Pouch round and flat, comprefled plane, not
opening.
* c. Pouch heart-ftiaped, with blunt bulging valves.
* L. Pouch heart-ftiaped, with valves fharply keeled.
* T. Pouch, heart-ftiape reverfed, valves keel border¬
ed.
* I. Pouch heart reverfed, keeled valves, diviflble in¬
to 2, i-feeded5 window-fhaped partition.
B. Pouch 2-lobed above and beneath, with a keel-
ftiaped border.
A. Pouch bluntly notched at the end. Valves
long, with a dagger-pointed partition.
Order II. SILIQUOS^E, or thofe having a long
Pod.
Se£l. I. Calyx font by leafets clofing length’wife.
* R. A jointed pod.
* E. Pod 4-gon.
* C. Pod, with a feed-bud marked on both fides with
a gland.
* H. A gland between the ftiorter ftamens. Petals
oblique.
* A. Four glands between the leafets of the calyx.
Stigma undivided.
* B. Two glands betwixt the ftiorter ftamens, 2 be¬
yond the longer ftamens,
C. Pod a little fwelling out, with the laft feed in 3
feparate joint.
* T. Petals ereft.
* D. Pod with valves rolled back, open.
R. Pod l-celled.
Se£t, II. Calyx open., with Leafets diffant above.
C. Pod open, 1-celled.
I237*
tu.^0^n0US,i; not a Angular, that they are moft acrimonious in moift fituations, and wet feafons,
us t e. coch.ecna armoracia (borfe-radifti), growing near water, is fo very acrimonious that it can hardly be
tiled ; and the brcjfca rapa (turnip) whole root in a drylandy foil is fucculent and fweet, in ftiff wet lands is
.hard and acrimonious.
225
Tetradynamia. B O T
* 1237. Cardamine. Siliq. dehifcens, valvulis re-
volutis.
* 1246. Sin apis, Siliq. dehifcens. Cal. horizonta-
liter patens.
* 1238. Sisymbrium. Siliq. dehifcens, valvis re6H-
ufculis. Cal. patulus.
1241. Heliophila. Siliq. dehifcens. Neftaria 2
recurvata.
ANY.
* G. Pod open, with valves rolled back.
* S. Pod open. Cal. horizontally expanding.
* S. Pod open, with valves rather ftraight. Cal. open,
H. Pod open. Ne&aries 2, bent back.
Order I. SILICULOS^E.
1216. Myagrum, or Gold of Pleafure.
12 fpecies; viz. perenne, oricntale, rugofmn, hi-
fpanicum, perfoliatum, chloraefolium, fativum, denta-
turn, auftriacum, paniculatum, faxatile, aegyptium. Eu¬
rope, Egypt.
1217. Bunias, or Sea Rocket.
11 fpecies 5 viz. fpinofa, erucago, afpera, orientalis,
cochlearioides, tatarica, fyriaca, myagroides, aegyptiaca,
balearica, proftrata. Europe, Africa, America.
1218. Pugionium.
One fpecies j viz. viz. cornutum.
1219. Cakile.
Two fpecies; viz. maritima, aegyptiaca.
1220. Cram be, or Sea-cabbage, or Ka/e.
Eight fpecies $ viz. * maritima, tatarica, orientalis,
hifpanica, reniformis, filiformis, fruticofa, ftrigofa. Sea
fhores of Europe, Madeira.
maritima. * leaves and ftem fmooth.—The young and tender
plants are boiled as cabbage ; but when full grown
they occafion giddinefs. Horfes, cows, goats, fheep,
and fwine eat it.
1221. I s at is, or IVoad.
Four fpecies ; viz. * tin&oria, lufitanica, armena,
alpina. Sea fhores of Europe, Egypt.
tin&oria. * I- root-leaves fcolloped ; ftem-leaves arrow-fhaped ;
pouches oblong..—With the juice of this plant, it is
faid, the ancient Britons painted their bodies to render
themfelves more terrible to their enemies. It is much
ufed by the dyers for its blue colour, and it is the bafis
of many other colours. It is cultivated for their ufe.
Cows eat; horfes, fheep, and goats refufe it.
1222, Vella, or Spanifh Crefs.
Two fpecies ; viz. * annua, pfeudo-cytifus. Siberia,
Spain.
1223. Anastatica, or Rofe of Jericho.
One fpecies $ viz. hierochuntica. Auftria, Levant.
1224. SubulariA, or ydwl-wort.
Two fpecies •, viz. * aquatica, alpina. N. of Europe,
Arabia.
1225. Draba, or Whitlow-grafs.
16 fpecies ; viz. aizoides, rigida, ciliaris, alpina,
hifpida, * verna, caroliniana, nivalis, * ftellata, andro-
facea, pyrenaica, * muralis, nemoralis, hirta, *incana,
magellanica. Alps of Europe, N. America.
Vol. IV. Part I.
* D. flalks naked j leaves fparingly ferrated •, petals‘Perm?,
divided.—This is one of our earliell flowering plants.
It is good as a falad. Goats, fheep, and horfes eat it j
cows are not fond of it; fwine refufe it.
1226. Leridium, or Dittander.
29 fpecies j viz. perfoliatum, veficarium, nudicaule,
procumbens, alpinum, calycinum, * petraeum, carda-
mines, fpinofum, fativum, lyratum, craffifolium, * lati-
folium,amplexicaule, glaftifolium,oleraceum, pifcidium,
fubulatum, graminifolium, apetalum, fufFruticofum,
* didymum, * ruderale, virginicum, divaricatum, iberis,
pollichii, bonarienfe, chalepenfe. Europe, Cape, A-
merica, Newr Zealand.
* L. leaves egg-fpear-fhaped, entire, ferrated.—This is/at fo/ium,
one of the antifcorbutics, and was formerly ufed in the
place of horfe-radif}. An infufion of it excites vomiting.
1227. Thlaspi, or Treacle Mufard.
14 fpecies j viz. peregrinum, arabicum, * arvenfe,
alliaceum, pfychine, faxatile, hirtum, * campeftre,
* montanum, alpinum, * perfoliatum, * alpeflre, * bur-
fa partoris, ceratocarpon. Europe.
Two forts of the thlafpi arvenfe are ufed promifcu-
oufly ; they both grow wild : their feeds have an acrid
biting tafte like common muftard, with which they
agree in medical qualities.
The thlafpi burfa paforis is common in wafle places,
and is found in flower all the fummer. Shepherds-purfe,
or the leaf, has long been celebrated as an aftringent,
and ftrongly recommended in diarrhoeas, dyfenteries,
uterine fluors, and in general in all difeafes where
aftringents of any kind can avail. Some have efleemed
it fo powerful a flyptic as fcarce to be fafely exhibited
internally. Others have thought it to be of a hot fiery
nature, and fuppofed it to flop duxes and hemorrhagies,
by coagulating the juices like alcohol, and burning or
fearing the orifices of the veffels. The fenfible quali¬
ties of fhepherds-purfe difcover little founda'tion for
either of thefe opinions : it has no perceptible heat,
acrimony, pungency, and fcarcely any aftringency : the
tafte is almoft merely herbaceous, fo as fufficiently to
warrant the epithet given to this plant fatuum. It is
hardly in ufe in Britain.
1228. Cochlearia, or Scurvy-grafs.
11 fpecies j viz. * officinalis, * danica, * anglica,
* groenlandica, fibirica, acaulis, # coronopus, * armo-
racia, macrocarpa, glaftifolia, draba. Europe.
* C. root-leaves heart-circular; ftem-leaves oblong, n.oficinali?3
little indented Notwithftanding this plant is a native
of the fea coaft, it is cultivated in our gardens without
any fenfible alteration of its properties. It pofleffes a
F f confiderable
/
A
EOT
confiderable degree of acrimony, and this acrimony
feems to relide in a very fubtile effential oil. Its ef-
fedfs as an antifcorbutic are univerfally known, and it
is a powerful remedy in the pituitous aflhma, and in
tvhat Sydenham calls the fcorbutic rheumatifm. A
diftille ’* water and a conferve are prepared from the
leaves, and its juice is preferibed along with that of
oranges, by the name of antifcorbutic juices. It may
be eaten as a ialad. Cows eat it. Horfes, goats, and
fheep, refufe it.
. * C. root-leaves fpear-lhaped, fcolloped j ftem-leaves
fnipt.— I he root of this plant, feraped, is in common
ule in England as a condiment for filh, roaft beef, &c.
and it is uled for many other culinary purpofes. An
infulion of it in cold milk makes one of the foftefl and
beft cofmetics. In paralytic and dropfical cafes, it is a
uleful ftimulant and diuretic. A ftrong infufion of it
excites vomiting. A diftilled water is prepared from
it. Horles, cows, goats, fheep, and fwine refufe it.
* C. all the leaves egg-fpear-fhaped.—This is a pun¬
gent flimulating medicine , capable of diffolving vifeid
juices, opening obftrudHons of the viicera and the more
diftant glands, and promoting the fluid fecretions •, it
is particularly celebrated in feurvies, and is the princi¬
pal herb employed in thefe kinds of diforders in the
northern countries.
1229. Iberis, or Candy-tuft.
18 fpecies 5 viz. femperflorens, cappadocica, femper-
virens, gibraltarica, faxatilis, vermiculata, rotundifolia,
cepaefolia, carnofa, ciliata, parviflora, nana, umbellata,
* amara, linifolia, odorata, * nudicaulis, pinnata. S.
Europe, Arabia, Perfia.
1230. Alypum, or Mad-wort.
31 fpecies ; viz. fpinofum, maritimum, halimifolium,
tenuifolium, faxatile, lunarioides, argenteum, alpeftre,
ferpyllifolium, atlanticum, orientale, hyperboreum, in-
canum, minimum, ftri&um, calycinum, fibiricum, fpa-
thulatum, montanum, tortuofum, campeftre, linifolium,
clypeatum, cheiranthifolium, frnuatum, creticum, ge-
monenfe,dafycarpum,utriculatum, veficaria, deltoideum.
Europe, N. America.
1231. Clypeola, or Treacle-mufard.
One fpecies ; viz. jonthlafpi. Italy, France, Caro¬
lina.
1232. Peltaria.
Three fpecies j viz. alliacea, garcini, capenfis. Cape.
1233. Biscutella, or Buckler-mujlard.
Ten fpecies 5 viz. auriculata, apula, lyrata, raphani-
folia, coronopifolia, laevigata, fubfpathulata, montana,
fempervirens, peruviana. Europe, N. America.
1234. Lvnaria, or Moon-wort, llonefy.
Two fpecies ; viz. rediviva, annua. N. of Europe.
Order II. SILIQUOSiE,
1235. Ricotia.
One ipecies 5 viz. aegyptiaca. Egypt.
1236. Dentaria, or Tooth-wort.
Seven fpecies ; viz. enneaphylla, glandulofa, lacinia-
ta, * bulbifera, microphylla, pinnata, pentaphyllos.
Alps of Auftria, S. Europe.
^ Y.
Tetradynamia.
1237. Cardamine, or Lady'sfmoch.
2 2 fpecies ; viz. * bellidifolia, alpina, afarifolia, nu¬
dicaulis, nivalis, refedifolia, trifolia, feutata, africana,
chelidonia, thalibfroides, macrophylla, * impatiens, par¬
viflora, penfylvanica, grseca, * hirfuta, latifolia, * pra-
tenlis, * amara, granulofa, virginica. Europe, Ame¬
rica.
* C. leafets of the root-leaves roundifh, thofe of dot prat enfis*
ftem-leaves fpear-fhaped, very entire.—This is a peren¬
nial plant which grows in meadow grounds, fends forth
purplifh flowers in the fpring, and in its fenfible quali¬
ties refembles the nafurtium aquaticum. Long ago it
was employed as a diuretic, and of late it has been in¬
troduced in nervous difeafes. A dram or two of the
powder is given twice or thrice a-day. It has little
fenfible operation, except that it fometimes fweats.—
Goats and fheep eat it. Horfes and fwine refufe it.
Cows are not fond of it.
* C. leaves winged 5 fuckers from the bofom of the amara.
leaves; leafets of the ftem-leaves angular, fitting 
Sheep eat it. Cows are not fond of it. The young
leaves are acrid and bitterifh, but do not tafte amifs in
falads. They are much ufed for that purpofe in Lan-
cafhire. The leaves are pungent, bitter, and aromatic,
in fuch a degree as to promife very confiderable ufes.
1238. Sisymbrium, or Water-crejfes,
53 fpecies, viz. * nafturtiumj * fylveftre, paluftre,
* amphibium, pyrenaicum, tanacetifolium, ceratophyl-
lum, coronopifolium, tenuifolium, fagittatum, amplexi-
caule, fupinum, polyceratium, filifolium, burfifolium,
torulofum, * murale, * monenfe, repandum, tillieri,
vimineum, barrelieri, arenofum, valentinum, parra,
afperum, laevigatum, millefolium, * fophia, album,
cinereum, altiflimum, echartfbergenfe, pannonicum,
eryfimoides, * irio, columnae, loefelii, obtufangulum,
orientak, barbareae, lyratum, catholicum, heterophyl-
lum, glaciale, ftridliffimum, pendulum, hifpanicum,
pumilum, falfuginofum, integrifolium, indicum, hifpi-
dum. Europe, Canaries, India.
* S. leaves winged; leafets egg-fhaped.—This plantnaftur-
is very univerfally ufed as an early and wholefome fpring tium% ”
falad. It is an excellent antifcorbutic and ftomachic,
with lefs acrimony than the feurvy-grafs. It is an in¬
gredient in the antifcorbutic juices. It is recommend¬
ed as of Angular efficacy for accelerating the circula¬
tion, {Lengthening the vifeera, opening obftruftions
of the glands, promoting the fluid fecretions, and puri¬
fying the blood and humours; for thefe purpofes the
exprefled juice, which contains the peculiar tafte and
pungency of the herb, may be taken in dofes of an
ounce or two, and continued for a confiderable time.
* S. pods oblong egg-ffiaped ; leaveswing-cleft, fer- amphi-
rated ; petals longer than the cup The ends of the bium7
general fruit-Jlalks are often fwoln into a cauliflower¬
like fubftance, purpliffi, and containing fmall grubs of
the fame colour. Cows refufe it. Sheep and goats
are not fond of it.
* S. petals fmaller than the cups; leaves doubly com-fophta.
pound, winged.—The pods retain the feeds all winter,
and fmall birds feed upon them. The plant has been
fometimes preferibed in hyfteric and dyfenteric cafes ;
and the feeds are given to deflroy wmrms. Sheep and
and cows eat it. Horfes and goats are not fond of it.
Swine refufe it.
1239‘
Tetradynamia B O T
1293. Erysimum, or Hedgc-mvftard.
14 fpecies ; Viz. * officinale, * barbarea, prsecox,
* alliaria, repandum, # cheiranthoides, heiracifolium,
odoratum, virgatum, diffufum, anguftifolium, junce-
um, bicorne, quadricorne. Europe, Barbary, Can¬
ary, Carolina.
officinale. * E. pods preffed to the fpike-ftalk *, leaves notched.—
This plant is warm and acrid to the tafte $ and when
cultivated is ufed as a fpring pot-herb. Birds are fond
of the feeds. Sheep and goats eat it. Cows, horfes, and
fwine refufe it. By means of it a hoarfenefs, occafioned
by loud fpeaking, is faid to have been cured in three
days by Rondeletius.
barbarea. * E. pods indiftin&ly four-cornered 5 leaves lyre-ffiap-
ed, the terminating fegment circular.—The common
people in Sweden are faid to ufe this plant in falads,
early in the fpring, and late in the autumn j they alfo
boil them as kale. It is fown in gardens as an early
fpring falad j and alfo in England, where it is called
French crefs. Cows eat it. Horfes and fwine refufe
it. Goats and ffieep are not fond of it.
alharia. * E. leaves heart-ffiaped.—The Pruffians are faid to
eat the leaves along with falted meats in the fpring.
They are ufeful with lettuce and the colder falads.
The feeds excite fneezing. Cows and goats eat it.
Horfes, ffieep, and fwine, refufe it. When it grows in
poultry yards the fowls eat it, and it gives an intoler¬
ably rank tafte to their flefti. In Wales it is much
ufed as a frying herb.
sheiran- * E. ftem very much branched ; leaves fpear-ffiaped,
iboides. oblique, waved and toothed j pods expanding.—The
country people give the feeds of this plant to deftroy
worms, and with good effe£l. Horfes, cows, goats,
ffieep, and fwine, eat it.
1240. Cheiranthus, or Stock JulyJlower.
34 fpecies ; viz. eryftmoides, helveticus, alpinus, lan-
ceolatus, * cheiri, fruticulofus, callofus, ftriftus, tenui-
folius, mutabilis, apricus, chius, maritimus, parviflori,
falinus, bicufpidatus, incanus, feneftralis, annuus, litto-
reus, contortuplicatus, leucanthenus, triftis, trilobus,
pulchellus, pinnatifidus, tricufpidatus, tomentofus, o-
doratiffimus, finuatus, taraxacifolius, cufpidatus, qua-
drangulus, farfetia. Alps, S. Europe, Egypt, Madeira.
ibeiri. * C. leaves fpear-fhaped, acute, fmooth ; branches an¬
gular j ftem ffirub-like.—This plant has found a place
in our gardens, where it has produced a confiderable
number of varieties, but none which have a more de¬
lightful fcent than the wild one. The flow’ers have
a pleafant fmell, and a fubacrid, bitteriffi, not agree¬
able tafte *, they are faid to be cordial, anodyne, ape¬
rient, and emmenagogue, but are wholly negledled in
the prefent practice.
1241. Heliophila.
I 2 fpecies ; viz. integrifolia, incana, circaioides, am-
plexicaulis, flava, canefcens, puftlla, filiformis, pendula,
pinnata, coronopifolia, digitata. C. of G. Hope.
1242. Hesperis, or Dames-violet, Rocket.
Ten fpecies 5 viz. triftis, lanciniata, matronalis, * in-
odora, tatarica, africana, ramoffiffima, arenaria, verna,
lacera. Siberia, S. Europe, Africa.
1243. Arabis, or Bafe Tower-mujlard.
21 fpecies 5 viz. alpina, grandiilora, * thaliana, crant-
ziana, re«fta, ferpillifolia, reptans, coerulea, bellidifolia,
A N Y. 227
nutans, lyrata, hifpida, * ftri&a, halleri, ovivenfis, ca-
nadenfts, lucida, pendula, * turrita, faxatilis, afpera.
N. Europe, N. America.
1244. Turritis, or Tower-muffard.
Eight fpecies j viz. * glabra, laevigata, flridta, * hir-
futa, patula, pubefcens, ciliata, alpina. Europe.
1245. Brassica, or Cabbage.
24 fpecies-, viz. * orientalis, auftriaca, *campeftris,
arvenfis, alpina, * napus, * rapa, * oleracea, richerii,
cretica, fuffruticofa, chinenfis, violacea, fubhaflata, po-
lymorpha, teretifolia, erucaftrum, eruca, pinnatifida,
elongata, cheiranthus, veficaria, lyrata, craffifolia. Eu¬
rope, China.
* B. the root a regular continuation of the ftem, napus.
fpindle-ftiaped.—The roots of the cultivated variety
may be eaten like the turnip, but they have a ftronger
tafte } and its feeds, vffiich are called cole-feed, afford
a large quantity of exprelfed oil, called rape oil: what
remains after exprefling the oil, is called oil-cake,
and is ufed for fattening oxen. In Norfolk, the cakes
are broken to pieces, and ftrewed on the land as a ma¬
nure. It is thought to be a very efficacious one, and
is fold from 4I. to 61. per ton. About half a ton is
laid on an acre. Cows, goats, and fwine eat it.
* B. the root a regular continuation of the ftem, cylin- rapa?
drical, fleffiy. Turnip.—The roots of it are either eaten
raw, boiled, or roafted. Pepper is commonly ufed with
them. They relax the bow’els, and are fuppofed to
fweeten the blood. They are hurtful to pregnant and
hyfterical women, and to thofe who are fubjeft to fla¬
tulencies. The juice well fermented affords by diftil-
lation an ardent fpirit. The rind is acrimonious. If
the roots are kept in fand, or in a cellar, during the
winter, they fend out white ffioots, and yellowiffi leaves,
which being rather fweet, and not unpleafant to the
palate, are ufed as falad, when other efculent plants
are not to be had. But the greateft ufe of turnips is
in feeding oxen and flreep in the winter.
* B. the root a regular continuation of the ftem, cylin- oleracea,
drical, fleffiy. Sea and Common Cabbage.—Early in the
fpring thefea-cabbage is preferred to the cultivated kinds,
but when gathered on the fea coaft, it muft be boiled in
two waters, to take aw-ay the faltnefs. The roots may be
eaten like thofe of the preceding fpecies, but they are not
fo tender. The different varieties of cultivated garden
cabbage originate from this, all of which are much in
ufe at our tables. The red cabbage is chiefly ufed for
pickling. In fome countries they bury the white cab¬
bage wffien fully grown in the autumn, and thus pre-
ferve it all winter. The Germans cut them to pieces,
and along with fome aromatic herbs and fait prefs
them clofe down in a tub, where they foon ferment,
and are then eaten under the name of four crout. If
cabbages are fowed or planted for feveral years toge¬
ther in the fame foil, the heads become fmaller, and
the roots knotty. This is occafioned by the larvae of
flies. Horfes eat the leaves, but do not feem fond of
them. Cowts grow fat upon them.
The brajjica eruca was formerly much cultivated in
gardens for medicinal ufe, and for falads ; but is at
prefent lefs common. In appearance it refembles muf-
tard, but it is eafily diftinguiffiable, by the fmoothnefs
of its leaves and its difagreeable fmell. The feeds have
a pungent tafte of the muftard kind but W'eaker j tin y
F f 2 have
*28 B O T
have long been celebrated as aphrodifiacs; and may
probably have in fome cafes a title to this virtue, in
common with other acrid plants.
1246. Sinapis, or Mujlard.
19 fpeciesj viz. *arvenfis, orientalis, braflicata, * al¬
ba, * nigra, pyrenaica, pubefcens, hifpida, chinenfis,
juncea, allioni, erucoides, cornua, hifpanica, japonica,
incana, frutefcens, radicata, laevigata. Europe, China,
Madeira.
arvenjls. * S. pods with many angles, fwoln and bunched out by
the feeds j fmooth, longer than the 2-edged beak.—The
Scandinavians are faitl to boil and eat it as a cabbage,
and in Ireland the tender tops are colledled for the
fame purpofe. Cows, goats, and fwine eat it. Sheep
are very fond of it. Horfes generally refufe it.
alba. * S. pods rough with hair •, beak very long, flanting,
fword-lhaped.—It is fown in the winter and early in
the fpring, to fupply our tables with falading. The
feeds have nearly the fame properties as thofe of the
next fpecies.
nigra. * S. pods fmooth, laid flat to the fpike-ftalk.—The
feeds of this plant reduced to powder, make the com¬
mon muftard fo much in requeft at our tables. They
yield a confiderable quantity of expreffed oil, which
partakes but little of the acrimony of the plant. The
feeds w’hen unbruifed impart but little tafte to boiling
water. Taken inwardly, in the quantity of a table
fpoonful or more, they gently loofen the bowrels, and
are of fervice in aflhma, chronic rheumatifm, and pal-
fy. The powdered feeds curdle milk, and give a ftrong
impregnation to boiling water. This infufion taken in
conflderable quantity vomits, in fmaller dofes it is an
ufeful aperient and. diuretic. Cataplafms formed with
crumb of bread, vinegar, and powdered muftard feed,
A N Y. Monadelphia.
are very commonly applied to the foies of the feet, as
ftimulants, in fevers that require fuch treatment j they
are ufed with advantage, topically applied, in fixed
rheumatic and fciatic pains. Upon the whole, where-
ever wTe want a ftrong ftimulus, that a£ts upon the ner¬
vous fyftem, without exciting much heat, we know
none preferable to muftard feed. Its acrimony confifts
in an eflential oil.
1247. Raphanus, or RaiUJh.
Eight fpecies j viz. fativus, caudatus, * raphanif-
trum, fibiricus, tenellus, arcuatus, lanceolatus, pilofus.
Europe, Egypt, China.
* R. pods"round, jointed, fmooth, of one cell.—Inraphanif.
wet feafons it growls in great quantity amongft the bur-trum.
ley in Sweden, and the common people Avho eat bar¬
ley bread, are afflitted with very convulfive complaints,
in thofe provinces, and in thofe fealbns, wherein this
plant abounds. Horfes eat it. Cows refufe it.
1248. Cord v lo car pus.
Two fpecies; viz. muricatus, laevigatus.
1349. Cleome, or Bafe-muflard.
23 fpecies; viz. juncea, heptaphylla, pentaphylla.
triphylla, polygama, icofandra, vifcofa, dodecandra,
felina, chelidonii, gigantea, aculeata, fpinofa, ferrata,
ornithopodioides, violacea, arabica, tenella, filifolia,
gujanenfis, monophylla, capenfis, procumbens. Por¬
tugal, Cape, Eaft and Weft Indies.
In the clafs Tetradynamia are
34 Genera, including 436 Species, of which 58 are
found in Britain.
CLASSIS XVI. CLASS XVI.
MONADELPHIA 0). MONADELPHIA.
Ordo I. TRIANDRIA. Order I. TRIANDRIA, or 3 Stamens-
1253. Galaxia. Monogyna. Spatha I f. 2-phyl- G. One piftil. Sheath 1 or a-leaved. Cor. 1 =
la. Cor. i-petala, 6-fida. petaled, 6-cleft.
1251. Sisyrinchium. Monogyna. Spatha 2- S. One piftil. Sheath 2-leafed. Petals 6, nearly
phylla. Petala 6, fubsequalia. equal.
1252.
(f) In this clafs the filaments are all united together at the bottom, but feparate at the top. The union at
the bottom gives rife to the name Monadelphia or one brotherhood. The orders are determined by the num¬
ber of ftamens. The plants of this clafs were confidered by Tournefort as having only one petal. But all
the petals are diftinft at the bafe ; though, by the intervention of the united filaments, they cohere all together
as one body ; on which account they may properly be confidered as having five petals. Linnaeus remarks,
that the fruit does not afford fufficient marks whereby to diftinguifh the genera in this clafs j but that the
calyx is of the utmoft importance, as it furnifhes invariable charafters. Withering obferves, that the petals are
truly a continuation of the cylindrical fheath formed by the united filaments, which inclofes the ftyles and ger*
mens as it defcends j when riling upwards it fpreads out into petals.
Monadelphia. B O I
1252. Terraria. Monogyna. Spatha a-pKylla.
Petala 6, tvibus exterioribus latioribus.
1254. Aphyteia. Monogyna. Cal. 3-fidus. Pe¬
tala 3. Bacca polylperma.
1250, Tamarindus. Monogyna. Cal. 4-partitus.
Petala 3. Legumen.
Ordo IT. PENTANDRIA.
1263. Erodium. Monogyna. Arilli 5* i^ono-
fpermi, ad bafm receptaculi roftrati. Cal. 5-phyll.
Cor. 5-petala. Ned. fquamae 5.
i 256. Sy mp hon ia. Monogyna# Bacca y-locula-
ris, 5 fperma. Cal. 5-phyll. Cor. 5-petala.
1255. Ozophyllum. Monogyna. Capf.y-locu-
laris. Cal. 5-dentatus. Cor. 5-petala, infundibiliformis.
1261. Ochroma. Monogyna. Capf. 5-locularis.
Cal. duplex. Cor. 5-petala. Antherse anfraftuofe.^
1257. Lerchea. Monogyna. Capf. 3‘^ocu^ar's»
polyfperma. Cal. 5-fidus. Cor. 1-petala.
1258. Waltheria. Monogyna. Capf. l-locula-
xis, I-fperma. Cal. duplex. Cor. 5-petala.
1262. Passiflora. Trigyna. Cal. 5-partitus. Cor.
5-petala, calycl inferta. Neftar. filamentofum.
12^9. Hermannia. Pentagyna. Capf. 5‘l°ci^a*
rls. Cal. 5-fidus. Petala 5, cucullata, obliqua. Fila-
menta dilatata.
1260. Melochia. Pentagyna. Capf. 5-loculans,
1-fperma. Cal. fub-duplex. Petala 5 patentia. Fila-
menta fubulata.
Linum, jdnagallis, Lyjttnachia, Pelargonium betomcum,
isfc. Geranium pujillum. M.ahernia^ Leea^ ylyema,
Buttneria.
Ordo III. HEPTANDRIA.
1264. Pelargonium. Monogyna. Arilli 5, tno-
nofpermi, ad bafin receptaculi roftrati. Cal. 5-partitus,
nedlariferus. Cor. 5-petala, inaequalis.
Ordo IV. OCTANDRIA.
1266. Aitonia. Monogyna. Bacca ficca, unilo-
cularis. Cal. 4-partitus. Petala 4.
1265. Pistia. Monogyna. Capf. l-locul. Cal.
fpathaceus, i-phyllus. Cor. o.
Erica monadelphia, Guarea, Perfooma,
Ordo V. DECANDRIA.
1271. Geranium. Monogyna. Arilli 5, mono-
fpermi, ad bafin receptaculi roftrati. Cal. 5-phyllus,
Cor. 5-petala.
1270. Senraja. Monogyna. Capf. 5-loculans.
Cal. duplex. Cor. 5-petala.
1267. Crinodendkum. Monogyna. Capf. uni-
locularis, trifptrma. Cal. O. Cor. 6-petala.
1268. Conarus. Monogyna. Capf. I-fperma.
Cal. 5-partitus. Cor. 5-petala.
1269. Hugonia. Pentagyna. Drupa i-fperma.
Cal. 5-part, ineequalis. Cor. 5 petala.
Oxalis et nonnullce Papilionacece, Gcertneria, Tnchi/ia,
Turrcea, Sandoricum, Swie tenia, Strigilia, Me ha,
Sarny da, Cafeana, Erythroxylon, Malphigia, Banijle-
ria, Hires a, Triopteris, Averrhoa.
A N Y.
F. One piftil. Sheath 2-leafed. Petals 6, the 3-
outermoft broadeft.
A. One piftil. Cal. 3-cleft. Petals 3. Berry many-
feeded.
J. One piftil. Cal. 4-parted. Petals 3. Legu¬
minous.
Order II. PENTANDRIA, or 5 Stamens.
E. One piftil. Seed-coats 5, i-feeded, at the bafe
of a beaked receptacle. Cal. 5-leafed. Cor. 5-peta-
led. Ne<ft. 5 feales.
S. One piftil. Berry 5-celled, 5-feeded. Cal. 5-
leafed. Cor. 5-petaled.
O. One piftil. Capf. 5 celled. Cal. 5-toothed.
Cor. 5-petaled, funnel-(haped.
O. One piftil. Capf. 5-celled. Cal. double. Cor.
5-petaled. Anthers turning.
L. One piftil. Capf. 3-celled, many-feeded. Cal.
5-cleft. Cor. i-petaled.
W. One piftil. Capf. 1-celled, l-feeded. Cal.
double. Cor. 5-petaled.
P. Three piftils. Cal. 5-parted. Cor. 5-petals in-
ferted in the cal. Neflary like a filament.
H. Five piftils. Capf. 5-celled. Cal. 5-cleft. Petals
5, cone-ftiaped, oblique. Filaments dilated.
M. Five piftils. Capf. 5-celled, l-feeded. Cal. near¬
ly double. Petals 5, expanding. Filaments awl-
ftiaped.
Order III. HEPTANDRIA, or 7 Stamens.
P. One piftil. Seed-coats 5, i-feeded, beaked at
the bafe of the receptacle. Cal. 5-parted, bearing the
neftary. Cor. 5-petaled, unequal.
Order IV. OCTANDRIA, or 8 Stamens.
A. One piftil. Berry dry, celled. Cal. 4-parted. Pe¬
tals 4.
P. One piftil. Capf. 1-celled. Cal. fheath-like,
1-leaved. No Cor.
Order V. DECANDRIA, or 10 Stamens.
G. One piftil. Seed-coats 5, i-feeded, beaked at
the bafe of the receptacle. Cal. 5-leaved. Cor. 5-
petaled.
S. One piftil. Capf. 5-celled. Cal. double. Cor.
5-petaled.
C. One piftil. Capf. 1-celled, 3-feeded. No cal.
Cor. 6-petaled.
C. One piftil. Capf. l-feed. Cal. 5-parted. Cor^
5-petaled.
H. Five piftils. Drupe i-feeded. Cal. 5-parted,
unequal. Cor. 5-petaled.
Ordo
230
B O
T
ANY.
Monadelphia*
Ordo VI. ENDECANDRIA.
1272. Brownea. Monogyna. Cal. 2-fidus. Cor.
-exterior, 5-fida j interior 5-petala. Legumen.
Ordo VII. DODECANDRIA.
1274. Monsonia. Monogyna. Cal. fimplex, 5-
phyllus. Cor. 5-petala, dentata. Arilli 5, monofper-
mi, ad bafin receptaculi roftrati.
1276. Helicteris. Monogyna. Cal. fimplex, 5-
fidus. Cor. 5-petala. Capf. 5, fpirales.
1275. Plagianthus. Monogyna. Cal. fimplex,
5-fidus. Cor. 5-petala. Bacca.
1273. Acia. Monogyna. Cal. fimplex, 5-partitus.
Cor. 5-petala. Drupa.
1281. Pterospermum. Monogyna. Cal. fim¬
plex. Cor. 5-petala. Capf. 5-locularis. Semina alata.
1277. Cienfuegia. Monogyna. Cal. duplex.
Cor. 5-petala. Capf. 3-locularis, 3-fperma.
1280. Pentapetes. Monogyna. Cal. duplex.
Cor. 5-petala. Capf. 5-locularis, diffepimentis con-
trariis.
1279. Dombeia. Monogyna. Cal. duplex. Cor.
5-petala. Capf. 5, bivalves, coalitae.
1278. Assonia. Pentagyna. Cal. duplex. Cor.
5-petala. Capf. 5, bivalves, coalitae.
Halejia, Styrax, Sterculia, Kleinhofia.
Ordo VIII. POLYANDRIA.
1282. Carounea. Monogyna. Cal. fimplex, fub-
truncatus. Capf. lignofa, i-locul. polyfperma.
1301. Gordonia. Monogyna. Cal. fimplex, 5-
phyllus. Capf. 5-locularis. Sem. bina, alata.
1305. Morisonia. Monogyna. Cal. fimplex, 2-
fidus. Bacca capfularis, pedicellata. Petala 4.
1309. Gustavia. Monogyna. Cal. fimplex, 4 f. 6-
fidus. Bacca ficca, 4 f. 5-locul. polyfperma. Petala
4 f. 6.
1307. Crossostylis. Monogyna. Cal. fimplex,
4- partitus. Bacca unilocul. polyiperma.
1304. Myrodia. Monogyna. Cal. fimplex, rum-
pens. Drupa 2 f. 3-locularis. Petala 5.
1308. Barringtonia. Monogyna. Cal. fimplex,
2-phyllus. Drupa nuce tetragona. Petala 4.
1303. Mesua. Monogyna. Cal. fimplex, 4-phyl-
lus. Nux tetragona, i-fperma. Petala 4.
1306. Poureatia. Monogyna. Cal. fimplex, 5-
partitus. Drupa ficca, i-fperma, 5-alata. Petala 5.
1300. Stuartia. Pentagyna. Cal. fimplex, pa¬
tens. Capf. 5-locularis. Sem. folitaria.
1287. Palavia. Monogyna. Cal, fimplex, 5-
fidus. Capfulse monofpermae, conglomeratae abfque
ordine.
1285. Lagunasa. Monogyna. Cal. fimplex, 5-
fidus. Capf. 5-locularis, diffepimentis contrariis.
1286. Sida. Submonogyna. Cal. fimplex, angu-
latus. Capf. multilocularis, i-fperma.
1284. Bombax. Monogyna. Cal. fimplex. Capf.
5- locuiaris, poiyfperma. Stylus indivifus. Semina la-
pata.
Order VI. ENDECANDRIA, or 11 Stamens.
B. One piftil. Cal. 2-cleft. Outer cor. 5-cleft j
inner 5-petaled. Leguminous.
Order VII. DODECANDRIA, or 12 Stamens.
M. One piftil. Cal. fimple, 5-leaved. Cor. 5-petal¬
ed, toothed. Seed-coats 5, i-feeded, beaked at the bafe
of the receptacle.
H. One piftil. Cal. fimple, 5-cleft. Cor. 5-petaled.
Capf. 5, fpiral.
P. One piftil. Cal. fimple, 5-cleft. Cor. 5-petal¬
ed. A berry.
A. One piftil. Cal. fimple, 5-parted. Cor. 5-peta¬
led. Drupe.
P. One-piftil. Cal. fimple. Cor. 5-petaled. Capf.
5-celled. Seeds winged.
C. One piftil. Cal. double. Cor. 5-petaled. Capf.
3-celled, 3-feeded.
P. One piftil. Cal. double. Cor. 5-petaled. Capf.
5-celled, with oppofite partitions.
D. One piftil. Cal. double. Cor. 5-petaled. Cap-
fules 5, 2-valved, united.
A. Five piftils. Cal. double. Cor. 5-petaled. Capf.
5, 2-valved, united.
Order VIII. POLYANDRIA, or many Stamens.
C. One piftil. Cal. fimple, nearly-lopped. Capf.
woody, 1-celled, many-feeded.
G. One piftil. Cal. fimple, 5-leaved. Capf. 5-cel¬
led. Seeds 2, winged.
M. One piftil. Cal. fimple, 2-cleft. Capfular berry,
pedicled. Petals 4.
G. One piftil. Cal. fimple, 4 or 6-cleft. Berry
dry, 4 or 5 celled, many-feeded. Petals 4 or 6.
C. One-piftil. Cal. fimple, 4-parted. Berry 1-cel¬
led, many-feeded.
M. One piftil. Cal. fimple, breaking. Drupe 2
or 3-celled. Petals 5.
B. One celled. Cal. fimple, 2-leaved. Drupe with a
4-gon nut. Petals 4.
M. One piftil. Cal. fimple, 4-leaved. Nut 4-gon,
i-feeded. Petals 4.
P. One piftil. Cal. fimple, 5-parted. Drupe dry,
i-feeded, 5-wdnged. Petals 5.
S. Five piftils. Cal. fimple, expanding. Capf. 5-
celled. Seeds folitary.
P. One piftil. Cal. fimple, 5-cleft. Capf. i-feeded,
incorporated without order.
L. One piftil. Cal. fimple, 5-cleft. Capf. 5-celled,
with oppofite partitions.
S. Nearly 1-piftil. Cal. fimple, angular. Capf.
many-celled, i-feeded.
B. One piftil. Cal. fimple. Capf. 5 -celled, many-
feeded. Style undivided. Seeds cottony.
1283.
Monadelphia. B O T
12^3. Adansonia. Monogyna. Cal. fimplex.
Capf. 10-locularis, polyfperma. Pulpa farinacea.
1296. Gossypium. Monogyna. Cal. exterior,
3-fidus. Capf. 3 f. 4-locularis, polyfperma, coadunata.
1292. Ruigia. Decagyna. Cal. exterior, 3-phyl-
lus. Capf. 10-locularis, globofo-verticillata;.
* 1291. Lavatera. Polygyna. Cal. exterior, 3-
fidus. Capf. i-fpermae, verticillatse.
1288. Ma lac hr A. Polygyna. Cal. exterior, 3-
phyllus. Capf. 5, monofpermae.
* 1290. Malva. Polygyna. Cal. exterior, 3-phyl-
lus. Capf. i-fpermte, verticillata;, plures.
# . 1293. Malope. Polygyna. Cal. exteiior, 3-phyl-
lus. Capf. 1-fpermce, conglomerate abfque ordine.
1295. Urena. Monogyna. Cal. exterior 5-fidus.
Capf. 5-locularis, 5-partibilis, loculamentis claufis.
1298. Pavonia. Monogyna. Cal. exterior, 8-phyl-
lus. Capf. 5-locularis, 5-partibilis, loculamentis 2-
valvibus.
1297. Hibiscus. Monogyna. Cal. exterior, 8-
phyllus. Capf. 5-locularis, polyfperma.
1299. Achan 1 a. Monogyna. Cal. exterior, 8-
phyllus. Bacca 5-locularis.
1294. Kitaibelia. Polygyna. Cal. exterior, 7 f. 9-
fidus. Capf. monolperme,in capitulum quinquelobum
glomerate.
* 1289. Althaea. Polygyna. Cal. exterior, 6-9-
fidus. Capf. i-fperme, verticillate.
1302. Camellia. Monogyna. Cal. exterior, im-
bricatus. Capf. loculis polyfpermis. Stylus indivifus.
Hypericum Brathys, Mimofce nonnullce.
ANY.
A. One piftil. Cal. Ample. Capf, lo celled, many-
feeded. A farinaceous pulp.
G. One piflil. Cal. exterior, 3~cleft. Capf. 3 or
4- celled, many-feeded, joined together at the bafe.
R. Ten piftils. Cal. exterior, 3-leaved. Capf. 10-
celled, globular in whirls.
* L. Many piftils. Cal. exterior, 3-cleft. Capf. 1-
feeded, in whirls.
M. Many piflils. Outer cal. 3-leaved. Capf. 5,
i-feeded.
* M. Many piftils. Outer cal. 3-leaved. Several
capf. I feeded, growing in whirls.
M. Many piftils. Outer cal. 3-leaved. Capf. 1-
feeded, incorporated and without order.
U. One piftil. Outer cal. 5-cleft. Capf. 5-celled,
5- divifible, with doled cells.
P. One piftil. Outer cal. 8-leaved. Capf. 5-celled,
5-divifible, with 2-valved cells.
PI. One piftil. Outer cal. 8-leaved. Capf 5-cel¬
led, many-feeded.
A. One piftil. Outer cal. 8-leaved. Berry 5-cel¬
led.
K. Many piftils. Outer cal. 7 or 9-cleft. Capf.
I-feeded, incorporated into a 5-lobed knob.
* A. Many piftils. Outer cal. 6-9-cleft. Capf. I-
feeded, growing in whirls.
C. One piftil. Outer cal. tiled. Capf. with many-
feeded cells. Style undivided.
Order I. TRIANDRIA.
1250. Tamar Indus, or Tamarind-tree.
One fpecies 5 viz. indica. Egypt, Eaft and Weft
Indies.—The fruit of this fpecies is a pod refembling
that of a bean, including feveral hard feeds, together
with a dark-coloured vifcid pulp of a pleafant acid
tafte ; the Eaft India tamarinds are larger than the
Weft India fort; the former containing fix or feven
feeds each, the latter rarely above three or four. The
pulp of thefe fruits, taken from the quantity of tw7o or
three drams to an ounce or more, proves gently laxa¬
tive or purgative ; and at the fame time, by its acidi¬
ty quenches thirft, and allays immoderate heat. It
increafes the a&ion of the purgative fweets, caflia and
manna, and weakens that of the refinous cathartics.
Some have fuppofed it capable of abating the virulence
of antimonial preparations; but experience (hows that
it has rather a contrary effeft, and that all vegetable
acids augment their power. Tamarinds are an ingre¬
dient in the eledhiary of caflia, the lenitive ele&uary,
and decoftion of tamarinds with fenna.
1251. Sisyrinchium, or Bermudana.
Eight fpecies j viz. elegans, collinum, grandiflorum,
beimudiana, anceps, micranthum, palmifolium, ftria-
tum. Bermuda, Weft Indies.
1252. Terraria.
Four fpecies ; viz. undulata, ferrariola, pavonia, ixi-
oides. Cape, Mexico.
1253. Galaxia.
Three fpecies j viz. ovata, graminea, narciflbides.
Cape of Good Hope.
1254. Aphyteja.
One fpecies; viz. hydnora. C. of G. Hope.
Order II. PENTANDRIA.
1255. Ozophyllum.
One fpecies j viz. trifoliatum.
1256. Symphonia.
One fpecies ; viz. globulifera. Surinam, Guiana,
1257. Lerchea.
One fpecies ; viz. longicauda. Eaft Indies.
1258. Waltheria.
Six fpecies j viz. americana, indica, lophanthus, ova¬
ta, anguftifolia, elliptica. Eaft and Weft Indies, S,
America.
1 259. Hermannia.
_ 30 fpecies j viz. althaeifolia, plicgta, candicans, di-
fticha, falvifolia, micans, involuprata, fcordifolia, denu-
data, difermsefolia, alnifolia, cuneifolia, holofericea,
hirfuta, fcabra, multiflora, flatnmea, angularis, hyflbpi-
folia.
A
N Y.
Monadelphia*
232
B O T
folia, trifurcata, odorata, lavandulifolia, linifolia, fili-
folia, trifoliata, triphylla, procumbens, veficaria, grof-
fularifolia, incifa. Cape of Good Hope.
1260. Me LOCHIA.
14 fpecies; viz. pyramidata, tomentofa, crenata, de-
preffa, truncata, venofa, hirfuta, concatenata, odorata,
lupulina, caracafana, nodiflora, corchorifolia, fupina.
Eaft and Welt Indies, Brazil.
1261. Ochroma, or Down-tree, or Cork-wood.
One fpecies ; viz. lagopus. Jamaica, Hifpaniola.
1262. Pas si flora, or PoJJion-flower.
46 fpecies j viz. ferratifolia, pallida, aduiterina, cu-
prea, tilisefolia, maliformis, quadrangularis, alata, lauii-
folia, coccinea, mucronata, glandulofa, multiflora, per-
foliata, rubra, normalis, lunata, murucuja, vefpertilia,
oblongata, capfularis, rotundifolia, orbiculata, punflata,
lutea, anguftifolia, minima, fuberofa, peltata, hederacea,
glauca, holofericea, hirfuta, foetida, ciliata, ferrulata,
aurantia, cuneifolia, incarnata, tomentofa, mixta, coeru-
lea, filamentofa, ferrata, pedata, heterophylla. Weft
Indies, S. America.
1263. Erodium.
34 fpecies; viz. craflifolium, ftephanianum, tatari-
cum, fupracanum, petraeum, abfinthoides, glandulofum,
bipinnatum, alpinom, ciconum, cicutarium, pimpinel-
lifolium, romanum, mofchatum, praecox, pulverulentum,
hirtum, laciniatum, gruinum, chium, afplenioides, hy-
menodes, murcicum, guttatum, glaucophyllum, incar-
natum, arduinum, ribifolium, arborefcens, heliotro-
pioides, malacoides, maritimum, malopoides, chamte-
dryoides.
Order III. HEPTANDRIA.
1264. Pelargonium.
120 fpecies j viz. longifolium, longiflorum, dipeta-
tum, oxaloides, ficaria, ciliatum, auriculatum, auritum,
hirtum, pun&atum, bifolium, hirfutum, atrum, trifidum,
heterophyllum, triphyllum, nervifolium, pinnatum,
barbatum, naelananthon, carneum, rapaceum, lobatum,
trifte, appendiculatum, flavum, cenotherae, chamaedri-
folium, ovale, trichoftomon, blattarium, erioftemon,
elegans, ftipulaceum, articulatum, tabulare, alchimil-
loidesjodoratiflimum, groflularioides, anceps, althaeoides,
columbinum, coronopifolium, capillare, tricolor, fene-
cioides, myrrhifolium, lacerum, multicaule, coriandri-
folium, caucalifolium, minimum, glaucum, diverififoli-
um, betulinum, acetofum, fcandens, ftenopetalum, hy-
bridum, zonale, inguinans, heterogamum, monftrum,
crafticaule, peltatum, lateripes, tetragonum, cordatum,
cucullatum,angulofum, acerifolium, papilionaceum, cor-
tufoefolium, fufcatum, faniculaefolium, patulum, grandi-
florum, variegatum, cotyledonis, echinatum, auftrale,
vitifolium, capitatum, glutinofum, hifpidum, tomento-
fum^-ribifolium, quercifolium, graveolens, afperum,
ballameum, radula, denticulatum, bicolor, tricufpida-
tum, fcabrum, fpinolum, rfgidum, crifpum, hermanni-
folium, adulterinum, femitrilobum, tripartitum, fulgi-
dum, gibbofum, exftipulatum, ternatum, laevigatum,
fragile, incifum, carnofum, ferulaceum, alternans, ce-
ratophyllum, crithmifolium, ramofiflimum, abrotani-
folium, fruticofum, hirtum, tenuifolium.
Order IV. OCTANDRIA.
1265. Pistia, or Water Houfe-leek.
One fpecies j viz. ftratiotes. Alia, Africa, South
America.
1266. Aitonia.
One fpecies j viz. capeniis. Cape of Good Hope.
Order V. DECANDRIA.
1267. Crinodendrum.
One fpecies j viz. patagua. Chili.
1268. Connarus, or Ceylon Sumach.
Seven fpecies j viz. atricanus, aliaticus, pentagynus,
decumbens, pinnatus, fantaloides, mimofoides. Ceylon,
Africa.
1269. Hugonia.
Three fpecies; viz. myltax, ferrata, tomentofa.
India.
1270. SENRjEA.
One fpecies 5 viz. incana.
1271. Geranium, or Cranes-bill.
39 fpecies ; viz. fpinofum, fefliliflorum, libiricum,
* fanguineum, tuberofum, anemonefolium, macro-
rhizum, # phaeum, fufcum, reflexum, lividum, * nodo-
fum, ftriatum, angulatum, ibericum, * fylvaticum, pa-
luftre, afphodeloides, aconitifolium, collinum, * pra-
tenfe, maculatum, pilofum, canefcens, incanum, argen-
teum, varium, * pyrenaicum, bohemicum, divaricatum,
* lucidum, molle, carolinianum, * columbinum, * dif-
feftum, * rotundifolium, pufillum, # robertianum, pur-
pureum. Europe, Africa, North America.
Order VI. ENDECANDRIA.
1272. Brownea.
Four fpecies j viz. coccinea, grandiceps, rofa de
monte, pauciflora. South America.
Order VII. DODECANDRIA.
1273. Acia.
Two fpecies 5 viz. dulcis, amara. Guiana.
1274. Monsonia.
Five fpecies ; viz. tenuifolia, fpeciofa, lobata, ovata,
fpinofa. C. of G. Hope.
1275. Plagianthus.
One fpecies ; viz. divaricatus. South Sea Hies.
1276. Helicteris, or Screw-tree.
Eight fpecies j viz. baruenfis, jamaicenlis, ifora, hir¬
futa, anguftifolia, pentandra, carthaginenlis, apetala,,
Malabar, China, Jamaica.
1277. ClENFUEGIA.
One fpecies ; viz. digitata. Senegal.
1278. Assonia.
One fpecies j viz. populnea. Ifte of Bourbon.
1279. Dombeya.
I 2 fpepies; viz. palmata, acutangula, angulata, ti-
liaefolia, tomentofa, umbellata, ferruginea, erythroxy-
lon, decanthera, velutina, ovata, punftata. Chili.
1280.
Monadelphia.
B O T
1280. Pentapetes.
One fpecles; viz. phoemcea. Arabia, India, St
Helena.
1281. Petrospermum.
Two fpecies 5 viz. fuberifolium, acerifolium.
Order VIII. POLYANDRIA.
1282. Carolinea.
Two fpecies j viz. princeps, infignis. Well Indies.
1283. AdanSonia, or Sour-gourd, Monkies-brcad.
One fpecies $ viz. digitata. Senegal, Egypt.
1284. Bombax, or Silk Cotton-tree.
Six fpecies 5 viz. pentandrum, erianthos, ceiba, hep-
taphyllum, globofum, goflypinura. Eaft and Weft
Indies, South America.
1 285. Langunea.
Three fpecies; viz. lobata, ternata, aculeata. Coaft
of Coromandel.
1286. Sida, or Indian Mallow.
99 fpecies •, viz. linifolia, anguftifolia, acuta, cana-
fienlis, lanceolata, fpinofa, frutefcens, carpinifolia, ja-
maicenfis, orientalis, glomerata, maculata, fuberofa,
capenfis, microphylla, micans, pufilla, rhombifolia,
canefcens, retufa, alnifolia, ciliaris, periplocifolia, ex-
eeliior, hernandioides, nudiflora, triquetra, fragrans,
lignofa, reflexa, humilis, repens, bivalvis, ulmifolia,
multidora, microfperma, vifcofa, foetida, calycina, crif-
pa, perfica, fylvatica, arborea, mauritiana, occidenta-
• lis, americana, abutilon, abutiloides, afiatica, popub-
folia, hirta, indica, molliflima, fonneratiana, pubefcens,
althseifolia, glutinofa, exftipularis, nutans, borbonica,
tlavefcens, radicans, arguta, multicaulis, pilofa, rotun-
difolia, fupina, truncata, herbacea, emarginata, alba,
cordifolia, hederitolia, verticillata, urens, umbellata,
pyramidata, paniculata, dumofa, ramofa, fpicata, ter-
minalis, veficaria, craffifolia, biflora, obtufa, gigantea,
javenfis, haftata, criftata, dilleniana, triloba, ternata,
pterofperma, ricinoides, jatrophoides, nap*a, dioica,
phyllanthus. Eaft and Weft Indies, Cape, America.
1287. Palavia.
Two fpecies ; viz. malvifolia, mofchata. Lima, Peru.
1288. Malachra.
Six fpecxes *, viz. capitata, fafciata, alcsefolia, ra-
diata, brafteata, plumofa. Weft Indies.
1289. Althea, or Marfb mallow.
Nine fpecies; viz. * officinalis, narbonenfis, canna-
bina, hirfuta, ludwigii, acaulis, rofea, pallida, ficifolia.
Europe, Hifpaniola.
officinalis. * A. leaves undivided, angular, cottony.—This plant
grows wild in marfhes and other moift places in fe-
veral parts of England, though frequently cultivated
for medicinal ufe in gardens. All the parts of it have
a (limy tafte, and abound with a foft mucilaginous fub-
ftance which is readily extradled by water : the mu¬
cilage of the roots appears to be the ftrongeft ; and
hence this part is generally made ufe of in preference
to the others.
This plant has the general virtues of an emollient
medicine, and proves ferviceable where the natural
Vol. IV. Part I.
A N Y. 233
mucus of the inteftines is abraded. It Is chiefly re¬
commended in (harp defludlions upon the lungs, hoarfe-
nefs, dyfenteries, and likewife in nephritic and calcu¬
lous complaints; not, as fome have luppofed, that this
medicine has any peculiar power of uiffoivirig or expel¬
ling the calculus, but as, by lubricating and relaxing
the veffels, it procures a more free and eafy paffage.
Althaea root is fometimes employed externally for
foftening and maturating hard tumours ; chewed, it is
faid to give eafe in difficult dentition of children.
1290. Malya, or Mallow.
55 fpecies*, viz. Ipicata, polyftachya, tomentofa,
fcoparia, gangetica, coromandeliana, americana, calyci¬
na, cuneifolia, anguftifolia, fubhaftata, fcabra, peruvia¬
na, limenfis, capitata, bryonifolia,umbellata, abutiloides,
abulenfis, lobata, faftigiata, bonarienfis, ftri&a, laftea,
operculata, fragrans, capeniis, balfamica, grofiularifolia,
virgata, miniata, retufa, tridaclylides, althaeoides, caro-
liniana, proftrata, cretica, parviflora, nicaeenfis, * rotun-
difolia, acaulis, ftierardiana, * fylveftris, mauritiana, hif-
panica, verticillata, crifpa, papaver, ftipulaeca, alcea,
* mofchata, elegans, tournefortiana, mgyptia, trifida.
Europe, Barbary, Cape, China, America.
* M. Item rough ; leaves 5 or 7 lobed, toothed ; cvxjyhejlris,
er calyx leafets partly united at the bafe The leaves
of this plant have a fomewhat mucilaginous fweetifti
tafte. They are ranked the firft of emollient herbs :
they were formerly in fome efteem as food of a laxa¬
tive quality ; at prefent decodtions of them are fome¬
times employed in dyfenteries, heat and fharpnefs of
urine, and in general for obtunding acrimonious hu¬
mours ; their principal ufe is in emollient glyfters, ca-
taplafms, and fomentations. The leaves enter the of¬
ficinal decoftion for glyfters, and a conferve was form¬
erly prepared from the flowers.
1291. L,*v tera, or Mallow-tree.
12 fpecies ; viz. * arborea, micans, hifpida, olbia,
triloba, lufitanica, maritima, thuringiaca, cretica,
flava, pundlata, trimeftris. Europe.
1292. Ruiz A.
Three fpecies ; viz. cordata, lobata, variabilis. Ifle
of Bourbon.
1293. Malcpe, or Bafe Mallow.
Three fpecies ; viz. malacoides, multiflora, trifida.
Hetruria, Mauritania.
1294. Kitaibelia.
One fpecies ; viz. vitifolia.
1295. I rena, or Indian Mallow.
Eight fpecies ; viz. lobata, reticulata, tricufpis,
americana, finuata, multifida, procumbens, viminea.
China, E. Indies, Surinam.
1296. Gossypium, or Cotton-tree.
Ten fpecies; viz. herbaceum, indicum, micranthum,
arboreum, vitifob'um, hirfutum, religiofum, latifolium,
barbadenfe, peruvianum. Levant, E. and W. Indies/
1297. Hibiscus, or Syrian Mallow.
66 fpecifes; viz. mofcheutos, incanus, lafiocarpus,
paluflns, mslitaris, haflatus, ferrugineus, cordifoiius,
populneus, tiliaceus, elatus, lampas, ■ membrsnaceus,
lunarifolius, rofa finenfis, fpiralis, brafilienfis, unilate-
ralis, acumlnatus, phoemceus, ovalifolius, clandeftinus,
G g rigidus,
^34
A
Diadelphia*
B O T
rigidus, micrantlius, gofypinus, ovatus, aetliiopicus, mi-
crophyllus, urens, calycinus, mutabilis, fyriacus, rhom-
b’.folius, liliidorus, bifurcatus, trilobus, diverfifolius,
doittingenfis, ficulneus, fabdariffa, fpeciofus, cannabinus,
fraternus, lororuii, lurrittcullS, fadiatus, mamhot, d:g‘t.a-
tus, flavefcens, fpicatus, micans, abelmofchus, colum-
naris, pedunculatus, efculentus, longifolius, clypeatus,
fenegalenfis, tubulofus, obtufifolius, vitifolius, tricufpis,
virginicus, pentacarpos, veficarius, trionum. Syria,
Cape, E. and W. Indies, N. America.
The feeds of the hibifcus abelmofchus are the product
of a plant indigenous in Egypt, and in many parts both
of the Eaft and Weft Indies. They are of a fmall
fize and reniform ftiape; they are very remarkable
from poffefllng a peculiar and very fragrant odour j
the fmell which they give out may be compared to
that of mu Ik and amber conjoined ) thofe brought
from the ifland of Martinico are generally efteemed
the molt odorous, but w7e have feen fome, the product
of hot-houfes in Britain, which in point of flavour feem-
ed not inferior to any imported from abroad.
Thefe feeds, although introduced into fome of the
foreign pharmacopoeias, have hitherto been ufed princi¬
pally, if not only, as a perfume; and as their medical
powers ftill remain to be afcertained, it is perhaps with
propriety, that hitherto no place has been given them
in the lift either of the London or Edinburgh col¬
leges. But their flavour as well as other fenfible qua¬
lities point t hem out as a fubject well deferving a par¬
ticular inveftigation.
1298 Pavonia.
15 fpecies ; viz. prsemorfa, leptocarpa, typhalea, haf-
tata, fpinifex, papilionacea, cancellata, racemofa,
corymbofa, paniculata, odorata, coccinea, columella,
urens, zeylanica. E. and W. Indies, Africa, S. Ame¬
rica.
N Y.
1299. AchaniA, or Bafe Hibifcus.
Three fpecies 5 viz. malvaflfcus, mollis, pilofa. Ja¬
maica, S. America.
1300. Stuartia.
Two fpecies 5 viz. malachodendron, pentagyna,
1301. Gordonia, or Boblolly-bay.
Four fpeciesj viz. lafianthus, haematoxylon, pubef-
cens, franklini. North America.
1302. Camellia, ox Japan-rofe.
Twro fpecies } viz. japonica, fafanqua. China, Ja¬
pan.
1303. Mesua, or Indiati Rofe-chefnut.
One fpecies j viz. ferrea. Egypt, India.
1304. Myrodia.
Two fpecies; viz. turbinata, longiflora. Guiana.
1305. Morisonia.
One fpecies ; viz. Americana.
1306. Pourretia.
One fpecies $ viz. arborea.
1307. Crossostylis.
One fpecies j viz. biflora. South fea ifles.
1308. Barringtonia.
One fpecies j viz. fpeciofa. Chili, Moluc. South
fea ifles.
1309. Gustavia.
Two fpecies j viz. angufta, faftuofa. Surinam, Cay¬
enne.
In the clafs Monadelphia are
60 Genera, including 682 Species, of w7hich i5
are found in Britain.
CLASSIS xvn.
DIADELPHIA (c).
CLASS XVIL
DIADELPHIA.
Ordo I. PENTANDRIA. Order I. PENTANDRIA.
851. Monnieria. Cal. 5-partitus. Cor. ringens. M. Cal. 5-parted. Cor. gaping. Superior filam.
Filamentum fuperus antheris 2j inferius 3. Capfu- with 2 anthers, inferior with 3. Capfules 5.
lae 5.
Ordo
(g) This clafs comprehends the butterfly-fhaped flowers, and the leguminous plants of fome authors. Lin¬
naeus takes the character of the clafs from the number of the ftamens, and the character of the orders from their
number. From the title of this clafs, Diadelphia or two brotherhoods^ it might be fuppofed, that the filaments
are always found in twm fets. This, however, is by no means always correftly the cafe. The papilionaceous or
butterfly ftiape of the corolla or bloflbm, as in a garden pea, w ill therefore be a furer guide. The clafs is not
artificial, but perfedtly natural, and the ftrufture of the flowers extremely Angular : their fituation is generally
obliquely pendent. The feeds of this clafs furnifli food for men and other animals : they are farinaceous and
flatulent. The leaves are food for cattle. None of them ^re poifonous.
Diadelphia.
(
B O T
ANY.
235
Ordo II. HEXANDRIA.
Order II. HEXANDRIA.
* 849. Fumaria. Cal. 2-phyllus. Cor. ringens, ball
gibbofa neclarifera. Filamenta antberis 3.
1267. Saraca. Cal. o. Cor. 4-fida, Filamenta
utrinque 3, connexa.
# F. Cal. 2-leafed. Cor. gaping, with a bulging bafe,
ne6lariferous. Filaments with 3 anthers.
S. No cal. Cor. 4-cleft. Filaments on both fides
3, connedled.
Ordo III. OCTANDRIA.
Order III. OCTANDRIA.
* 8^0. Polygala. Cal. 2 laciniae, alasformes. Cor.
vexillum, cylindricum. Stamina connexa. Capf. ob-
cordata, 2 locularis.
852. Securidxa. Cal. 3-phyllus. Vexillum nul¬
lum. Legum. i-fpermum, ala ligulata.
1416. Dalbergia. Staminum filamenta 2, apice
4-fida. Fruftus pedicellatus, non dehifcens, legumi-
nofus, membranaceo-comprelfus, feminiferus.
* P. Cal. 2 fegments, wing-fliaped. Cor. ftandard
cylindrical. Stamens connefted. Capf. heart-lhape
reverfed, 2-celled.
S. Cai. 3-leafed. No ftandard. Legume l-feeded,
wing ftrap-lhaped.
D. Filam. of the ftamens 2, with the apex 4-cleft,
Fruit pedicled, not open, leguminous, comprefledly
membranaceous, feed-beaiing.
Ordo IV. DECANDRIA.
Se£I. I. Stamina omnia connexa.
Order IV. DECANDRIA.
Se£I. I. All theJlamens connected.
8153. Nissolia. Legum. i-fpermum, terminatum
ala ligulata.
854. Pterocarpus. Legum. foliaceum. Stamina
bina trianthera.
861. Amorpha. Alae carinaque nullae.
855. Erythrina. Alse carinaque breviflimae. Cal.
poro mellifero.
1286. Abrus. Filamenta 9, ball infima connexa,
latere fuperiore diftindla. Sem. fphaerica.
* 858. Spartium. Filamenta adhaerentia germini.
Stigma adnatum, villofum.
* 859. Genista. Piftillum deprimens carinam. Stig¬
ma involutum.
865. Lupin us. Antherae alternse rotundae ; alter-
nae oblongae. Legum. coriaceum.
* 864. Anthyllis. Cal. turgidus, includens fili-
quam.
856. Piscidia. Legumen, alls 4 longitudinalibus.
857. Borbonia. Legumen mucronatum. Stigma
emarginatum.
* 881. Ulex. Cal. diphyllus. Legum. vix calyce
longius.
876. Arachis. Cor. refupinata. Legum. coria¬
ceum.
895. Ebenus. Cor. alls obliteratis. Legum.mo-
nofpermum.
860. Aspalathus. Legumen muticum, ovatum,
fubdifpermum.
* 863. Ononis. Legumen rhombeum, feflile. Vex¬
illum ftriatum.
862. Crotalaria. Legumen pedicellatum, turgi-
dum.
N. A Legume, i. e. leguminous plant, i-feeded,
terminated by a ftrap-lhaped wing.
P. Legume leafy. Two ftamens, 3-anthered.
A. Wings and keel none.
E. Wings and keel very Ihort. Cal. with a melli¬
ferous little hole.
A. Filam. 9, connedled at the loweft bafe, on the
upper fide diftinft. Seeds fpherical.
* S. Filam. adhering to the germen. Stigma con-
nedted, woolly.
* G. Piftil deprefling the keel. Stigma rolled in¬
wards.
L. Anthers alternately round and oblong. Le¬
gume leather-like.
* A. Cal. fwelling, including a pod.
P. Legume, with 4 longitudinal wings.
B. Legume dagger-pointed. Stigma notched at
the end.
* U. Cal. 2-leafed. Legume fcarce longer than the
calyx.
A. Cor. horizontally turned upfide dowrn. Legume
leather-like.
E. Cor. with obfeure wings. Legume l-feeded.
A. Legume awnlefs, oval, nearly 2-feeded.
* O. Legume diamond-fhaped, fitting. Standard ftreak-
ed.
C. Legume pedicled, turgid.
Se£L II. Stigma pubefeens f nec priornm notce).
880. Colutea. Legumen inflatum, fupra bafin
dehifcens.
866. Phaseolus. Carina ftylufque fpirales.
867. Dolichos. Vexillum ball callis duobus.
Se£t. II. Stigma pubefeent, i. e. downy (not marked
like the aboveJ.
C. Legume inflated, open above the bafe.
P. Keel and ftyle fpiral.
D. Standard, with 2 calli or hardnefles at the bafe.
Gg2 871.
236
B O T
* 871. Orobus. Stylus linearis, teretiufculus, fupra
villofus.
* 870. Pi sum. Stylus fupra carinatus villofufqu0.
* 872. Lathyrus. Stylus fupra planus villofufque.
* 873. Vicia. Stylus fub ftigmate barbatus.
ANY. Diaddphia
* O. Style ftrap-fhaped, rather tapering, woolly a-
bove.
* P. Style keeled and woolly above.
* L. Style above Hat and woolly.
* V. Style barbed under the ftigma.
Se£t. III. JLegumen fub-biloculare f nec priorumJ.
* 892. Astragalus. Legum. 2-loculare, rotunda-
turn.
893. Biserrula. Legum. 2-loculare, planum,
dentatum.
891. Phaca. Legum. femibiloculare.
Se£t. IV. Leguniina fubmonofperma (necpriorumJ.
894. Psoralea. Cal. punftis glandulofis.
* 896. Tr 1 folium. Legum. vix calyce longius, 1
f. 2-fpermum. Flores capitati.
882. Glycyrrhiza. Cal. 2-labiatus, fuperiore 2-
fido.
Seel. V. Legumen fubarticulatum.
888. vEschynomene. Legum. articulis monofper-
mis. Cal. bilabiatus.
* 887. Hedysarum. Legum. articulis fubrotundis,
compreffis. Carina obtufiflima.
883. Coronilla. Legum. ifthmis interceptum,
reflum.
* 884. Ornithopus. Legum. articulatum, arcua-
tum.
886. Scorpiurus. Legirm. ifthmis interceptum,
teretiufculum, involutum.
* 885. Hippocrepis. Legum. compreflb-membrana-
ceum ; altera futura emarginaturis ad medium excifa.
* 899. Medicago. Legum. fpirale, membranaceo-
compreflum. Piftillum carinam defledtens.
Sett. VI. Legumen uniloculare polyfpermutn (nec
priorum J.
898.. Triconella. Vexillum alaeque patentes
quafi tripetale. Carina minuta.
868. Glycine. Carina vexillum refledlens.
869. Clitoria. Vexillum amplum, alas obtegens.
Cor. refupinata.
879. Robinia. Vexillum reflexo-patens, fubrotun-
dum.
889. Indjgofera. Carina utrinque denticulo.
875* Cicer. Calycis 4~laciniae fuperiores vexillo
incumbentes.
* 874. Ervum. Cal. 5-partitus, fubaequalis, longi-
tudine fere corollas.
IS>I9* Liparia. Calycis lacinia infima elongata.
Alse inferius bilobae.
. 877. Cytisus. Legum. pedicellatum. Cal. bilo-
biatus.
1417. Mullera. Pericarpium elongatum, carno-
fum, monihforme, globulis monofpermis.
890. Galega. Legum. lineare, ftriis obliqu^ tranf-
verfis.
* 897. Lotus. Legum. teres, fardlum feminibus cy-
Imdricis.
878. Geoifroya. Drupa, nucleo ligneo.
Sc6l. III. Legume nearly 2-celled, (not marked as above J.
* A. Legume 2-celled, rounded.
B. Legume 2-celled, flat, toothed.
P. Legume half 2-celled.
Se£t. IV. Leguminous, nearly I -fceded (not as above J.
P. Cal. with glandular points.
* I. Legume Icarce longer than the cal. I or 2-feed-
ed. Flowers growing in heads.
G. Cal. 2-lipped, upper 3-cleft.
Se6t. V. Legume nearly jointed.
iE. Legume, wuth i-feeded joints. Cal. 2-lipped.
* H. Legume, with joints nearly round, comprefled.
Keel very obtufe.
C. Legume interrupted by necks, ftraight.
* O. Legume jointed, bowed.
S. Legume interrupted by necks, tapering, rolled
inwards.
* H. Legume comprefled-membranous; one feam
notched, cut at the middle.
M. Legume fpiral, membranous-compreffed. Pi-
ftil bending away the keel.
Seel. VI. Legume 1 -celled, many-feeded (not as
T. Standard and wings expanding, as if 3-petaled.
Keel minute.
G. Keel bending back the ftandard.
C, Standard large, covering the wings. Cor. hori¬
zontally turned upfide down.
R. Standard bent back, expanding, nearly round.
I. Keel toothed on both tides.
C. Four upper fegments of the cal. leaning on the
ftandard.
* E. Cal. 5-parted, nearly equal, almoft of the length
of the cor.
L. Lower fegments of the cal. long. Wings 2-
lobed below.
C. Legume pedicled. Cal. 2-lobed.
M. Pericarp, elongated, flefliy, bracelet-ftiaped,
with i-feeded globules.
G. Legume ftrap-fhaped, with ftreaks obliquely
tranfverfe.
* L. Legume tapering, filled with cylindrical feeds.
G. Drupe, with a woody kernel.
Ordeil
Diadelphia. B O T
Order. I. PEN TANDRIA.
851. Monniera.
One fpecies j viz. trifoiia.
Order II. HEXANDRIA.
1267. Saraca.
One fpecies ; viz. indica. India.
849. Fumaria, or Fumitory.
14 fpecies ; viz. cucullaria, fpectabilis, nobilis, bul-
bofa, fempervirens, lutea, fibirica, * capnoides, en-
neaphylla, * officinalis, * capreolata, fpicata, * clavi-
culata, veficaria. Europe, Barb. Cape, N. America.
officinalis. * F. feed-veffels in bunches, 1 feed in each 5 Item
fpreading.—Cows and ffieep eat it. Goats are not
fond of it. Horfes and fwine refufe it. The leaves
are fucculent, faline, and bitter. The expreffed juice,
in dofes of two or three ounces, is ufeful in hypochon¬
driacal, fcorbutic, and cache&ic habits. It corredls
acidity, and ftrengthens the tone of the ftomach. Some
prefer it to all other medicines as a fweetencr of the
blood. There is no doubt of its utility in obftru&ions
of the vifcera and the difeafes arifing therefrom. An
infufion of the leaves is ufed as a cofmetic to remove
freckles and clear the Ikin.
Order III. OCTANDRIA.
851. Polygala, or Milk-wort.
38 fpecies j viz. incarnata, afpalatha, brafllienfis,
trichofperma, amara, * vulgaris, major, monfpeliaca,
paniculata, fibirica, brafteolata, umbellata, myrtifolia,
oppofitifolia, fpinofa, teretifolia, theezans, trinervia,
penaca, diverfifolia, microphylla, aeiluans, chinenfis,
chamsebuxus, alopecuroides, mixta, fquarrofa, heifle-
ria, ftipulacea, fenega, lutea, viridefcens, triflora, glau-
coides, ciliata, fanguinea, verticillata, cruciata. Eu¬
rope, Cape, India, N. America.
Vulgaris, * P. flowers in bunches j ftems herbaceous, Ample,
trailing j leaves ftrap-fpear-fliaped.—This plant has
been found to poflefs the properties of the Senega rat-
tlefnake root {polygalafenega'], but in an inferior de¬
gree. The powdered root may be given in dofes of
half a dram. Cows, goats, and (heep eat it. Swine
refufe it. An infufion of the herb, which is very bit¬
ter, taken in the morning fafting, about one fourth of
a pint daily, promotes expectoration, and is good for a
catarrhous cough.
The polygala fenega grows fpontaneoufly in Virginia,
and bears the winters of our own climate. This root is
ufually about the thicknefs of the little finger, varioufly
bent and contorted, and appears as if compofed of
joints, whence it is fuppofed to referable the tail of the
animal whofe name it bears : A kind of membranous
margin runs on each fide, the whole length of the
root. Its tafte is at firfi: acid, afterwards very hot and
pungent.
The Senegavo Indians are faid to prevent the fatal
effects which follow from the bite of the rattlefnake,
by giving it internally, and by applying it externally
to the wound. It has been ftrongly recommended in
pleurifies, peripneumonies, and other inflammatory dif-
tempers. Its more immediate elfefts are thofe of a diu-
A N Y. ^ 237
retie, diaphoretic, and cathartic 5 iometimes it proves
emetic : the two lall operations may be occafionally
prevented by giving the root in fmall dofes along with
aromatic Ample waters, as that of cinnamon. The
• ufual dofe of the powder is 30 grains or more.
Some have likewife employed this root in hydropic
cafes, and not without fuccefs. There are examples
of its occafioning a plentiful evacuation by flool, urine,
and perfpiration ; and by this means removing the dit-
eafe, after the common diuretics and hydragogues had
failed. Where this medicine operates as a cathartic it
generally proves fuccefsful; if it a&s by liquefying the
blood and juices, without occafioning a due difeharge,
it ffiould either be abftained from, or affifled by proper
additions.
852. Securidjea, or Hatchet-vetch.
Two fpecies j viz. eredla, volubilis. W. Indies.
1416. Dalbergia.
Two fpecies $ viz. lanceolaria, monetaria. Surinam,
Ceylon.
Order IV. DECANDRIA.
853. Nissolia.
Two fpecies *, viz. arborea, fruticofa. S. Amer.
1286. Abrus, or Jarriaica Wild Liquorice.
One fpecies ; viz. precatorius. E. and W. Indies.
854. Pterocarpus, or Red Sanders.
Five fpecies •, viz. draco, lunatus, fantalinus, ecaf*
taphyllum, buxifolius. E. and W. Indies.
855. Erythrina, or Coral Tree.
Five fpecies j viz. herbacea, corollodendrum, pidla,
crifta galli, planifiliqua. Carolina, E. and W. Indies,
Brazil.
856. Piscidia, or Dogwood Iree.
Two fpecies ; viz. erythrina, carthaginenfis. Weft
Indies.
857. Borbonia.
Six fpecies •, viz. ericifolia, laevigata, trinervia, lan-
ceolata, cordata, trenata. C. of G. Hope.
858. Spartium, or Broom.
16 fpecies j viz. contaminatum, fepiarium, junceum,
monofpermum, fphaerocarpon, purgans, aphyllum,
fcorpius, angulatum, patens, fupranulium, complica-
tum, * fcoparium, radiatum, cytiioides, fpinofum. S.
Europe, Barbary, Cape, Madeira,
* S. leaves in threes, and folitary ; branches vi\lh.ovxfcopariutn
prickles.—The young flowers are fometimes preferved as
pickles. The plant, when burnt, affords a tolerable pure
alkaline fait. Dr Mead relates the cafe of a dropfical pa¬
tient, that was cured by taking hall a pint of a decoc¬
tion of green broom-tops, with a fpoonful of whole
muftard feed, every morning and evening. The pa¬
tient had been tapped three times, and tried the ufual
remedies before. An infufion of the feeds, drank
freely, has been known to produce fimilar happy ef-
fetfts 5 but whoever expedls thefe effeils to follow in
every dropfical cafe, will be greatly deceived. .A
ftrong lixivium of the affies was ufed in the Swedilh
army in the year 1759, to cure dropfies, confequential
to a catarrhal epidemic fever. The urine became plen¬
tiful, and the dropfies foon difappeared. Some ufe th®
feeds
238 B O T
feeds toafted, fo as to make a kind of (Toffee. The
plant, when growing large, merits a place among our
flowering flirubs, on account of the profufion of its gol¬
den-coloured bloffoms. Cows, horfes, and fheep, re-
fufe it.
859. Genista, or Dye?'s Broom.
14 fpecies ; viz. canarienfis, candicans, linifolia, fa-
gitalis, tridentata, * tindtoria, fibirica, dorida, * pilo-
ia, humifufa, * anglica, germanica, hifpanica, ludta-
nica. Europe, Canaries.
tinflona. * G. branches fcored, cylindrical, upright; leaves
fpear-fhaped, fmooth ; legumen cylindrical.—A yellow
colour may be prepared from the dowers j ana for wool
that is to be dyed green, the dyers prefer it to all
others. A dram and a half of the powdered feeds ope¬
rates as a mild purgative. A decoction of the plant is
fometimes diuretic, and therefore has proved fervice-
able in dropfical cafes. Horfes, cows, goats, and
dieep, eat it.
The wood or root of the genijla canarienfis is
chiedy brought to us from the Canary iflands. In the
diops of the apothecaries it ufually receives the appella¬
tion of lignum rhodium. It is in long crooked pieces
full of knobs, which when cut, appear of a yellow co¬
lour like box, with a reddidi cad. The larged,
fmoothed, mod compadt, and deeped coloured pieces,
diould be chofen j and the fmall, thin, or pale ones,
rejedted. , The tade of this wood is lightly bitterifh,
and fomewhat pungent ; its fmell very fragrant, re-
fembling that of roles : long kept, it feems to lofe its
fmell j but, on cutting or rubbing one piece againd
the other, it fmells as well as at fird. Diddled with
water, it yields an odoriferous effential oil, in very
fmall quantity. Rhodium is at prefent in edeem, only
upon account of its oil, w hich is employed as a high
and agreeable perfume in fcenting pomatums and the
like. But if wre may reafon from analogy, this odori¬
ferous fimple might be advantageoudy applied to more
ufeful purpofes 5 a tindlure of it in redtified fpirit of
wine, which contains in fmall volume the virtues of a
conliderable deal of the wood, bids fair to prove a fer-
viceable cordial, not inferior perhaps X.& any thing of
this kind.
860. A spalathus, ox African Broom.
35 fpecies; viz. fpinofa, verrudola, capitata, glome-
rata, adroites, chenopoda, albens, thymifolia, ericifo-
lia, nigra, carnofa, ciliaris, genidoides, hydrix, ga-
lioides, retroflexa, uniflora, araneofa, afparagoides, fe-
ricea, canefcens, heterophylla, indica, ebenus, creti-
ca, quinquefolia, tridentata, pilofa, anthylloides, lax-
ata, argentea, callofa, orientalis, mucronata, pinnata.
Crete, Cape, E. Indies.
881. Ulex, or Furze, Whins, Gorfe.
Two fpecies ; viz. * europaeus, capeijfis. Germany,
France, Cape.
europceus. * U. leaves wmolly, acute ; thorns fcattered.—Gorfe
is in fome refpedfs a very hardy plant, and wall make
fences upon the bleaked mountains and clofe to the
fea fide, where the fpray of the fea dedroys almod eve¬
ry other fhrub ; but it is impatient of cold, is often
dedroyed by fevere frod, and is rarely found in ^ the
northern parts of our ifland. In Cornwall, where fuel
is fcarce, it is cultivated to advantage, and it is gene¬
rally cut to make faggots for heating ovens, which it
A N "i'. Diadelphia*
does very foon, burning rapidly, and with a great de¬
gree of heat. The afhes are uied to make ley. Team
horfes may be fupported by this plant, if it is cut
young and bruifed in a mill to break the thorns.
Goats, cows, dieep, and horfes feed upon the tender
tops.
861. Amorpha, or Shrubby Safe Indigo.
One ipecies 3 viz. fruticofa. Carolina.
862. Crotalaria, or Rattle-wort.
23 fpecies 3 viz. perforata, perfoliata, amplexicaulis,
fagittalis, chinenfis, juncea, imbricata, retufa, feffili-
dora, triflora, verrucofa, biflora, oppofita, linifolia,
bifaria, latifolia, lunaris, laburnifolia, cordifolia, in-
cana, incanefcens, heterophylla, quinquefolia. Ead
and Wed Indies, Africa, America.
863. Ononis, or Ref-harrow.
31 fpecies 3 viz. antiquorum, * fpinofa, * arvenfis,
repens, minutiflima, mitiflima, alopecuroides, variega-
ta, pubefcens, hircina, cernua, umbellata, argentea,
involucrata, filiformis, capenfis, prodrata, reclinata,
cenifia, cherleri, vifcofa, ornithopodioides, pinguis, na-
trix, tridentata, crilpa, hifpanica, fruticofa, rotundifo-
lia, microphylla, mauritanica. Europe, Cape.
* O. flowers in bunches, folitary 3 leaves folitary orfpinofa.
three together 3 branches thorny.—A decodlion of the
roots has been recommended in cafes of done and jaun¬
dice. Cows and goats eat it. Sheep are very fond of
it. Horfes and fwine refufe it. A horfe is faid to
have refufed the wTole branch, but ate of the young¬
er flioots when picked off.
864. Anthyllis, or Lady's Finger, Kidney-vetch.
15 fpecies 3 viz. tetraphylla, * vulneraria, montana,
cornicina, lotoides, gerardi, quinqueflora, involucrata,
linifolia, barba-jovis, heterophylla, vifciflora, cytifoi-
des, hermaniae, erinacea. Europe.
* A. herbaceous 3 leaves winged, unequal 3 flowTers in vulneraria
a double head.—The country people get a yellowT dye
from it. It makes an excellent paflurage for flieep.
Where the foil was a reddidx clay, Linnaeus obferved
the bloffoms to be red, but in white clay white. Goats
and cows eat it.
876. Arachis, ox Ground Nut.
One fpecies 3 viz. hypogaea. Carolina, S. Amer,
895. Ebenus, or Ebony of Crete.
One fpecies 3 viz. cretica. Crete, Levant, Barb.
865. Lupinus, ox Lupine.
Seven fpecies 3 viz. perennis, albus, varius, hirfu-
tus, pilofus, anguftifolia, luteus. S. Europe, Egypt,
Virginia.
The feeds of the lupinus albus have a leguminous
tade, accompanied wdth a difagreeable bitter one.
They are faid to be anthelmintic, both internally ta¬
ken, and applied externally. Hoffman cautions againd
their internal ufe, and tells us that they have fome¬
times occafioned death. Simon Paulli alfo obferves,
that he faw a boy of eight or ten years of age, after
taking a dram of thefe feeds in powder, feized wdth
exquifite pains of the abdomen, a difficulty of refpira-
tion, and almod total lofs of voice 3 and that he was
relieved from thefe complaints by a glyder of milk and
fugar, which brought away a vad quantity of worms.
But Mr Geoffroy obferves, very juffly, that either
thefe
Diadeiphia. B G T
thefe fymptoms were owing to tlie worms, and not to
the medicine ; or that thefe feeds, if they have any
noxious quality, lofe it, with their bitternefs, in boil¬
ing, lince they were commonly ufed among the
Greeks as food, and recommended by Galen as very
wholefome.
866. Phaseolus, ou Kidney Bean.
17 fpecies ; viz. vulgaris, lunatus, bipundlatus, ina-
moenus, farinofus, vexillatus, helvalus, femieredtus,
alatus, caracalla, aconitifolius, nanus, radiatus, max,
mungo, lathyroides, fphaerofperrnus. E. and W. In¬
dies, Africa, America.
867. Dolichos, or Cow-itch.
31 fpecies j vizr benghalenfis, lablab, finenfis, un-
cinatus, luteolus, unguiculatus, tranquebaricus, en(i-
formis, tetragonolobus, fefquipedalis, altiflimus, pru-
riens, urens, minimus, lineatus, capenfis, fcarabseoides,
incurvus, bulbofus, trilobus, ariftatus, filiformis, pur-
pureus, regularis, lignofus, polyftachios, enfiformis,
faja, catiang, biflorus, repens. Egypt, E. and W.
Indies, Cape, America.
The dolichos pruriens is a plant growing in great
abundance in warm climates, particularly in the Welt
India iflands •, and there it is very troublefome to cat¬
tle and other domeftic animals: for on account of
the fpiculae of the feed-pod, it excites, when touched,
a very uneafy itching. Thefe fpiculse have been long
ufed in South America, in cafes of worms; and have
of late been frequently employed in Britain. The fpi-
culee of one pod, mixed tvith fyrup or molafles, and
taken in the morning fading, is a dofe for an adult.
The worms are faid to appear with the fecond or third
dofe 5 and by means of a purge in fome cafes, the
ftools are faid to have confided almod entirely of
worms ; and in cafes of lumbrici it is faid to produce
a fafe and effeftual cure. Thofe who have ufed it mod
affirm, that they have never feen any inconvenience re-
fulting from the internal ufe of it, notwithdanding the
great uneafinefs it occafions, on the dighted touch, to
any part of the furface.
868. Glycine, or Kidney-bean tree.
15 fpecies 5 viz. fubterranea, monoica, triloba, vil-
lofa, javanica, comofa, tomentofa, bituminofa, num-
mularia, labialis, driata, fuaveolens, apios, frutefcens,
monophylla. Cape, Ead and Wed Indies, North A-
merica.
869. Clitoria.
Five fpecies ; viz. ternatea, brafiliana, virginiana,
mariana, galsetia. Ead and Wed Indies, America.
870. Pi sum, or Pea.
Four fpecies j viz. fativum, arvenfe, * maritimum,
ochrus. Europe, North America.
tnariti * above ; dem angular *, dipu-
mum " ke arrow-ffiaped ; fruit-dalks many flowered.—In 1555,
during a time of great fcarcity, the people about Or-
ford in SulTex wrere preferved from periffiing by eating
the feeds of this plant which grew there in great a-
bundance upon the fea coad. Cows, horfes, ftieep and
goats eat it.
871. Orobus, or Bitter Vetch.
12 fpecies ; viz. lathyroides, hirfutus, luteus, ver¬
sus, * tuberofus, * fylvaticus, angudifolius, albus, ca-
nefcens, niger, pyrenaicus, fylvaticus. Europe.
ANY. 239
* O. leaves winged, fpear-diaped 5 dipula half-arrow- tuberofus*
ffiaped, very entire j dem dmple.—dhe roots, when
boiled, are favoury and nutritious j ground to powder
they may be made into bread. They are held in
high edeem by the Highlanders of Scotland, who
chew them as our people do tobacco, and find that they
prevent the uneafy fenfation of hunger. They imagine
that they promote expeftoration, and are very efficacious
in curing diforders of the lungs. They know how to
prepare an intoxicating liquor from them. Horfes,
cows, goats, and ffieep eat it.
Lathyrus, or Chickling Vetch.
21 fpecies j viz. * apliaca, * niffolia, amphicarpos,
cicera, fativus, inconfpicuus, fetifolius, angulatus,
articulatus, odoratus, annuus, tingitanus, clymenum,
* hirfutus, tuberofus, * pratenfis, * fylvedris, * lati-
folius, heterophyllus, * paludris, pififormis. Europe,
Barbary, Ceylon.
* L. tendrils with tAvo leaves, quite fimple, leafetspratenjis.
fpear-ffiaped.—This has been recommended as a new
plant for the experiments of the farmers, and premiums
have been offered for its cultivation. But it does not
feem to be a plant at all agreeable to cattle, as where
they have a choice of food they feldom touch it. Be-
fides it produces very few feeds, aud thofe are for the
mod part deAroured by a fpecies of curculio.
873. Vicia, or Vetch, Bean, Tare.
20 fpecies; viz. pififormis, dumetorum, * fylvatica,
caffubica, * cracca, gerardi, onobrychioides, niffoliana,
biennis, benghalenfis, * fativa, * lathyroides, # lutea,
* hybrida, peregrina, * fepium, * bithynica, narbo-
nenfis, faba, ferratifolia. Europe, Egypt, India.
* V. legumens modly in pairs, upright; leafets inverfe-T^/iw.
ly fpear-ffiaped, blunt, notched; dipulae toothed ; feeds
compreffed.—In Glocederffiire and Worcederffiire,
they foAv it as padurage for horfes, and eat it off early
enough to allow of turnips being fown the fame year.—
The feeds are excellent food for pigeons. Horfes, cows,
dieep, and goats, eat it.
* V. legumens modly four together, upright ; leafetsfepium,
egg-diaped, very entire, the outer ones gradually fmal-
ler.—This plant drools earlier in fpring than any plant
eaten by cattle, vegetates late in the antumn, and con¬
tinues green all winter; but it is difficult to colledl the
feeds, as the pods burd and fcatter them about, and
moreover, hardly a third part of them Avill vegetate,
being made the nidus of an infeft. A patch of them
foAvn in drills in a garden was cut five times in the
courfe of the fecond year, and produced at the rate of
24 tons per acre of green food, Avhich when dry would
weigh near 4 J tons.
The feeds of the vicia faba, or common bean, are a
drong flatulent food, fufficiently nutritious, but not
eafy of digeflion,efpecially when growing old. A wa¬
ter didilled from the flowers has been celebrated as a
cofmetic, and flil) retains its chara£ler among fome fe¬
male artids.
874. Eryum, or Bitter Vetch.
Six fpecies; viz. lens, * tetrafpermum, * hirfutum,
folonienfe, monanthos, ervilia. Europe, Afia.
* E. fruit-dalks many floAvered ; feeds 2, globular.— hirfutum,
Horfes, cows, goats, and ffieep eat it. In wet feafons
whole fields of corn have been overpowered and wholly
dedroyed by it.
875*'
240 B O T
875. Cicer, or Chicli-peafe.
One fpecies 5 viz. arietinum. S. Europe, Levant.
1319. Liparia.
Five fpecies ; viz. Iphaerica, graminifolia, umbellata,
villofa, fericea. C. of G. Hope.
876. Cytisus, or Trefoil tree.
17 fpecies j viz. laburnum, nigricans, wolgaricus,
feflilifolius, cajan, patens, hirfutus, capitatus, auftriacus,
lupinus, prolifer, argenteus, pendulinus, purpureus, gla-
ber, grsecus, tener. Europe, Cape, E. Indie .
T417. Mullera.
One fpecies ; viz. moniliformis. Surinam.
878. Geoffroya, or Bafe Cabbage tree.
One fpecies ; viz. fpinofa. Jamaica, Brazil.
879. Robinia, or Falfe Acacia.
Nine fpecies; viz. pfeud-acacia, violacea, hifpida,
mitis, holodendron, caragana, fpinofa, frutefcens, pyg-
maea. Siberia, Tartary, N. America, W. Indies.
880. Colutea, or Bladder-fenna.
Four fpecies; viz. arborefcens, frutefcens, peren-
nans, herbacea. Auftria, Italy, Levant, Africa.
882. Glycirrhiza, or Liquorice.
Four fpecies j viz. echinata, glabra, hirfuta, afperri-
ma. Spain, Italy, Levant, Apulia.
883. Coronilla, or Joint-podded Colutea.
11 fpecies viz. emerus, juncea, Valentina, glauca,
coronata, minima, argentea, fecuridaea, varia, cretica,
fcandens. S. Europe, America.
884. Ornithopus, or Birds-foot.
Four fpecies viz. * perpufillus, compreffus, fcorpioi-
des, tetraphyllus. S. Europe, Jamaica, Barbary.
885. Hippocrepis, or Horfe-Jboe Vetch.
Fpur fpecies ; viz. unifiliquofa, multifiliquofa, * co-
mofa, balearica. S. Europe.
886. Scorpiurus, or Caterpillars.
Four fpecies; viz. vermiculata, muricata, fulcata,
fubvillofa. S. Europe.
888. ATschynomene, or Bafe Senftive plant.
Eight fpecies j viz. grandiflora, arborica, coccinea,
afpera, americana, indica, fefban, pumila. Egypt, E.
and W. Indies.
887. Hedysarum, or French Honeyfuchle.
67 fpecies ; viz. alhagi, bupleurifolium, linifolium,
nummularifolium, moniliferum, ftyracifolium, renifor-
me, fororium, vefpertiiionis, gangeticum, maculatum,
latebrofum, vaginale, imbricatum, triquetrum, ftrobili-
ferum, diphyllum, pulchellum, ipartium, lineatum, re-
trotilexum, umbellatum, biarticulatum, heterocarpon,
vi(cidum,canadenfe,canefcens,marilandicum,;frutefcens,
viridiflorum, hirtum, junceum, violaceus, paniculatum,
nudiflorum, repens, hamatum, triflorum, barbatum, la-
gopodioides, microphyllum, racemofum, caudatum, to-
mentofum, fericeum, virgatum, pilofum, ftriatum, volu-
bde, gyrans, argentalum, alpinum, obfcurum, coiona-
rium, Hexuofum, humile, fpinofiflimum, virginicum,
fruticofum, pumilum, * onobrychis, faxatile, caput gal-
I'» crifta galli, trinitum, cornutum, incanum. S. Europe,
%. and W. Indies, N. America.
A N Y. Diadelphta.
* H. leaves winged j legumens with one feed, prickly; onobrychis
wings as long as the calyx ; ftem growing long.—This
plant is cultivated like clover for feeding cattle, and is
particularly advantageous in dry hilly fituations and'
chalky foils.
889. Indigofera, or Indigo.
23 fpecies; viz. fericea, ovata, trifoliata, pforaloides,
procumbens, farmentofa, denudata, mexicana, trita, fili-
formis, digitata, ftrifta, frutefcens, enneaphylla, pen-
taphylla, glabra, cytifoides, hirfuta, anguitifolia, anil,
tinftoria, difperma, argentea. Arabia, E. and W.
Indies, Cape, Carolina.
890. Galega, or Goats-rue.
12 fpecies; viz. officinalis, cinerea, littoralis, vir-
giniana, villofa, fpinofa, maxima, purpurea, caribasa,
coerulea, tinftoria, fenticofa. S. Europe, E. and W.
Indies, America.
The galega officinalis was celebrated as an alexi-
pharmac ; but its fenfible qualities difcover no founda¬
tion for any virtues of this kind ; the tafte is merely
leguminous, and in Italy, where it grows wild, it is
faid to be ufed as food.
891. Phaca, or Bafe Milk-vetch.
Ten fpecies; viz. baetica, alpina, falfuta, fibirica,
auftralis, trifoliata, veficaria, proftrata, microphylla,
muricata. Lapland, Siberia, S. Europe.
892. Astragalus, or Liquorice, or Milk-vetch.
45 fpecies; viz. alopecuroides, chriftianus, capitatus,
pilofus, fulcatus, galegiformis, chinenfis, onobrychis, uli-
ginofus, carolinianus, afper, canadenfis, cicer, micro-
phyllus, *glycyphyllos, hamofus, contortuplicatus, bae-
ticus, laxmanni, Pella, fefameus, auftriacus, leontinus,
pentaglottis, epiglottis, * hypoglottis, fyriacus, are-
narius, glaux, ftnicus, alpinus, ammodytes, trimeftris,
verticillaiis, montanus, velicarius, phyfodes, caprinus,
* uralenfis, monfpeffulanus, incanus, campeftiis, de-
preffus, uncatus, exfcapus. Europe, Egypt, Barbary.
893. Bisserrula, or Bafe Hatchet-vetch.
One fpecies ; viz. pelecinus. South of Europe.
894. Psoralea.
23 fpecies; viz. rotundifolia, pinnata, aculeata, brac-
teata, Ipicata, axillaris, ftachydes, aphylla, tenuifolia,
capitata, hirta, repens, bituminofa, glandulofa, palsef-
tina, americana, tetragonalia, corylifolia, pentaphylla,
proftrata, dalea, enneaphylla, laevigata. S. Europe,
India, Africa, America.
896. Trifolium, or Trefoil, Clover.
46 fpecies; viz. coeruiea, indica, meflanenfe, polo-
nica, * officinalis, italica, cretica, *ornithopcdioides, lu-
pinafta, reflexum, ftriflum, * hybridum, * repens, co-
mofum, alpinum, * fubterraneum, globofum, cherleri,
lappaceum, rubens, * pratenfe, alpeftre, pannonicum,
fquarrofum, incarnatum, *ochroleucum, anguftifolium,
* arvenfe, ftellatum, clypeatum, * fcabrum, * glome-
ratum, * ftriatum, alexandrinum, uniflorum, fpinolum,
refupinatum, tomentofum, * fragiferum, montanum,
agrarium, fpafticeum, * procumbens, * filiforme, bi-
florum, * fuffocatum. Europe, India, Africa, North
America.
T. capfules in bunches, often 2-feeded, wunWedt,officinalis.
acute ; ftem upright.-—This plant is more fragrant
when
Polyadelphia, B O T
when dry than when green. A water diftilled from
the flowers, poffeffes but little odour in itfelf, but im¬
proves the flavour of other fubftances. Horfes are ex¬
tremely fond of it. Cows, goats, flieep, and fwine
eat it.
ripens, * T. heads like umbels ; legumens 4-feeded ; ftem
creeping.—Horfes, cows, and goats eat it. Sheep are
not fond of it. Swine refufe it. The leaves Hand up*
right againft rain. Wherever this plant abounds fpon-
taneoufly, it is confidered as an indication of the good-
nefs of the foil, and this is a thing well known to far¬
mers. The richnefs of meadows and paftures is na¬
turally owung to their abounding principally with the
trefoils, and others of the fame clafs, with a due mix-
ture of the more acceptable graffes.
pratenfe. * T. fpikes crowded ; bloffoms unequal; calyx with
four of the teeth equal j ftipulse awnedj ftems afcend-
ing.—In a great fcarcity of provifions, bread has been
made of the flowers. The heads are ufed in Sweden
to dye woollen green. With alum they give a light,
with copperas a dark green.
897. Lotus, or Birds-foot Trefoil.
18 fpecies j viz., maritimus, filiguofus, tetragonolo-
bus, conjugatus, tetraphyllus, edulis, peregrinus, an-
guftiffimus, arabicus, ornithopodioides, jacobaeus, creti-
cus, hirfutus, grsecus, re&us, * corniculatus, cytifoides,
dorycnium. Europe, Arabia, Madeira.
cornicula- * -k* heads of the flowers flatted at the top; ftems her*
Jus. baceous, trailing: legumens cylindrical, expanding.—
The flowers of this plant become greenifh when dried,
in which refpefl they refemble the flowers of the plants
which produce indigo. Cows, goats, and horfes eat it.
Sheep and fwine are not fond of it. In Hertfordlhire
it is cultivated as pafturage for (beep. There is no
doubt but it might be cultivated to great advantage.
In moift meadows it grows to a great height, and makes
extremely good hay.
898. Trig on el la, or Fenugreeh.
1 2 fpecies ; viz. ruthenica, platycarpos, ftriata, po*
Jycerata, hamofa, fpinofa, corniculata, monfpeliaca, la-
ANY. HJ
ciniata, foenum graecum, fylveftris, indica. Siberia,
S. Europe, Egypt, India.
The trigonella foenum grcecum is cultivated chiefly in
the fouthern parts of France, Germany, and Italy ;
from whence the feeds are brought to us. I hey are
of a yellow colour, rhomboidal figure, a difagreeable
ftrong fmell, and a mucilaginous talte. Their principal
ufe is in cataplafms, fomentations, and the like, and in
emollient glyfters.
899. Medicago, or Aledich, Moon-trefoil.
24 fpecies ; viz. arborea, virginica, radiata, circin-
nata, * fativa, * falcata, * lupulina, marina, polymor-
pha, proftrata, orbicularis, icutellata, tornata, turbi-
nata, intertexta, * arabica, coronata, ciliaris, hirfuta,
rigidula, * minima, * muricata, nigra, laciniata. Eu¬
rope, North America.
* M. flowers in bunches; legumens narrow, regular,
twifted; ftem upright, fmooth.—Modern writers upon
hufbandry ftrongly recommend the cultivation of this
plant, for the purpofe of feeding cattle; but it is not
yet generally adopted.
* M. flowers in bunches; legumens crefcent-fhaped falcata.
ftem proftate.—In hot, dry, barren fandy places it is
well worth the trouble of fowing for the purpofe of
making hay ; a praftice long flnce adopted in fome
parts of Sweden. Cows, horfes, goats, and flieep
eat it,
* M. fpikes oval ; feed-veflels kidney-fhaped, with I lupuiina.
cell and I feed ; ftems trailing.—Cows, horfes, goats,
and fheep eat it ; but it is lefs grateful to them than
the other fpecies. It is cultivated in Norfolk under
the name of nonfuch, and is ufually fown mixed with
rye-grafs. The crop is then called black and white
nonfuch. It has been fown in the Ifle of Wight. It
is fometimes fown along with clover, and rye grafs.
In the clafs Diadelphia are
56 Genera, including 710 Species, of which ^9
are found in Britain.
CLASSIS XVIII. CLASS XVIII.
POLYADELPHIA (h). POLYADELPHIA.
Ordo I. PENTANDRIA. Order I. PENTANDRIA.
900. Theobroma. Cal. 3-phyllus. Cor. 5-petala, T. Cal. 3-leaved. Cor. 5-petaled. Ne&aries 5.
ne&ariis 5 Stam. 5. Antheris 3. Piftill. 3. Stam. 5. Anthers 3. Piftills 3.
1418. Abroma. Pentagyna. Capf. 5-locularis, A. Piftils 5. Capf. 5-celled, i-valved, open at the
l-valvis, apice dehifcens. Semina reniformia. Recep- extremity. Seeds kidney-fhaped. Receptacle fhaggy.
taculo hirfuto.
Vol. IV. Part I. H h Ordo
(h) This clafs comprehends the plants whofe flowers have ftamens united by the filaments into three or more
fets. The orders depend upon the number of ftamens. There is only a Angle genus of Britifh plants belonging
to this clafs, viz. the hypericum.
242
T
ANY.
Polyadelphia,
B O
e^Do II. DODECANDRIA.
1268. Monsonia. Cal. 5-phyllus. Cor. C-peta-
la. Stara. 5. Antheris 3. Piftill. 5-fidum.
Ordo III. ICOSANDRIA.
901. Citrus. Cal. 5-dentatus. Cor. 5-petala.
Stam. 20. in cylindrum paflim connata. Piftill. j.
]3*acca locularis, pulpa veficulari.
Ordo IV. POLYANDRIA.
1269. Melaleuca. Cal. 5-partitus fuperus. Cor.
5-petala. Capf. femiveftita calyce baccato.
1270. Hopea. Cal, 5-fidus, fuperus. Cor. 5-peta¬
la. JDrupa nucleo 3-loculari.
Du Rio. Cal. 5-Hdus, urceolatus, inferus. Cor.
5-petala, parva. Stylus 1. Stam. phalanges 5, ex
feptem. Pomum 5-loculare.
132°. Glabraria. Cal. 5-fidus, inferus. Cor.
5- petala. Stylus 1. Stam. phalanges 5 ex fenis. Drupa,
1321. Munchhausia. CaL inferus, 6-fidus. Cor,
6- petala. Capf. 6-locularis.
677. Symplocos. Cah 5-fidus, inferus. Cor. 5-
petala. Stam. 4-plici ferie corollse adnata.
* 902. Hypericum. Cal. 5-partitus, inferus. Cor.
5-petala. Styli. l, 3, f. 5. CapG locularis.
903. Ascyrum. Cal. 2 phyllus, inferus. Cor. 4-
petala. Styli. 2. Capf. 2-valvisc
Order II. DODECANDRIA.
M. Cal. 5-leaved. Cor. 5-petaled. Stam. 5. An-
thers 3. PUtil. 5-cleft.
Order III. ICOSANDRIA.
C. Cal. 5-toothed. Cor. 5-petaled. Stam. 20,
everywhere united into a cylinder. Piftil u Berry
celled, in a veficular pulp.
Order IV. POLYANDRIA.
M. Cal. 5-parted fuperior. Cor. 5-petaled, Capf,
half covered with a berrylike cal.
H. Cal 5-cleft fuperior. Cor. 5-petaled. Drupe
with a 3-celled nut.
D. Cal. 5-cleft, pitcher.fhaped, inferior. Cor. 5.
petaled, fmall. Style I. Stam. phalanxes 5 of 7,
Apple many-celled,
G. Cal. 5-cleft, inferior. Cor. 5-petaled, Style I,
Stem, phalanxes 5 of 6. Drupe.
M. Cal. inferior 6-cleft, Cor. 6-petaled. Gapf. 6-
celled.
S. Cal. 5-cleft, inferior. Cor. 5-petaled. Stam*
conne&ed with the corol. by a 4-fold feries.
* H. Cal. 5-parted inferior. Cor. 5-petaled. Styles
1, 3, or 5. Capf. celled.
A. Cal. 2 leaved, inferior. Cor. 4-petaled. Styles
2. Capf. 2-valved.
Order I. PENTANDRlA, Ordo III. ICOSANDRIA.'
900. Theobroma, or Chocolate-nut-tree.
i wo fpecies j viz. cacao, guamma. Jamaica, S.
America.—— The nuts of the theobroma cacao are the
fruit of an American tree refembling the almond. The
tree, though fmall, bears a large fruit, lhaped like a cu¬
cumber, which contains 30 or more of the nuts. Thefe,
by preffure, yield a confiderable quantity of a fluid oil.
Boiled in water, they give out a large portion of a fe-
baceous matter, which congeals on the furface of the
liquor as it cools. The principal ufe of thefe nuts is
for the preparation of the dietetic liquor chocolate.
This is a mild, unffuous, nutritious fluid, capable of
foftening acrimonious humours, and of great fervice in
confumptive diforders, efpecially if made with milk,
and with only a imall proportion of aromatics.
1418. Abroma.
One fpecies j viz. augufta. California.
Order II. DODECANDRIA.
1268. Monsonia.
Three fpecies > viz. filia, fpeciofa, lobata. C. of
G. Hope.
901. Citrus, or Lemon-orange, Shaddock.
Four Ipecies; viz. medica, aurantium, decumana^
1 japonica. Alia, India.
1 he citron or the citrus medica is an evergreen tree
or fhrub, of the fame genus with the orange and le¬
mon ; it was firft brought from Affyria and Media
(whence the fruit is called mala ajjyria, mala medica')
into Greece, and thence into the fouthern parts of
Europe, where it is now cultivated. Citrons are rare¬
ly made ufe of among us ; they are of the fame qua¬
lity with lemons, except that their juice is fomewhat
Ids acrid. They are with us frequently employed as a
condiment.
The juice of lemons is fimilar in quality to that of
oranges, from which it differs little otherwife than its be¬
ing more acid. The yellow' peel is an excellent aromatic,
and is frequently employed in ftomachic tindlures and in-
fufions: it is confiderably lefs hot than orange peel, and
yields in diftillation with water a lefs quantity of dfen-
tial oil j its flavour is neverthelds more perifliable, yet
does not arile lo readily with fpirit of wine ; for a fpi-
rituous extrad made from lemon peel pofiVffes the aro¬
matic tafte and fmell of the fubjed, in much greater
perfedion than an extrad prepared in the lame manner
frora
Polpdelphia# B O T
from the peel of oranges. In the {hops a fyrup is pre*
pared from the juice, and the peel is candied : the peel
is an ingredient in the bitter infufions and wines : the
eflential oil enters the volatile aromatic fpirit, or fpiri~
tus amonicv compqfitvs, as it is now called, and feme
Other formulae.
The orange or the citrus aurantium is a beautiful
evergreen tree, or rather (hrub $ it is a native of the
warmer climates, and does not ealily bear the winters
of this.
The flowers are highly odoriferous, and have been
for fome time paft of great efteem as a perfume ; their
tafte is fomewhat warm, accompanied wdth a degree of
bitternefs. They yield their flavour by infufion to rec¬
tified fpirit, and in diftillation both to fpirit and wa¬
ter ; the bitter matter is diffolved by wmter, and on
evaporating the decodtion, remains entire in the ex-
tra6t. An oil diddled from thefe flowers is brought
from Italy, under the name of oleum or ejfentia neroli.
Orange flowers were at one time faid to be an ufe-
ful remedy in convulfive and epileptic cafes : but ex¬
perience has not confirmed the virtues attributed to
them. The leaves of the orange have alfo been re¬
commended for the fame purpofe, but have by no
means anfwered the expectations entertained by fome.
The outer yellow rind of the fruit is a grateful aro¬
matic bitter j and proves an excellent llomachic and
carminative, promoting appetite, warming the habit,
and llrengthening the tone of the vifeera. Orange
peel appears to be very confiderably warmer than that
of lemons, and to abound more with eflential oil; to this
circumdance, therefore, regard ought to be had in the
life of thefe medicines. The flavour of the fird is like-
wife fuppofed to be lefs perilhable than that of the
Other j hence the London college employ orange-peel
in the fpirituous bitter tinClure, which is defigned for
keeping •, whild in the bitter watery infufion, lemon-
peel is preferred. A fyrup and didilled water are for
the fame reafon prepared from the rind of oranges in
preference to that of lemons.
The outer rind of the orange is the bafis of a con-
ferve both in the Edinburgh and London pharmaco-
pceias j and this is perhaps one of the mod elegant and
convenient forms for exhibiting it,
The juice of oranges is a grateful acid liquor, of
confiderable ufe in febrile or inflammatory didempers
for allaying heat, abating exorbitant commotions of
the blood, quenching third, and promoting the falu-
tary excretions j it is likewife of ufe in genuine fcorbu-
tus or fea-feurvy. Although the feville or bitter
orange, as it is called, has alone a place in our phar¬
macopoeias, yet the juice of the china, or fweet orange,
is much more employed. It is more mild and lefs
acid $ and it is employed in its mod Ample date with
great advantage, both as a cooling medicine, and as
ANY.
an ufeful antifeptic in fevers of the word kinds, as well
as in many other acute difeafes, being highly beneficial,
in alleviating third.
Order IV. POLYANDRIA.
1320. Glabraria.
One fpecies; viz. terfa, E. Indies,
1321. Munchhausia.
One fpecies j viz, fpeciofa.
Durio.
One fpecies ; viz. zibethinus. E. Indies.
1269. Melaleuca, or Cayputi-tree.
Five fpecies; viz. leucadendron, latifolia, anguftl.
folia, lucida, villofa. fcoparia, virgata. New S. Wales,
New Zealand.
1270. Ho pea.
One fpecies j viz. tin&oria, Carolina.
677. Symplocos.
One fpecies $ viz, martinicenfis. Jamaica, Marti-
nico.
902. Hyperscum, ox St'John's Wort.
42 fpecies; viz. balearicum, kalmianum, cayanenfe,
bacciferum, calyeinum, guineenfe, petiolatum, patu-
lum, afeyron, * androfaemum, olympicum, petiolatum,
canarienfe, hircinum, mgyptium, orientale, fcabrum, re¬
pens, prolificum, oricoides, canadenfe, virginicum,
mexicanum, reflexum, * quadrangulare, * perforatum,
* humifufum, crifpum, * montanum, barbatum, * hir-
futum, tomentofum, perfoliatum, * elodes, * pulchrum,
nummularium, japonicum, ereflum, coris, mutilum,
fetofum, monogynum. Europe, Azores, China, N.
America,
# H. ftem 2-edged; leaves blunt j with pellucid dots./^r/orc-
--- This plant has long held a place in the materia me-
dica, but its ufe is very much undetermined. The
femi-tranfparent dots on the leaves are the receptacles
of an eflential oil. The leaves given in fubflance are
faid to dedroy worms. The flowers tinge fpirits and
oils of a fine purple colour, which is probably derived
from the little glands upon the anther, and upon the
edges of the petals. Cows, goats, and fheep eat it.
Horfes and fwine refufe it,
903. Ascyrum, or St Peter's Wort.
Three fpecies; viz. crux andreae, hypericoides, vil-
lofum. N. America.
In the clafs Polyadelphia are
12 Genera, which include 65 Species. Of thefe
8 are found in Britain.
T
f'v'
Hh 3
CLASSIS
BOTANY.
Syngenefia.
244
CLASSIS XIX.
SYNGENESIA. (0
Ordo I. POLY G AMI A tEQUALIS.
Se<St. I. Sem'tflofculofi Tournefortii, corollis ligulatis
omnibus.
922. Scolymus. Recept. paleacum. Pappus nul-
lus. Cal. imbricatus, fpinofus.
* 92 j . Cichorium. Recept. fubpaleaceuni. Pappus
fub 5-dentatus. Cal. calyculatus.
920. Catanan he. Recept. paleaceum. Pappus
arblatus, feffilis. Cal. imbricatus, fcariofus.
917. Seriola. Recept. paleaceum. Pappus fub-
pilolus. Cal. fimplex.
*918. Hypoch^ris. Recept. paleaceum. Pappus
plumofus. Cal. imbricatus.
904. Geropogon. Recept. paleaceum. Pappus
plumofus difci, 5-ariftatus radii. Cal. fimplex.
915. An DRY ALA. Recept. villofum. Pappus pilo-
fus, feflilis. Cal. fubaequalis, rotundatus.
* 905. Tragopogon. Recep. nudum. Pappus plu¬
mofus, ftipitatus. Cal. fimplex.
* 907. Picris. Recept. nudum. Pappus plumofus,
llipitatus. Cal. calyculatus.
* 912. Leontodon. Rccept. nudum. Pappus plu¬
mofus, ftipitatus. Cal. imbricatus fquamis laxis.
906. Scorzonera. Recept. nudum. Pappus plu¬
mofus, ftipitatus. Cal. imbricatus, margine fcariofo.
* 914. Crepis. Recept. nudum. Pappus pilofus.
Cal. calyrulatus, fquamis difformibus.
910. Chondrilla. Recept. nudum. Pappus pilo¬
fus, ftipitatus. Cal. calyculat. multiflorus.
* 911. Prenanthes. Recept. nudum. Pappus pi¬
lofus. Cal. calyculat. fub 5-llorus.
•* 909. Lactuca. Recept. nudum. Pappus pilofus,
ftipitatus. Cal. imbricatus, margine fcariofo.
CLASS XIX.
SYNGENESIA, OR COMPOUND FLOWERS.
Order I. POLYGAMIA AIQUALIS, or with
both ftamens and piftils in the fame florets.
Sect. I. Set7iijlofi-ular of Tournefort, all the forets li-
gulate, or Jlrap-Jhaped.
S. Recept. chaffy. No down. Cal. tiled, prickly.
* C. Recept. nearly chaffy. Down nearly 5-toothed.
Cal. calycled, i. e. having a double calyx.
C. Recept. chaffy. Down awned, fitting. Cal. ti¬
led, fkinny.
S. Recept. chaffy. Down fomewhat hairy. Cal.
fimple.
* H. Recept. chaffy. Down feathered. Cal. tiled.
G. Recept. chaffy. Down of the difc feathered, of
the radius 5-awned. Cal. fimple.
A. Recept. woolly. Down hairy, fitting. Cal.
nearly equal, rounded.
* T. Recept; naked. Down feathered, pedicled. Cal.
fimple.
* P. Recept. naked. Down feathered, pedicled. Cal.
calycled.
* L. Recep. naked. Down feathered, pedicled. Cal,
tiled with loofe fcales.
S. Recept. naked. Down feathered, pedicled. Cal.
tiled, with a fkinny bolder.
* C. Recept. naked. Down hairy. Cal. calycled,
with irregular fcales.
C. Recept. naked. Down hairy, pedicled. Cal.
calycled, many-flowered.
* P. Recept. naked. Down hairy. Cal. calycled,
nearly 5-flowered.
* L. Recep. naked. Down hairy, pedicled. Cal.
tiled, with a fkinny border.
*9I3*
(1) This clafs comprehends thofe flowers which botanifts have very generally agreed to call compound. The
effential charafler of a compound flower, confifts in the anthers being united fo as to form a cylinder, and a
fingle feed being placed upon the receptacle undereach floret. 1 he dandelion and thiftle are compound flowers j
that is, each of thefe flowers is compofed of a number of fmall flow’ers called florets. The plants of this clafs are
fuppofed to have various fpecific virtues. Moft of them are bitter j almoft none of them are poifonous. I be
laftuca virofa when growing in fhady fituations, is however faid to be an exception to this laft rule.
The elafticity of the calyx in the picris, carduus, and many other genera, is too remarkable to pafs unnoticed,
by the flighteft obferver. It feems as if the expanfion of the plants firft burft the calyx open, and when thefe
wither it clofes again. The downy hairs that crown the feeds, before upright, now begin to expand, and by
this expanfion again open the leaves of the calyx, and bend them quite back. The feeds now efcape, and the
calyx, becoming dry and withered no longer retains its elaftic power.
The hairy or downy appendages of the feeds occafion them to be wafted about in the air, and diffeminated far
and wude. The ftrufture of this down deferves our notice ; there is hardly a child that is infenfible to its curious
and beautiful appearance in the leontodon or dandelion.
In this clafs the orders are determined by the ftate of the florets with regard to ftamens and piftils.
Syngenefia. B
* 913. Hieracium.' Recept. nudum,
fus, feffilis. Cal. imbricatus, ovatus.
* 908. Sonchus. Recept. nudum. Pappus pilofus,
feffilis. Cal. imbricatus, gibbus.
* 919. Lapsana. Recept. nudum. Pappus nullus.
Cal. calyculatus.
* 916. Hyoseris. Recept. nudum. Pappus caly-
culo cordnatus. Cal. fubaequalis.
Seel. II. Capitati.
930. Atractylis. Corolla radiata.
1419. Barnadesia. Cor. radiata. Cal. nudus,
imbricatus, pungens. Pappus radii plumofus ; difei fe-
tofus, retrofradlus.
* 929. Carlina. Cal. radiatus, radiis coloratus.
926. Cnicus. Cal. bra£leis obvallatus.
* 923. Arctium. Cal. fquamis apice incurvato-
hamolis.
931. Carthamus. Cal. fquamis fquarrofus folia-
Ceis.
928. Cynara. Cal. fquamis fquarrofus canalicu-
latis, fpinoiis.
* 925. Carduus. Cal. fquamis fpinolls, ventricofus.
* 927. Onopordon. Cal. fquamis ventricofus fpino¬
iis. Recept. favolum.
'* 924. Serratula. Cal. fquamis acutiufculis mu-
ticis imbricatus, fubcylindricus.
Se£l. III. Difcoidei.
934. Ethulia. Recept. nudum. Pappus nullus.
Cal. aequalis.
936. Ageratum. Recept. nudum. Pappus 5-
ariftatus. Cal. fubsequalis. Corollulse 4-fidae.
933. Bacalia. Recept. nudum. Pappus pilofus.
Cal. calyculatus.
939. Chrysocoma. Recept. nudum. Pappus pilo¬
fus. Cal. imbricatus. Pill, breviffima.
* 935. Eufatorium. Recept. nudum. Pappus plu¬
mofus. Cal. imbricatus. Pill, longiffima.
* 942. Santolina. Recept. palceaceum. Pappus
nulius. Cal. imbricatus, hemifphaericus.
941. Calea. Recept. paleaceum. Pappus pilofus.
Cal. imbricatus.
943. Athahasia. Recept. paleaceum. Pappus pa-
leaceus. Cal. imbricatus.
1287. Spilanthus. Recept. paleaceum. Pappus
bidentatus. Cal. lubasqualis.
* 932. Bidens. Recept. paleaceum. Pappus arifta-
tus. Cal. imbricatus.
938. Staehelina. Recept. paleaceum. Pappus
plumofus, ramofus. Antherae caudatae.
937. Pteronia. Recept. fetis partitis. Pappus
fubplumofu-'. Cal, imbricatus,
940. Trachonanthus. Recept. pilofum. Pappus
pilofus, veftiens. Cal. turbinatus, monophyllus.
Ordo II. POLYGAMIA SUPERFLUA.
8ecl. I. Difcoidei.
* 945. Artemisia. Recept; fubnudum. Papp. nul¬
lus. Cor. radii nulla.
ANY. 245
* H. Recept. naked. Down bairy, fitting. Cal. til¬
ed, oval.
* S. Recept. naked. Down bairy, fitting. Cal. tiled,
bulged.
* L. Recept. naked. No down. Cal. calycled.
* H. Recept. naked. Down crowned with a calycled
Cal. nearly equal.
Se£l. II. Capitate^ or growing in heads.
A. Cor. radiated.
B. Cor. radiated. Cal. naked, tiled, pungent.
Down of the radius feathered ; of the dife briftly, bro¬
ken backwards.
* C. Cal. radiate (or with the outer different from the
central florets) ; radii (outer florets) coloured.
C. Cal. furrounded by floral leaves.
* A. Cal. with feales hooked, curved^at the point.
C. Cal. feurfy, with leafy feales.
C. Cal. feurfy, with channelled feales, thorny.
* C. Cal. bellied, with thorny feales.
* O. Cal. bellied, with thorny feales. Recept. honey¬
combed.
* S. Cal. tiled with fliarp awnlefs feales, nearly cylin¬
drical.
Se£t. III. Difcoid (facets tubular.)
E. Recept. naked. No down. Cal. equal.
A. Recept. naked. Down 5-awned. Cal. nearly
equal. Cor. 4-cleft.
C. Recept. naked. Down hairy. Cal. calycled.
C. Recept. naked. Down hairy. Cal. tiled. Pill,
very Ihort.
* E. Recept. naked. Down feathered. Cal. tiled.
Pill, very long.
* S. Recept. chaffy. No down. Cal. tiled, hemi-
fpherical.
C. Recept. chaffy. Down hairy. Cal. tiled.
A. Recept. chaffy. Down chaffy. Cah tiled.
S. Recept. chaffy. Down 2-toothed. Cal. nearly
equal.
* B. Recept. chaffy. Down awned. Cal. tiled.
A. Recept. chaffy. Down feathered, branched.
Anthers tailed.
P. Recept. with parted briftles. Down nearly
feathered. Cal. tiled.
T. Recept. hairy. Down hairy, covering. Cal.
turban-like, I-leaved.
Order II. POLY GAMIA SUPERFLUA,
(See p. 66).
Sedt. I. Difcoid (without ligulate forets.)
* A. Recept. nearly naked. No down. No cor. in
the florets of the radius.
948.
O T
Pappus pilo-
346
B O T
94.3. Carpesium. Recept, nudum, Papp, nullus,
iCor. radii 5-fida?,
* 944. Tanacetvm. Recept, nudum, Papp. fub-
margin. Cor. radii 3-fidm.
968. Cotula. Recept. fubnudum, Papp. margi¬
natum Cor. difci 4-fida2,
949. Baccharis. Recept. nudum. Papp, pilofus.
Cor. feminece hermaphroditis mixtse.
* 950. Conyza. Recept. nudum, Papp, pilofus. Cor,
Tadii 3-fidae.
* 946. Gnaphalium. Recept. nudum, Papp. plu-
mofus. Cal. fcariofus, fquam. concavis,
947. Xeranthemum. Recept. paleaceum, Papp,
Tub -fetaceus. Cal, fcariofus, radio explanato,
969. Anacyclus. Recept, paleaceum, Papp, nul¬
lus. Sem. marginata, emarginata,
Se£t. II. Semijtofculoji) JUb~bilabiati,
960. Perdicium. Recept. nudum. Papp, pilofus.
Cor. trifidte, exteriore majore, 3-loba,
Se£l. Ill, Radiati.
* 962. Bellis. Recept. nudum. Papp. nullus. Cal,
fquamis asqualibus fimplex.
* 967. Matricaria. Recept. nudum, Papp, nullus.
Cal. fquamis imbricatus acutis.
* 966. Chrysanthemum. Recept, nudum. Papp,
nullus. Cal. fquamis intimis fcariofis,
1420. Unxia, Recept, nudum. Papp, nullus. Cal.
5-phyllus, Flores radii et difci quinque.
* 959. Doronicum. Recept.nudum, Papp, pilofus.
Pappus radii nullus.
958. Arnica. Recept. nudum. Papp. pilofus. Sta¬
mina radii caftrata.
* 956. Inula. Recept, nudum. Papp. pilofus. An-
jberas ball bifetae.
* 951. Epigeron. Recept, nudum, Papp. pilofus.
Cor. radii capillares.
* 955. Solidago. Recept. nudum. Papp. pilofus.
Cor. radii fubfeni, remoti.
* 957* Cineraria. Recept, nudum. Papp. pilofus.
Cal. aequalis, fimplex,
* 953, Senecio. Recept. nudum. Papp. pilofus. Cor,
fquamis apice fphacelatis,
* 952. Tusbilago. Recept, nudum, Papp. pilofus.
Cal, fquamis fub»membranaceis,
* 9^5. Aster, Recept, nudum, Papp. pilofus. Cal,
fub-fquarrofus.
1421. Mutisia. Recept, nudum, Papp, plumo.
fus. Cal. cylindricus imbricatus, Corollee radii ovali-
oblongae $ difci trifidte.
1322. Bellium. Recept. nudum, Papp, arilla*.
tus, 8-phyllufque. Cal. fimplex,
964. Fagetes. Recept. nudum, Papp. arifiatus.
Cal. i-phyllus, Radius 5 florus.
961. Helenium. Recept. feminudum. Papp,
ariftatus. Cal. roultipartitus, Radiis cor. 3-fidis.
965, Pectib. Recept. nudum. Papp, ariftatus,
Cal. $.phyllus. Radius c-florus,
965. Ley sera, Recept, femipaleaceum, Papp,
plumofus. Cal, fcariofus.
A N Y* Syngenefia*
C. Recept, naked. No dawa. Cor, of the out v
florets ^-eleft,
T, Recept. naked, Down with a flight border.
Cor. of the ray 3-cleft.
C. Recept. nearly naked, Down with a border.
Cor, of the difc 4-cleft.
B, Recept, naked. Down hairy. Cor, female, mix¬
ed with hermaphrodites,
* C. Recept, naked, Dowm hairy. Cor. of the ray
3-cleft,
^ G. Recept. naked, Down feathered, Cal. fldnny*
with concave fcales.
X. Reeept, chafty, Down a little briftly. Cal,
Ikinny, the ray flattened.
A, Recept, chaffy. No down, Seeds bordered
and not bordered.
Seel. II. Florets half tubular^ nearly 2-lipped,
P. Down hairy. Cor. 3-cleft, the outer largeft,
lobed,
Se£l, III, Radiate,
* B. Recept. naked. No down. Cal. Ample with
equal feales.
* M. Recept. naked. No down. Cal, tiled with
fharp feales.
* C. Recept. naked. No down. Cal. inner feales
Ikinny.
U, Recept. naked. No down. Cal. 5-leaved,
Flowers of the ray and difc (extremity and center)
five.
* D. Recept, naked. Down hairy. No down of the
ray.
A. Recept, naked, Down hairy. Stamens of the
ray without anthers.
* I, Recept, naked, Down hairy. Anthers at the
bafe 2-briftled.
* E, Recept, naked, Down hairy. Cor. of the ray
hairy-like.
* S. Recept, naked, Down hairy. Cor, of the ray
nearly in fixes, remote,
* C. Recept, naked. Down hairy. Cal. equal, Ample,
* S, Recept, naked, Down hairy. Cor. with feales,
brittle at the point,
* T. Recept. naked. Down hairy. Cal, with feales
nearly membranous.
* A. Recept, naked, Down hairy, Cal, nearly feur-
fy.
M. Recept, naked, Down feathered. Cal. cylin¬
drical, tiled. Cor. of the ray oval-oblong, of the difc
3-cleft.
B, Recept, naked. Down awned, and 8-leaved.
Cal. fimple.
T. Recept. naked, Down awned, Cal, i-leaved.
Ray 5-flowered.
H, Recept. half naked, Down 5-3wned» Cal, many-
parted. Cor, with 3-cleft rays.
P, Recept, naked. Down awned. Cal. 5-leaved,
Ray 5-flowered.
L. Recept. half chaffy, Down feathered. Cal,
fldnny,
973*
Syngenefia. B O T
973. $iGE$B?CKiA. Recept. paleaceum. Papp,
liullus. Radius dimidiatus.
1321. Eclipta. Recept, paleaceum. Papp. nul-
lus. Cor. difci 4-fidse.
* 970. Anthemis. Recept. paleaceum, Papp. nul-
lus. Cal. hemifphaericus.
* 971. Achillea. Recept. paleaceum. Papp. nul-
lus. Radius fub 5-florus. Cal. oblongus.
977. Buphthalmum. Recept. paleaceum. Papp.
marginatus. Stigma hermaphrodit. fimplex.
978. Amellus. Recept. paleaceum. Papp. pilo-
fus. Cal. imbricatus.
972 Tridax. Recept. paleaceum. Papp. pilofus.
Cor. radii 3-partitae.
975. Verbesina. Recept. paleaceum. Papp. arifr
tatus. Flofculi radii circiter 5.
974. Zinnia. Recept. paleaceum. Papp. ariftatus.
Radius 5-florus, perliftens. Cal. imbricat.
Tetragonotheca, vide Polvmniam.
Ordo III. POLYGAMIA frustranea.
Sclfrocarpus. Recept. nudum. Papp. nul-
lus. Cal. fulcatus.
982. Gorteria. Recept. nudiufculum. Papp. pi¬
lofus. Radius corollae ligulatus.
* 984. Centaurea. Recept. fetofum. Papp. pi¬
lofus. Radius corollae tubulofus.
1271. Zoegea. Recept. letofum. Papp. fetaceus.
Radius corollae ligulatus.
980. Rudbeckia. Recept. paleaceum. Papp. mar¬
ginatus. Cal. ferie duplici.
981. Coreopsis. Recept. paleaceum. Papp. arif¬
tatus. Cal. calyculatus.
979. Helianthus. Recept. paleaceum. Papp.
ariftatus. Cal. fquarrofus.
983. Osmites. Recept. paleaceum. Papp. obfo-
letus. Cal. imbricatus.
A N Y.
S. Recept. chaffy, No down. Ray extending half-
round.
E. Recept. chafty. No down. Cor. of the difc 4-
cleft.
* A, Recept. chaffy. No down. Cal. hemifpherical.
* A. Recept. chaffy. No down. Ray nearly 5-
flowered. Cal. oblong.
B. Recept. chaffy. Down bordered. Stigm. her¬
maphrodite, Ample.
A. Recept. chaffy. Down hairy. Cal. tiled.
T. Recept. chaffy. Down hairy. Cor. of the ray
3-parted.
V. Recept. chaffy. Down awned. Florets of the
ray about 5.
Z. Recept. chaffy. Down awned. Ray 5-flowered,
permanent. Cal. tiled.
Order III. POLYGAMIA FRUSTRANEA.
S. Recept. naked. No down. Cal. furrowed.
G. Recept. naked,
•ftrap-lhaped.
* C. Recept. briftly.
tubular.
Z. Recept. briftly.
ftrap-lhaped.
R. Recept. chaffy,
a double feries.
C. Recept. chaffy.
Down hairy. Cor. of the ray
Down hairy. Cor. of the ray
Down briftly. Cor. of the ray
Down with a margin. Cal. ir\
Down awned. Cal. calycled
H. Recept. chaffy. Down awned. Cal. fcurfy.
O. Recept. chaffy. Down obfcure. Cal. tiled.
a47
Ordo IV. POLYGAMIA NECESSARIA. Order IV. POLYGAMIA NECESSARIA.
* 995. Filago. Recept. nudum. Papp. nullus.
Flofc. foemin. inter fquamas calycis.
996. Micropus. Recept. nudum. Papp. nullus.
Flofc. fcemin. fquamis calycis vaginati.
985. Milleria. Recept. nudum. Papp. nullus.
Flofc. fcemineus 1'ubfolitarius.
1323. Balt!mora. Recept. nudum. Papp. nul¬
lus. Cal. cylindricus. Radius 5-florus.
993. Othonna. Recept. nudum. Papp. pilofus.
Cal. monophyilus.
1224. Hippia. Recept. nudum. Papp. nullus.
Sem. glabra, compreffo-marginata. Radius obfoletus.
992. Osteospermum. Recept. nudum. Papp. nul¬
lus. Sem. globofa, offea.
* 990. Calendula. Recept. nudum. Papp. nullus.
Sem. raembranacea.
991. Arctotis. Recept. fubpilofum. Papp. 5-
phyllus. Sem. tomentofa.
Eriocephalus. jhecept. villofum. Papp. nullus.
Flofc. radii quini.
987. Polymnia. Recept. paleaceum. Papp. nul¬
lus. Cal. 5-phv'llus.
989. Melampodium. Recept. paleaceum. Papp,
Vulvatus. Cal. 5-phyllus,
* F. Recept. naked. No down. Female florets be*
tween the fcales of the calyx.
M. Recept. naked. No down. Female florets
fheathed by the fcales of the cal,
M. Recept. naked. No down. Female florets
nearly folitary.
B. Recept. naked. No down. Cal. cylindrical,
Ray 5-flowered.
O. Recept. naked. Down hairy. Cah J-leaved.
H. Recept. naked, No down. Seeds fmooth,
compreffed-bordered. Ray obfcure.
O. Recept. naked. No down. Seeds globular,
bony.
* C. Recept. naked. No down. Seeds membranous.
A. Recept.fomewhathairy. Downy-leaved. Seeds
cottony.
E. Recept. woolly. No down. Florets of the ray 5.
P. Recept. chaffy. No down. Cal. 5-leaved.
M. Recept. chaffy. Down curtained. Cal. 5-
leaved.
9.86,
248 B O T
986. Silphium. Recept. paleaceum, Papp. 2-
ariftatus. Cal. fquarrofus.
988. Ckrvsogonum. Recept. paleaceum. Papp.
j-ariftatus. Sem. calyculis propriis.
Ordo V. POLYGAMIA SEGREGATA.
1001. Stoebe. Perianth. 1-florum. Papp. plu-
mofus. PoWg. aequalis.
1325. Oedera. Recept. paleaceum. Papp. paleaceus.
Perianth, proprium, Hoiculis tubulofis ligulatifque.
999. Echinops. Perianth, i-florum. Papp. pu-
befcens. Polyg. sequalis.
998. Elephantopus. Perianth. 4-tlorum. Papp.
fetofus. Polyg. tequalis.
iogo. Gundelia. Recept. 5-florum. Papp. nullus.
Polyg. fruftranea.
1422. Jungia. Recept. paleaceum. Perianth,
commune, triflorum. Flofculi tubulofi, bilabiati j labio
exteriori ligulato •, labio interiori bipartite.
900. Spha:ranthus. Recept. multiflorum. Papp.
nullus. Polyg. neceflaria.
Ordo VI. MONOGAMIA.
1002. Strumpfia. Cal. 5-dentatus. Cor. 5-petala,
regularis. Bacca infera, i-fperma.
1003. Seriphium. Cal. imbricatus, Cor. i-petala,
regularis. Sem. I, oblongum.
1004. Cory mbium. Cal. 2-phyllus. Cor. T-petala,
regularis. Sem. I, lanatum.
1006. Lobelia. Cal. 5-dentatus. Cor. 5-petala,
regularis. Capf. infera, z-locularis.
1007. Viola. Cal. 5-phyllus. Cor. 5-petala irre¬
gularis. Capf. fupera, 3-valvis.
1008. Impatiens. Cal. 5-phyllus. Cor. 5-petala
irregularis. Capf, fupera, 5-valvis.
ANY. Syngenefia.
S. Recept. chaffy. Down 2-awned, Cal. feurfy.
C. Recept. chaffy. Down 3-awned. Seeds with
peculiar calyxes.
Order V. POLYGAMIA SEGREGATA.
S. Perianth. 1 flowered. Down feathered. Poly¬
gamy equal. (See page 66.)
O. Recept. chaffy. Down chaffy. Perianth, pro¬
per, with tubular and ftrap-fhaped florets.
E. Perianth. 1-flowered. Down pubefeent. Poly¬
gamy equal.
E. Perianth. 4-flowered. Down briftly. Polyga¬
my equal.
G. Recept. 5-flowered. No down. Polygamy
fruftr. (See p. 66.)
J. Recept. chaffy. Perianth, common, 3-flowrered.
Florets tubular, 2-lipped $ outer lip flrap-fhaped, the
inner 2-parted.
S. Recept. many-flowered. No down. Polygamy
neceffary. (See p. 66).
Order VI. MONOGAMIA.
S. Cal. 5-toothed. Cor. 5-petaled, regular. Berry
inferior, i-feeded.
S. Cal. tiled. Cor. l-petaled, regular. One oblong
feed.
C. Cal. 2-leafed. Cor. i-petaled, regular. One cot¬
tony feed.
L. Cal. 5-toothed. Cor. 5-petaled, regular. Capf.
inferior, 2-celled.
V. Cal. 5-leaved. Cor. 5-petaled, irregular. Capf.
fuperior, 3-valved.
I. Cal. 5-leaved. Cor. 5-petaled, irregular, Capf.
fuperior, 5-valved.
Order I. POLYGAMIA ^EQUALIS.
904. Geropogon, or 04/Man's Beard.
Three fpecies; viz glabrum, hirfutum, calycula-
tum. Italy.
905. Tragopogon, or Goats Beard.
14 fpecies j viz. * pratenfe, mutabile, undulatum,
orientale, majus, * porrifolium, crocifolium, villofum,
dalechampii, picroides, afperum, dandelion, lanatum,
virginicum. Europe, North America.
pratenfe. * T» calyx as long as the rays of the bloffom 5 leaves
entire, quite ftraight $ fruit-ftalk cylindrical. Ye/lov)
goats beard —Before the ftems fhoot up, the roots boil¬
ed like alparagus have the fame flavour, and are nearly
as nutritious. Cows, fheep, and horfes eat it. Swine de¬
vour it greedily. Goats are not fond of it.
906. Scorzonera, or Vipers Grafs.
14 fpecies j viz. tomentofa, humilis, parviflora, hif-
panica, graminifolia, purpurea, anguftifolia, hirfuta,
refedifolia, laciniata, orientals, taraxacifolium, tingita-
na, picroides. Europe, Arabia, Barbary.
907. Picris, or Ox Tongue.
Four fpecies * viz. * echioides, * hieracioides, japo-
nica, aiplenioides. Germany, France, Italy, Japan.
908. Sonchus, or Sow-thi/Ile.
13 fpecies 5 viz. *canadenfis, * arvenfis, * paluftris,
* oleraceus, maritimus, fruticofus, tenerrimus, plumieri,
alpinus, floridanus, fibiricus, tataricus, tuberofus. Eu¬
rope, Madeira, N. Amer. Jam.
* S. fruit and calyxes rough with hair in a fort of utn- arvenfs.
bels j leaves naked, heart-fhaped at the bafe. Corn
or fow-thi/fle.—Thz flowers follow the fun very re¬
gularly. Cows and goats eat j horfes are very fond
of it.
* S. fruitftalks cottony •, calyxes fmooth. Common oleraceut,
fow thi/l/e.—-The leaves are good amongft other pot¬
herbs. They are a very favourite food with hares and
rabbits. Sheep, goats, and fwine eat it. Horfes are
very fond of it.
909. Lactuca, or Lettuce.
Ten fpecies j viz. * fcariola, * virofa, * faligna,
quercina, intybacea, fativa, tuberofa, canadenfis, indica,
perennis. Europe, Eaft Indies, North America.
* L. all the leaves horizontal, toothed 5 their mid-rib virofa.
prickly'on the back. Wild lettuce.—The juice fmells
like opium. It is milky, acrid, and bitter. Dr Cullen
relates 24 cafes of dropfy, out of which 23 were cured
by taking the extradl prepared from the expreffed juice
Syngenefia. B O T
in dofes, from iR grains to three drams in the 24 hours.
It commonly proves laxative, promotes urine and gentle
fweats, and removes the third:. It muft be prepared
when the plant is in flower.
910. Chondrilla or Gum Succory.
Three fpecies ; viz. juncea, crepoides, nudicaulis.
Germany, Switzerland, France.
911. Prenanthes, or Wild Lettuce.
19 fpecies; viz. tenuifolia, chinenfis, viminea, pur¬
purea, * muralis, altiflima, chondrilloides, japonica, al¬
ba, repens, pinnata, Integra, debilis, dentata, haftata,
bumilis, multiflora, lyrata, fquarrofa. Europe, Japan,
North America.
912. Leontodon, or Dandelion.
10 fpecies; viz. * taraxacum, bulbofum, aureum,
haftile, tuberofum, * autumnale, alpinum, * hifpidum,
* hirtum, tomentofum. Europe, Africa, N. Amer.
913. Hieracium, on Hawkweed.
39 fpecies ; viz. incanum, pumilum, * alpinum, *ta-
raxaci, alpeftre, venofum, * pilofella, * dubium, * au¬
ricula, cymofum, praemorfum, aurantiacum, gronovii,
gmelini, fanftum, capenfe, pontanum, paniculatum,
porrifolium, chondrilloides, * murorum, humile, *pa-
ludofum, lyratum, cerinthoides, amplexicaule, pyre-
naicum, blattarioides, pilofum, auftriacum, helveti-
cum, * molle, ftipitatum, * villofum, glutinofum, kal-
mii, fprengerianum, * fabandum, * umbellatum.
a.pmum. * H. leaves oblong, entire, toothed ; ftalk almofl: na¬
ked ; calyx hairy.—This differs from the other laftef-
cent plants, being lefs bitter and more aftringent. It
is efteemed hurtful to Iheep. Goats eat it. Sheep are
not fond of it. Horfes and cows refufe it.
914. Crepis, or Bafe Hawhweed.
iblpecies; viz. pygmaea, burfifolia, barbata, vefi-
caria, alpina, rubra, * foetid a, afpera, rhagadioloides,
fibirica, * tedtorum, * biennis, virens, diofcoridis, pul-
chra, neglefta. Siberia, Alps, Azores, Arabia.
915. Andryala, or Downy Sow-thi/l/e.
Three fpecies; viz. integrifolia, ragufina, lanata.
S. Europe, Archipelago, Canary.
916. Hyoseris, or Yellow-eye.
_ Nine fpecies; viz. foetida, radiata, lucida, fcabra,
virginica, * minima, hedypnois, rhagadioloides, cre-
tica. Europe, N. America, Madeira.
917. Seriola.
1 our ipecies ; viz. laevigata, aethnenfis, cretenfis,
urens. South of Europe.
918. Hypoch^eris, or GoJljmore.
Four fpecies ; viz. helvetica, * maculata, * glabra,
* radicata. Europe.
maculata. * H. item almofl: bare, with a folitary branch ; leaves
egg-oblong, entire, toothed.—The leaves of this plant
are boiled, and eaten as cabbage. Horfes are fond of
this plant when green, but they do not like it when
dry. Cows, goats, and fwine eat it. Sheep are not
fond of it. The country people believe it a cure for
tetters and other cutaneous eruptions, poflibly through
, a vulgar prejudice, founded on its fpotted leaves.
919. Lapsana, dr Nipple-wort.
Five fpecies; viz. * communis, zacintha, ftellata,
kolpinii, rhagadiolus. Siberia, South of Europe.
Vol. IV. Part I.
ANY. 24
920. Catananche, or Candla Lion's-foot.
Three fpecies ; viz. coerulea, lutea, graeca. South
of Europe.
921. Cichorium, or Succory, Endive.
Three fpecies; viz. * intybus, endivia, fpinofum.
Europe.
* C. flowers in pairs, fitting ; leaves notched.-—The intybus^
leaves, when blanched, are eaten early in the fpring
in falads. 'I hey lofe their bitternefs by cultivation.
The roots, gathered before the ftem {hoots up, are
eatable, and when dried, will make bread. Sheep,
goats, and fwine eat it.
The feed of the cichorium endivia is raifed in gar¬
dens for culinary ufe. It is a gentle cooler and ape¬
rient, nearly of the fame quality with the former fpecies.
1 he feeds are ranked among the four leffer cold feeds.
922. Scolymus, or Golden Yhi/lle.
Two fpecies; viz. maculatus, hifpanicus. S. Eur.
923. Arctium, or Burdock.
Three fpecies; viz. lappa, perfonata, carduelis.
Europe.
* A. leaves heart-fhaped, without thorns, on leaf- lappa.
ftalks.—Before the flowers appear, the items, ftripped
of their rind, are boiled, and eaten like afparagus ;
wTen raw, they are good with oil and vinegar. A
decoction of the roots is efteemed by fome very fenfible
phyficians, as equal, if not fuperior to that of farfapa-
rilla; Boys catch bats by throwing the prickly heads
up into the air. Cows and goats eat it. Sheep and
horfes refufe it. Swine are not fond of it.
924. Serratula, or Saw-wort, Way-thijlle.
15 fpecies; viz. * tindtoria, coronata, japonica, * al¬
pina, falicifolia, multiflora, noveboracenfis, prmalta,
glauca, fquarrofa, fcariofa, fpicata, amara, centauroi-
des, * arvenfis. Europe, N. America.
* S. leaves lyre-ftiaped and wing-cleft ; the terminat- tinttoria.
ing fegment very large ; florets all alike.—This plant
is very much ufed by the dyers to give a yellow co¬
lour, but is inferior to the refeda ; therefore its ufe is
confined to the coarfer woollen cloths. Goats eat it.
Horfes are not fond of it. Sheep, fwine, and cow’s re¬
fufe it.
S. leaves toothed, thorny.—This fpecies is faid to arvenjis.
yield a very pure vegetable alkali when burnt. Goats
eat. it : neither cows, horfes, ftieep or fwine are fond
of it. Horfes fometimes eat the young tops.
925. Carduus, or Thijile.
38 fpecies ; viz. leucographus, * lanceolatus, arabi-
cus, * nutans, * acanthoides, crifpus, polyanthemus,
* paluftris, pycnocephalus, argentatus, auftralis, dif-
fedhis, cyanoides, canus, pe£fhiatus, defloratus, monf-
peffulanus, pannonicus, tuberofus, chius, parviflorus
linearis, cafabonas, ftellatus, *marianus, fyriacus, *e-
riophorus, altiflimus, virginianus, heterophyllus, *he-
lenioides, ferratuloides, tataricus, ciliatus, flavefcens
mulans, mollis, * acaulis. Europe, N. America,
Barbary, Japan.
* C. leaves toothed, taorny at the edge; flowers inpalu/lrist
bunches, upright ; fruitftalks without thorns. This,
and almoft all the other fpecies of this genus, may be
eaten like the burdock, before the flowers are formed.
Swine eat it. Horfes are very fond of it. Cows re¬
fufe it.
I i * C.
/anceolatus* C. leaves with winged-clefts, hifpid •, fegments flrad-
ling *, calyx egg-fliaped, thorny, woolly j ftem hairy.
—Few plants are more difregarded than this, and yet
its ufe is very confiderable. If a heap of clay is thrown
up, nothing would grow upon it for feveral years, did
not the feeds of this plant, wafted by wind, fix and ve¬
getate thereon. Under the (belter of this other vege¬
tables appear, and the whole foon becomes fertile.
The flowers, like thofe of the artichoke, have the pro¬
perty of curdling milk. Sheep and fwine refufe it.
Neither horfes, cows, nor goats are fond of it.
marlanus. * C. leaves embracing the ftem, halberd-draped and
wing-cleft, thorny ; calyx without any leaves near it;
thorns channelled and fet with other little thorns.—
This plant is eaten as a falad when young. The young
ftalks, peeled and foake'd in water to take off the bit-
ternefs, are excellent. The fcales of the cup are as
good as artichokes. The root is good to eat early in
the fpring.
CCaulls. * C. ftemlefs j calyx fmooth.—Cows refufe the plant.
It kills all plants which grow beneath it, whence it is
very injurious in meadows.
926. Cnicus, or BleJJ'ed Thijlle.
Nine fpecies 5 viz. oleraceus, erifithales, ferox, pyg-
maeus, acarna, fpinofiflimus, centauroides, uniflorus,
cernuus. Europe.
927. Onopordum, or Woolly or Cotton Thi/l/e.
Five fpecies ; viz. *acanthium, illyricum, arabicum,
graecum, acaulon. Europe, Arabia.
acanthium. * O. calyx fcales expanding, their points (landing out;
leaves egg-oblong, indented.—The receptacle and the
young ftems may be boiled and eaten like artichoke.
The ancients thought this plant a fpecific in cancerous
cafes. Cows, fheep, and horfes refufe it.
928. Cynara, or Artichoke.
Four fpecies •, viz. fcolymus, cardunculus, humilis,
acaulis. S. Europe, Madeira, Barbary.
929. Car linA, or Carline Thi/lle.
Eight fpecies •, viz. acaulis, lanata, corymbofa, *vul-
gatis, racemofa, pyrenaica, xeranthemoides, atradly-
loides. Europe, Cape, Barbary.
%'ulgaris. '* C. ftem, with many flowers in a corymbus; flowers
terminating; rays of the calyx yellow white.—Its
flowers expand in dry, and clofe in moift, weather.
'They retain this property a long time, and therefore
are employed as hygrometers. It is faid to be an ex¬
cellent remedy in hyfterical cafes. Goats eat it. Cows
refufe it. Its prefence indicates a very barren foil.
The carlina acaulis is a very prickly fort of thiftle,
growing fpontaneoufly in.the fouthern parts of France,
Spain, Italy, and the mountains of Switzerland } from
whence the dried roots are brought to us. This root
is about an inch thick, externally of a pale rufty brown
colour, corroded, as it were, on the furface, and per¬
forated with numerous fmall holes, appearing, when
cut, as if worm-eaten. It has a ftrong fmell, and a
(ubacrid, bitterifla, w’eakly aromatic tafte. Carlina
is looked upon as a warm diaphoretic and alexiphar-
mdc ; and has been for fome time greatly efteemed
by foreign phyficians, but never came much into ufe
among us : the prefent pradlice has entirely rejected it,
Tior is it often to be met with in the drops.
A N Y. ^ Syngenefia.
930. Atractylis, ox Dijlaff Thiftle.
Eight fpecies ; viz. gummifera, humilis, cancellata,
lancea, ovata, oppofitifolia, purpurea, mexicana. S.
Europe, Mexico, Japan.
1419. Barnadesia.
One fpecies; viz. fpinofa. S. America.
931. Carthamus, or Bafe Saffron.
10 fpecies; viz. tindlorius, lanatus, creticus, tingi-
tanus, coeruleus, mitiflimus, carduncellus, arborefcens,
falicifolius, corymbofus, S. Europe, Barbary, Ma¬
deira, Carolina.
The carthamus tinBorius is a foft kind of thiftle,
with only a few prickles about the edges of the leaves.
It is cultivated in large quantity in fome parts of Ger¬
many, from whence the other parts of Europe are fup-
plied with the flowers as a colouring drug, and the
feeds as a medicinal one. The flowers, well cured,
are not eafily diftinguifhable by the eye from faffron ;
but their want of fmell readily difcovers them. The
feeds are white, fmooth, of an oblong roundifti ftiape,
yet with four fenfible corners, about a quarter of an
inch in length, fo heavy as to fink in water ; of a vif-
cid fweetifh tafte, which in a little time becomes acrid
and naufeous. Thefe feeds have been celebrated as a
cathartic : they operate very dowdy, and for the mod
part diforder the bowels, efpecially when given in fub-
(tance. Triturated with aromatic dillilled waters, they
form an emulfion lefs offenfive, yet inferior in efficacy
to more common purgatives.
1287. Spilanthus.
Seven fpecies; viz. urens, pfeudo-acmella, acmella,
falivaria, atripicifolia, infipida, oleracea. E. Indies,
Peru, Jamaica.
932. Bidens, or Water Hemp-agrimony.
12 fpecies; viz. * tripartita, minima, nodiflora, te-
nella, * cernua, frondofa, pilofa, bipinnata, nivea, ver-
ticillata, fcandens, bullata. Europe, E. and W. In*
dies, America.
933. Cacalia, or Foreign Colts-foot.
27 fpecies; viz. papillaris, anteuphorbium, cuneifo-
lia, kleinia, ficoides, laciniata, repens, fufl'ruticofa,
laurifolia, cordifolia, afclepiadea, appendiculata, to-
mentofa, porophyllum, fonchifolia, incana, faracenica,
haftata, fuaveolens, atriplicifolia, alpina, echinata, al-
bifrons, bipinnata, acaulis, radicans, articulata. Alps,
E. Indies, N. America.
934. Ethulia.
Five fpecies; viz. conyzoides, fparganophora, diva-
ricata, tomentofa, bidentis. India, Jamaica, Carolina,
935. Eupatorium, or Hemp Agrimony.
28 fpecies; viz. dalea, hyffbpifolium, fcandens, hou-
ftonis, zeylanicum, feftilifolium, album, chinenfe, ro-
tundifolium, altiflimum, haftatum, fyriacum, trifolia-
tum, * cannabinum, cinereum, purpureum, macula-
turn, fcabrum, perfoliatum, coeleftinum, aromaticum,
ageratoides, odoratum, ivaefclium, urtiaefolium, ftoe-
chadifolium, microphyllum, japonicum. Europe, A-
merica, E. and W. Indies, Japan.
* E. calyx 5-flowered ; leaves wdth finger-like &\vi-cannabl*
(ions.—An infufion of a Handful of it vomits and pur- num.
ges fmartly. An ounce of the root, in decoflion,
is
gyngenefia, B O T
is a full dofe. In fmaller dofes the Dutch peafants
take it as an alterative, and as an antifcorbutic.
Goats eat it. Cows, horfes, fheep, and fwine re-
fufe it.
936. Ageratum, or Bafc Hemp-agrimony.
Two ipecies; viz. conyzoides, ciliare. America,
937. Petronia.
I7fpecies; viz. camphorata, oppofitifolia, flexicau-
lis, retorta, hirfuta, glabrata, inflexa, fcariofa, glome-
, rata, cinerea, villofa, membranacea, fpinofa, cepha-
lotes, pallens, minuta, fafciculata. C. of G. Hope.
938. Stachelina.
Eight fpecies j viz. gnaphaloides, dubia, arboref-
cens, fruticofa, ilicifolia, corymbofa, chamaepeuce, im-
bricata. S. of France, Spain, Cape, S. America.
939. Chrysocoma, or Goldylochs.
13 fpecies; viz. oppofitifolia, comaurea, dichotoma,
fericea, patula, cernua, ciliata, tomentofa, fcabra, li-
nofyris, bitlora, graminifolia, villofa. Europe, Cape,
Carolina.
940. Tarchonanthus, or Shrubby African Flea-bane.
Three fpecies ; viz. camphoratus, glaber, ericoides.
C. of G. Hope.
941. Calea, or Halbert-weed.
Four fpecies ; viz. jamaicenfis, oppofitifolia, amel-
lus, fcoparia. W. Indies, S. fea ifles, Carolina.
942. Santolina, or Lavender Cotton.
Four fpecies ; viz. chamajcypariflus, rofmarinifolia,
alpina, anthemoides. S. of Europe.
943. Athanasia.
20 fpecies ; viz. fquarrofa, feffilifiora, piynila, cre-
nata, uniflora, capitata, maritima, geniftifolia, pubef-
cens, annua, trifurcata, crithmifolia, linifolia, dentata,
parviflora, pinnata, peflinata, dentata, filiformis, ci¬
nerea. S. Europe, Africa, Carolina.
Order II. POLYGAMIA SUPERFLUA.
944. Tanacetum, or Tanfey.
Seven fpecies; viz. fibiricum, incanum, cotuloides,
annuum, monanthos, * vulgare, balfamita. Europe,
C. of G. Hope.
rj&fgare. •* T. leaves doubly winged, cut, ferrated.—This plant
is a wrarm deobftruent bitter, and its flavour not un¬
grateful. The tender leaves are fometimes ufed to give
a colour and flavour to puddings. If a dead animal
fubftance is rubbed with this plant, the flefh-fly will
not attack it. The Finlanders obtain a green dye
from it. Cows and fheep eat it. Horfes, goats, and
fwine refufe it. The feeds are an excellent vermi¬
fuge.
The tanacetmn balfamita rvas formerly a very com¬
mon garden plant, and of frequent ufe both for culi¬
nary and medicinal purpofes ; but it is at prefent very
little regarded for either, though it fhould feem from
its fenfible qualities to be equal or fuperior, as a medi¬
cine, to fome aromatic herbs which practice has re¬
tained. The leaves have a bitterifh warm aromatic
tafte ; and a very pleafant fmell, approaching to that
of mint, or a mixture of mint and maudlin. Water
elevates their flavour in difiillation, and re&ified fpirit
extrafls it by infufion. It has been recommended in
ANY. 251
hyfterical affe&ions; and by fome it has been fuppofed
to be very powerful in correcting the influence of opi¬
um. The leaves fhould be collected in the month oi
July or Auguft.
945. Artemisia, or Wormwood, Mugwort.
29 fpecies; viz. vermiculata, capillaris, judaica, ae-
thiopica, contra, abrotanum, arborefeens, fantonica,
* campeftris, paluftris, crithmifolia, maritima, glacia-
lis, rupeftris, fpicata, pontica, auftriaca, annua, tana-
cetifolia, * abfinthium, * vulgaris, peCtinata, integri-
folia, japonica, * coerulefcens, dracunculus, chinenfis,
maderafpatana, minima. Eur. Cape, Egypt, China.
* A. leaves many-cleft, cottony ; bunches on crooked/wtf/vVwn?,
footftalks ; female florets 3.—This plant, in its wild
ftate, fmells like marum or camphor ; but in our gar¬
dens it is lefs grateful, though ftill much more grate¬
ful than the next fpecies. It is ufed as an ingredient
in diftilled waters, and beat with thrice its weight of
fine fugar, it is formed into a conferve. Its virtues
are the fame with thofe of the next fpecies, but in a
weaker degree. Horfes eat it. Cows, goats, and
fheep, refufe it.
* A. leaves compound, many-cleft; flowers fomewEatabfnthium,
globular, pendent; receptacle wmolly.—The leaves
and flowers of this fpecies are very bitter : the roots
are W’arm and aromatic. A confiderable quantity of
elfential oil rifes from it in diflillation. This oil is ufed
both externally and internally to deftroy worms. The
leaves, put into four beer, foon deftroy the acefcency. .
They refill putrefaftion, and are therefore a principal
ingredient in antifeptic fomentations. An infufion of
them is a good ftomachic ; ai\d, xvith the addition of
fixed alkaline fait, a powerful diuretic in fome dropfi-
cal cafes. The allies afford a more pure alkaline fait
than moft other vegetables, excepting bean-ftalks,
broom, and the larger trees. Linnaeus mentions two
cafes, wherein an effence prepared from this plant, and
taken for a confiderable time, prevented the formation
of ftones in the kidneys or bladder : the patients for¬
bearing the ufe of wine and acids. It might be lu-
fpefted, that, like other bitters, its long continued ufe
mull weaken the a6lion of the nervous fyftem ; but in
thefe inftances no fuch effeS took place. An infufion
of it given to a woman that fuckles, makes her milk
bitter. It gives a bitternefs to the flelli of Iheep that
eat it. Horfes and goats are not fond of it. Cows
and fwine refufe it. Turkeys are fond of it. The
plant, fteeped in boiling water, and repeatedly applied
to a bruife, will remove the pain in a Ihort time, and
prevent the fwelling and difcoloration of the part.
* A. leaves wing-cleft, flat, cut, cottony underneath ; vulgaris.
bunches Ample, bending ; florets of the circumference
5.—In fome countries this plant is ufed as a culinary
aromatic. A decoclion of it is taken by the common
people to cure the ague. The Chinefe make ufe of it
in healing wmunds, applying the frefti plant bruifed,
A dram of the leaves, powdered, was given four times
a-day, by Dr Home, to a woman who had been af-
feffed with hyfteric fits for many years. The fits
ceafed in a few days. Sheep and fwine refufe it. Nei¬
ther horfes, cows, or goats, are fond of it. Dr An-
derfon informs us, that (beep are very fond of it, de¬
vouring it with great greedinefs, efpecially the roots,
which Teem to form a moft delicate morfel.
The artemifia abrotanum, or fouthernwood, is aftmib-
I i 2 by
252 B O T
by plant, clothed with very finely divided leaves, of a
light-green colour. The flowers, which are very fmall
and yellowifh, hang downwards, feveral together, from
the middle of the branches to the top. It is not, like
fome other fpecies of the artemifia, indigenous in Bri¬
tain *, but although a native of warm climates, it readi¬
ly bears the viciffitudes of ours, and is eafily cultivated
in gardens j from thence alone it is obtained when em¬
ployed for medical purpofes. The leaves fall off eve¬
ry winter, but the roots and ftalks continue for many
years.
Southernwood has a ftrong fmell, which to moft
people is not difagreeable. It has a pungent, bitter,
and fomewhat naufeous tafle. Thefe qualities are very
completely extracted by redlified fpirit and the tinc¬
ture, thus formed, is of a beautiful green colour. They
are lefs perfedlly extradled by watery liquors, the in-
fufion being of a light brown colour.
Southernwood, as wrell as fome other fpecies of the
fame genus, particularly the abjinthiurn and fantoni-
cum, has been recommended as an anthelmintic, and
it has alfo been fometimes ufed as a ilimulant, deter¬
gent, and fudorific. It has likewife been employed
externally in difcutient and antifeptic fomentations. It
has alfo been ufed under the form of lotion and oint¬
ment for cutaneous eruptions, and for preventing the
hair from falling off. It is at prefent very little em¬
ployed in pradlice.
The worm-feed of the artemifia aujlriaca is the pro¬
duce of a plant of the wormwood or mugwort kind,
growdng in the Levant. It is a fmall, light, chaffy
feed, compofed, as it w7ere, of a number of thin mem¬
branous coats, of a yellowifh colour, an unpleafant
fmell, and a very bitter tafte. Thefe feeds are cele¬
brated for anthelmintic virtues, which they have in
common with other bitters ; and are fometimes taken
with this intention, either mixed wuth molaffes or can¬
died with fugar : their unpleafant talle renders the form
of a powrder or deco£lion inconvenient.
946. Gnaphalium, or EverlaJUng, or Cudweed.
59 fpecies ; viz. eximium, arboreum, grandiflorum,
fruticans, crifpum, appendiculatum, coronatum, difco-
lorum, muricatum, ericoides, teretifolium, mucronatum,
floechas, ignefcens, dentatum, ferratum, patulum, pe-
tiolatum, craflifolium, maritimum, repens, umbellatum,
hifpidum, cylindricum, orientale, arenarium, rutilans,
milleflorum, imbricatum, cymofum, nudifolium, * lu-
tec-album, pedunculare, odoratiffimum, fanguineum,
foetidum, undulatum, crifpum, helianthemifolium, fquar-
rofum, flellatum, obtufifolium, * margaritaceum, plan-
tagineum, * dioicum, alpinum, indicum, purpureum,
denudatum, * fylvaticum, verticillatum, oculus cati,
pilofellum, declinatum, coronatum, * fupinum, uligino-
fum, glomeratum, japonicum. Eur. Ind. Africa, N.
America.
947. Heranthemum, or Aujirian Sneeze-wort.
16 fpecies j viz. annuum, veftitum, fpeciofiffimum,
proliferum, imbricatum, canefcens, retortum, fpinofum,
fefamoides, virgatum, ftachelina, variegatum, panicula-
tum, fulgidum, ftoloniferum, recurvatum. S. Europe,
Cape.
948. Carpesium.
Two fpecies 5.vib. cernuum, abrotanoides. Auffria,
Spain, Italy, China.
A N Y. Syngenefia*
949. Baccharis, or Ploughman's Spikenard.
Eight fpecies j viz. ivcefolia, nerviifolia, arborea, ha-
limifolia, diofcoridis, indica, brafiliana, foetida. Cape,
India, America.
750. Convza, or Greater Fleabane.
25 fpecies ; viz. * Iquarrofa, linifolia, fordida, faxa-
tilis, canefcens, rupeflris, fcabra, alteroides, bifrons, lo-
bata, bifoliata, pubiger^, tortuofa, Candida, anthelmin-
tica, balfamifera, cinerea, odorata, chinenfis, hirfuta,
arborefcens, fruticofa, virgata, decurrens, aurita. Eu¬
rope, Cape, E. and W. Indies, America.
951. Erigeron, or LeJJ'er Fleabane.
22 fpecies j viz. vifcofum, graveolens, glutinofuir,
ficulum, carolinianum, *canadenfe, bonarienfe, jamai-
cenfe, philadelphicum, aegyptiacum, gouani, * acre,
* alpinum, unillorum, gramineum, camphoratum, japo¬
nicum, fcandens, tuberofum, toetidum, tricuneatum, pin-
natum. Europe, China, Africa, America.
952. Tussilago, or Colts-foot.
1 2 fpecies j viz. anandria, dentata, nutans, alpina,
difcolor, fylveffris, * farfara, japonica, frigida, alba,
* hybrida, * petafites. Europe, Japan, Newfoundland,
Jamaica.
* T. ftalk with one flower, tiled } leaves fomewhatfarfara,
heart-fhaped, angular, finely toothed.—This is the firft
plant that vegetates in marie, or limeftone rubble.
The downy fubftance on the under furface of the leaves,
wrapped in a rag, dipped in a folution of faltpetre, and
dried in the fun, makes the belt tinder ; the leaves are
the bafis ol- the Britifh herb-tobacco. They are fome¬
what auftere, bitterifh, and mucilaginous to the tafte.
They were formerly much ufed in coughs and confump-
tive complaints ; and perhaps, not without reafon, for
Dr Cullen has found them to do confiderable fervice in
fcrophulous cafes : he gives a decoftion of the dried
leaves, and finds it fucceed where fea-water has failed.
And Fuller relates a cafe of a girl, wdth 12 fcrophulous
fores, who was cured by drinking daily as much as Are
could, for above four months, of a decoftion of the leaves,
made fo ftrong as to be fweetiftr and glutinous. Goats
and ftreep eat it. Cows are fond of it. Horfes and
fwine refufe it. It may be deftroyed by cutting off the
crown of the root in March.
* T. panicle egg-flraped j female florets few.—Its roots^f/^>fJ((
abound with a refinous matter. They have a ftrong
fmell, and a bitterifh acrid tafte. Horfes, cow's, goats,
and iheep, eat it. Its large leaves afford ftielter from
fhowers to poultry and other fmall animals.
953. Senecio, or Groundfel, Ragwort.
59 fpecies •, viz. hieracifolius, purpureus, cernuus,
perficifolius, virgatus, divaricatus, pfeudo-chyna, recli-
natus, vulgaris, arabicus, peucedanifolius, japonicus,
triflorus, segyptius, lividus, trilobus, * vifcofus, * fylva-
ticus, nebrodenfis, glaucus, varicofus, haftatus, pubige-
rus, elegans, fqualidus, erucifolius, incanus, abrotanifo-
lius, canadenfis, diffufus, * jacobaea, * tenuifolius, au¬
reus, lyratus, alpinus, umbellatus, linifolius, rofmarini-
folius, * paludofus, nemorenfis, * farracenicus, fibiricus,
dorea, doronicum, longifolius, cruciatus, juniperinus,
byzantinus, halimifolius, ilicifolius, rigidus, polifolius,
angulatus, maritimus, erofus, marginatus, lanatus, cor-
difolius, glaftifolius. Europe, Africa, E. Indies, Ja¬
pan, N. America.
/
Syngenefia. B O T
vulgaris. * S. leaves winged, indented, embracing the ftem ;
flowers fcattered.—A ftrong infufion of this plant vo¬
mits. The bruifed leaves are a good application to
boils. The feeds are very acceptable to linnets and
goldfinches when confined in cages. Cows are not
fond of it. Goats and fwine eat it. Horfes and flreep
refufe it.
jacobcea. * S. leaves lyre-flraped, almoft winged •, fegments fine¬
ly jagged ; ftem upright.—If this plant is gathered be¬
fore the flowers open, and ufed frelh, it dyes wool of a
full green, but the colour is apt to fade. If woollen
cloth is boiled in alum water, and then in a decoftion
of the flowers, it takes a beautiful deep yellow. Hor¬
fes and fheep refufe it. Cows are not fond of it. Horfes
and cows, however, eat it when young.
9^4- Aster, or Starwort.
38 fpecies 5 viz. taxifolius, reflexus, crinitus, fruticu-
lofus, tenellus, alpinus, fibiricus, * tripolium, amellus,
divaricatus, hiflbpifolius, dumofus, ericoides, tenuifolius,
linariifolius, linifolius, acris, concolor, rigidus, novae-
anglise, unflulatus, grandiflorus, cordifolius, puniceus,
annuus, vetnus, indicus, laevis, mutabilis, tradefcanti,
novi-belgii, tardiflorus, mifer, macrophyllus, chinenfis,
tataricus, hifpidus, fcaber. Europe, Cape, N. Alia,
America.
tripolium. * A. leaves ftrap-fpear-flraped, flefliy, fmootb, 3-fibred;
calyx fcales blunt, fomewhat membranaceous.—Goats
and horfes eat this fpecies. Cows and fwine refufe it.
Sheep are not fond of it.
955. Solidago, or Golden Rod.
14 fpecies •, viz. iempervirens, canadenfis, altiflima,
lateriflora, bicolor, lanceolata, caefia, mexicana, flexi-
caulis, latifolia, * virgaurea, minuta, rigida, novebora-
cenfis. Europe, N. America.
virgaurea.* S. ftem ferpentine, branched *, leaves moftly fitting j
flowers in crowded panicles.—This plant is found wild
on heaths and in woods, producing fpikes of yellow
flowers in Auguft. The leaves have a moderately af-
tringent bitter tafte ; and hence prove ferviceable in
debility and laxity of the vifcera, and diforders pro¬
ceeding from that caufe.
957. Cineraria, or Sky-jlower.
26 fpecies ; viz. geifolia, cymbalarifolia, fibirica,
glauca, fonchifolia, cordifolia, crifpa, * integrifolia,
longifolia, * paluftris, aurea, maritima, canadenfis, ca-
pillacea, linifolia, purpurata, amelloides, americana, ala-
ta, elongata, cacalioides, denticulata, perfoliata, lineata,
haftifolia, japonica- Europe, Africa, N. America, Ja¬
maica.
956. Inula, or Elecampane.
29 fpecies } viz. * heleniutn, odora, fuaveolens, odo-
rus-chrifti, britannica, * dyfenterica, undulata, indica,
pulicaria, arabica, fpirseifolia, fquarrofa, bubonium, fa-
licina, hirta, mariana, germanica, japonica, dubia, enfi-
folia, crithmifolia, provincialis, montana, seftuans, bi-
frons, coerulea, aromatica, pinifolia, foetida. Europe,
Cape, E. Indies, N. America.
belenium. * I. leaves embracing the ftem, egg-fhaped, wrinkled,
cottony underneath 5 fcales of the calyx egg-Ihaped.—
This is a large downy plant, fometimes found wild in
moift rich foils. The elecampane, or root, efpecially
wh^n dry, has an agreeable aromatic fmell; its tafte on
firft chewing, is glutinous, and as it were fomewhat ran-
»
ANY. ^ *S2
cid ; in a little time it difcovers an aromatic bitternefs,
which by degrees becomes confiderably acrid and pun¬
gent. Elecampane root poffefl'es the general virtues of
alexipharmacs; it is principally recommended for pro¬
moting expectoration in humoral afthmas and coughs 5
liberally taken, it is faid to excite urine, and loofen
the belly. In fome parts of Germany large quantities
of this root are candied and uled as a ftomachic, for
ftrengthening the tone of the vifcera in general, and for
attenuating tenacious juices j fpirituous liquors extraCf
its virtues in greater perfection than watery ones: the
former fcarce elevate any thing in diftillation ; w ith
the latter an effential oil arifes, which concretes into
white flakes: this pofleffes at firft the flavour of the
elecampane, but is very apt to lofe it on keeping. An
extraCt made with water, poffefies the bitternefs and
pungency of the root, but in a lefs degree than one
made with Ipirit. The root is efteemed a good peCto-
ral. Dr Hill fays, he knows, from his own experience,
that an infufion of the freflt root, fweetened with ho¬
ney, is an excellerrt medicine in the hooping-cough.
A decoCtion of the root cures flieep that have the icab.
Horfes and goats eat it. Cows, Iheep, and fwine, re¬
fufe it.
* I. leaves embracing the ftem, heart-oblong ; ftem dyfenten-
wmolly, forming a kind ol panicle ; fcales of the calyx ca.
briftle-ftiaped.—It has a peculiar feent, compared by
fome to that of foap. The Ruffian fokliers in the Per-
fian expedition under General Kelt wrere much trou¬
bled with the bloody flux, which was cured by the ufe
of this plant. Cows are not fond of it. Sheep and
goats refufe it.
958. Arnica, or Leopard's Bane.
11 fpecies ; viz. montana, pilofelloides, fcorpioides,
doronicum, maritima, crocea, ciliata, japonica, pahna-
ta, gerbera, coronopifolia. Europe, Africa, Japan.
The arnica montana had formerly a place in our
pharmacopoeias under the title of doronicum germani-
cum. Then, however, it was little known or ufed j
and being juftly confidered as one of the deleterious
vegetables, it was rejeCted : but it has again been in¬
troduced into the lift both of the London and Edin¬
burgh colleges on the authority of frefh obfervations,
particularly of thofe of Dr Collins of Vienna, who has
lately publifhed a differtation on the medical virtues of
the arnica.
This plant growrs in different parts of Europe, par¬
ticularly in Germany. It has an acrid bitter tafte, and
when bruifed, emits a pungent odour, wTich excites
fneezing. On this account the country people in fome
parts of Germany ufe it in fnuff, and imoke it like to¬
bacco. It w'as formerly reprefented as a remedy of
great efficacy againft effufions and fuffufions of blood
from falls, bruifes, and the like ; and it w7as then alfo
mentioned as a remedy in jaundice, gout, nephritis,.
&c. but in thefe affedlions it is now very little if at all
employed.
Of late it has been principally recommended in pa¬
ralytic affedlions, and in cafes where a lofs or diminu¬
tion of fenfe arifes from an affiedtion of the nerves, as
in inftances of amaurofis. In thefe it has chiefly been
employed under the form of infufion. From a dram
to half an ounce of the flowers has been diredled to be >
infufed in a pint of boiling wrater, and taken in differ¬
ent:
254
pcrenniSi
HOT
ent dofes in the courfe of the day } fometimes it produ-
ces vomiting, fometimes fweating, fometimes diurefis:
but frequently its ufe is attended with no fenfible ope¬
ration, unlefs it can be confidered as fuch, that in fome
cafes of paralyfis, the cure is faid to be preceded by a
peculiar prickling, and by (hooting pains in the affed-
ed parts.
Belides being employed in paralytic affe&ions, it has
alio been of late reprefented as a very powerful anti-
fpalmodic j and it is faid to have been fuccefsfully em¬
ployed in tevers, particularly thofe of the intermittent
kind, and likewife in caies of gangrene. In thofe dif-
eal’es it has been faid to prove as efficacious as the Peru¬
vian bark, when employed under the form of a pretty
ftrong decodtion, taken in fmall dofes frequently re¬
peated, or under the form of an elefluary with honey.
But thefe alleged virtues of the arnica have not
been confirmed by any trials made in Britain, with
which we are acquainted j and we are of opinion that its
real influence dill remains to be determined by future
obfervations. It is, however, one .^f thofe adtive fub-
flances from which fomething may be expedled.
959. Doronjcum, or Leopard's Bane.
I hree fpecies; viz, * pardalianches, plantagincum,
bellidiaftrum, Europe, N. America.
960. Perdicium.
bive fpecies j viz, femiflofculare, radiale, brafilienfe,
magelhnicum, tomentofum. Cape, Japan, Jamaica,
8. America.
1421. MurrsiA.
One fpecies; viz, clematis. New Granada,
961. Helf.nium, or Bafe Sun-Jlower,
One fpecies; viz, autumnale. N, America.
962, Beelis, or Baijy,
Two fpecies; viz. *perennis, annua. Europe,
* B. (talk naked.—The leaves are (lightly acrid. The
roots have a penetrating pungency. No attention is
paid to it, except what it claims from the beauty of its
(lowers. The flowers clofe at night, Horfes, (heep,
and cows refufe it,
1322. Beelium, or Bafe Daify,
Two fpecies; viz, bellidioides, minutum. Levant,
India,
964, Tagetes, or African Mary gold.
Three fpecies $ viz, patula, eredla, minuta. Mexi¬
co, Chili.
963, Leysera.
Three fpecies ; viz. gnaphalodes, callicornia, pale-
ficea. Cape, California, Carolina,
974, Zinnia,
Two fpecies j viz, pauciflora, multiflora, N, Ame¬
rica, Peru.
965. Pectis.
Three fpecies; viz, ciliaris, pundlata, linifolia, A-
merica,
966, Chrysanthemum, or Corn Marygold.
24 (pecies; viz, frutefcens, ferotinum, atratum, al-
pinum, * leucanthemum, montanum, graminifolium,
monfpelienfe, balfamita, * inodorum, achillaea, corym*
bofum, indicum, pinnatifidum, ardticum, pedlinatum,
•fegetum, myconis, italicum, millefoliatur0,bipinnatum,
n y.
Syngenefia*
India,
coronariurn, floiculoffim, japopicum, Europi
Africa, N. America,
# C. leaves embracing the flem, oblong, ferrated up- leuccnthe
wards, toothed at the bafe.—The young leaves may be mum.
eaten in falads, Horfes and goats eat it. Cows and
fwine refule it.
* C. leaves embracing the dem, jagged upwards,yeo-c/r/wj,
tooth-ferrated towards the bafe This fpecies was im¬
ported into Sweden along with corn from Jutland about
the end of the lad century. In Denmark there is a
law to oblige the farmers to root it up from their corn
fields. It may be dedroyed by dunging the ground in
autumn, followed by a fummer fallow, and harrowing
the land about five days after fowing the grain. Its
yellow flowers, however, which follow the fun in a
very remarkable manner, give a very remarkable bril¬
liancy to the fields in tillage, and pleafe the eve of the
pafling traveller.-—A large quantity which grew on
fome arable land, was cut when in flower, dried and
eaten by horfes as a fubditute for hay'. It is ufed by
the Germans for dyeing yellow,
967. Matricaria, or Feverfew.
Six fpecies 5 viz, * parthenium, * maritima, fuaveo-
lens, * chamomilla, argentea, adeioides. Europe,
Curagoa, S, America.
» M. leaves compound flat; leafets egg.ftaped, cut
iruitltalks branched.—.The whole plant has a drong
fmell and a bitter tade, and yields an eflential oil by
didillation, A horfe refufed it,
* M. Receptacle conical, rays expanding; calyx Scales
equal at the edge,-—Its properties refemble thofe of
anthemu nobilis. The Finlanders ufe an infufion of it
in confumptive cafes. Cows, goats and dieep eat it.
Horfes are not fond of it. Swine refufe it.
1420. Unxia,
One fpecies; viz, camphorata. Surinam.
968. Cotula, or May-weed.
13 fpecies; viz, anthemoides, aurea, ftri&a, corono-
pifolia, umbellata, quinqueloba, 'vifeofa, turbinata,
tanacetifolia, verbefina, capenfis, pilulifera, fervicea.
S, Europe, Barbary, Cape, Jamaica,
969, Anacyclus,
Four (pecies; viz, creticus, orientalis, aureus, Va¬
lentinus, Europe,
970. Ant hem is, or Chamomile,
18 (pecies; viz. cota, altiffima, * maritima, tomen-
tofa, mixta, alpina, chia, * nobilis, # arvenfis, audri-
aca, * cotula, pyrethrum, Valentina, repanda, triner-
via, americana, * timdoria, arabica. Europe, Africa,
N, America.
* A. receptacle conical^; chad briftle-diaped ; feeds
naked.—Toads are faid to be fond of this plant. It is
very ungrateful and difpleafing to bees. Goats and
(beep are not fond of it. Horfes, cows, and fwine re¬
fufe it. It frequently blidersthe (kin of reapers, and of
children who happen to gather it. The heads rubbed
between the fingers fmell intolerably difagreeable,
* A. leaves winged compound, drap-fliaped, acute, nobilis.
fomewhatwoolly.—The leaves and flowershave a drong
not ungrateful fmell, and a bitter naufeous tade. They
afford an effential oil. An infufion of the flowers is of¬
ten ufed as a domachic, and as an antifpafmodic. In
large quantities it excites vomiting. The powdered
flowers
^55
Syngenefia, BO T
flowers in large dofes have cured agues, even when the
bark had failed. Beth the leaves and dowers poffefs
verv condderable antifeptic properties, and are there¬
fore ufed in antifeptic fomentations and poultices.
From their antifpafmodic powers they are frequently
found to relieve pain, either applied externally or ta¬
ken internally. Ray recommends the dowers in calcul¬
ous cafes.
tinftoria. * A. leaves doubly winged, ferrated, cottony under¬
neath ; dem fupporting a corymbus.—The dowers af¬
ford a remarkably clean and good yellow dye. The
dowers of the chryfanthemum fegetum refemble them
much in appearance, but experience proves they can¬
not be fubftituted in their place. Horfes and goats
eat it. Sheep are not fond of it. Cows and fwine re»
fufe it.
Achillea, or Milfoil, Yarrow.
21 fpecies; viz. fantolina, ageratum, falcata, to-
mentofa, pubefcens, abrotanifolia, bipinnata, aegypti-
aca, macrophylla, impatiens, clavennoe, * ptarmica,
alpina, atrata, mofchata, nana, magna, * millefolium,
nobilis, odorata, cretica. Europe, Africa.
ptarmica. * A. leaves drap fpear-diaped, embracing the dem,
finely ferrated —The roots have a hot biting tade.
The young tops are drarp and pleafant in fpring falads.
The powdered leaves excite fneezing. Horfes, cows,
dieep, goats and fwine eat it.
millefolium* A. leaves doubly winged j fegments of the wings
drap-diaped, toothed.—The dowers of this plant yield
an efiential oil. The leaves are celebrated by the ma¬
teria medica writers for a variety of purpofes, but they
are little attended to at prefent. Sheep and fwine re-
fufe it. Horfes, cowls, and goats are not fond of it.
972. Tridax, or Trailing Star-ivort.
One fpecies , viz. procumbens. Vera Cruz.
978. Amellus, or Star-flower.
Two fpecies •, viz. lychnites, umbellatus. Cape,
Jamaica, Carolina.
1321. Eclipta.
Four fpecies} viz. eredfa, pun&ata, latifolia, prof-
trata. E. and W. Indies.
973. Sigesbeckia.
Two fpecies j viz. orientalis, occidentalis. India,
China, Virginia, Peru.
975. Verbesina, or Indian Hemp-agrimony.
I 1 fpecies •, viz. alata, chinenfis, virginica, lavenia,
dichotoma, bidora, calendulacea, nodidora, fruticofa,
gigantea, bofvallea. E. and W. Indies, China, North
America.
977. Buphthalmum, or Ox-eye.
II fpecies; viz. frutefcens, arborefcens, fericeum,
fpinofum, aquaticum, maritimum, durum, falicifolium,
grandidorum, fpeciofifiimum, helianthoides. Europe,
N. America, Arabia, Jamaica.
Order III. POLYGAMIA FRUSTRANEA.
979. FIelianthus, or Sun-flower.
13 fpecies; viz. annuus, indicus, multidorus, tube-
rofus, decapetalus, frondofus, ftrumofus, giganteus, al-
tidimus, laevis, anguftifolius, divaricatus, atrorubens.
America.
ANY.
980. Rudbeckia, or Dwarf Sunflower.
Six fpecies; viz. laciniata, triloba, hirta, purpurea,
oppofitifolia, anguftifolia. N. America.
981. Coreopsis, or Tick-feed Sunflower.
12 fpecies; viz. verticillata, coronata, leucantha,
chryfantha, tripteris, alba, reptans, baccata, auricula-
ta, lanceolata, bidens, alternifolia. North America.
983. Osmites.
Four fpecies; viz. bellidiaftrum, camphorina, ader-
ifcoides, calycina. C. of G. Hope.
SCLEROCARPUS.
One fpecies; viz. africanus. Africa.
982. Gorteria.
12 fpecies; viz. perfonata, rigens, fquarrofa, fetoia,
ciliaris, aderoides, herbacea, hifpida, fpinofa, cernua,
unitlora, barbata. C. of G. Hope.
1271. Zoegea.
Two fpecies; viz. leptaurea, capenfis. C. of G,
Hope.
984. Centaurea, or Blue-bottle, Knapweed.
66 fpecies; viz. crupina, mofchata, erucifolia, lippii,
alpina, centaureum, purygia, capillata, unidora, li-
nifolia, peflinata, * nigra, pullata, montana, * cya-
nus, paniculata, fpinofa, ragufina, cineraria, argentea,
fibirica, fempervirens, * fcabiofa, tatarica, doebe, a-
caulis, orientalis, behen, repens, jacea, amara, alba,
fplendens, rhapontica, babylonica, gladifolia, conifera,
fonchifolia, feridis, romana, fphaerocephala, ifnardi,
napifolia, afpera, benedidla, eriophora, aegyptiaca,
* calcitrapa, calcitrapoides, * folftitialis, melitenfis,
ficula, centauroides, collina, rupedris, verutum, fal-
mantica, cichoracea, muricata, peregrina, radiata,
nudicaulis, crocodilium, pumila, tingitana, galaflites.
Europe, Egypt, Arabia, Perfia.
* C. calyx fcales ferrated ; leaves drap-draped, very cyanus,
entire ; the lower ones toothed.—The exprefi'ed juice
of the petals is a good blue ink ; it dains linen of a
beautiful blue, but the colour is not permanent in the
mode it has hitherto been applied. Mr Boyle fays,
the juice of the central dorets, with the addition of a
very fmall quantity of alum, makes a lading tranfpa-
rent blue, not inferior to ultramarine. Cowrs, goats,
and dieep eat it. Horfes and fwine refufe it.
The centaurea centaurium is a large plant cultivated
in gardens. The root has a rough, fomewhat acrid
tade, and abounds with a red vifcid juice ; its rough
tade has gained it fome edeem as an adringent; its acri¬
mony as an aperient; and its glutinous quality as a vul¬
nerary. The prefent praflice takes little notice of it
with any intention.
The centaurea beneditfa is an annual plant cultivated
in gardens ; it dowers in June and July, and perfe&s
its feeds in the autumn. The herb diould be gathered
when in dower, dried in the diade, and kept in a very
dry airy place, to prevent its rotting or growing moul¬
dy, which it is very apt to do. The leaves have a
penetrating bitter tade, not very drong or durable, ac¬
companied with an ungrateful davour, which they are in
a great meafure freed from by keeping. Water extradls,
in a little time, even without heat, the lighter and more
grateful parts of this plant ; if the digedion be con¬
tinued for fome hours, the difagreeable parts are taken
up*
2j6 B O T
up; a ftrong decocHon is very naufeous and offenfive
to the Itomach. Redlified fpirit gains a very pleafant
bitter tafte, which remains uninjured in the extradl.
The virtues of this plant feem to be little known in
the prefent practice. The naufeous deco&ion is fome-
times ufed to provoke vomiting, and a ftrong infufion
to promote the operation of other emetics. But this
elegant bitter, when freed from the offenfive parts of
the herb, may be advantageoufly applied to other pur¬
poses. Excellent effefts have frequently been ex¬
perienced from an infufion of this plant, in lofs of appe¬
tite, where the ftomach was injured by irregularities.
A ftronger inhifion made in cold or warm water, if
drank freely, and the patient kept warm, occafions a
plentiful fweat, and promotes all the fecretions in ge¬
neral.
The feeds of this plant are alfo confiderably bitter,
and have been fometimes ufed with the fame intentions
as the leaves.
Order IV. POLYGAMIA NECESSARIA.
985. Milleria.
Two fpecies ; viz. quinqueflora, biflora. Panama,
Vera Cruz.
1323. Baltimora.
One fpecies ; viz. refta. Maryland, Virginia.
986. Silphium, or Bafe Ghryfanthetnum.
Eight fpecies; viz. laciniatum, terebinthinaceum,
perfoliatum, connatum, afterifcus, folidaginoides, tri-
foliatum, trilobatum. N. America.
987. Polymnia, or Dwarf Sun-flower.
Seven fpecies j viz. canadenfis, carnofa, uvedalia, te-
tragonotheca, abyflmica, fpinofa, wedelia. Africa,
Canada, Virginia.
r
988. Chrysogonum.
One fpecies ; viz. virgitiianum. Virginia.
989. Melampodium.
Two fpecies; viz. americanum, auftrale. Jamaica,
St Domingo, S. America.
990. Calendula, or Mary gold.
Nine fpecies j viz. *arvenfis, fancta, officinalis, plu-
vialis, hybrida, nudicaulis, graminifolia, fruticofa, to-
mentofa. Europe, Cape.
arvenfls. * C. feeds boat-ffiaped, prickly, turned inwards; the
innermoft crowded together, the outermoft upright,
furniftied with a tail.—This is a very common plant
in the corn fields, and in the vineyards in Portugal;
and is ufed as food for milch cows. It is found in
England near lalmouth, to which place it has pro¬
bably been imported from Portugal, in confequence of
the frequent communication by the packets and other-
wife. . The milk yielded by the cows which are fed
upon it is very good.
The herb of the calendula officinalis is common in
gardens, where it is found in flower greateft part of
the. iummer. Marygold flowrers are fuppofed to be a-
perient and attenuating, and alfo cardiac, alexiphar-
mac, and fudorific ; they have been principally cele¬
brated in uterine obftrudfions, in the jaundice, and for
throwing out the fmail pox. 1 heir fenfible qualities
give little foundation for thefe virtues; they have fcarce-
A N Y. Syngenefiai
ly any tafte and no confiderable fmell. The leaves of
the plant difcover a vilcid fweetifhnefs, accompanied
with a more durable faponaceous pungency and warmth :
thefe feem capable of anfwering fome ufeful purpofes
as a ftimulating and aperient medicine ; but at prefent
they are fo little employed in Britain, that they have
now no place in our pharmacopoeias, and they are al¬
fo rejected from feveral of the lateft and beft foreign
ones. *
991. Arctotis.
12 fpecies; viz. calendulacea, hypochondriaca, trif-
tis, corufcans, fuperba, ferrata, tenuifolia, plantaginea,
anguftifolia, afpera, paradoxa, dentata, anthemoides,
tenuifolia, acaulis. Cape, Carolina.
992. Osteospermum, or Hardfeeded Chryfanthemum.
15 fpecies; viz. fpinofum, pififerum, moniliferum,
ilicitolium, ciliatum, junceum, triquetrum, corymbofa,
imbricatum, herbaceum, niveum, perfoliatum, polyga-
loides, calendulaceum, ar&otoides. Cape, E. Indies.
993. Othonna, or African Rag-wort.
26 fpecies ; viz. bulbofa, tagetes, trifida, peftinata,
abrotanifolia, athanaliee, ciliata, pinnata, ■ trifurcata,
munita, coronopifolia, cheirifolia, craffifolia, parviflora,
tenuiffima, linifolia, digitata, lingua, lateriflora, hetero-
phylla, cacalioides, ericoides, capillaris, virgineft, fru-
tefcens, arborefcens. Africa.
1324. Hippia, or Shrubby Yanfy.
Three fpecies; viz. integrifolia, minuta, frutefcens.
Cape, E. Indies, America.
994. Eriocephalus.
Two fpecies ; viz. afncanus, racemofus. C. of G.
Hope.
995. Filago, or Cotton, or Cud-weed.
Seven fpecies; viz. acaulis, * germanica, pyrami-
data, * montana, * gallica, * arvenfis, leontopodium,
Europe.
996. Micropus, or Bafe Cud-weed.
Twm fpecies; viz. fupinus, eredftus. Spain, Portu¬
gal, Italy, Levant.
Order V. POLYGAMIA SEGREGATA.
997. Elephantopus, or Elephants foot.
Two fpecies; viz. fcaber, tomentofus. E. and W.
Indies.
1325. Oedera.
Two fpecies; viz. prolifera, aliena. C. of G. Hope.
998. Sphasranthus, or Globeflower.
Three Ipecies; viz. indicus, africanus, chinenfis. E.
Indies, China.
999, Echinops, or Globc-thiflle.
lour fpecies ; viz. fphaerocephalus, ipinofus, ritro,
ftrigofus. Siberia, Auftria, France, Spain, Italy.
1000. Gundelia.
One fpecies; viz. tournefortii. Syria, Aleppo, Amer.
1422. JungiA.
One fpecies ; viz. ferruginea. S. America.
1001. Stoebe, or Bafe Ethiopian Elychrifum.
Nine fpecies; viz. tethiopica, ericoides, proftrata,
gnaphaloides,
Gynandrla. B O T
gnaphaloides, gomphrenokles, Tcabra, reflexa, rhino-
cerotis, difticha, C. of G. Hope.
Order VI. MONOGAMIA.
1003. Seriphium.
Four fpecies; viz. cmereum, plumofum, fufcum, am-
biguuin. Cape of Good Hope.
1002. Strumpfia.
One fpecies j viz. maritima. America.
1004. Corymsium.
Four fpecies; viz. fcabrum, glabrum, filiforme, vil-
lofum. C. of G. Hope.
1005. Jasione, or Sheep's Scabious.
Two fpecies j viz. * montana, perennis. Eur. Cape.
1006. Lobelia, or Cardinalflower.
42 fpecies; viz. fimplex, pinifolia, *dortmanna, tupa,
anceps, kalmii, paniculata, grandis, cornuta, phyteu-
ma, columnese, belliditlora, bulbofa, triquetra, longi-
flora, tomento a, fecunda, patula, aflfurgens, cardinalis,
laevigata, ferruginea, debilis, fiphilitica, furinamenfis,
indata, cliffortiana, urens, minuta, volubilis, bulbofa,
laurentia, erinus, erinoides, zeylanica, lutea, hirfuta,co-
ronopifolia, comofa, tenella, deprelfa. Cape, Eafl: and
Weft Indies, America.
The lobelia flphilitica groxvs in moift places in Virgi¬
nia, and bears our wunters. It is perennial, has an
ereft ftalk three or four feet high, blue flowers, a mil¬
ky juice, and a rank fmell. The root confifts of white
fibres about two inches long ; refembles tobacco in
tafte, which remains on the tongue, and is apt to ex¬
cite vomiting. It is ufed by the North American In¬
dians as a fpecific in the venereal difeafe. The form
is that of decoction ; the dofe of which is ordered to
be gradually increafed, till it bring on very confider-
able purgings, then to be intermitted for a little, and
again ufed in a more moderate degree till the cure be
completed. The ulcers are alfo wafhed with the de-
codtion, and the Indians are faid to fprinkle them with
A N Y.
the powder of the inner bark of the fpruce tree. The
fame ftridtnefs of regimen is ordered as during a fali-
vation or mercurial courfe. The benefit to be derived
from this article, has not, as far as we know, been
confirmed either in Britain or by the practitioners in
Virginia ; for there, as well as in this country, re-
courfe is almoft univerlally had to the ufe of mercury ;
and it is probably from this reafon that the London
college have not received it into their lift. It, how¬
ever, feems to be an article which, in fome cales at
leaft, deferves a trial.
1007. Viola, or Violet.
28 fpecies ; viz. palmata, pedata, pinnata, lanceo-
lata, primulifolia, * hirta, *paluftris, *odorata, *canina*
montana, cenifia, canadenfis, mirabilis, biflora, uniflo¬
ra, decumbens, * tricolor, *grandiflora, calcarata, cor¬
nuta, arborefeens, enneafperma, fufFruticofa, calceola¬
ria, oppofitifolia, hybanthus, ipecacuanha, diandra.
Alps, Pyrenees, Cape, America.
The viola odorata is often found wild in hedges and
fhady places, and flowers in March : the (hops are ge¬
nerally fupplied from gardens. In our markets w&
meet with the flowers of different fpecies; thefe may
be diftinguifhed from the others by their being large,
of a pale yellow colour, and of no fmell. The offici¬
nal flowrers have a very pleafant fmell, and a deep pur-
plifh blue colour, denominated from them violet. They
impart their colour and flavour to aqueous liquors : A
fyrup made from this infufion has long maintained a
place in the (hops, and proves an agreeable and ufeful
laxative for children.
1008. Impatiens, or Balfam, Balfamine.
Seven fpecies j viz. chinenfis, latifolia, oppofitifo¬
lia, cornuta, balfamina, triflora, noli-tangere. Eu¬
rope, N. America, E. Indies, China.
In the clafs Syngcneflia are
115 Genera, including 1252 Species, of which 113
are found in Britain.
CHASSIS XX.
GYNANDRIA(k).
Ordo I. DIANDRIA,
^ 1009. Orchis. Nedfarium corniculatum.
* ioiq. Satyrium. Ne6L ferotiforme.
* ion. Ophrys. Ne6h fubcarinatum.
Vol. IV. Part I.
CLASS XX.
GYNANDRIA.
Order I. DIANDRIA.
* O. Neftary horned.
* S. Neel, purfe-fhaped.
O. Ne6L nearly keel-fhaped.
K k 1012.
(k) This elafs is diftinguifhed from the others by the fituation of the ftamens (male parts of the flower) up¬
on the prftils (female parts). The ftamens are either placed upon the ftyle itfelf, or upon the receptacle, which
in that cafe is lengthened into the appearance of the ftyle which fupports the piftil with the ftamens, and forms
a part of the piftih 1 he orders are determined by the number of ftamens.
257
Gynandri
ANY.
* S. Neft. oval, bulged beneath.
L. Ne6l. on a pedicle.
* C. Neft. inflate-bellied.
E. Ne61, turban-fhaped.
A. Ne£h united at the bafe, with a gaping cor.
G. Two piftils. Catkin no cal. No cor. One
feed.
D. Sheath j-valved. Three petals 5 the third lefs,
bipartite, bulged at the bafe.
F. Cal. double, the outer inferior, 3-leafed ; the in»
ner fuperior, 6-cleft. Cor. tubular.
Order II. TRIANDRIA.
S. No cal. Cor. 6-petaled, flat. Stigmas 3.
Capf. 3-celled, inferior.
F. One piflil. No cal. Cor. 6-petaled, crifp,
Stig. cone-fhaped. Capf. 5-celled, inferior.
S. One piftil. Cal. 5-parted. Cor. 5-petaled. An¬
thers fitting on the germen.
S, One piftil. Cal. t-leafed. No cor. Berry.
B o t
* 1012. SeblapiAs. Ne&. ovatum, fubtus gibbum.
1013. Limodorum. Nekft. pedicellatum.
* 1015. Cypripedium. Neft. inflato-ventricofum.
IC16. Epidendrum. Ne6t. turbinatum.
1014. Arethusa. Ne61. connatum, cum corolla
ringente.
1272. Gunnera. Digyna. Amenti cal. o.
Cor. o. Sem. 1.
1423. Disa. Spatha i-valvis. Petala 3 j tertium
minus, bipartitum, baft gibbofum.
1424. Forstera. Cal. duplex ; exterior inferus, 3-
phyllus; interior fuperus, 6-fidus. Cor. tubulofa.
Ordo II. TRIANDRIA.
1017. Sisirinchium. Monogyna. Cal. o. Cor.
6-petala, plana. Stigmata 3. Capf. 3-locularis, in-
fera.
1018. Ferraria. Monogyna. Cal. o. Cor. 6-
petala, crifpa. Stigma cucullatum. Capf. 3-locula¬
ris, infera.
1326. Salacia. Monogyna. Cal. j-partitus. Cor.
5-petala. Antherge germini infidentes.
1273. Stilago. Monogyna. Cal. i-phyllus.
Cor. o. Bacca.
Ordo III. TETRANDRIA.
1019. Nepenthes. Monogyna. Cal. 4 partitus.
Cor. nulla. Capf. 4-locularis.
Ordo IV. PENTANDRIA.
1327* Gluta. Monogyna. Cal. i-phyllus. Cor.
5-petala. Germen columnae, corollte adglutinatse, in-
fidens.
1020. Ayenia. Monogyna. Cal. 5-phyllus. Cor.
5-petala. Capf. 5-cocca.
1021. Passiflora. Trigyna. Cal. 5-partitus.
Cor. 5-petala. Bacca pedicellata.
Ordo V. HEXANDRIA.
Order III. TETRANDRIA.
N. One piftil. Cal. 4-parted. No cor. Capf. 4-
celled.
Order IV. PENTANDRIA.
G. One pift. Cal. i-leafed. Cor. 5-petaled. Germ-,
fixed to a pillar attached to the cor.
A. One pift. Cal. 5-leafed. Cor. 5-pet. Capf..
5-celled.
P. Three pift. Cal. 5-parted. Cor. 5-petaled.
Berry pedicled. *
Order V. HEXANDRIA.
* X022. Aristolochia. Hexagyna. Cal. nullus. * A. Six pift. No cal. Cor. i-petaled. Capf. 6*
Cor. l-petala. Capf. 6-locularis. celled.
CuiJimilis, Cleome.
Ordo VI. OCTANDRIA.
Order VI. OCTANDRIA.
T425. Scopolia. Cal. 2-phyllus, multiftorus. Cor.
A-fida. Antherse connatae in diaplici columna.
Ordo VII. DECANDRIA.
1024. Kleinhovia. Monogyna. Cal. 5-phyllus.
Cor. 5-petala. Nedtarium ftaminiferum. Capfi 5-
cocca.
1025. Helicteris. Monogyna. Cal. i-phyllus.
Cor. 5-petala. Capf. 5, i-loculares, polyfpermse.
S. Cal. 2-leafed, many-flowered. Cor. 4-cleft. An¬
thers united in a double pillar.
Order VII. DECANDRIA.
K. One pift. Cal. 5-leaved. Cor.^-petaled. NedE
bearing the ftamens. Capf. 5-celled.
H. One pift. Cal. 1-leafed. Cor. 5-petaled. Five
capf. i-celled, many-feeded.
Ordo VIII. DODECANDRIA.
Order VIII. DODECANDRIA.
1232. Cytinus. Monogynus. Cal. 4-fidus. Cor. 0.
JBacca 8-locularis,
C. One pift. Cal. 4-cleft. No cor.
celled.
Berry 8-
Orbq
Gynandria.
BOTANY.
*59
Ordo IX. POLYANDRIA.
Order IX. POLYANDRIA.
1027. Xylopia. Monogyna. Cal. 1-pljyllus. Cor.
6-petala. Drupa ficca.
1026. Grewia. Monogyna. Cal. 5-phyllus. Cor.
5-petala. Bacca locularls.
1031. Pothos. Spatha. Cal. nullus. Cor. 4-pe-
tala. Bacca i-fperma.
1029. Dracontium. Spatha. Cal. nullus. Cor.
5-petala. Bacca polyfperma.
103D. Calla. Spatha., Cal. nullus. Cor. nulla.
Stam. mixta pillillis.
* 1028. Arum. Spatha. Cal. nullus. Cor. nulla.
Stam. fupra piftilla.
1238. Ambrosinia. Spatha. Cal. nullus. Cor.
nulla. Stamina alterius lateris diffepimenti.
* 1032. Zostera. Folium. Cal. nullus. Cor. nul¬
la. Sem. alterna. nuda.
X. One pift. Cal. i-leaved. Cor. 6-petaled.
Drupe dry.
G. One pift. Cal. 5-leaved. Cor. 5-petaled. Ber¬
ry celled.
P. Sheath. No cal. Cor. 4-petaled, Berry 1-
feeded.
D. Sheath. No cal. Cor. 5-petaled. Berry ma-
ny-feeded.
C. Sheath. No cal. No cor. Stam. mixed with
piftils.
* A. Sheath. No cal. No cor. Stam. above the
piftils.
A. Sheath. No cal. No cor. Stam. on one fide
of a divifion.
* Z. A leaf. No cal. No cor. Alternate feeds,
naked.
Order I. DIANDRIA.
- ioog. Orchis, Orch or Butterfly Flower.
50 fpecies 5 viz. bicornis, biflora, cornuta, fpathu-
Jata, flexuofa, tripetaloides, fagittalis, barbata, draco-
nis, tenella, fantta, fufannm, ciliaris, habenaria, * bi¬
folia, ornithis, flexuofa, cucullata, globofa, * pyrami-
dalis, coriophora, cubitalis, * morio, * mafcula, * u-
ilulata, * militaris, fufea, moravica, papilionacea, ru¬
bra, pallens, hifpidula, fpeciofa, * latifolia, incarnata,
fambucina, * maculata, odoratiftima, * conopfea, fla-
va, frifeefeens, ftrateumatica, hyperborea, * abortiva,
pfyeodes, fpeclabilis, filicornis, tipuloides, japonica,
falcata. Europe, Cape, Afia, W. Indies.
mafcula. * O. lip of the neclary 4-lobed, finely fcolloped 5 horn
blunt $ upper petals turned back.—This fpecies is cal¬
led fatyrion, or early orchis. It is frequent in ftiady
places and moift meadows. Each plant has two oval
roots of a w’hitifh colour, a vifeid fweetifti tafte, and a
faint unpleafant fmell. They abound with a glutinous
flimy juice. With regard to their virtues, like other
mucilaginous vegetables, they defend the folids againft
acrimonious humours : they have alfo been celebrated,
though on no good foundation, for analeptic and aphro-
difiac virtues, and frequently made ufe of with thefe
intentions. Salep, a celebrated reftorative among the
Turks, is the prepared root of plants of this genus. It
has been fuccefsfully imitated by means of the roots of
Thl.Tranf. fpecJes< jyjr Moult, in a letter to Dr Percival,
deferibes his method of making falep. He obferves,
that the beft time to gather the roots, is when the feed
is formed and the ftalk going to fall, for then the new
bulb, of which falep is made, is arrived at its full fize.
The newr roots being feparated from the ftalk, are to
be waftied in water, and the.outer thin Ikin taken off.
They are then to be fet on a tin-plate in an oven,
heated to the degree of a bread oven. In fix, eight,
or ten minutes, they will have acquired a tranfparency
like hom, wdthout being diminifhed in fize. They
are then to be removed into another room to dry and
harden, which will be done in a feu' days j or they
may be finifhed in a very flow heat in a few hours. Sa¬
lep, thus prepared, may be fold for lefs than a Hulling
a pound, and affords a mild nutriment, which in times
of fcarcity, in cafes of dyfentery and ftrangury, and
on Ihipboard, may be extremely ufeful. The falep, hi¬
therto imported from Turkey, may thus be prepared
at home. The plants muft be propagated by the roots,
as the feeds feldom come to perfeftion.
1010. Satyrium, or Lizard-flower.
15 fpecies; viz. hircinum, tabulare, trifle, gigan-
teum, aculeatum, viride, nigrum, albidum, epigogium,
plantagineum, repens, capenfe, hians, orobanchoides,
pedicellatum. Europe, Cape, America.
loot. Ophrys, Fwy or Lway-blade.
28 fpecies; viz. * nidus avis, * coralorhiza, *fpira-
lis, cernua, ovata, * cordata, lilifolia, * loefelii, palu-
dofa, monopbyllos, alata, myodes, arachnides, * mo¬
norchis, alpina, camtfchatea, * anthropophera, cruci-
gera, volucris, bradleata, atrata, catholica, circum-
flexa, caffra, bivalvata, alaris, patens, nervofa. Alps,
N. America, Cape.
IOI2. Serapias, ox Hell chorine.
11 fpecies ; viz. * enfifolia, * grandiflora, * lancifo-
lia, * latifolia, * longifolia, * rubra, lingua, cordige-
ra, capenfis, ereefa, falcata. S. Europe, Cape, W.
Indies.
1013. Limodorum, or Bafe Hellebore.
Three fpecies; viz. tuberofum, altum, ftriatum.
1014. Arethusa.
Seven fpecies ; viz. bulbofa, ophiogloffoides, diva-
ricata, ^capenfis, villofa, ciliaris, biplumata. Cape,
N. America.
1423. Disa.
Four fpecies; viz. grandiflora, racemofa, longicor-
nu, fnaculata. C. of G. Hope.
1016. Epidendrum, or Vanelioe.
32 fpecies; viz. vanilla, flos aeris, tenuifolium, fpa-
K k 2 tulatum,
B O T
tulatum, furvuni, coccineum, fecunduin, lineare, punc-
tatum, caudatum, ovatum, ciliare, no&urnum, cucul-
latum, teres, nodofum, carinatum, aloifolium, gutta-
tum, juncifolium, fcriptum, retufum, amabile, coch-
leatum, tuberofum, pufillum, enfifolium, moniliforme,
ophiogloflbides, rulcifoiium, graminifolium, capenfe.
E. and W. Indies, China, Japan.
1015. Cypripedium, or Lady's Slipper.
Three fpecies j viz. * calceolus, bulbolum, japoni-
cum. Europe, Afia, Japan, America.
ANY. Gynandria.
1023. PistiA, or TVater Houfe-leeh.
One fpecies 5 viz. ftratiotes. Afia, Africa, South
America.
Order VI. OCTANDRIA.
1425. SCOPOLIA.
One fpecies} viz. compofita. South fea ifles.
Order VII. DECANDRIA.
1424. Forstera.
One fpecies j viz. fedifolia. New Zealand.
1272. Gunnera.
One fpecies 3 viz. perpenfa. Cape, Straits of Ma¬
gellan.
1024. Kleinhovia.
One fpecies 3 viz. hofpita. E. Indies.
1025. Helicteres, or Screw-tree.
Six fpecies 3 viz. barvenfis, ifora, anguftifolia, pen-
tandra, carthaginenfis, apetala. Malabar, China, Jam .
Order II. TRIANDRIA.
Order VIII. DODECANDRIA,
1017. Sisyrinchium, or Bermudiatia.
Two fpecies ; viz. bermudiana, palmifolium. Ber¬
mudas, W. Indies.
1018. Ferraria.
Two fpecies 3 viz. undulata, pavonia.
o.
1326. Salacia.
One fpecies 3 viz. chinenfis. China.
1273. Stilago.
One fpecies 3 viz. bunius.
Cape, Mex-
Order III. TETRANDRIA.
1019. Nepenthes.
One fpecies 3 viz. diftillatoria. Ceylon.
Order IV. PENTANDRIA.
1020. Ayenia.
Three fpecies 3 viz. pufilla, tomentofa, magna. Ja¬
maica, Cumana, Peru.
1327. Gluta.
One fpecies 3 viz. benghas. Java.
I02X. Passiflora.
28 fpecies 3 viz. ferratifolia, pallida, cuprea, tilaefo-
lia, maliformis, quadrangularis, laurifolia, multiflora,
adulterina, perfoliata, rubra, normalis, murucuja, vef-
pertilio, capfularis, rotundifolia, punftata, lutea, mi¬
nima, fuberofa, holofericea, hirfuta, foetida, incarnata,
mixta, coerulia, ferrata, pedata. W. Indies, S. A-
merica.
Order V. HEXANDRIA.
1022. Arjstolochia, or Birthwort,
22 fpecies 3 viz. * clematitis, bilobata, trilobata,
^entandra, peltata, maxima, bilabiata, eredfa, arbo-
relcens, caudata, odoratiflirna, auguicida, maurorum,
indica, bsetica, fempervirens, ferpentaria, piftolochia,
rotunda, longa, hirfuta, clematitis. S. Europe, A-
racrica.
1232. Cytinus.
One fpecies 3 viz. hypociftis. Spain, Italy.
Order IX. POLYANDRIA.
1027. Xylopia, or Bitter-wood.
Twro fpecies 3 viz. muricata, glabra. America.
1026. GreWia.
Six fpecies 3 viz. occidentalis, orientalis, afiatica*
malococca, falvifolia, microcos. Afia, Cape, Ame¬
rica, South feas.
1228. Ambrosinia.
One fpecies 3 viz. baflii. Palermo, Turkey.
1028. Arum, or Wake-robin, Dragon.
15 fpecies 3 viz. * maculatum, dracunculus, dracon-
tium, pentaphyllum, triphyllum, ternatum, colocafia,
efculentum, macrorhizon, peregrinum, divaricaturn,
trilobatum, fagittsefolium, virginicum, probofeideum,
arifarum, pictum, ovatum, tenuifolium, cannsefolium,
mufeivorum, arborefeens, hederaceum, lingulatum,
auritum. S. Europe, E. Indies, America.
* A. leaves halberd-fhaped, very entire 3 fpikeftalkmaculaUltn
club-fhaped.—This root grows wold under hedges, and
by the fides of banks in molt parts of England. It
fends forth in March three or four triangular leaves,
which are followed by a naked ftalk, bearing a pur-
plifh piftil, enclofed in a long (heath : this is fucceeded
in July by a bunch of reddilh berries. In fome plants
the leaves are fpotted with black, in others with white
fpots, and in others not fpotted at all: the black fpot¬
ted fort is fuppofed to be the moft efficacious in medi¬
cine. All the parts of the arum maculatum, particu¬
larly the root, have an extremely pungent acrimonious
tafte 3 if the root be but (lightly chewed, it continues
to burn the tongue for fome hours, occafioning at the
fame time a confiderable third : thefe fymptoms are al¬
leviated by butter milk and oily liquors. Dried and
kept fome time, it lofes much of its acrimony, and be¬
comes at length an almoit infipid farinaceous fubdance.
The root is a powerful dimulant and attenuant. It is
reckoned a medicine of great efficacy in fome cacheftic
and chlorotic cafes, in w’eaknefs of the domach occa-
lioned by a load of phlegm. Great benefit is faid to
have
Monoecla. ^ ^ 1
have been obtained from it in deeply feated rheumatic
pains. In thefe cafes, it may be given from 10 grains
to a fcruple of the frefh root, twice or thrice a day,
made into a bolus or emulfion, with unftuous or mu¬
cilaginous fubftances, which cover its pungency, and
prevent its making any painful impreffion on the
tongue. Neither wune nor fpirits extract its virtues.
The root, dried and powdered, is ufed by the French
to walk the fkin, and is fold at a high price under the
name of cyprefi powder. It is undoubtedly a good
and an innocent cofmetic. Starch may be made from
the roots.
1029. Dracontium, or Dragons.
Five fpecies \ viz. polyphyllum, Ipinofum, foetidum,
camfchatcenfe, pertufum. Ceylon, W. Indies, Ame¬
rica.
T030. Calla, or Ethiopian Arum.
Two fpecies j viz. tethiopica, paluftris. Europe,
Cape.
ANY. 26s
X031. Pothos, or Scunh Weed.
Seven fpecies} viz. fcandens, acaulis, lanceolata,
crenata, cordata, pinnata, palmata. India, America.
1032. Zostera, or Grafs Wrack.
Two fpecies •, viz. * marina, * oceanica.
* Z feed-vefiels fitting, Items much branched ; leaves marina*
floating, long, grafs-like, blunt from leaf-icales. It
is thrown on the fea fhore by the tide in great plenty,
and mounds or walls are built with it to refift the en¬
croachment of the fea. Expofure to the weather
bleaches it white. Buildings are thatched with the
green leaves, and it will endure upwards of a century.
It is ufed by the inhabitants of Gothland in Sweden,
as a manure, and alfo for fluffing beds, in preference
to hay, as being fofter. Horfes and fwine eat it.
Cows are not fond of it.
In the clafs Gynandria are
32 Genera, including 270 Species, of which 2^
are found in Britain.
CLASSIS XXI.
MONCECIA (0.
Ordo I. MONANDRIA.
* 1203. Chara. (i) Cal. nulla. Cor. nulla. (2) Cal.
4-phyllus. Cor. o. Stigma 3-fidum. Sem. 1.
* 1034. Zannichellia. (1)Cal.o. Cor. o. (2)Cal.
l-phyll. Cor. o. Pill. 4. Sem. 4.
103 5. Ceratocarpus. (0 Cal. 2-partitus. Cor. o.
(2) Cal. 2-phyllus. Cor. o. Styl. 2. Sem; x.inferum.
1426. Artocarpus. (1) Cal. bivalvis. Cor. o.
(2) Cal. o. Cor. o. Styl. 1. Drupa multilocularis.
Nipa. (1) Spatha. Cor. 6-petala. (2) Spatha.
Cor. o. Drupae angulatte.
1036. Elaterium. ( 1) Cal. o. Cor. hypocrate-
riform. (2) Cal. o. Cor. hypocrateriform. Capf.
infera, pulpola, i-locularis, polyfperma.
1033. Cynomorium. (i) Cal. amenti. Cor. o.
(2) Cal. amenti. Cor. o. Styl. I. Sem. I, fubro-
tundum.
1427. Phyllachne. (1) Cal. 3-phyllus fuperus. Cor.
infundibuliformis. (2) Cal. 3-phyllus, fuperus. Cor.
infundibuliformis. Styl. 1. Stigma tetragonum. Capf.
infera, polyfperma.
1428. Casuarina. (i) Cal. amenti. Cor. fqua-
mulae bipartitae. (2 )-Cal. amenti. Cor. o. Styl. bifi-
dus. Strobilus,
CLASS XXI.
MONCECIA.
Order I. MONANDRIA.
* C. (1) No cal. No cor. (2) Cal. 4-leaved. No-
cor. Stigm. 3 cleft. Seed x.
* Z. ( 1) No cal. Nocor. (2) Cal. x-leaved. No cor.
Pill. 4. Seeds 4.
C. (1) Cal. 2-parted. Nocor. (2) Cal. 2-leaved.
No cor. Styl. 2. Seed l, inferior.
A. (1) Cal. 2-valved. No cor. (2) No cal. No
cor. Styl. I. Drupe many-celled.
N. (1) Sheath. Cor. 6-petaled. (2) Sheath. No
cor. Angular drupes.
E. (1) No cal. Cor. falver-fhaped. (2) No cal.
Cor. falverffiaped. Capf. inferior, pulpy, 1-celled, many-
feeded.
C. (1) Cal. catkin. Nocor. (2) Cal. catkin. No
cor. Styl. 1. Seed I, roundiffi.
P. (1) Cal. 3-leaved, fuperior. Cor. funnel-ffiaped.
(2) Cal. 3-leaved, fuperior. Cor. funnel-fhaped.
Styl. 1. Stigm. 4-gon. Capf. inferior, many-feeded.
C. (1) Cal. catkin. Cor. fcales 2-parted. (2) CaL
catkin. No cor. Styl. 2-cleft. A cone.
1429.
flj\ jn this clafs the flamens and piflils are found in different flowers on the fame plant. The flowers that
have flamens, but want piflils, are, according to the principles of Linnaeus’s fexual fyflem, which we have
adopted, called male flowers ; whereas the flowers that have pillils, but want flamens, are flyled female flowers.
In the following account of the genera the definition of the male flowers is marked (1), and that of the female
flowers (2).
262 B O T
1429. j^goprigon. (1) Cal. 3-fidus. Cor. o.
(2) Flores folitarii. Cal. ut in mare. Cor. o, Styli tres,
Bacca 3-cocca.
Ordo II. DIANDRIA.
io37» Auguria. (i) Cal. 5-fidus. Cor. 5-petala,
(2) Cal. 5-fidus. Cor. 5-petala. Pomum biloculare,
polyfpermum.
# 1038. Lemka. (1) Cal. i-phyllus. Cor.’o, (2) Cal.
I-phyllus. Cor. o. Styl. 1. Capf, i-locularis.
Gunnera.
Ordo III. TRIANDRIA.
1042. Zea. (1) Glum. 2-flora, 2-valvis. (2) Glum.
T.-flora, 2-valvis. Styl. 1. Sem. 1, nudum, fubrotun-
dum.
1044. Tripsacum. (i) Glum. 4-flora, 2-valvis.
(2) Glum. 2 f. 4-part. 2-valvis. Styl. 2. Sem. 1.
Gluma finu perforata.
1043. Coix. (1) Glum.2-flora, 2-valvis. (2) Glum.
2-billora, 2-valvis. Styl. 2-fid. Sem. 1, te&um mice.
i°45. Olyra. (1) Glum, i-flora, 2-valvis. (2)G1.
l-flora, 2-valvis. Styl. 2-fid. Sem. 1, nudum.
J046. Carex. (i) Ament, i-florum. Cor. nulla.
(2) Ament. 1 florum. Cor. 1. Styl. 1. Sem. i,tu-
nicatum.
* 1041. Sparganium. (1) Cal. 3-pliyllus. Cor. o.
(2) CaL 3-pbyllus. Cor. o. Stigm. 2. Sem. i-fper-
ma.
* 1040. Typha. (i) Cal. 3-phyllus. Cor. nulla.
(2) Cal. capillaris. Cor. o. Styl. 1. Sem. 1, pap-
pigerum.
1047. Axyris. (x) Cal. 3 partitus. Cor. o. (2)
Cal. 2-phyllus. Cor. o. Styl. 2. Sem. 1, fubrotun-
dum.
1050. Phyllanthus. (i). Cal. 6-partitus. Cor.
o. (2) Cal. 6-partitus. Cor. o. Styl. 3, Capf. 3-
cocca.
1048. Fragia, (i) Cal. 3-partitus. Cor. o.
(2) Cal. 5-partitus. Cor. o. Styl, 3-fid. Capf. 3-
cocca.
1049. Hernandia. (i) Cal. 3-partitus. Cor. 3-
petala. (2) Cal. truncatus, Cor. 6-petala. Drupa
excavata.
1039. Omphalea. (i) Cal. 4-phyllus. Cor. 0.
Anth. immerfae receptaculo, (2) Cal. 4-partitus.
Cor. o. Stigm. 3-fid. . Capf. 3-locul. x-fperma.
Elate. Amaranthi varii.
Ordo IV. TETRANDRIA.
» 1054. Urtica. (i) Cal. 4-phyllus. Cor. o. Nett,
cyathiforme. (2) Cal. 2-valvis. Cor. o. Stigm.
villof. Sem. 1, ovatum.
* 1053. Buxus. (1) Cal. 3-pbyllus. Cor. 2-petala.
{2) Cal. 4-phyllus. Cor. 3-pet. Stigm. 3. Capf. 3-
Jocularis.
A N Y. Monoecia*
A. (1) Cal. 3-cleft. No cor. (2) Flowers foli-
tary. Cal. as in the male. No cor, Styl. 3. Berry
3-celled.
Order II. DIANDRIA.
A. (1). Cal. 5-cleft. Cor. 5-petaled. (2) Cal. 5.
cleft. Cor. 5-petaled. Apple 2-celled, many-feeded.
* L. (1) Cal. 1-leaved. No cor. (2) Cal. x-leaved.
No cor. Style 1. Capf. x-celled.
Order III. TRIANDRIA.
Z. (1) Glume or hulk 2-flowered, 2-valved.
(2) Hulk 1-flowered, 2-valved. Styl. x. Seed 1,
naked, roundifh.
I. (1) Hulk 4-flowered, 2-valved. (2) Hulk 2 or
4-parted, 2-valved. Styl. 2. Seed 1. Hulk perfo¬
rated.
C. (1) Glume 2-flowered, 2-valved. (2) Glumes
2-flowered, 2-valved. Styl. 2-cleft. Seed 1, covered
with a nut.
O. (2) Glumes i-fiow’ered, 2-valved. (2) Glumes
I-flowered, 2-valved. Styl. 2-cleft. Seed 1, naked.
* C. (1) Catkin l-flov’ered. No cor. (2) Catkin
i-fWered. Cor. 1. Styl. 1. Seed 1, coated.
* S. (x ) Cal. 3-leaved. No cor. ( 2) Cal. 3-leaved.
No cor. Stigm. 2. Seed 1.
* T. (1) Cal. 3-leaved. No cor. (2) Cal. hair¬
like. No cor. Seed 1, downy.
A. (1) Cal. 3-parted. No cor. (2) Cal. 2-leaved.
No cor. Styl. 2. Seed 1, roundilh.
P. (1) Cal. 6-parted. No cor. (2) Cal. 6-parted,
No cor. Styl. 3. Capf. 3-celled.
T. (1) Cal. 3-parted. No cor. (2) Cal. 5-parted.
No cor. Styl. 3-cleft. Capf. 3-celled.
H. (1) Cal. 3-parted. Cor. 3-petaled. (2) Cal.
lopped. Cor. 6-petaled. Drupe hollow.
O. (1) Cal. 4-leaved. No cor. Anth. funk in the
receptacle. (2) Cal. 4-parted. No cor. Stigm. 3-
cleft, Capf, 3-celled, x-feeded.
Order IV. TETRANDRIA.
* U. (I ) Cal. 4-leaved. No cor. Ne£h glafs-fhaped.
(f) Cal. 2-valved. No cor. Stigm. woolly. One oval
feed.
* B. (1) Cal. 3-leaved. Cor. 2-petaled. (2) Cal.
4-leaved. Cor. 3-pet. Stigm. 3. Capf. 3-celled.
1052.
Monoecia. B O T
* 1052. Betula. ( i ) Ament. 5-florum. Cor. 4-par¬
tita. (2) Ament. 2-flomm. Cor. o. Styl. 2. Sem.
1. ovatum.
1051. Centella. (i) Involucr. 4-phyllum, mul-
tiflorum. Petal. 4. (2) Involucr. 2-phyllum. Styl,
2. Pericarp, inferum, 2-loculare.
1274. Serpicula. (i) Cal. 4-dentatus. Cor. 4-
petala. (2) C il. 4 phyllus. Cor. . Nux torulofa.
Aucuba. (i) Cal. 4-dentatus. Cor. 4-petala,
(2) Neel. o. Nux i-locularis.
* 1328. Littorella. (x) Cal. 4-phyllus. Cor. 4-
fida. Stam. longillima. (2) Cal. o. Cor. 4-fida,
Stylus longiffimus. Sem. nux.
1275. Cicca. (1) Cal. 4-phyllus. Cor. nulla.
(2) Cal. 4-p,nyllus. Cor. o. Styl. 4-fid. Capf. 4-
cocca.
Plantago unijlora.
Ordo V. PENTANDRIA.
1277. Nephelium. (i)Cal. 5-dentatus. Cor. o.
Anth. bifidae. (2) Cal. 4-dentatus. Cor. o. Styli. 2,
inter germina.
* 1056. Xanthium. (i) Cal. comm, polypb. Cor.
5-fida. Filam. connexa. (2) Cal. o. Cor. o. Styl.
3. Drupa 2 locularis.
1057. Ambrosia, (i) Cal. comm, i-phyll. Cor,
5-fida. (2) Cal. i-flor. 2-phyll. Cor. o. Styl. 1.
Nux, 5-dentata.
1058. Parthenium. (i) Cal. comm. 5-phyll. Cor.
difci fuper. (2) Cal. idem mari. Cor. radii ligulat.
Styl. 1. Sem. 1.
1326. Clibadium. (i) Cal. comm, imbricatus.
Cor. difci j-fidae. (2) Cal. idem mari. Cor. radii
5-fidae. Drupee umbilicatae.
1059. IyA- C1) Cal. comm. 5-phyll. Cor. difci
fuper. (2) Cal. idem mari. Cor. radii o. Styl. 2.
Sem. 1.
* 1060. Amaranthus. (1) Cal. propr. 5-pliyll.
Cor. o. Stam. 3 f. 5. (2) Cal. propr. 5-phyll. Cor.
O. Styl. 3. Capf. circumfcifla.
1276. Leea. (i) Cal. 5-fidus. Cor. 5-fida. (2) Cal.
5-fidus. Cor. 5-fida. Styl. 1. Peric. 6-loculare.
Sem. folitaria.
Diofma.
Ordo VL HEXANDRlA.
1062. Zizania. (1) Cal. glum. o. Cor. gl. 2-val-
vis. (2) Cal. glum. o. Cor. gl. 2-valvis. Styl. 2.
Sem. 1. Corolla circumfcilfa.
1063. Pharus. (i) Cal. glum, i-flora. Cor. gl.
2-valvis. (2) Cal. glum, i-flora. Cor. gl. 2-valvis,
Styl. x. Sem. 1.
Rumex fpinoms.
Ordo VII. HEPTANDRIA.
1064. Guettarda. (i) Cal. cylindric. Cor. 7-
fida. (2) Cal. cylindric. Cor. 7-fida. Styl. 1, Dru-
pa ficca.
ANY., 263
* B. (1) Catkin 5-fiowered. Cor. 4-parted. (2) Cat¬
kin 2-fio\vered. No cor. Styl. 2. Seed 1, oval.
C. (1) Involucrum 4 leaved, many-flowered. Pet,
4. (2) Involucr. 2-leaved. Styl. 2. Pericarp, in¬
ferior, 2-celled.
S. (1) Cal. 4-toothed. Cor. 4-petaled. Cal. 4-
leaved. Cor. . Nut fuelling out.
A. (1) Cal. 4-toothed. Cor. 4-petaled. (2) No
nefl. Nut x-celled.
* L. (1) Cal. 4-leaved. Cor. 4-cleft. Stam. very
long. (2) No cal. Cor. 4-cleft. Styl. long. Seed
a nut.
C. (1) Cal. 4-leaved. No cor. (2) Cal. 4-leaved,
No cor. Styl. 4-cleft. Capf. 4-celled.
Order V. PENTANDRIA.
N. (1) Cal. 5-toothed. No Cor. Anth. 2-cleft,
(2) Cal. 4-toothed. No cor. Styl. 2, betwixt the
germs.
* X. (1) Cal. common, many-leaved. Cor. 5-cleft,
Filam. connected. (2) No cal. No cor. Styl. 2,
Drupe 2-celled.
A. (1) Cal. common, x-leaved. Cor. 5-cleft.
(2) Cal. 1-flowered, 2-leaved. No cor. Styl. 1. Nut
5-toothed.
P. (1) Cal. common, 5-leaved. Cor. of the difc
fuperior. (2) Cal. as in the male. Cor. of the ray
ftrap-fliaped. Styl. 1. Seed 1.
C. (1) Cal. common, tiled. Cor. of the difc 5-
cleft. (2) Cal. as in the male. Cor. of the ray 5-
cleft. Drupes dimpled.
I. (1) Cal. common, 5-leaved. Cor. of the difc
fuperior. (2) Cal. as in the male. No cor. of the
ray. Styl. 2. Seed 1.
* A. (1) Cal. proper 5-leaved. No cor. Stamens 3
or 5. (2) Proper cal. 5-leaved. No cor. 3 flyles,
Capf. cut round.
L. (l) Cal. 5-cleft. Cor. 5-cleft. (2) Cal. 5-
cleft. Cor. 5-cleft. Styl. 1. Peric. 6-celled. Seeds
folitary.
Order VI. HEXANDRlA.'
Z. (1) Cal. hufk none. Cor. a 2-valved hufk,
(2) Cal. hufk none. Cor. a 2-valved hufk. Styles
2. Seed 1. Cor. cut round.
P. (1) Cal. a hufk 1-flowered. Cor. a hufk 2-val¬
ved. (2) Cal. a x-flowered hufk. Cor. a 2-valved
hufk. Style 1. Seed 1.
Order VII. HEPTANDRIA.
f G. (1) Cal. cylindrical. Cor. 7-cleft. (2) CaL
cylindrical. Cor. 7-cleft. 1. Style. Drupe dry.
Ordq
B O
T
A
N Y.
Monoeck
Ordo VIII. POLYANDRIA.
1156. Begonia, (i) Cal. o. Cor. 4-petala. (2)Cal.
O. Cor. 4-pevala. Styl. 3, bifidi. Capf. infera, 3-I0-
cularis, polyrperma.
* 1067. Sagittaria. (i) Cal. 3-pbyllus. Cor. 3-
petala. Stam. 24 circiter. (2) Cal. 3-phyll. Cor.
3 pet. Pift. 100. Sem. numerofa.
* 1066. Myriophyllum. (I) Cal. 4-phyllus. Cor.
O. Stara. 8. ( ':) Cal. 4 phyllus. Cor. o. Pift. 4.
Sem. 4.
* 1065. Clratophyllum. (i) Cal. Tub 7-partitus.
Cor. o. Stam. 18 circiter. (2) Cal. fub 7-partitus.
Cor. o. Pift. I. Sem. I.
1068. Theligonum. (i) Cal. 2-fidus. Cor. o.
Stam. 12 circiter. (2) Cal. 2-fidus. Cor. o. Pift. 1.
Sem. 1, corticatum.
* 1069. Poterium. (i ) Cal. 4-pbyllus. Cor. 4-par¬
tita. Stam. 32circiter. (2) Cal. 4-phyllus. Cor. 4-
pet. Pift. 2. Sem. 2, obdufta.
* 1072. Fagus. (r) Cal. 5-fidus. Cor. o. Stam.
12 circiter. (2) Col. 4-fidus. Cor. o. Styl. 3. Capf.
2-iperma.
* 1070. Quercus. (i) Cal. 5-fidus. Cor. o. Stam.
10 circiter. ( 2) Cal. integer. Cor. o. Styl. 5. Nux
coriacea.
1071. Juglans. (1) Ament, imbricat. Cor. 6-
partita. Stam. 18 circiter. (2) Cal. 4-fidus. Cor.
4 pet. Styl. 2. Drupa coriacea.
* 1074. Corylus. (j) Ament, imbricat. Cor. o.
Stam. 8. (2) Cal. 2-phyllus. Cor. o. Styl. 2. Nux
nuda.
* 1073. Carpinus. (1) Ament, imbricat. Cor. o.
Stam. 10. (2) Cal. 6-fidus. Cor. o. Pift. 2. Nux
nuda.
1075. Platanus. (i) Ament, globof. Cor. ob-
foleta. Anther, circumnatae. (2) Ament, globof.
Cor. 5-pet. Styl. 1. Sem. 1, pappofum.
1076. LIQU1DAM B AR. (l) Cal. 4-phylluS. Cor. O.
Stam. plurima. (2), Cal. 4-phyllus. Cor. o. Styl. 2.
Capf. polyfperma.
Areca, Caryota.
Ordo IX. MONADELPHIA.
1087. Hura. (i) Cal. 2-phyllus. Cor. o. An¬
ther. 20, feftiles._ (2) Cal. cylindricus. Cor. o. Pift.
1. Capf. 10-cocca.
* 1077. PtNUS. (1) Cal. 4-phyllus. Cor. o. Stam.
plurima. (2) Ament, ftrobilac. Cor. o. Pift. 2.
Nuces 2, alatae.
1070. Cupressus. (1) Amentum. Cor. o. An¬
ther. 4, fefliles. ( 2) Ament, ftrobilac. Cor. o. Stigm.
2. Nux angulata.
1078. Thuja, (i) Amentum. Cor. o. Anther. 4.
(2) Amentum ftrobriau Cor. o. Pift. 2. Nux cinc-
ta ala.
1082. Acalypha. (1) Cal. 4 phyllus. Cor. o.—
Stam. 12 circiter. (2) Cal. 3-phyllus. Cor. o. Styl.
3. Capf. 3-cocca.
1081. Dalechampia. (i) Cal. 6-phyllus. Cor. o.
Neftar. lamellatum. Stam. multa. (2) Cal. IO-phyl-
lus. Cor, o. Stylus 1. Capf. 3-cocca.
Order VIII. POLYANDRIA-.
B. (1) No cal. Cor. 4-petaled. (2) No cal. 4-
petaled. Styles 3, 2-cleft. Capf. inferior, 3-celled,
many-feeded.
* S. (1) Cal. 3-leaved. Cor. 3-petaled. Stam.
about 24. (2) Cal. 3-leaved. Cor. 3-pet. Pift. ICQ.
Seeds numerous.
* M. (1) Cal.. 4-leaved. No cor. Stamens 8.
(2) Cal. 4-leaved. No cor. Pift. 4. Seeds 4.
* C. (1) Cal. nearly 7-parted, No cor. Stamens,
about 18. (2) Cal. nearly 7-parted. No cor. Pift. 1.
Seed 1.
T. (1) Cal. 2-cleft. No cor. Stam. about 12.
(2) Cal. 2-lelt. No cor. Pift. 1. Seed 1, barkiike.
* P. (1) Cal. 4 leaved. Cor. 4-parted. Stam. about
32. (2) Cal. 4-leaved. Cor. 4 pet. Pirt. 2. Seeds 2,
covered.
* F. (1) Cal. 5-cleft. No cor. Stam. about 12.
(2) Cal. 4-cleft. No cor. Styles 3. Capf. 2-feeded.
* 0^,(0 Cal. 5-cleft. No cor. Stam. about! to.
(2) Cal. entire. No cor. Styles 5. Nut leatherlike.
I. (1) Catkin tiled. Cor. 6-cleft. Stam. about 18.
(2) Cal. 4-cleft. Cor. 4-pet. Styles 2. Drupe leather¬
like.
* C. (1) Catkin tiled. No cor. Stam. 8. (2) Cal.
2-leaved. No cor. Styl. 2. Nut naked.
* C. (1) Catkin tiled. No cor. Stam. TO. (2) Cal.
6-cleft. No cor. Pift 2. Nut naked.
P. (1) Catkin globular. Cor. obfcure. Anth. ril¬
ing around. ( 1) Catkin globular. Cor. 5-petaled.
Styl. 1. Seed 1, downy.
L. (1) Cal. 4-leaved. No cor. Many ftamens.
(2) Cal. 4-leaved. No cor. Styl. 2. Capf. many-
feeded.
Order IX. MONADELPHIA.
H. ( i ) Cal. 2-leaved. No cor. Anth. 20, fitting,
(2) Cal. cylindrical. No cor. Pet. I. Capf. 10-cell-
ed.
* P. (1) Cal. 4-leaved. No cor. Stamens many.
(2) Catkin conical. No cor. Pift. 2. Nuts 2, wing¬
ed.
C. (1) Catkin. No cor. Anth. 4, fitting. (2) Cat¬
kin conical. No car. Stigm. 2. Nut angular.
T. (1) Catkin. No cor. Anth. 4. (l) Catkin
conical. No cor. Pift. 2. Nut girt with a wing.
A. (1) Cal. 4-leaved. No cor. Stam. about 12.
(2) Cal. 3-leaved. No cor. Styl. 3. Capf. 3-celled.
D. ( 1) Cal. 6-leaved. No cor. Neffar. gilled. Stam.
many. (2) Cal. IQ-leaved. No cor. Style 1. Capf.
3-celled.
1080.
26s
Monoecia. B O T
1080. PlukenetiA. (i) Cal. o. Cor. 4-petala.
Stam. 8. (2) Cal. o. Cor. 4-pet. Styl. I. Capf.
4-cocca.
279. Cupania. (x) Cal. 3-phyllus. Cor. 5-petala.
Stam. 5. (2) Cal. 3-phyllus. Cor. 3-petala. Styl.
3-fidus. Capf. feminibus 6 arillatis.
1083. Croton. (1) Cal. 5-phyllus. Cor. 5-petala.
Stam. 15. (2) Cal. 5-phyllus. Cor. o. Styl. 3.
Capf. 3-cocca.
1085. RiCinus. (i) Cal. 5-partitus. Cor. o.
Stam. multa. (2) Cal. 3-partitus. Cor. o. Styl. 3.
Capf. 3 cocca.
1084. Jatropha. (1) Cal. o. Cor. 5-fida. Stam.
IO. (2) Cal. o. Cor. 5 pet. Styl. 3. Capf. 3-cocca.
1086. Sterculia. (i) Cal. 5-partitus. Cor. o.
Stam. 15 circiter. (2) Cal. 5-partitus. Cor. o. Pift.
I. Capf. 5.
1088. Hippomane. (i) Cal. 2-fidus. Cor. o. An-
therce bifidae. (2) Cal. 3-fidus. Cor. o. Stigm. 3-
plex. Drupa i-fperma, aut capf. 3-cocca.
1279. Stillingia. (i) Cal. multiflorus. Cor. 1-
petala. Stam. 2. (2) Cal. unitlorus. Cor. ftylus
3-fidus. Germen 3-coccum, inter calycem et corol-
lam.
1278. Gnetum. (i) Amentum ex calyculis pelta-
tis. Cor. o. Anther. 2. (2) Amenti ejufdem. Sty¬
lus 3-fidus. Drupa i-fperma.
ANY.
P. (1) No cal. Cor. 4-petaled. Stam. 8. (2) No
cal. Cor. 4-petaled. 1 Style. Capf. 4-celled.
C. (1) Cal. 3-leaved. Cor. 5-petaled. Stam. 5,
(2) Cal. 3-leaved. Cor. 3-petaled. Styl. 3-cleft.
Capf. with 6 coated feeds.
C. (I) Cal. 5 leaved. Cor. 5-petaled. Stam. 15,
(2) Cal. 5-leaved. No cor. Styl. 3. Capf. 3-celled.
R. ( I) Cal. 5-parted. No cor. Stam. many. (2) Cal.
3-parted. No cor. Styl. 3. Capf. 3-celled.
J. (1) Cal. o. Cor. 5 cleft. Stamens 10. (2) Cah
O. Cor. 5- pet. Styl. 3. Capf. 3-celled.
S. (i)Ca!. 5-parted. No cor. Stam. about 15,
(2) Cal. 5-parted. No cor. Pift. 1. Capf. 5.
H. (1) Cal. 2-cleft. No cor. Anthers 2 cleft.
(2) Cal. 3-cleft''. No cor. Stigm. 3-fold. Drupe
i-feeded, or a capf. 3-celled.
S. (1) Cal. many-flowered. Cor. i-petaled. Stam.
2. (2) Cal. 1-flowered. Cor. a 3-cleft ilyle. Germ,
3-celled, betwixt the calyx and corolla.
G. ( 1) Catkin of target-fhaped calycles. No cor.
Anth. 2. (2) Catkin of the fame. Style 3-cleft,
Drupe i-feeded.
OrdoX. syngenesia.
1089. Trichosanthes. (1) Cal. 5-dentatus. Cor.
5-fida, ciliata. Filam. 3. (2) Cal. 5-dentatus. Cor.
5 fid. Styl. 3-fid. Pom. oblongum.
1090. Momordica. (1) Cal. 5-fidus. Cor. 5-fida.
Filam, 3. (2) Cal. 5-fidus. Cor. 5-fid. Styl. 3-f.
Pom. elafticum.
1092. Cucumis. ( 1) Cal. 5-dentatus, Cor. 5-fida.
Filam. 3. (2) Cal. 5-dentatus. Cor. 5-fid. Styl. 3-
fid. Pomum. Sem. argutis.
1091. Cucurbita. (1) Cal. 5-dentatus. Cor. 5-
fida. Filam. 3. (2) Cal. 5 dentatus. Cor. 5-fid.
Styl. 3-f. Pomum, fem. marginatis.
1094. Sicyos. (1) Cal. 5-dentatus. Cor. 5-fida.
Filam. 3. (2) Cal. 5-dentatus. Cor. 5-fid. Styl,
3-f. Drupa monofperma.
* 1093. Bryonia. (1) Cal. 5-dentatus. Cor. 5-par¬
tita. Filam. 3. (2) Cal. 5-dentatus. Cor. 5-part.
Styl. 3-f. Bacca.
Order X. SYNGENESIA.
T. (1) Cal. 5-toothed. Cor. 5-cleft, fringed. Fi¬
lam. 3. (2) Cal. 5-toothed. Cor. 5-cleft. Style 3-
cleft. Oblong apple.
M. ( 1) Cal. 5-cleft. Cor. 5-cleft. Filam. 3. {2) Cal.
5-cleft. Cor. 5-cleft. Style 3-cleft. Elaftic apple.
C. (1) Cal. 5-toothed. Cor. 5-cleft. Filam. 5.
(2) Cal. 5-toothed. Cor. 5-cleft. Style 3-cleft,
Apple, with (harp feeds.
C. (1) Cal. 5-toothed. Cor. 5-cleft. Filam. 3.
(2) Cal. 5-toothed. Cor. 5-cleft. Style 3-cleft.
Apple wdth bordered feeds.
S. (1) Cal. 5-toothed. Cor. 5-cleft. Filam. 3.
(2) Cal. 5-toothed. Cor. 5-cleft. Style 3-cleft,
Drupe, x-feeded.
* B. (1) Cal. 5-toothed. Cor. 5 parted. Filam. 3.
(2) Cal. 5-toothed, Cor. 5-parted. Style 3-cleft.
Berry.
Ordo XI. GYNANDRIA. Order XI. GYNANDRIA.
1095. Andrachne. (i) Cal. 5-phyllus. Cor. 5-
petala. Stam. 5. (2) Cal. 5-phyllus. Cor. o. Styl.
3. Capf. 3-locul. 2-fperma.
1330. Agyneia. (i) Cal. 6-phyllus. Cor. o.
Anth. 3. (2). Cal. 6-phyllus. Cor. o. Germen
perforatum. Stylus ftigmaque nulla.
A. (1) Cal. 5-leaved. Cor. 5-petaled. Stam. 5.
(2) Cal. 5-leaved. No cor. Styl. 3. Capf. 3-celled,
2-leeded
A. (j) Cal. 6-leaved. No cor. Anth. 3. (2) Cal.
6-leaved. No cor. Gferm. perforated. No llyle nor
ftigma.
L I
Vot. IV. Part I.
Order
266 B G T
Order I. MONANDRIA.
1034. Zannichelma, or Three-headed Pond-weed.
One Ipecies j viz. pduftris.
1035. Ceratocarpus.
One fpecies j viz. arenarius. Tartary.
1426. Artocarpus, or Bread-fruit.
Two f’pecies; viz. incifa, integrifolia. It has a
(Jylindric amentum or catkin, which thickens gradually,
and is covered with flowers ; the male and female in a
different amentum. In the male, the calyx1 is two-val-
ved, and the corolla is wanting. In the female, there
is no calyx nor corolla j the ftylus is one, and the dru-
pa is many-celled.
Though this tree had been mentioned by many voy¬
agers, particularly by Dampier, by Rumphius, and by
Lord Anion, yet very little notice feems to have been
taken of it till the -return of Captain Wallis from the
South leas, and fince that time by others who have
touched at Otaheite and fome countries in the Eafl: In¬
dies. Captain Dampier relates, that in Guam, one of
the Ladrone iflands, “ there is a certain fruit called
the breadfruit, growing on a tree as big as our large
apple-trees, with dark leaves. The fruit is round, and
grows on the boughs like apples, of the bignefs of a
good penny-loaf j when ripe, it turns yellow, foft, and
fweet; but the natives take it green, and bake it in an
Oven till the rind is black j this they ferape off, and
eat the inflde, which is foft and white, like the inftde
of new-baked bread, having neither feed nor ftone j
but if it is kept above 24 hours it is harftu As this
fruit is in feafon eight months in the year, the natives
feed upon no other fort of bread during that time.
They told us that all the Ladrone iflands had plenty of
it. I never heard of it in any other place.”
Rumphius, after deferibing the tree, obferves, that
M the fruit is fhaped like a heart, and increafes to the
fize of a child’s head. Its furface or rind is thick,
green, and covered everywhere with warts of a qua-
dragonal or hexagonal figure, like cut diamonds, but
without points. The more flat and fmooth thefe warts
are, the fetver feeds are contained in the fruit, and
the greater is the quantity of pith, and that of a more
glutinous nature. The internal part of the rind, or
peel, confifts of a flefhy fubftance, full of twilled fibres,
which have the appearance of fine wool; thefe adhere
to, and in fome meafure form it. The fielhy part of
this fruit becomes fofter towards the. middle, w'here
there is a fmall cavity formed without any nuts or feeds,
except in one fpecies, which has but a fmall number,
and this fort is not good, unlefs it is baked or prepared
lome other way : but if the outward rind be taken off,
and the fibrous flefli dried and afterwards boiled with
meat as we do cabbage, it has then the tafte of arti¬
choke bottoms. The inhabitants of Amboyna drefs
it in the liquor of cocoa-nuts ; but they prefer it roaft-
ed on coals fill the outward part or peel is burnt. They
afterwards cut it into pieces, and eat it with the milk
of the cocoa-nut. Some people make fritters of it,
or fry it in oil ; and others, as the Sumatrans, dry the
internal foft part, and keep it to ufe inftead of bread
with other food. It affords a great deal of nourilh-
^ Monarch,
ment, and is very fatisfying, therefore proper for hard¬
working people : and being of a gentle aftringent qua¬
lity, is good for perfons of a laxative habit of body.
It is more nourilhing boiled in our manner with fat
meat than roafted on coals. The milky juice which
diftils from the trunk, boiled with the cocoa-nut oil,
makes a very lirong bird lime. This tree is to be
found on the eallern parts of Sumatra, and in the
Malay language is called foccus and foccum capas. It
grows likewife about the tow-n of Bantam in Java, and
in Ballega and Madura, and is known there by the
name offoccum.”
In Anfon’s voyage w^e are informed, “ that the rima,
or bread-fruit tree, is common in all the Ladrone
iflands and fome of the Philippines. It is fomewhat
larger than our apple tree, and bears a broad dark-
coloured leaf with five indentures on each fide. The
fruit hangs on the boughs like apples; and is of the fize
of a penny loaf, rvith a thick tough rind, which when
full ripe turns yellow-. The natives gather it before
it is quite ripe, and bake it till the cruft is pretty black
then they rafp it, and there remains a pretty loaf,
with a tender yellow cruft, and the crumb of it is foft
and fweet as a new baked roll: it is without any feeds
or ftones. This fruit the inhabitants enjoy for about
feven months; during which they never eat any other
kind of bread : but they are obliged to bake it every
day ; for when it grows a little ftale, it becomes haril
and bulky, fomewhat like the potato bread made in
the weft of England. There is, how-ever, a remedy
for this ; which is cutting the loaf into flices wEen it is
new, and drying it in the fun, by which it is changed
into the pleafanteft rulk that can be eaten.”
Captain Cook, m his voyage, obferves, that this-
fruit not only ferves as a fubftitute for bread among
the inhabitants of Otaheite and the neighbouring
iflands, but alfo, varioufly dreffed, compofes the prin¬
cipal part of their food. It grows on a tree that is
about the fize of a middling oak ; its leaves are fre¬
quently a foot and a half long, of an oblong Ihape,
deeply finuated like thofe of the fig tree, which they
refemble in colour and confiftence, and in the exuding
of a milky juice upon being broken. The fruit is about
the fize and lhape of a new-born child’s head ; and the
furface is reticulated, not much unlike a truffle ; it
is covered with a thin Ikin, and has a core about as
big as the handle of a fmall knife. The eatable part
lies betw-een the Ikin and the core; it is as white as
fnow, and fomewhat of the confiftence of new bread ;
it muft be roafted before it is eaten, being firft divided
into three or four parts ; its tafte is infipid, with a
flight fweetnefs fomewhat refembling that of the crumb
of wheaten bread mixed with a Jerufalem artichoke.
This fruit is alfo cooked in a kind of oven, which ren¬
ders it foft, and fomething like a boiled potato ; not
quite fo farinaceous as a good one, but more fo than,
thofe of the middling fort. Of the bread-fruit they
alfo make three difhes, by putting either water or the
milk of the cocoa nut to it, then beating it to a pafte
with a ftone peftle, and afterwards mixing it with ripe
plantains, bananas, or the four pafte which they call
mahie.
The mahie, which is likewife made to ferve as a
fuccedaneum for ripe bread-fruit before the feafon comes
on, is thus made; The fruit of the bread tree is ga¬
thered
Monoecia. B O T
thered juft before it is perfe&ly ripe ; and being laid
in heaps, is clofely covered with leaves: in this ftate
it undergoes a fermentation, and becomes difagreeably
fweet •, the core is then taken out entire, which is done
by gently pulling out the ftalk, and the reft of the
fruit is thrown into a . hole which is dug for that pur-
pofe generally in the houfes, and neatly lined in the
bottom and lides with grafs: the whole is then cover¬
ed with leaves and heavy {tones laid upon them j in this
ftate it undergoes a fecond fermentation, and becomes
four, after which it will fuffer no change for many
months. It is taken out of the hole as it is wanted
for ufe } and being made into balls, it is wrapped up
in leaves and baked : after it is drefled, it will keep
five or fix wrecks. It is eaten both cold and hot; and
the natives feldom make a meal without it, though to
Europeans the tafte is as difagreeablc as that of a
pickled olive generally is the firft time it is eaten. The
fruit itfelf is in feafon eight months in the year, and
the mahie fupplies the inhabitants during the other
four.
To procure this principal article of their food {the
bread-fruit), cofts thefe happy people no trouble or la¬
bour except climbing up a tree : the tree which pro¬
duces it does not indeed grow fpontaneoufly ; but if a
man plants ten of them in his life time, which he may
do in about an hour, he will as completely fulfil his
duty to his own and future generations, as the native
of our lefs temperate climate can do by ploughing in
the cold of wdnter, and reaping in the fummer’s heat,
as often as thefe feafons return 5 even if, after he has
-procured bread for his prefent houfehold, he (hould
convert a furplus into money, and lay it up for his
children.
We have faid that there are two fpecies of artocar-
pus, viz. the incifa, with gafhed leaves; and the inte-
grifolia, with entire leaves. There is alfo faid to be an¬
other diftinftion, into that which bears fruit with ftones
or feeds, and that in which the fruit has none. The parts
of frunification of that tree which bears the fruit without
ftones are defeiftive. The amentum, or catkin, which
contains the male parts, never expands. The ftyli,
or female part of the fruit, are likewife deficient.
From which it follows, that there can be no ftones or
feeds, and therefore that this tree can be propagated
only by fuckers or layers ; although it is abundantly
evident, that it muft originally have proceeded from
the feed-bearing bread-fruit tree. Inftances of this
kind we fometimes find in European fruits ; fuch as
the barberry, and the Corinthian grape from Zant,
commonly called currants, which can therefore be in-
creafed only by layers and cuttings. Dr Solander w’as
sfiured by the oldeft inhabitants of Otaheite and the
adjoining iflands, that they well remembered there was
formerly plenty of the feed-bearing bread-fruit; but
they had been neglefted upon account of the prefer¬
ence given to the bread-fruit without feeds, which
they propagate by fuckers.
The Britifii government fent Lieutenant Bligh in
the Bounty in 1787 to Otaheite to procure and tranf-
port to our Weft India colonies this valuable plant.
The project was at that time unfuccefsful, in confe-
quence of a mutiny of the ftiip’s crew, who feized the
veftel, and carried her back to Otaheite. The object,
however, was accomplifhed at a future period, and the
A N Y.
bread-fruit is now reared in Jamaica and the other
Weft India iflands. Plants of this genus have alfo
been brought to his majefty’s gardens at Kew. The
tafte of the fruit is faid to be a fort of medium between
the tafte of common wheaten bread, and the tafte of a
boiled potato. Thofe who prefer potatoes to ordinary
bread alfo prefer the bread-fruit to it.
1033. Cynomorium.
One fpecies ; viz. coccineum. Jamaica.
Nipa.
One fpecies ; viz. fruticans. Africa.
1203. Ohara.
Four fpecies; viz. * flexilis, * hifpida, * tomento-
fa, * vulgaris.
1036. Elaterium, or Spring-gourd.
Two fpecies ; viz. carthaginenfe, trifoliatum. Car.
thagena.
J427. Phyllachne.
One fpecies; viz. uliginoia. Ferra del Fuego.
1428. Casuarina.
Two fpecies; viz. equifetifolia, nodiflora. E. Indies,
N. S. Wales.
1429. JEgopricon.
One fpecies; viz. betulinum. Surinam, Cayenne,
Order II. DIANDRIA.
1037. Anguria.
Three fpecies ; viz. trilobata, pedata, trifoliata. A-
merica.
1038. Lemna, or Duck-meat.
Five fpecies ; viz. * gibba, * minor, * polyrhiza,
* trifulca, arhiza. Europe.
Order III. TRIANDRIA,
1030. Typha, Cat's-tail, Reed-mace.
Two fpecies ; viz. * anguftifolia, * latifolia.
1041. Sparganium, or Burr-reed.
Four fpecies; viz. * ereftum, * natans, * ramofum,
* fimplex.
1042. Zea, or Indian or darkey Wljeat.
One ipecies^ viz. mays. America.
1044. Tripsacum.
Two fpecies; viz. daftyloides, hermaphroditum,
Virginia, Canada, Jamaica.
1043. Co\x, or Job's tears.
One fpecies ; viz. lacryma. E. Indies.
1045. Olyra.
One fpecies ; viz. 'latifolia. W. Indies.
1046. Care x, or Sedge, Cyperus-grajs.
67 fpecies; viz. * acuta, * ampullacea, *arenaria,'
* atrata, * axillaris, * caefpitofa, *capillaiis, * clan-
deftina, * curta, * depauperata, * digitata, * dioica,
* diflans, divifa, * divulia, * extenfa, * fihformis,
*flava, * hirta, * incurva, * intermedia, * limofa,
* muricata,. * ovalis, * pallefcens, * palludofa> * pani-
cea, * paniculata, *pauciflora, * pendula, *piluli-
k 1 2 '• fera,
267
i
B O T
fera, *' praecox, * pfeudocyperus, * pullcaris, * re-
curva, * remota, * rigida, * riparia, * ftdlulata, *{lric-
ta, * trigofa, * fylvatica, * teretiufcula, * veficaria,
^ vulpina, capitata, fquarrofa, uncinata, baldenfis, uli-
ginofa, leporina, brizoides, loliacea, elongata, canef-
cens, indica, brunnea, poedata, montana, tomentofa,
globularis, faxatilis, triftacbya, folliculata, japonica,
puraila, lithofperma. Eur. Afia, Afr. America.
1047. Axyris.
Four fpecies j viz. ceratoides, amaranthoides, hy-
brida, proftrata. Siberia, Tartary.
1039. Omphalea.
Two fpecies j viz. diandra, triandra. Jamaica.
1048. Tragia.
Six fpecies-, viz-, volubilis, involucrata, mercurialis,
urens, chameelia, cannabina. India, Virginia, Carolina.
1049. Hernandia, or Jack-m-a-Box.
Two fpecies 5 viz. fonora, ovigera. W. Indies, S.
America.
1050. Phyllanthus, or Sea-fule Laurel.
Seven fpecies; viz. grandifolia, niruri, urinaria,
bacciformis, racemofa, emblica, maderafpatenfis. A-
rabia, E. and W. Indies, Carolina.
Order IV. TETRANDRIA.
1274. Serpiculata.
Two fpecies j viz. * verticillata, repens. India.
Aucuba.
One fpecies j viz. japonica. Japan.
1328. LrTTORELLA.
One fpecies j viz. * lacuftris.
1275. Cicca.
One fpecies ; viz. diilicha. India.
1052. Betula, or Birch-tree.
Eight fpecies viz. * alba, * alnus, * nana, dale-
carlica, nigra, lenta, pumila, incana. Europe, N.
America.
1053. Buxus, or Box-tree.
One fpecies \ viz. fempervirens.—The wood is very
hard and fmooth, and not apt to warp, and therefore
well adapted for the ufe of the turner. Combs, ma¬
thematical inftruments, knife handles, and button
moulds, are made of it. An empyreumatic oil, diftil-
led from the (havings, is often ufed as a topical appli¬
cation for the piles, and feldom fails to procure eafe.
It will frequently relieve the foothach, and has been
given internally in epilepfies. The leaves, powdered,
deftroy worms. In the fouth of Europe it is cultivat¬
ed in gardens and kept in flower-pots, with as much
attention as we beftow upon myrtle.
1054. Urtica, or Nettle.
28 fpecies-, viz. *dioica, # pilulifer, * urens, bale-
arica, dodartii, pumila, grandifolia, cannabina, alie-
nata, cylindrica, parietaria, ciliaris, fpicata, macro-
phylla, rhombea, seftuans, capitata, divaricata, cana-
denfis, interrupta, nivea, baccifera, arborea, capenfls,
frutefcens, ftimulans, japonica, villofa. Europe, N.
America, E. and W. Indies.
* U. leaves oppofite, heart-fhaped 5 bunches in pairs.
.—This fpecies is the common nettle, Its (lings are
ANY, Monoeci
very curious microfcopic obje£ls: They confift of an
exceedingly fine-pointed tapering hollow fubftance,
with a perforation at the point, and a bag at the bafe )
or they are (harp tubes feated upon a bag. When the
(harp point of the tube, that is to fay the ding, is pref-
fed upon, it readily pundlures the (kin, and the fame
preffure forces up an acrimonious fluid from the bag,
which is fquirted into the wound, and produces ^n ef-
fedl which mod perfons have experienced. The plant
was formerly ufed as an adringent, but is now difre-
garded. A flalk of it, when the leaves are in their
prime, put into milk, coagulates it, and may ferve to
prepare it for being made into cheefe. A leaf, put
upon the tongue, and then preffed againd the roof of
the mouth, is pretty efficacious in dopping a bleeding
at the nofe. Paralytic limbs have been recovered by-
dinging them wdth nettles. The young (hoots are ga¬
thered early in the fpring to boil in broth or gruel.
Cowrs eat the. leaves when they are a little withered.
The leaves are cut to pieces to mix wdth the food of
young turkeys and other poultry. Cowts, horfes,
(heep, goats, and fwdne, refufe them. Affes are fond
of it, and cows eat it in hay. The dalks may bo
drefled like flax or hemp for making cloth or paper.
In Kamtfchatka they make ufe of no other material in
the manufaflure of cordage or failcloth, and linen, and
confider thefe fabrics, wThen produced from nettles,
as fuperior in every refpedl to thof@ made from hemp
and flax. As the nettle feems of all plants the mod
congenial to our foil and climate, growdng in all fitua-
tions both fertile and barren, in fpite of every attempt
to extirpate it ; and as there exids no doubt, that as a
material of manufafture, it is not inferior to either flax
or hemp, it is a Angular circumdance that it has never
come into general ufe. This, perhaps, is chiefly to
be accounted for from the difficulty of colledling its
feeds and handling it j difficulties howrever, which a
little attention and induflry would probably foon en¬
able us to overcome.
1055. Morus, or Mulberry-tree.
Seven fpecies 5 viz. alba, nigra, papyrifera, rubra,
indica, tatarica, tindloria. Italy, China, Japan, A-
merica.—The mulberry is chiefly remarkable on ac¬
count of the value of its leaves, as the food of that va¬
luable infedl the filk-worm. The M. alba or white
mulberry, with leaves obliquely heart-(haped and le¬
vel, grows in Britain in the open air, as far northward
as the frith of Froth, and (ilk-worms may be fed with
it. The fruit of the black mulberry has the common
qualities of other fweet fruits, abating heat, quenching
third, and promoting the grolfer fecretions 5 a fyrup,
made from the juice, is kept by the apothecaries. The
bark of the roots has been in confiderable efleem as a
cure for worms : its tade its bitter and fomewhat aflrin»
gent.
Order V. PENTANDRIA.
/
1277. Nephelium.
One fpecies ; viz. lappaceum. India.
1056. Xanthium, or hejfer Burdock.
Five fpecies } viz. * drumarium, orientale, echina-
turn, fpinofum, fruticofum. S. Europe, Ceylon, Chi¬
na, Peru.
* X,
Monoecia. B O 1
Jlruma- * X. ftem tliornlefs, leaves heart.lhaped, three-fibred.
riUm,  The leaves are bitter and aftringent. A decodlion
of the whole plant affords a Ihorvy yellow colour ; but
it is better if only the flowers are ufed. Horfes and
goats eat it. Cows, flieep, and fwine, refufe it.
1057. Ambrosia.
Four fpecies ; viz. trifida, elatior, artemififolia, ma-
ritima.
10^8. Parthenium, ox Bafe Feverfew.
Two fpecies j viz. hyft^rophorus, integrifolium-.
Virginia, Jamaica.
1059. Iva, or Falfe "Jefuits-Bark tree.
Two fpecies 5 viz. annua, frutefcens. Virginia, Ca¬
rolina, Jamaica.
1329. Clibadium.
One fpecies ; viz. furinamenle. Surinam.
1060. Amaranthus, or Flower-gentle.
24 fpecies ; viz. albus, graecizans, melancholicus,
tricolor, polygamus, gangeticus, mangoftanus, triftis,
lividus, oleraceus, blitum, viridis, dedexm, polygo-
noides,. fcandens, hybridus, paniculatus, fanguineus,
retroflexus, flavus, hypochondriacus, cruentus, cauda-
tus, fpinofus.. Europe, E. and W. Indies, America.
1276. Leea.
Two fpecies j viz. gequata, crifpa. Jamaica.
Order VI. HEXANDRIA.
1062. Zizania, ox Water-oats, Tnre-grafs.
Three fpecies 5 viz. aquatica, paluftris, terreftris.
Malabar, N. America, Jamaica.
1063. Pharus.
One fpecies j viz. latifolius. Jamaica, S Amer.
Order VIE HEPTANDRIA.
1064. Guettarda.
One fpecies j viz. fpeciofa. Java, W. Indies.
Order VIII. POLYANDRIA.
1065. Ceratophyllum, or Hornwort.
Two fpecies ; viz. * demerfum, * fubmerfum.
1066. Myriophyllum, or Water Milfoil.
Two fpecies } viz. * fpicatum, * verticillatum.
1066. Sagittaria, or Arrowhead.
Five fpecies j viz. * fagittifolia, obtulifolia, lancifo*
lia, acutifolia, trifolia. Europe, Afia, America.
fagittifolia * S. leaves arrow-fhaped, acute.—It grows in ditches
and on the banks of flow running rivers. There is al¬
ways a bulb at the lower part of the root, growing in
the folid earth beneath the mud. This bulb confli-
tutes a confiderable part of the food of the Chinefe,
and upon that account they cultivate it. Horfes, goats,
and fwine, eat it. Cows are not fond of it.
1156. Begonia.
Three fpecies *, viz. ferruginea, capenfis, urt:ca.
Cape, E. and W. Indies.
1098. Theligonum, ox Dogs-cabbage.
One fpecies j viz. cynocrambe. S. of Europe.
A N Y. 2%
1069. Potertum, or Garden Barnet.
Three fpecies; viz. * fanguiforba, hybridum, fpino
* P. without thorns j ftems fomewhat angular.'—- Yhefanguifor*
leaves and feeds of this plant are mildly aftringent, and
have been ufed in dyfenteries and haemorrhagies.^ I he. ^
feeds, when bruifed, fmell like cucumbers. 1 here
are large tradls of the fineft parts of what are cabled
the South Downs in England, upon which this plant
forms half the indigenous pafturage. It feems to grow
naturally (without being fown) only on chalky foils j
but it will ilourifh, when fown, on any foil; on fand,
clay, peat, &c. It is chiefly valuable for fheep pa-
ftures that are to be kept fully flocked. It forms a
fine herbage when clofe bitten } but when fuffered to
run to a height it is rather coarfe.
1070. Quercus, or Oak-tree.
20 fpecies j viz.'* phellos, molucca, glabra, acuta,
glauca, cufpidata, ferrata, ilex, fuber, coccifera, pri-
nus, dentata, nigra, rubra, alba, efculus, * robur,
egillops, ceiris, * femina.
* 0. leaves on leaf-ftalk, oblong, broadeft towardsf-obur.
the end, indentations rather acute, angles blunt; fruit
nearly fitting.
* leaves oblong, on fhort leaf-ftalks, blunt, wing-fermnal
cleft, with indentations 5 fruit moftly folitary, on long
fruitftalks. Withering, vol. iii. p. 387. The oak is a
native of the temperate climates. It loves hilly better
than boggy ground, and thrives beft, while young, in
large plantations. Its roots defcend deep into the
earth, and therefore will not bear to be tranfplanted.
Much lopping deftroys it. Grafs will hardly grow
beneath it. T. he wood is haid, tough, tolerably
flexible, not eafily fplintering } and therefore is prefer¬
red before all other timber for building ftiips of war.
It is well adapted to almoft every purpofe of the car¬
penter } but an attempt to enumerate the ufes of this
well-known wood, would be equally fuperfluous and
difficult. Oak faw-duft is the principal indigenous ve-
getable ufed in dyeing fuftian. All the varieties of
drabs and different fhades of browm are made with oak
faw-duft, differently managed and compounded. The
balls or oak apples are likewife ufed in dyeing, as a
fubftitute for galls. The black, got from them by
the addition of copperas, is more beautiful than that
from galls, but not fo durable. The bark is univer-
fally ufed to tan leather ; and it is faid that the faw-
duft has been ufed for the fame purpofe with equal fuc-
cefs. The bark is ufed to make writing ink. Its
aftringent properties might be rendered uleful in me¬
dicine. An infufion of it with a fmall quantity of cop¬
peras, is ufed by the corpmon people to dye woollen
of a purplilh blue : the colour, though not very bright,
is durable. The balls or galls upon the leaves, are oc •
cafioned by a fmall infedt with four wings, called cy-
nfs querci folii, which depofits an egg in the fubftance
of the leaf by making a fmall perforation on the under
furface. The ball prefently begins to grow, and the
egg in the centre of it changes to a worm 5 this worm
again changes to a nymph, and the nymph to the fly¬
ing infeft, with four wings. Horfes, edws, (heep, and
goats, eat the leaves. Swine and deer fatten on the
acorns. The oak grow7S in a good foil fometimes to a
xnoft immenfe fize. At Little Shelfley in Worcefter-
thire^,
270 B O T
fliire, an oak meafured clofe to the giound nearly 48
feet, and about two yards from the ground 22 feet
four inches. Lightfoot mentions one growing near
Ludlow in Shropfhire in 1764, the trunk of which
meafured 68 feet in girth, and 23 in length $ fo that
allowing 90 fquare feet for the larger branches, it
contained 1455 feet of timber. An oak near Wei-
beck meafured in girth, at 11 feet from the ground,
38 feet; and one growing at Cowthorpe near Wether-
by, Yorklhire, meafured 48 feet in circumference at
three feet from the ground, and 78 feet clofe to the
ground.
1071. Juglans, or Walnut-tree.
Five fpecies $ viz. regia, alba, nigra, cinerea, bac-
cata. Perfia, N. America.—This tree, when planted
in Scotland, feldom ripens its fruit.
1072. Fagus, or Beech, Sweet Chef nut.
Three fpecies $ viz. * callanea, pumila, * fylvatica.
Europe, N. Americav
(ajlanea. * F. leaves fpear-fhaped, with tapering fcrratures, na¬
ked underneath.—In the (hade of this fpecies, called
the chefnut, nothing will thrive. The wood is appli¬
cable to the fame ufes that oak is. Pipes made of it
to convey water under ground, are faid to laft longer
than thofe made of oak. Poles for efpaliers, &c. made
of it without removing the bark, alfo lall very long.
Some of the oldeft buildings in London are faid to be
conftrutted of the wmod of the chefnut tree. At Tort-
worth in Gloucefterlhire, is faid to be a tree 52 feet
round, which is proved to have flood fince the year
1150, and w7as then very old. It is fuppofed to be
1100 years old. In 1759, its girth, at fix feet from
the ground, was 46 feet fix inches. The nuts are ufed
to w'hiten linen cloth, and to make flarcb. They
conflitute a great proportion of the food of the com¬
mon people in the fouth of Europe ; and hogs, feeding
on them as they run wild in the forefts, are reckoned
particularly excellent.
fylvatica. * F. leaves egg-fhaped 5 indiflin&ly ferrated. Com¬
mon beech.—This tree is large and beautiful, but no
verdure is found under its fhade. It retains its old
leaves during the winter, and may be trained to form
very lofty hedges. The wood is brittle, foon decays
in the air, but endures under water. It is formed in¬
to tool handles, planes, mallets, chairs, and bedfteads.
Split into thin layers, it is ufed to make fcabbarcls for
fwords. It is excellent fuel, and its afhes afford much
potafh. The leaves, gathered in autumn before they
are much injured by frofi, make much better mattref-
fes than flraw or chaff, and laft feven or eight years.
The nuts or maft, when eaten, occafion giddinefs and
headach •, but when well dried and powTdered, make
wholefome bread. They are fometimes roafted and
fubftituted for coffee. They fatten fwine, and are de¬
voured greedily by mice, fquirrels, and birds. The
poor people in Silefia ufe the expreffed oil inftead of
butter. Sheep and goats eat the leaves.
1073. Carpinus, Hornbeam-tree.
Two fpecies j viz. * betulus, oftrya. Europe, N.
America.
letulus. C. fcales of the cones flat.—This, wdiich is the com¬
mon hornbeam, loves a poor ftiff foil on the fides of
hills, is eafily tranfplanted, and bears lopping. Cat¬
tle eat the leaves, but no pafture grows under its
ANY, Monoecia,
fhade. The WTood burns like a candle : it is very
white, very tough, harder than hawthorn, and capa¬
ble of fupporting a great weight. It is ufeful in turn¬
ing, and for many implements of hufhandry. Coggs
for millwheels made of it are fuperior to thofe of yew.
The inner bark is ufed in Scandinavia to dye yellow7.
1074. Corylus, Hazel or Nut-tree.
Two fpecies j viz. * avellana, colurna. Europe,
N. America.
* C.—This wood is profitably planted in many places avellanih
in hedges and coppices, for the purpofe of cutting
down portions in rotation, to be converted into char¬
coal for forges. The wood is ufed for fifhing-rods,
rvalking-fticks, hoops, See. The roots are preferred
where beautiful wood is wanted for inlaying or flam¬
ing. It is a practice in Italy, to put chips of hazel in¬
to turbid wine to clear it, which it does in 24 hours.
In countries where yeaft is fcarce, they twift together
hazel twigs, fo as to leave a multitude of chinks : thefe ,
they fteep in their ale while it is fermenting ; then
hang them up to dry, and when they brew again they
put them into the wort inftead of yeaft. Charcoal of
hazel, when ufed in drawing, leaves ftains which are
eafily rubbed out. The nuts, which are agreeable to
moft people, afford, by/preffure, an oil for the ufe of
painters.
1075. Platanus, or Plane-tree.
Twro fpecies ; viz. orientalis, occidentalis. Levant,
N. America.
1076. Liquidambar, or Sweet Gum.
Twro fpecies j viz. ftyraciflua, peregrina. Levant,
N. America.—The refinous juice of the former of
thefe fpecies, brought from America, wTas once ufed as
a perfume, but is now neglected.
Order IX. MONADELPHIA.
1077. Pin us, or Pine-tree.
12 fpecies j viz. * fylveftris, pinea, taeda, cembra,
ftrobus, cedrus, larix, picea, balfamea, canadenfis, a-
bies, orientalis. Europe, north of Afia, America.
* P. leaves in long pairs, rigid j cones egg-conical,
moftly in pairs, as long as the leaves j fcales oblong,
blunt. Scotch fr.—This fpecies, which is a native of
our ifland,.flourifties beft on a poor fandy foil. In a
grove the trunk is tall and naked •, in open places
branched. It does not bear the leaft clipping, as the
terminating buds fend forth the branches. The roots
fpread near the furface of the earth, except the central
root, which pufhes perpendicularly downwards. If it
is either broken off or interrupted in its paffage, the
ftem ceafes to fhoot upwards, and the tree remains a
dw'arf. Hence it is apt to fuffer by tranfplanting.
The bark will tan leather. In the north of Europe
bread is thus made from it by the inhabitants : They
choofe a ftraight tree, as thefe have leaft refin, and
ftrip off the bark in the fpring, when it feparates moft
readily. This they firft dry gently in the ftiade then
in a greater heat, and reduce it to powder. With this
powder they mix a fmall quantity of corn meal, and with
water they knead it into bread. This they eat, not
only in times of fcarcity, but at other times, from an
apprehenfion, that long difufe might render it difa-
greeable «
Monoecia, B O f
greeable to them. Their children are very fond of the
frefli bark in the fpring time, either fliaved with a
knife or grated with a rafp. The young fhoots, diftil-
led, afford a fragrant effential oil. Sheep and goats
are not fond of it. Horfes refufe it. Burnt with a
clofe fmothering fire, the wood of this fpecies yields
tar. The fpecies called /ar/x has rifen into confider-
able reputation in this country, on account of its beau¬
ty, rapid growth, and the value of the timber. It is
extremely hardy, growing in Siberia almoff to the
coafts of the Icy fea ; but this very hardinefs, or capa¬
city of vegetating with a very fmall degree of heat,
renders it in this country delicate when young. The
firft warmth of the fpring is fufficient to bring forth its
buds, wdrich are thus, by the unfteadinefs of our cli¬
mate, expofed to frequent pernicious frolfs. In this
way nurferymen often fuffer great Ioffes by the larix,
in confequence of an early fpring and a premature ve¬
getation, which is afterwards nipt by frofty weather.
From the trees of the genus pimis the different turpen¬
tines are extradited by bleeding the trees, by wounds
in the bark or branches.
1079. Cupressus, or Cyprefs-tree.
Six fpecies; viz. fempervirens, dilticha, thyoides,
juniperoides, pendula, japonica. Crete, Cape, Japan,
N. America.
1080. Plukenetia.
One fpecies ; viz. volubilis. E. and W. Indies.
1081. Dalechampia.
Two fpecies j viz. colorata, fcandens. W. Indies,
New Granada.
1082. Acalypha.
Five fpecies ; viz. virginica, virgata, indica, villo-
fa, auftralis. N. America, E. and W. Indies.
279. Cupania.
One fpecies j viz. americana. W. Indies, Coro¬
mandel.
1084. Jatropha, or CaJJhda, Manihot.
Nine fpecies •, viz. goffypifolia, moluccana, curcas,
multifida, manihot, janipha, urens, herbacea, elaftica.
Africa, S. America.
1085. Kicinus.
Four fpecies; viz. inermis, communis, tanaricus,
mappa. Vera Cruz.—The fpecies called R. communis
produces nuts about the fize of fmall beans, which like
bitter almonds are deleterious. An oil is obtained
from themby expreffion, called cajlor oil, which is ufed
as a fafe and mild laxative j half an ounce or an
ounce for an adult, and a dram for an infant.
- 1086. Sterculia.
Three fpecies; viz. balanghas, foetida, platanifoli-
um. Arabia, E. and W, Indies, China.
ANY.
1088. Hippomane.
Three fpecies; viz. mancinella, biglandulofa, fpinofaa
1279. Stillingia.
One fpecies; viz. lylvatica. Carolina.
1278. Gnetum.
One fpecies; viz. gnemon. India.
1087. PIura, or Sandbox-tree.
One fpecies; viz. crepitans. Mexico, W. Indies.
Order X. SYNGENESIA.
1089. TriChosanthes, or Serpent-cucumber.
Four fpecies ; viz. anguina, nervifolia, cucumerina,
amara. E. Indies, China.
109. Momordica, ov Male Balfam-apple.
Eight fpecies ; viz. balfamina, charantia, opercula-
ta, luffa, cylindrica, trifolia, pedata, elaterium. S,
Europe, India, America.
1091. Cucurbita, or Gourd.
Seven fpecies; viz. lagenaria, hifpida, ovifera, pe-
po, verrucofa, melopepo, citrullus. E. and W. In¬
dies* America.
1092. Cucumis, or Cucumber.
13 fpecies; viz. colocynthis, prophetarum, an-
guria, africanus, acutangulus, melo, dudaim, chate,
fativus, anguinus, flexuofus, conomon, maderafpata-
nus. Levant, India, Africa, Jamaica.—The fpecies
called fativus, is the ordinary garden cucumber. It is
lefs apt to grow rancid by keeping than others of the
clafs. The C. colocynthis, called coloquintida or bitter
apple, is a native of Turkey. The fruit is about the
fize of an orange. Its medullary part, freed from the
rind and feeds, is light, white, and fpongy, compofed
of membranous leaves, of an extremely bitter, nau-
feous, acrimonious tafte. Colocynth is one of the
molt powerful and violent cathartics; but is accounted
dangerous by the beft phyficians. The beft mode of
abating its virulence, confifts of triturating it with
gummy farinaceous fubftances, or oily feeds. With¬
out this precaution, a few grains of it will often difor-
der the body, and even occafion a difcharge of blood.
The C. melo is ufed in hot countries as a cooling and
agreeable food.
1098. Bryonia, ox Bryony.
11 fpecies; viz. alba, * dioica, palmata, grandis,
cordifolia, laciniofa, africana, cretica, fcabra, fcabrella,
japonica. Crete, Africa, E. Indies.
* B. leaves hand-fhaped, rough on both fides, with
callous points ; male and female flowers on different
plants.^—The root is purgative and acrid. A dram oidioica
it in fubftance, or half an ounce of it infufed in wane,
is a full dofe. A cold infufion of the root in wTater is
ufed externally in fciatic pains. A cataplafm of it is
a moft powerful difeutient. A decoftion, made wdth
one pound of the frefh root, is the beft purge for horn¬
ed cattle. The plant is rough, growing on dry banks
under hedges, and climbing upon the bufhes. The
roots are large, fometimes as thick as a man’s thigh.
Their juice, when frefli, foon excoriates the fkin, but
in drying they lofe much of their acrimony.
1083. Croton, or Bafe Ricinus, Tallow-tree.
23 fpecies ; viz. variegatum, cafcarilla, caffaneifo-
lium, paluftre, glabellum, tinftorium, glandulofum,
argenteum, febiferum, japonicum, acutum, tiglium,
lucidum, lacciferum, balfamiferum, aromaticum, hu-
mile, ricinocarpus, moluccanum, flavens, capenfe, lo-
tum, fpinofura. China, Japan, W. Indies, N. Ame¬
rica.
IC94.
Dioecisb
272
B O T
1094. Sicyos, or Single-feeded Cucumber.
Three fpecies j viz. angulata, laciniata, garcini.
America.
Order XI. GYNANBRIA.
X095. Andrachne, or Bafe Orpine.
Two fpecies; viz. telephioides, fruticofa. Italy,
Levant, Egypt.
ANY.
1320. Agyneia.
Two fpecies j viz. impubes, pubera. China.
In the clafs Monacia are
78 Genera, including 392 Species, of which 83
are found in Britain.
CLASSIS XXII.
DICE CIA* (m)
Ordo I. MONANDRIA.
1430. Pandanus. (i) Cal. o. Cor. o. Anthera
feflilis, ramificationibus thyrfi inferta. (2) Cal. c.
Cor. o. Stigmata 2. Fruft. compofitus.
1096. Najas. (i) Cal. 2-fidus. Cor. 4-fida. Filam.
nullum. (2) Cal. nullus. Cor. o. Pift. 3. Capf. i-
locularis.
Ordo II. DIANDRIA.
1097. Vallisneria. (i) Spath. multiflora, 2-part.
Cor. 3-partita. (2) Spath. 1-flora. Cal. 3-part. Cor,
3-pet. Pift. 1. Capf. i-locularis.
1099. Cecropia. (i) Spath. recept. comm. Cor.
nulla. (2) Spath. recept. comm. Cor. o. Pift. 1.
Bacca i-fperma.
* 1098. Salix. (i) Ament, fquama. Cor. nulla.
Stam. 2, raro 5. (2) Ament, fquama. Cor.o. Stigm. 2.
Capf. 2-valvis. Sem. pappofa.
Ordo III. TRIANDRIA.
* 1 too. Empetrum. (i) Cal. 3-partitus. Cor. 3-
petala. (2) Cal. 3-partitus. Cor. 3-pet. Styl. 9.
Bacca 9-fperma.
it01. Osyris. (1) Cal. 3-fidus. Cor. nulla.
(2) Cal, 3-fidus. Cor. o. Styl. o. Drupa i-locu-
laris.
1280. Caturus. (t) Cal. o. Cor. 3-fida. (2) Cal,
3-partitus. Cor. o. Styl. 3. Capf. 3-cocca.
102. Excoecaria. (i) Ament, fquama. Cor. nul¬
la. (2) Ament, fquama. Cor. o. Styl. 3. 'Capf. 3-
cocca.
1331. Restis. (1) Ament, fquama. Cor. 6-petala.
(2) Ament, fquama. Cor. 6-petala. Styl. 3. Capf.
3 locularis, plicata, polyfperma.
1431. Mas a. (1) Cal. 3-fidus. Cor. 3-fida.
(2) Cal. ut m mare. Drupa fupera, 2-locularis.
CLASS XXII,
DICE CIA.
Order I. MONANDRIA.
P. (1) No cal. No cor. Anthers fitting, inferteft
in the ramifications of a clufter, (2) No cal. No cor.
Stigmas 2. Fruit compound.
N. (1) Cal. 2-cleft. Cor. 4-cleft. No filam.
(2) No cal. No cor. Pift. 3. Capf. i-celled.
Order II. DIANDRIA.
V. (1) Sheath many-flowered, 2-parted. Cor. 3-
parted. (2) Sheath i-*flowered. Cal. 3-parted. Cor.
3-pet. Pift. 1. Capfi 1-celled.
C. (1) Sheath common receptacle. No cor. (2)
Sheath common receptacle. No cor. Pift. 1. Berry
l-feeded.
* S. (1) Catkin a fcale. No cor. Stam. 2, rarely 5.
(2) Catkin a fcale. No cor. Stigm, 2. Capf. 2-
ceiled. Seed downy.
Order III. TRIANDRIA.
* E. (1) Cal. 3-parted. Cor. 3-petaled. (2) Cal.
3-parted. Cor. 3-pet. Styl, 9. Berry 9-feeded,
O.(l) Cal. 3-cleft. No cor. (2) Cal. 3-cleft,
No cor. No ftyl. Drupe 1-celled.
C. (1) No cal. Cor. 3-cleft. (2) Cal. 3-parted.
No cor. Styl. 3. Capf. 3-celled.
E. (1) Catkin a fcale. No cor. (2) Catkin a
fcale. No cor. Styl. 3. Capf. 3-celled.
R. (1) Catkin a fcaie. Cor. 6-petaled. (2) Catkin
a fcale. Cor. 6-petaled. Styles 3. Capf. 3-celled,
plaited, many-feeded.
M. (1) Cal. 3-cleft. Cor. 3-cleft. (2) Cal. as in
the male. Drupe luperior, 2-celled,
Ordo
(m) In this clafs the male and female flowers are found on different plants; and every plant belonging
fco this clafs is either male or female. None are hermaphrodite; i. e. no one plant bears flowers containing ftamenSj
auft alfo flowers containing piftils.
Dicec'u.
B O T
A N Y.
2 73
Ordo IV. TETRANDRIA.
* 1106. Hippophae. (i) Cal. 2-partitus. Cor. nulla.
(2) Cal. 2-fidus. Cor. o. Pift. I, Bacca i-fperma,
arillo truncate.
1103. Trophis. (i) Cal. nullus. Cor. 4-petala.
(2) Cal. nullus. Cor. o. Sty 1. bifid. Bacca i-fper-
ma.
* 1105. Viscum. (1) Cal. 4-partitus. Cor. nulla.
(2) Cal. 4-phyllus. Cor. o. Stigm. obtuf. Bacca
i-fperma, infera.
1432. Moninia. (1) Cal. 4-dentatus, fuperus. Peta-
la 4. (2) Cal. et cor. ut in mare. Filamenta fterilia.
Styl. 2-fidus. Capf. oblonga, 2-locularis.
1104. Batis. (i) Amentum. Cor. nulla. (2) In-
vol. 2-phyllum. Cor. o. Stigm. 2-fid. Bacca 2-
fperma,
* 1107. Myrica. (i) Ament, fquama. Cor. nulla.
(2) Ament, fquama. Cor. o Styl. 2. Bacca 1-
^jerma.
Urticce varice. Morus nigra. Rhamnus.
Ordo V. PENTANDRIA.
1113. Iresine. ( i ) Cal. 2-pbyllus. Cor. 5-petala.
Nedar. 5-phyllum. (2) Cal. 2-phyllus. Cor. 5-pet.
Styl. 2, Capf. polyfperma.
1115. Cannabis. (1) Cal. 5-partitus. Cor. nulla.
{2) Cal. j-nhyllus. Cor. o. Styl. 2. Nux.
* 1116. Humulus. (1) Cal. 5-phyllus. Cor. nulla.
(2) Cal. i-phyllus. Cor. o. Styl. 2. Sem. calyce
alatum.
1108. Pistacia. (») Cal. 5-fidus. Cor. nulla.
(2) Cal. 3-fidus. Cor. O. Styl. 3. Drupa ficca.
1117. Zanonia. ( 1) Cal. 3-phyllus. Cor. 5-partita.
(2) Cal. 3-phyllus. Cor. 5-part. Styl. 3. Bacca
infera, 3-locularis.
1112. Spinacia. (t) Cal. 5-partitus. Cor. nulla,
(2) Cal. 4-fidus. Cor. o. Styl. 4. Sem. I calycinum.
XI14. Acnida. (i) Cal. 5-phyllus. Cor. nulla.
(2) Cal. 2-phyllus. Cor. o. Styl. 5. Sem. I, calyce
veficario.
1110. Antidesma. (1) Cal. 5-phyllus. Cor. nul¬
la. (2) Cal 5-phyllus. Cor. o. Stigm. 5. Bacca 1-
fperma.
nix. A«tronium. (i) Cal. 5-phyllus. Cor. 5-
petala. Neftar. glandulis 5. (2) Cal. 5-phyUus, Cor.
5-petala. Styl. 5. Sem. 1.
1281. Canarium. (1) Cal. 2-phyllus. Cor. 3-peta-
la. (2) Cal. 2-phyllus. Cor. 3-petala. Stigma fef-
file, Drupa.
1199. Zanthoxylon. (l) Cal. 5-partitus. Cor.
nulla. (2) Cal. 5-partitus. Cor. o. Pift. 5. Capf.
t -fperma.
1118. Fewihea. (iJ Cal. 5-partitfis. Cor. 5-fida,
Neftarium filamentis 5. (2) Cal. 5-fidus. Cor. 5-
fid. Styl. 5. Bacca infera,
Phylica dioica. Rhamnus alaternus. Salix pentandra.
Ordo VI. HEXANDRIA.
xi 20. Smilax, (i) Cal. 6-phyllus. Cor. nulla.
(2) Cal. 6-phyllus. Cor. o. Styl. 3. Bacca fu-
pera, 3-locularis.
Vox,. IV. Part I.
Order IV. TETRANDRIA.
* H. (l) Cal. 2-parted. No cor. (2) Cal. 2-cleft.
No cor. Pift. I. Berry i-feeded, with a lopped feed-
coat.
T. (1) No cal. Cor. 4-petaled. (2) No cal. Nc
cor. Styl. 2-cleft. Berry i-feeded.
* V. (1) Cal. 4-parted. Cor. none. (2) Cal. 4*
leaved. No cor. Stigm. obtufe. Berry i-feeded,
inferior.
M. (1) Cal. 4-toothed, fuperior. Petals 4. (2) Cal.
and cor. as in the male. Filam. barren. Styl. 2-
cleft, Capf. oblong, 2-celled.
B. (l) Catkin. No cor. (2) Invol. 2-leaved,
No cor. Styl 2 cleft. Berry 2-feeded.
* M. (1) Catkin a feale. No cor. (2) Catkin a
feale. No cor, Styl. 2. Berry i-feeded.
Order V. PENTANDRIA.
I. (1) Cal. 2-leaved. Cor. 5-petaled. Nectary
5-leaved. (2) Cal. 2-leaved. Cor. 5-pet. Styl. 2.
Capf. many-feeded.
C. (1) Cal. 5 parted. No cor. (2) Cal. 1-leaved.
No cor. Styles 2. Nut.
* H. f I) Cal. 5-leaved. No cor. (2) Cal. 1-leaved.
No cor. Styles 2. Seed winged in a calyx.
P. (I) Cal. 5-cleft. No cor. (2) Cal. 3-cleft.
No cor. Styl. 3. Drupe dry.
Z. (1) Cal. 3-leaved. Cor. 5-parted. (2) Cal.
3-leaved. Cor. 5-parted. Styl. 3. Berry inferior,
3-celIed.
S. (1) Cal. 5-parted. Cor. none. (2) Cal. 4-cleft.
No cor. Styl. 4. One feed, cup-like.
A. ( 1) Cal. 5-leaved. No cor. (2) Cal. 2-leafed.
No cor. Styl. 5. Seed I, with a bladder-Lke cup.
A. ( 1 ) Cal. 5 leaved. No cor. (2) Cal. 5-leaved.
No cor. Stigm. 5. Berry i-feeded.
A. Cal. 5-leaved. Cor. 5-petaled. Ne&ary with
5-glands. (2) Cal. 5-leaved. Cor. 5-petaled. Styl. 5.
Seed 1.
C. (1) Cal. 2-leaved. Cor. 3-petaled. (2) Cal,
2-leaved. Cor. 3-petaled. Stigma fitting. Drupe.
Z. (1) Cal. 5-parted. No cor. (2) Cal. 5-parted.
No cor. Pift. 5. Capf. i-feeded.
F. (1) Cal. 5-parted. Cor. 5 cleft. Ne&ary xvith
5 filaments. (2) Cal. 5-cleft. Cor. 5-cleft. Styles 5,
Berry inferior.
Order VI HEXANDRIA.
S. (1) Cal. 6-leaved. No cor. (2) Cal. 6-leaved,
No cor. Styles 3. Berry fuperior, 3-ceded.
<
.V#
.■’•“A
M m
31x9,
B O T
* mg. Tamus. (i) Cal, 6-phyllu?. Cor. nulla.
(2) Cal. 6-phyllus. Cor. o. Styl. 3-fid. Bacca in-
fera, 3-loculavic.
1122. Dioscorea. (1) Cal. 6-phyllus. Cor. nulla.
(2) Cal. 6-p’nyllu?. Cor, o. Styl. 3. Capf. fupera,
3- locularis.
1121. Rajania. (x) Cal. 6-pliyllus. Cor. nulla.
(2) Cal. 6-phyilus. Cor. o. Styl. 3. Sem. infe-
rum, ala aurita.
Rumex acctofa. Acetofella aculeatus.
Ordo VII. OCTANDRIA.
* 1123. Populus. (1) Ament, lacerum. Cor. o.
Neft. ovat. Stam. 8-16. (2) Ament, lacerum. Cor.o.
Stigm. 4-fid. Capf. 2-valvis. Sem. pappofa.
* 1124. Rhodiola. (1) Cal. 4-partitus. Cor. 4-peta-
la. (2) Cal, 4-partitus. Cor. o. Pift. 4. Capf. 4,
polyfpermae.
1133. Margaritaria. (r) Cal. 4-dentatus. Cor.
4- petala. (2) Cal. et cor. ut in mare. Styl. 4!’. 5.
Bacca cartilaginea 4-5-cocca.
Laurus nobiiis. Acer rubrum. Loranthus F.uropaus.
Ordo VIII. ENNEANDRIA.
* 1125. Mercurialis. (i) Cal. 3-phyllus. Cor.
nulla. Stam. 9-12. (2) Cal. 3-phyllus. Cor. o.
Styl. 2. Capf. 2-cocca.
* 1126. Hydrocharis. (l)Cal. 3-phyllus. Cor. 3-
petala. (2) Cal. 3-phyllus. Cor, 3-pet. Styl. 6. Capf.
xnfera, 6-locul.
Laurus, an omnis ?-
Ordo IX. DECANDRIA.
1127. Carica. (i) Cal. fub-nullus. Cor. 5-fida.
(2) Cal. 5-dentatus. Cor. 5-pet. Stigm. 8. Bacca
polyfperma.
1128. Kiggelaria. (i) Cal. 5-partitus. Cor. 5-
petala. Neftar. glandulce 5. (2) Cal. 5-parthus. Cor.
5- pet. Styl. 5. Capf. 5-valvis.
1129. Coriaria. (i) Cal. 5-phyllus. Cor. 5-peta-
la. (2) Cal. 5-phyllus. Cor. 5-pet. Styl. 5. Bacca
5-fperma, petalina.
1130. Schinus. (1) Cal. 4 fidus. Cor. 5-petala.
(2) Cal. 5-fidus. Cor. 5-petala. Bacca 3-cocca.
Lychnis dioica. Cucuba/us otites. Guilandina dioica.
Phytolacca dioica.
Ordo X. DODECANDR1A.
. Euclea. (i) Cal. 5-dentatus. Cor. 5-petala.
Stam. 15. (2) Cal. 5-dentatus. Cor. 5-petala. Styl. 2.
1131. Menispermum. (i) Cal. 2-phyllus. Cor.
12-petala. (2) Cal. 6-phyllus. Cor. 6-petala. Bacca
3-cocca.
1132. Datisca. (i) Cal. 5-phyllus. Cor. nulla.
Antherae feffiles 15. (2) Cal. 2-dentatus, fuperus.
Cor. O. Capf. i-locularis, polyfperma.
Ordo XI. POLYANDRIA.
1133. Cliffortia. (1) Cal. 3-phyllus. Cor. nulla.
(2) Cal. 3-phyllus. Cor. 0. Styl. 2, Capf. 2-cocc. infera.
ANY, Dioecia,
* T. (1) Cal. 6-leaved. No cor. (2) Cal. 6-leaved.
Cor. o. Styl. 3-cleft. Berry inferior, 3-celled.
D. (1) Cal. 6-leaved. Cor. o. (2) Cal. 6-leaved,
Cor. o. 3-Styles. Capf. fuperior, 3-celled.
R. (1) Cal. 6 leaved. Cor. o. (2) Cal. 6-leaved.
Cor. o. Styles 3. Seed inferior.
Order VII. OCTANDRIA.
* P. (i ) Catkin ragged. Cor. o. Neft. oval. Stam. 8
16. (2) Catkin ragged. Cor, o. Stigm. 4-cleft. Capf,
2-valved. Seeds downy.
* R. (1) Cal. 4-parted. Cor. 4-petaled. (2) Cal'.
4-parted. Cor. o. Pill. 4. Capf. 4, many-feeded.
M. (1) Cal. 4-toothed. Cor. 4-petaled. (2) Cal,
and cor. as in the male. Styles 4 or 5, Cartilaginous
berry, 4 or 5-celled.
Order VIII. ENNEANDRIA.
# M, (1) Cal. 3-leaved. Cor. o. Stam. 9 to 12.
(2) Cal. 3-leaved. Cor. o. Styles 2. Capf. 2*
celled.
* H. (1) Cal. 3-leaved. Cor. 3-petaled. (2) Cal,
3-leaved. Cor. 3-petaled. Styles 6. Capf. inferior,
6-celled.
Order IX. DECANDRIA,
C. (1) Cal. nearly none. Cor. 5-cleft. (2) Cal,
5-toothed. Cor. 5-petaled. Stigm. 8. Berry many-
feeded.
K. (1) Cal. 5-parted. Cor. 5-petaled. Ne&ar.
glands 5. (2} Cal. 5-parted. Cor. 5-pet. Styles 5.
Capf. 5-valved.
C. (1) Cal. 5-leaved. Cor. 5-petaled. (2) Cal.
5-leaved. Cor. 5-pet. Styles 5. Berry 5-feeded,
petal-like.
S. (1) Cal. 4-cleft. Cor. 5-petaled. (2) Cal. 5-
cleft. Cor. 5-petaled. Berry 3-celled,
Order X. DODECANDRIA,
E. (1) Cal. 5-toothed. Cor. 5-petaled. Stam.
(2) Cal. 5-toothed. Cor. 5-petaled. Styles 2. ,
M. (1) Cal. 2-leaved. Cor. 12-petaled. (2) Cal,
6-leaved. Cor. 6-petaled, Berry 3-celled.
D. (1) Cal. 5-leaved. Cor. c. Anthers fitting 15.
(2) Cal. 2-toothed, fuperior. Cor. o. Capf. 1-celled,
many-feeded.
Order XI. POLYANDRIA.
C. (x) Cal. 3-leaved. No cor. (2) Cal. 3-leaved*
No cor. Styles 2. Capf. 2-celled, inferior.
H34*
DlcecU,
B O T
!434. Hedycarta. (i)Cal. 8f. xo-fidus. Cor. q.
Filamenta o. Antherae in fundo calycis, 4-fulcse, apice
barbatte. (2) Cal. et cor. maris. Germina pedicel-
lata, Nuces pedicellatw, monQfperrnae.
Clematis dioica, TbaliBrum (Hokum, Stratiotcs alioidesi
Ordo XII. MONADELPHIA.
* 1134. Juniperus. (1) Ament. Cor. nulla. Stam. 3.
(2) Cal. 3-partitus. Cor. 3-pet. Styl. 3. Bacca in-
fera, 3 fperma, calycina.
* 1135. Tazus, (i) Cal. 4-phyllus. Cor. nulla.
Antherae 8-fidae. (2) Cal. 4-pbyllus, Cor. o. Stigm. i»
Bacc. r-fperma, recutita.
1136. Ephepra. (1) Ament, 2-fidum. Cor. nulla.
Stam. 7, (2) Cal, imbricatus. Cor* o. Pift. 2.
Bacca 2-fperrna, calycina.
1138. Ci.ssampepos. (l) Cal. nullus. Cor. 4-
petala, Stam, 4. (2) Cab nullus. Cor. O. Stam. 3.
Bacca 1-fperma,
838, NAPiCA, (1) Cal, y-fidus. Cor. 5-petala. Stam.
plurima, Styl. plures. (2) Cal. y-fidus. Cor. y-petala,
Stam. plur. effcEta, Styli plures. Arilli 10 in orbem,
1137. Adelia. (i) Cal, 3-partitus. Cor. nulla,
Stam. 20. (2) Cal. y-partitus. Cor. o, Styl. 3. Capf.
3-cocca,
Napa;a dioka,
Orpo XIII. SYNGENESIA.
1x39. Ruscus. (1) Cal. 6-phyllus. Cor. nulla.
Stam, y. (2_) Cal. 6-phyllus. Cor. o. Pift. I. Bac¬
ca 3-locularis, 2-fperma,
Gnaphfllium diokum, Bryonia dioica,
Ordo XIV. GYNANDRIA,
1140. Clutia. (i) Cal. y-phyllus. Cor, y-petala.
Stam, y, (2) Cal, y-phyllus. Cor. y-pet, Styl. 3.
Capf, 3-cocca,
Order I. MONANDRIA.
1430. Pandanus, or Screw-pine,
One fpecies $ viz, odoratiflima. Eaft Indies, South
Sea Wes.
1096. Najas.
One fpecles j viz, marina. Europe,
Order II. DIANDRIA.
1097. Vallisneria.
One fpecies j viz. fpiralis. Italy.
1099. Cecrop 1 a, or Trumpet-tree,
One fpecies $ viz. peltata. Jamaica.
1098. Salix, or Willow,
34 fpecies j viz. * acuminata, * alba, * amygdali-
na, * aurita, * caprea, * cinerea, * fragilis, * fufea,
* herbacea, * lanata, * lapponum, # monandra, * myr-
A M Y. 275'
H. (1) Cal. 8 or 10-cieft. Cor. o. Filam. o.
Antb. in the bottom of the calyx, 4-furrotved, barbed
at the point. (2) Cal. and cor. like the male, Ger-
mens pedicled. Nuts pedicled, i-feeded-
Order XII. MONADELPHIA.
* J. (l) Catkin. No cor. Stam. 3. (2) Cal. y--
parted. Cor. 3-petaled. Styles 3. Berry inferior,
3-feeded, cup-like.
* T. (1) Cal. 4 leaved. Cor. o. Anthers 8-cleft,
(2) Cal. 4-ieaved. Cor, o. Stigm. 1. Berry i-feed-
ed, bent back.
E. (1) Catkin 2-cleft. Cor. o. Stam. 7. (?) Cal.
tiled. Cor. o, Pift. 2. Berry 2-feeded, cup-like.
C. (1) Cal. o. Cor. 4-petaled. Stam. 4. ( 2) CaL
O. Cor. 0. Stigm. 3. Berry l-feeded.
N. (1) Cal. y-cleft. Cor. y-petaled, Stam. many.
Styles many. (2) Cal. y-cleft. Cor. y-petaled. Stam,
many, feeble. Styles many. Seed-coats xo in a circle.
A. (1) Cal, 3-parted. Cor. o. Stamens 20.
(2) Cal. y-parted. Cor, o. Styles 3, Capf. 3-celled,
Order XIII. SYNGENESIA.
R. (1) Cal. 6-leaved. Cor. o. Stamens 5. (2) Cal.
6-leaved. Cor. o. Pift. 1. Berry 3-celled, 2-leeded,
Order XIV. GYNANDRIA,
C. (1) Cal. y-leaved. Cor. y-petaled. Stamens 5,
(2) Cal. y-leaved. Cor. y-petaled. Styles 3. Capf.
3-celled,
Unites, * pentandra, * repens, * reticulata, * retufa,
* rofmarinifolia, * rubra, * triandra, * viminalis, *vi-
tellina, phylicifolia, japonica, haftata, tegyptiaca, ba~
bylonica, helix, arbulcula, myrtilloides, integra, glauca,
arenaria, incubacea. Europe, America.
* S. leaves ftrap-fliaped, upper leaves oblique ; catkins monandra,
downy j one ftamen.—willow, or purple willow.
Withering. Called byLinnaeus, S. puipurea. Balkets.
cradles, and all forts of twig work are made of its long
flender and flexible fhoots.
* S, leaves oblong, fpear-ftiaped ; flowers with three- triandra,
ftamens, fometimes two. Smooth willow.—.The bark,
in doles of one or two drams, cures agues.
* S. leaves egg-lhaped, acute j flowers with five pentendra,
mens. Sweet willow, or bay-leaved willow. Called by
Linnaeus S. hermaphroditica. The wood crackles great¬
ly in the fire. The dried leaves afford a yellow dye.
Ufed in Yorkfliire to make the large fort of bafkets.
* S. leaves egg-fpear-lhaped, acute, fmooth above, fer- vitellina,
Mm2 rature
sjS B O T
rature like griitle. Yellow willow.—The wood is
white and very tough. The flroots are uied by balket-
inakers.
frag ills. * S. leaves egg-fpear-ihaped ; leaf-ftalks toothed rvith
glands. Crack zvil/ow.—A quick grower, and bears
cropping. Thrives in any foil if moift. The bark in
dofes of one or two drams cures agues.
rubra. * S. leaves ilrap-fpear-fhaped, acute. Red willow.—
The twigs much fought after by balket-makers.
viminalls. * S. leaves fpear-ftrap-lhaped, very long, acute, filky
underneath j branches rod-like. 0%ier.—Much ufed
for making hoops, and the larger balkets. Is planted
to prevent the banks of rivers from being walked away
by torrents.
alba. * S. leaves fpear-lhaped, tapering to a point, ferrated,
downy on both lidesj the lovvermoft ferratures glandu¬
lar. White willow.—Grows quick, and bears lopping.
The bark colletled in fummer when full of fap, and
dried by a gentle heat, is extremely valuable, as a fub-
llitute for Peruvian bark, in the cure of intermittent
fevers. It will tan leather. Horfes, cows, (keep, and
goats, eat the leaves and young Ihoots. If a fhady
walk with willows is wanted, male fets only ought to
be planted, otherwife they will fpeedily multiply fo as
to form a thicket inllead of a grove.
Order III. TRIANDRIA.
IIOI. Empetrum, or Berry-bearing Heath.
Two fpecies j viz. * nigrum, album.
fligrum. * E. with Hems trailing.—The berries boiled with alum
afford a dark purple dye. Eaten in quantities they
occalion headach.
HOI. Osyris, or Poets-caJJia.
Twofpeciesj viz.alba, japonica. South Europe, Japan.
1431. Maba.
One fpecies j viz. elliptica. Tongataboo, Namoka.
1331. Restis.
Nine fpecies j viz. paniculatus, verticillaris, dichoto-
mus, vimineus, tritlorus, fimplex, elegia, cernuus, tec-
torum. C. of G. Hope.
1102. Excoecaria, ot Aloes Wood.
One fpecies 5 viz. agallocha-. Amboyna, Mallacca,
China.
1280. Caturus.
Two fpecies j viz. fpiciflorus, ramillorus. Eaft and
Weft Indies.
Order IV. TETRANDRIA.
1103. Trophis.
One fpecies j viz. americana. Jamaica.
1104. Batis.
One fpecies j viz. maritima. Jamaica.
1105.V1SCUM, ox Mifletoe.
Nine fpecies j viz. * album, rubrum, purpureum,
opuntioides, capenfe, verticillatum, paucifforum, ter-
reftre, rotundifolium. Europe, Cape, Weft Indies,
North America.
album. * V. leaves fpear-lhaped, blunt j ftem forked j fpikes
axillary. White mijletoe.—A lingular paralitical ever¬
green plant. The barren plant oppofite to the fertile
one. The root inlinuates itfelf into the fubftance of
A N Y. Dioecia.
the tree on which it grows. Bloffom greenilh white.
Berries whitilh. Birdlime may be made from the ber¬
ries or the bark. Birds having fwallowed the berries,
void them unchanged upon trees, wfoere they take root.
No art has hitherto been able to make them take root
in the earth. Sheep eat it greedily ; and in the fouthern
Englilh counties, where chiefly it grows, it is often
torn from the trees to feed them. It is faid to pre-
ferve them from the rot. If the berries, when fully ripe,
be rubbed on the fmooth bark of almoft any tree,
they will adhere clofely, and produce plants the fol¬
lowing winter.
1432. Montinia.
One fpecies j viz. acris. C. of G. Hope.
1106. Hippophae, or Sea-buckthorn.
Two fpecies j viz. * rhamnoides, canadenlis.
* H. leaves fpear-lhaped.—Cows refufe it. Harks, rham*
goats, and Iheep eat it. The berries are very acid, with noideSi
an auftere vinous flavour. The filhermen of the
gulf of Bothnia prepare a rob from them, which im¬
parts a grateful flavour to frelh filh. In funny and
fandy lituations it is planted for hedges.
1107. Myrica, or Candle-berry Myrtle, Gale.
Seven fpecies $ viz. * gale, cerifera, aethiopica, quer-
cifolia, cordifolia, trifoliata. Europe, Madeira, Cape,
North America.
* M. leaves fpear-lhaped, fomewhat ferrated} ftem^/^
Ihrub-like. Sweet willow, Dutch myrtle,gale, goule.—
Dyed in autumn, it dyes wool yellow. It is ufed to
tan calf-lkins. The Wellh lay bunches of it under
their beds to keep off fleas and moths, and give it as a
vermifuge in powTder and infulion, applying it alfo ex¬
ternally to the abdomen. Its effential oil rifes in dif-
tillation. The catkins boiled in water throw up a
waxy feum fit to make candles. From the M. cerifera
the myrtle candles are prepared.
Order V. PENTANDRIA.
1108. Pistacia, or Pijlacia-nut.
Five fpecies j viz. trifolia, narbonenfis, vera, terebin-
thus, lentifeus. South Europe, Barbary, Perfia, India,
The P. vera, with leaves unequal wdnged, leaflets
nearly egg-lhaped, bent back, produces a moderately
large nut, containing a pale greenilh kernel, wflth a
reddilh Ikin. The tree grows fpontaneoufly in Perfia,
Arabia, and the Archipelago} and has been found
able to produce fruit in England. Piftachio nuts have
a pleafant, fweet, un&uous tafte, refembling almonds,
and are efteemed by feme in certain weakneffes, and
in emaciated habits.
The P. lentifeus wflth leaves abruptly winged, and
fpear-fhaped leaflets, in like manner bears our winters.
The wood is brought to us in thick knotty pieces, with
an alh-coloured bark and white within, of a rough fome¬
what pungent tafte, and a grateful but faint fmell. A de-
codtion of it, under the pompous appellation of aurum
potabile, potable gold, is recommended by the Germans
in catarrhs, naufea, and weaknefs of ftomach. In the
ifland of Chio, this tree affords maftich, which is a
refinous fubftance brought from thence in fmall yel-
lowilh tranfparent grains or tears of a pleafant fmell,
efpecially wrhen heated. It is recommended in old
coughs, dyfenteries and all cafes of laxity.
1109,
Dioccia.
277
alba.
B Q T
1J09, ZANTHOJfVLUM.
Two fpecies j viz. clava herculis, trifoliatum.
v 1 r 11. Astronium.
One fpecies j viz. graveolens. South America.
1281. Canarivm.
One fpecies ; viz. commune. India.
1110. Antidesma, or Chinefe Laurel.
One fpecies j viz. alexiteria. E. Indies, China, Japan^
H13. Iresine.
One fpecies > viz. celofia. Virginia, Jamaica.
1112. Spinacia, or Spinage.
Two fpecies j viz. oleracea, fera. Siberia.
1114. Acsida, or Virginian Hemp.
One fpecies *, viz. cannabina, Virginia.
1115. Cannabis, or Hemp.
One fpecies 5 viz. fativa. India. See Agricul¬
ture Index.
1116. Humulus, or Hops.
One fpecies 5 viz. * lupulus. Europe.—Cultivated
in England to preferve malt liquors. The young
{hoots are eaten in the fpring inftead of afparagus.
Strong cloth is in Sweden made from the {talks, which
are foaked in water all winter, and in the fpring dref-
fed like flax. A decoaion of the roots, or from 20
to 30 grains of the extraa, is faid to be fudorific.
1117. Zanonia.
One fpecies 5 viz. indica. Coaft of Malabar.
1118. Fevillea.
Two fpecies j viz. trilobata, cordifolia. W. Indies,
Order VI. HEXANDRIA.
1119. Tamus, or Black Bryony.
Two fpecies j viz. * communis, cretica. South Eu¬
rope, Cape.
1120. Smilax, or Rough Bindweed.
14 fpecies j viz. afpera, excelfa, zeilanica, farfaparil-
la, china, rotundifolia, laurifolia, tamnoides, caduca,
bona nox, herbacea, tetragona, lanceolata, pfeudochina^
South Europe, Eaft Indies, North America.
1121. Rajania.
Five fpecies; viz. haftata, cordata, quinquefolia,
quinata, hexaphylla. Japan, North America, Weft
Indies.
1122. Dioscorea, or Indian Yam.
12 fpecies-, viz. pentaphylla, triphylla, trifida, acu-
leata, alata, bulbifera, fativa, villofa, oppofitifolia, fep-
temloba, quinquelobata, japonica. Eaft and Weft In¬
dies, North America.
Order VII. OCTANDRIA.
ANY.
footing, being little fubjeft to fwell or Ihrink. Floors,
laths, packing boxes, and turners ware, are made of it.
Horfes, fheep, and goats eat it. Cows are not fond
of it. .
* P. leaves circular, toothed, and angular fmooth on tretnulG*
both fides. Afp, afpen tree, trembling poplar.—This
tree grows in all foils, but worft in clay. It impover-
ifhes the land, deftroys the grafs; and the numerous
{hoots of the roots fpread fo near the furface of the
earth, that they permit nothing elfe to grow j but rife
in all quarters, whether they are wanted or not. It is
eafily tranfplanted. The wood is extremely light, white,
fmooth, woolly, foft, durable in the air. The bark
is the principal food of beavers. The bark of the young
trees is made into torches.
* P. leaves trowel-lhaped, tapering to a point, ferrated, nigra,
fmooth on both fides. Black poplar.—It loves a moift
black foil, grows rapidly, and bears cropping. The
bark being light like cork, fupports the nets of fifher-
(battle pat it-
11 24. Rhodiola, or Rofe-root.
One fpecies *, viz. * rofea.—The root, particularly
when dried, has the fragrance of a rofe j but cultivated,
in a garden it lofes moft of its fweetnefs.
I433* Margaritaria.
One fpecies j viz. nobilis. Surinam.
Order VIII. ENNEANDRIA.
1125. Mercurialis, or Mercury.
Three fpecies j viz. * annua, * perennis, tomentofa.
Europe.
* M. ftem undivided, leaves rough. Dogs mercury.—pcremns.
It is noxious to ftieep, and deleterious to man. In dry¬
ing, it turns blue. Steeped in water it affords a fine
d*ep blue colour 5 which, however, is deftruftible both-
by alkalies and acids.
1126. Hydrocharis, or Frogs-bit.
One fpecies; viz. * morfus rame.
Order IX. DECANDRIA.
1127. Carica, or Papaw tree.
Two fpecies j viz. papaya, pofopofa. E. and Wr
Indies.
1128. Kiggelaria.
One fpecies 5 viz. africana. C. of G. Hope.
1130. Sc h in us, or Indian Majlich tree.
Two fpecies; viz. molla, areira. Peru, Brazil*
Chili.
1129. Coriaria, or Myrtle-leaved Sumach.
Two fpecies j viz. myrtifolia, rufcifolia. Spain, S,
France, Peru,
1123. Populus, or Poplar tree.
Five fpecies j viz. * alba, * nigra, * tremula, balfa-
mifera, heterophylla. S. Afia, Italy, Archipelago,
N. America.
* P. leaves nearly triangular, toothed, and angular j
cottony underneath. White poplar —It loves low fitua-
tions, and flourifhes beft in clay. It grows quick and
bears cropping, but is unfavourable to pafturage. The
wood is foft, white, and ftringy, and makes good wain-
Order X. DODECANDRIA.
Eucuea.
One fpecies \ viz. racemofa. C. of G. Hope.
1132. Datisca, or Bafe Hemp.
Two fpecies j viz. cannabina, hirta. Crete, N. A-
merica.
1131. Menispermum, or Moon-feed.
11 fpecies ) viz. canadenfe, virginicum, japonicum,
carolinum*
B O T
eaiolmmn, eocalue, crirpum, acutum, orbicuktujn,
birfutum, tnyoftoideg, trilobum. N- America, Japan*
Order XI. POLYANDRlA,
II33. CuFFORTIA,
iSrpecies*, viz. odorata, ilicifolia, rufcifolia, ferns’-
ginea, grarpinea, polygonifolia, filifolia, crenata, pul.
chella, trifoliata, fiirmentofa, ftrobiljfera, obcordata,
temata, juniperina, falcata, teretifolia, ericaefolia, C.
of G. Hope.
1432. Hedycaria,
One fpecies viz. dentata. N. Zealand.
Order XII, MONADELPHIA.
1134. Juniper vs, or "jumper tree,
to fpecies $ viz. * communis, thunfera, barbadenfis,
berraudiana, chinenfis, fabina, virginiana, oxycedius,
phoenicea, lycina. Europe, Bermudas, America,
* J. leaves three together^ expanding, (harp pointed,
longer than the berry.—-It grows in all foils and fjtua-
tions, and to a correfponding variety of fizes, It is
eafily tranfplanted, and bears cropping. Grafs will not
grow beneath it, but the avena pratcnjis deftroys it.
The wood is hard and durable. The bark may be made
into ropes. The berries are two years in ripening—.
When bruifed they afford a pleafant diuretic liquor,
but it is not eafy to prevent its growing four. It is
efteemed a good antifcorbutic. Ardent fjpirhs, impreg.
nated writh the effential oil of thofe berries, is termed
gin, though it is faid that fome diftillers know how to
produce the fame effeft, by means of the fpirit of tur¬
pentine. Gumfandarach, more commonly called pounce,
is the produft of this tree. Horfes, Iheep, and goats,
eat it. From the j. lycina, a gum refm called olibanum
is produced. From the J, fabina, is extrafted an ef¬
fential oil, which is accounted a moft powerful emme-
nagogue. It is a warm, irritating, aperient medicine.
1135. Tax vs, or Tew tree.
Four fpecies •, viz. * baccata, nucifera, macrophylla,
verticillata, Eur, Cape, Jap, N. America,
A N Y. Polygamia,
* T, leaves folitary flrap-(haped, prichle-pointed, ncav caecata,
together; receptacle of the male dowers fomewbat
globular.-—It grows belt on a moift loamy foil, and
languiffes in bogs and dry mountains. It bears tranf-
planting, even when old j and, as an evergreen hedge,
is a valuable fereen to delicate plants. The wood is
hard, fmooth, and beautifully veined with red. It is
ufed for bow's, axletrees, fpoons, cups, cogs for mill¬
wheels, and floodgates for fifh ponds, which hardly e-
ver decay. The berries are fweet, vifeid, and harmlefs,
The frelh leaves are fatal to the human fpecies.
4136, Ephedra, Shrubby Horfe-tail,
Two fpecies $ viz, diftachya, monoftachya. Sibe¬
ria, France, Spain.
1138. Cissampeuos.
Five fpecies j viz. pareira, caapeba, fmilacina, fru-
ticofa, capenfls. Cape, America,
836. Nap^la,
Two fpecies $ viz, bevis, fcabra. Virginia,
j 137. Apelia.
Three fpecies) viz, bernardia, rjcinella, acidoton,
Jamaica,
Order XIII, SYNGENESIA,
1139, Ryscvs, or Knee-holly, or BuUhers-broom,
Five fpecies} viz. * aculeatus, hypophyllum, hypo-
gloffum, androgynus, racemofus, Hungary, Fr, Italy,
Canaries,
Order XIV, GYNANDRIA,
1140. CuVTIA.
Nine fpecies’, viz. alaternoides, polygonoides, pul-
chella, birta, tomentofa, retufa, eiuteria, ftipularis, acu¬
minata,
In the clafs Dicecia are
51 Genera, including 219 Species, of which 38 arc
found in Britain.
CHASSIS XXIII, CLASS XXIIL
POLYGAMIA (o). POLYGAMIA.
Orpo X. MONCECIA* Order!, MONCECIA,
1141. Musa* (3) Cal. nullus. Cor. j.petala. M. (3) No cal. Cor, s-petaled. Stam. 6, 1 fer-
Stam, 6, 1 fertil. Pift. J. Bacca infera, (3) Cal. tile, PUt. t. Berry inferior. (3) No cal. Cor. 2-
nullus. Cor. 2-petala, Stam. 6, 5 perfea. Pift, t* petaled. Stam, <5, 5 perfea. Put. J, No berry,
Bacca nulla.
j 146.
(o) The charaaer of this clafs confifts of the following circumftances : that every plant belonging to it pro¬
duces, iff. Hermaphrodite flowers, that is, flowers having both ftamens and piftils in the fame flower j and,
sdiy, In addition to the hermaphrodite flowers, the fame plant produces alfo other flowers, not hermaphrodite,
but either male or female, that is, which have ftamens, one or more, without piftils, or the reverfe. The her-
maphrodite
PoJygamia, B Q T
* XI46. Holcus. (3) Glum. I-flora, 2-valv. Stam.
3. Styl. 2. Sem. I. (1) Glum. l-flor. 2-valv.
Stam. 3.
1149. Cenchrus. (3) Glum. 2-flor. 2-valv. Stam.
3. Styl, 2-fid. Sem. 1. (1) In valuer, idem. Glum.
2-valv. Stam. 3.
1148. Isch^emum. (3) Glum.2-flor. 2-valv. Stam.
3. Styl. 2. Sem. I. (1) Glum, eadem, 2-valv.
Stam. 3.
I334- Ma'nisuris. (3) Glum. 1-flora. Cor. 2-
valvis. Stam. 3. Stylus bifidus. (1) Glum, i-flora.
Cor. 2-valvis. Stam. 3. Valvuke calycis omnes emar-
ginatm apice iateribufque.
1150. ^Egilops. (3) Glum. 3-flor. 3-arift. Stam.
3. Styl. 2. Sem. 1. (1) Glum. 3-flor. 3-anil.
Stam. 3.
1333. Spinifex. (3) Glum. 2-flor. 2-valvis. Stam.
3. Styl. 2. (1) Gluma communis, 2-valvis. Stam.
3. Valvulae omnes calyci parallel*.
114$. Andropogon. (3) Glum, i-flor. bafi ariff.
Stam. 3. Styl. 2. Sem. i. (1) Glum, i-flor. bafi
arifl. Stam. 3.
1147. Apluda. (3) Cal. gluma communis flofculo
faemineo feflili, mafeulis pedunculatis. (2) Cal. o.
Gluma 2-valv. Styl. 1. Sem. 1. (1) Cal. o. Glum.
2-valv. Stam. 3.
1151. Valantia. (3) Cal. nullus. Cor. 4-parti¬
ta. Stam. 4. Styl. 2-fid. Sem. 1. (1) Cal. null.
Cor. 3 f. 4-part. Stam. 3 f. 4.
1142. Ophioxylon. (3) Cal. 5-fidus. Cor. 5-
fida. Stam. 3. Pift. 1. (2) Cal. 2-fidus. Cor. 5-
fida. Stam. 2.
1143. Celtis. (3) Cal. 5-partitus. Cor. nulla.
Stam. 5. Styl. 2. Drupa. (2) Cal. 6-partitus. Cor.
nulla. Stam. 6.
1144. Veratrum. (3) Cal. nullus. Cor. 6-peta-
la. Stam. 6. Pift. 3. Capf. 3. (1) Cal. nullus.
Cor. 6-petala. Stam. 6.
* 1155. Acer. (3) Cal. 5-fidus. Cor. 5-petala.
Stam. 8. Styli 2. Capf. 2-cocca, alata. (1) Cal. 5-
fidus. Cor. 5-petala. Stam. 8.
1157. Gouania. (3) Cal. 5-fidus, fuperus. Cor.
O. Stam. 5. Styl. 3-fidus. Frudlus 3-queter, 3-par-
tibilis. (1) Cal. 5-fidus. Cor. o. Stam. 5.
1158. Mimosa. (3) Cal. 5-dent. Cor. 5-fid.
Stam. 4-100. Pift. 1. Legum. (1) Cal. 5-dent.
Cor. 5-fida. Stamina 4-100.
160. Bradeium. (3) Amenti. Cor. 4-partita.
Stam. 4. Stylus 2-fidus. Drupa nucleo carnofo glo-
bofo. (3) Amenti. Cor. 4-partita. Stam.4. Sty¬
lus 2-fidus, abortiens.
1283. Terminalia. (3) Cal. 5-partitus. Cor. o.
Stam. 10. Drupa infera. (1) Cal. 5-partitus. Cor.
o. Stam. 10.
1154. Clusia. (3) Cal. 8-phyllus. Cor. 4 f. 6-
petala. Anther* aggreg. Stigm. 4-6. Capf. 6 loc.
polyfperma. (1) Cal. 4 f. 6-phyllus. Cor. 6-petala.
Stam. pi.
A NY. 279
* H. (3) Hulk 1-flowered, 2-valved. Stam. 3, Styles
2. Seed x. (1) Hufk i-flowered, 2-valved. Stam. 3.
C. (3) Huflc 2-flowered, 2-valved, Stam. 3. Styl.
2-cleft. Seed 1. (1) Involucr. the fame. Hufk 2-
valved. Stam. 3.
I. (3) Hufk 2-flowered, 2-valved. Stam. 3. Styles
2. Seed 1. (1) Hufk the fame, 2-valved. Stam. 3.
M. (3) Huik 1-flowered. Cor. 2-valved. Stam.
3. Style 2-cleft. (1) Hufk i-flowered. Cor. 2-
valved. Stam. 3. All the valves of the calyx notch¬
ed at the point and the fides.
A. (3) Hufk 3-flowered, 3-awned. Stam. 3. Styl.
2. Seed 1. (1) Hufk 3-flowered, 3-awned. Stam. 3.
S. (3) Hufk 2-flowered, 2-valved. Stam. 3. Styles
2. (1) Hufk common, 2-valved. Stam. 3. All the
valves of the cal. parallel.
A. (3) Hufk i-flowered, awned at the bafe. Stam.
2. Styles 2. Seed 1. (1) Hufk i-flowered, awned
at the bafe. Stamens 3.
A. (3) Cal. a common hufk, with the female floret
fitting, the male on fruitftalks. (2) No cal. Hufk
2-valved. Style 1. Seed 1. (1) No cal. Hufk 2-
valved. Stamens 3.
V. (3) Cal. none. Cor. 4-parted. Stamens 4
Styl. 2-cleft. Seed 1. (1) No cal. Cor. 3 or 4-
parted. Stamens 3 or 4.
O. (3) Cal. 5-cleft. Cor. 5-cleft. Stam. 3. Pift.
1. (2) Cal. 2-cleft. Cor. 5-cleft. Stam. 2.
C. (3) Cal. 5-parted. No cor. Stamens 5. Styles
2. Drupe. (2) Cal. 6-parted. No cor. Stam. 6.
V. (3) No cal. Cor. 6-petaled. Stam. 6. Pift. 3.
Capf. 3. (1) No cal. Cor. 6-petaled. Stamens 6.
* A. (3) Cal. 5-cleft. Cor. 5-petaled. Stamens 8.
Styles 2. Capf. 2-celledy winged. (1) Cal. 5-cleft.
Cor. 5-petaled. Stamens 8.
G. (3) Cal. 5-cleft, fuperior. Cor. o. Stam. 5..
Style 3-deft. Fruit 3-angular, 3-parted. (l) Cal.
5-cleft. Cor. o. Stamens 5.
M. (3) Cal. 5-toothed. Cor. 5-cleft. Stamens 4
to 100. Pift. 1. Legume. (1) Cal. 5-toothed.
Cor. 5-cleft. Stamens 4 to 100.
B. (3) Catkin. Cor. 4-parted. Stamens 4. Style
2-cleft. Drupe, with a flefhy globular kerneL
(3) Catkin. Cor. 4-parted. Stam. 4. Style 2-
cleft, barren.
T. (3) Cal. 5-parted. No cor. Stam. 10. Drupe
inferior. (1) Cal. 5-parted. No cor. Stamens 10.
C. (3) Cal. 8-leaved. Cor. 4 or 6-petaled. An¬
thers incorporated. Stigm. 4 to 6. Capf. 6-celleds
many-feeded. (1) Cal. 4 or 6-leaved. Cor. 6-peta¬
led. Stamens many.
maphrodite flowers of this clafs are ufually imperfect in one of their parts (either ftamens or piftils), which ren¬
ders an additional male or female flower neceffary. Sometimes there are two hermaphrodite flowers on the fame
plant of different powers 5 and this circumftance conftitutes the polygamy, or is underftood to bring the plant
under the prefent clafs. As in the two former claflfes, the male and female flowers are here diftinguilhed by
prefixing to them the figures (1) and (2). The hermaphrodite flowers are here marked (3).
ANY. Polygamic
H. (3) Umbel, Cor. in the flowers 5-petaled.
Stamens 5, barren, (1) Umbel. Cor, of flowers 5.
petaled. Stamens 5, fertile, Styles ?. Seeds 2, in¬
ferior, nearly orbicular,
* P. (3) Cal. 4-cleft. No cor. Stam. 4. Style 1,
Seed 1. (2) Cal. 4-cleft. No cor. Style 1. Seed 1.
B O T
1332. HermA-S. (3) Umbella. FJoris cor. 5-pe-
tala. Stam. 5, rterilia. (1) Umbella. Florum cor,
5-petala. Stam. 5, fertilia, Styli 2. Sem. 2, infera,
iuborbiculata.
* 1152. Parietaria. (3) Cal. 4-fidus. Cor. nulla,
Stam. 4. Styl. 1. Sem. 1. (2) Cal. 4-fidus. Cor.
nulla. Styl. 1. Sem. x.
* 1x53. Atriplex. (3) Cal. 5-phyll. Cor. nulla.
Stam. 5. Styl. 2-fid. Sem. 1. (2) Cal. 2-phyllus,
Cor. nulla. Styl. x-fid. Sem. x.
JEfcuhts. Mammca. 'Jacq. Kuphorbia, Melothrio,
Ilex.
Ordo II. DICECIA,
1266. Pan ax. (3) Umbel. Cal. 5-dent. Cor.
^-petala. Stam. 5. Styl. 2. Bacc, 2-fperm. ( 1) Um¬
bel. Cal. integ. Cor. 5-petala. Stam. 5.
1161. Diospyros. (3) Cal. 4-fidus. Cor. 4-fida.
Stam. 8. Styl. 4-fid. Bacca 8-fperma. ( 1) Cal. 4-
fidus. Cor. 4-fida. Stam. 8.
Chrysitrix. (3) Gluma 2-valvis. Cor. pa-
lem numerofae. Stam. multa mixta paleis. Pift. x.
(1) Glum. 2-valvis. Cor. paleae numerofae. Stam.
rnulta mixta paleis.
1336. Stilbe. (3) Cal. exter. 3-phyllus, inter. 5-
dentatus, cartilagineus. Cor. 5-fida. Stam. 4. Styl.
1. Sem. 1. (1) Cal. exter. 3-phyllus, inter, nullus.
Cor. 5-fida. Stam. 4.
1163. Nyssa. (3) Cal. 5-partitus. Cor. nulla,
Stam. 5. Pift. X. Drupa infera. (x) Cal. 5-parti¬
tus. Cor. nulla. Stam. 10.
* 1160. Fraxinus. (3) Cal. o. f. 4-part. Cor. o.
f. 4-pet. Stam. 2. Pitt. X. Sem. 1. (3) Cal. o. f.
4- pet. Cor. o. f. 4-pet. Stam. 2, Pift. x. Sem. 1.
1164. Anthospermum. (i) Cal. 4-fidus. Cor.
nulla. Stam. 4. (2) Cal. 4-fid. Cor.nulla. Styl. 2,
Peric. inferum.
1165. Arctopus. (i) Umbella. Cor. 5-petala.
Stam. 5. (3) Invol. maxim. Cor. 5-petala. Stam. 5.
(1) Umb. Cor. 5-petala. Styl. 2. Sera. 1, biloculare.
1159. Gledistia. (3) Cal. 4-fidus. Cor. 4-pe-
tala. Stam. 6. Pift. I. Legum. (i ) Cal. 3 phyll.
Cor. 3-petala. Stam. 6. (2) Cal. 5-phyll, Cor. 5-
petala. Pift. I. Legumen.
1163. Pisonia. (3) Cal, nullus. Cor. 5-fida,
Stam. 6. Pift. 1. Capf. 5-valvis. (1) Cal. nullus.
Cor. 5-fida. Stam, 6. (2) CJ. nullus. Cor. 5-fida.
Pift. 1. Capf. 5-valvis.
Ilex aquijoliunu Rhamnus alaternus, Guilandina.
Oroo III. TRICECIA.
1167. Ceratonia. (3) Cal, 5-partitu$. Cor. o.
Stam. 5. Styl. 1. Legum. coriaceum, polyfperm,
(x) Cal. 5-partitus. Cor, o. Stam. 5. (2) Cal. fub-
5- dent. Cor. 0. Stylus j. Legum. coriaceum, po¬
lyfperm. •
1168. Ficus. Recept. commune turbinatum, conni-
venti claufum, carnofum. (3) Cal. 5-partitus. Ccr. o.
Pift. x. Sem. x, (l) Cal. 3-part.itus. Cor. o.
Stam. 3. (O&t (2) 'ntra idem reeeptaculum com¬
mune diftxn&is fru&ificatioiubus partiaiibus.
* A. (3) Cal. 5-leaved. No cor. Style 1. Seed 1.
(3) Cal. 2-leaved. No cor. Style x-cleft. Seed i.
Order II. DICECIA.
P. (3) Umbel. Cal. 5-toothed. Cor. 5-petaled*
Styles 2. Berry 2-feeded. (1) Umbel, Cal. en¬
tire. Cor. 5-petaled. Stam. 5.
D. (3) Cal. 4-cleft. Cor. 4-cleft. Stam. 8. Styl,
4 cleft. Berry 8-feeded. (1) Cal, 4-cleft. Cor. 4-
cleft. Stamens 8.
C. (3) Hulk 2-valved, Cor. ftraws, numerous.
Stamens many, mixed with ftraws. Pift. I. (1) Hulk
2-valved. Cor. ftraws, numerous. Stamens many,
mixed with ftraws.
S. (3) Cal. outer 3-leafed j inner 5-toothed, carti¬
laginous. Cor. 5-cleft. Stam. 4. Style x. Seed 1.
(1) Outer cal. 3-leaved, inner none. Cor. 5-cleft,
Stamens 4,
N. (3) Cal. 5-parted. No cor. Stam. 5. Pift. I.
Drupe inferior. (1) Cal. 5-parted, No cor. Sta¬
mens 10.
* F. (3) Cal. none, or 4-parted. Cor. none, or 4-pe-
taled, Stam. 2. Pift. 1. Seed 1. (3) Cal. none,
or 4-parted, Cor, none, or 4-petaled. Stamens 2,
Pift. I, Seed I.
A. (x) Cal. 4-cleft, No cor. Stam. 4. (2) Cal.
4-cleft. No cor. Styl. 2. Seed-velfel inferior.
A. (1) Umbel. Cor. 5-petaled. Stam. 5. (3) In-
volucrum very large. Cor. 5-petaled. Stamens 5.
(1) Umbel. Cor. 5-petaled. Styles 2. Seed I, 3=
celled,
G. (3) Cal. 4-cleft, Cor. 4-petaled, Stamens 6.
Pift. I. Legume. (1) Cal. 3-leaved. Cor. 3-peta-
led, Stam. 6. (2) Cal, 5-leaved, Cor. 5-petaled,
Pift. 1. Leguminous.
P, (j) No cal. Cor. 5-cleft. Stam. 6, Pift. x,
Capf. 5-valved. ( 1) No cal. Cor, 5-cleft. Stam. 6.
(2) No cal. Cor. 5-cleft. Pift. 1. Capf. 5-valved.
Order III. TRICECIA.
C. (3) Cal, 5.parted. No cor. Stam. 5. Styl.*.
Legume leather-like, many-feeded, (1) Cal. 5-part¬
ed. No cor. Stamens 5. (2) Cal. nearly 5-toothed.
No cor. Style 1. Legume leather-like, many-feeded.
F. Common receptacle turban-fihaped, converging,
clofed, fleftiy, (3) Cal. 5-parted. No cor. Pift. I.
Seed 1. fx') Cab 3-parted. No cor. Stamens 3,
(1) and (2) both within the fame common receptacle,
with diftinil partial fructifications.
Order
Folygamla*
B O
281
lanatus.
T
Order I. MONCECIA.
1141. Musa, or Plntitam-tree.
Three fpecies j viz. paradifaica, fapientum, troglo-
dytarum. E. and W. Indies.
1144. Veratrum, or White Hellebore.
Three fpecies; viz. album, nigrum, luteum. Ruf-
fia, Auftria, Italy, N. America—The V. album grows
f'pontaneoufly on the mountains of Switzerland and
Germany. The root is naufeous and acrid. If wound¬
ed, when frefn, it emits an acrid juice, which is faid
to prove dangerous when mixed with the blood by an
wound. The powder of the dry root applied to an if-
fue, occalions violent purging. Snuffed up the nofe,
it is a ftrong, but not always a fafe fternutatory.
It is alfo a violent emetic. The ancients ufed it in
defperate cafes, but modern pradlice rejedls it, though
it is faid to have been given with fuccefs to the amount
of a fcruple in cafes of mania.
I333* Spinifex.
One fpecies j viz. fquarrofus. E. Indies.
U45. Andropogon, or Beard-grafs.
25 fpecies; viz. caricofum, contortum, crinitum, di-
varicatum, gryllus, nutans, ciliatum, ferratum, cotuli-
ferum, cymbarium, fquarrofum, proftratum, alopecu-
roides, diftachyum, fchcenanthus, virginicum, bicor-
ne, hirtum, infulare, barbatum, nardus, muticum,
ifchasmum, fafciculatum, polydadtylon. S. Europe, E.
and-W. Indies, America.
The nardus, Indian nard or fpikenard, as it
comes from the Ealt Indies, is a matted congeries of
fibres iffuing from one head, and probably forming the
root of the plant. Spikenard has a warm, pungent,
bitterifh tafte, and a flrong not very agreeable fmell.
It is ftomachic and carminative ; and faid to be alex-
ipharmac, diuretic, and emmenagogue ; but is at pre-
fent little employed.
1146. Ho ecus, or Indian Millet.
14 fpecies 5 viz. * avenaceus, * lanatus, * mollis,
fpicatus, bicolor, forghum, halepenfis, faccharatus,
laxus, ftriatus, ferratus, odoratus, latifolius, pertuius.
N. Europe, India, N. America.
* H. hulks two-flowered, woolly j hermaphrodite flo¬
ret awnlefs; male floret with a bent awn, inclofed -.n
the calyx.—This grafs flourifhes well on any moift foil,
and grows very generally, except on the moft dry and
barren ones. It fhould be fown chiefly with a view to
pafturage by fheep. It makes a loft ipongy hay unfit
for horfes.
1147. Apluda.
Four fpecies ; viz. mutica, ariftata, zeugites, digi-
tata. E. and W. Indies, N. America.
1148. Is c HAS MUM.
Two fpecies j viz. muticum, ariftatum. India, Chi¬
na, Carolina.
1149. Cenchrus, or Hedgehog-grafs.
Nine fpecies ; viz. racemofus, lappaceus, muricatus,
capitatus, echinatus, tribuloides, ciliaris, granularis,
Irutefcens. S. Europe, Virginia, W. Iddies.
Vol. IV. Part I. ‘
ANY.
1150. iEciLOPS, or liard-grafs.
Four fpecies \ viz. ovata, caudata, triuncialis, fquar-
rofa. S. Europe, Carolina.
1334. Maniswris.
One fpecies j viz. myurus. E. and W. Indies, N,
America.
1151. Valantia, or Crofs-wort.
Eight fpecies j viz. * aparine, * cruciata, muralis,
hifpida, cucullaria, articulata, glabra, hypocarpa.
Atiftria, S. Europe, Canaries, Jamaica.
1152. Parietaria, or Pellitory.
Eight fpecies } viz. * oflicinalis, indica, judaica, lu-
fitanica, urticaefolia, cretica, zeylanica, microphylla.
S. Europe, Canaries, Ifle of Bourbon.
11^3. Atriplex, or Oracle, Sea Purjlane-tree.
12 fpecies j viz. * haftata, % laciniata, * littoralis,
spatula, *pedunculata, *portulacoides, halymus, glau-
ca, rofea, fibirica, tatarica, hortenfis. Europe, Tar¬
tary, America.
1283. Terminalia, or Benzoin.
Two fpecies j viz. catappa, benzoin. E. Indies.--*
From the lafl: of thefe fpecies a refin of the fame name
is fuppofed to be extradfed, though others reprefent it
as the produft of another plant called /?yr<7.v ben%oc°
Benzoin is ufed in perfumes, and as a cofmetic.
160. Brabeium, or African Almond.
One fpecies $ viz. ftellulifolium.
1154. Clusia, or Balfam-tree.
Four fpecies 5 viz. rofea, alba, flava, venofa» A»
merica, Jamaica.
1142. Ophioxylum.
One fpecies } viz. ferpentinum. E. Indies.
1155. Acer, Maple-tree.
17 fpecies; viz. * campeftre, * pfeudoplatanus, fem-
pervirens, tataricum, rubrum, faccharinum, difledlum,
japonicum, palmatum, feptemlobum, pidtum, plata-
noides, penfylvanicum, monfpefTulanum, creticum, tri-
fidum, negundo. Europe, N. America, Japan.
* A. leaves 5-lobed, blunt, unequally ferrated ; floxv-pfeudo-
ers in compound pendent bunches. Sycamore-tree, fy-platanus.
camore maple.—It flouriflies beft in open places and
fandy ground, but will thrive in a richer foil. It
grows quick, is eafily tranfplanted, bears cropping,
and the grafs flouriflies under its fliade. It is faid to
grow well near the fea, and that a plantation of thefe
trees, at 50 feet afunder, with three fea-fallow thorns
between every two of them, will make a fence luffi-
cient to defend the herbage of the country againfl: the
fea fpray. Gent. Mag. 1757, p* 252. The wood is
foft and very white, and is ufed by the turners. By
boring a hole into the body of the tree, when the fap
rifes in fpring, a fweetifli watery liquor is obtained,
which is ufed in making wine, and, if infplfiated, af¬
fords a fine fugar. From the A. faccharinum large
quantities of fugar are annually thus made in North
America. See United States, and Sugar.
1143. Celtis, or Lote, Nettle-tree.
Three fpecies; viz. auftralis, occidentalis, orienta-
lis. S. Europe, Virginia, W. Indies.
Nn
1157j
ANY. Polygamla,
to fpoil the milk of cows. It will give a good, though
not a beautiful green, to cloths that have been dyed
blue. The wood is nearly as good when young as
when old. It is hard and tough, and much ufed to
make the tools employed in hufbandry. The bark is
ufed to tan calf-lkin. An infufion of the leaves, from
half an ounce to an ounce, is a very good purge ; and
a decoftion of two drams of the bark, or of hx drams
of the leaves, has been ufed to cure agues.
1161. Diospyros, oi Indian Date-plum.
Five fpecies 5 viz. lotus, virginiana, kaki, hirfuta,
ebenum. Italy, Barbary, Ceylon, N. America, Ja¬
pan.
1163. Nyssa, or Tupelo-tree.
One fpecies 5 viz. aquatica. N. America.
B O T
1157. GowaniA, or Chaw-Jlick.
One fpecies j viz. domingenfis. W. Indies.
1332. Hermas.
Five fpecies 5 viz. depauperata, gigantea, capitata,
quinque-dentata, ciliata. C. of G. Hope.
1158. Mimosa, or Scnjitive Plant.
53 fpecies j viz. fimplicifolia, inga, fagifolia, no-
dola, natans, bigemina, unguis-cati, tergemina, latifo-
lia, purpurea, reticulata, viva, circinalis, cinerea, ca-
fla, fenfitiva, pudica, entada, fcandens, plena, virga-
ta, pun&ata, pernambucana, arborea, lebbeck, odo-
ratiffima, fpeciofa, vaga, latifiliqua, polyftachya, mu-
ricata, peregrina, glauca, cinerea, comigera, catechu,
horrida, eburnea, latronum, tortuofa, farnefiana, nilo-
tica, pigra, afperata, fenegal, csefia, pinnata, intfia,
femifpinofa, quadrivalvis, tenuifolia, ceratonia, tama-
rindifolia. Egypt, E. and W. Indies, New Holland.
—The plants of this genus poffefs the fingular proper¬
ty of fhrinking or drawing in their leaves, when touch¬
ed, wdiich has obtained for them the Englifh appella¬
tion of fenfitive plants. From the fpecies M. catechu
a vegetable extradt is obtained, which has long impro¬
perly received the appellation of terra japonica or Ja¬
pan earth. This extraft is outrvardly of a reddifh co¬
lour, internally of a dark brown, with a flight call of
red. It is capable of being reduced to the date of a
porvder 5 and is a mild, but powerful aftringent. It
is particularly ufeful in alvine fluxes ^ and where thefe
require aftringents, no one is fo beneficial. It is like-
wife employed in uterine profluvia, and in laxity and
debility of the vifcera in general. It is often fuffered
to diflblve leifurely in the mouth, as a topical aftrin-
gent, for laxities and exulcerations of the gums, for
apthous ulcers in the mouth, and fimilar affedtions : and
it is in fome other cafes applied externally under the
form of folution, and as an ointment. Catechu dif-
folves in water, with the exception of its impurities,
which amount to an eighth part of the mafs. Redli-
fied fpirit difiblves feven-eighths of the pure matter into
a red liquor, leaving, undiffblved, an infipid mucila¬
ginous fubftance. The bell form of adminiftering it is
that of Ample infufion in warm water, with the addi¬
tion of fome cinnamon or caflia. From the M. nilotica
gum arable exudes, the ufes of which are well known
to be extremely numerous. The infpiffated juice of
the unripe fruit of this tree is termed acacia, and is
ufed as a mild aftringent medicine.
Order II. DICECIA.
1159. Gleditsia, or Phree-horned Acacia.
Two fpecies j viz. triancanthos, inermis. Java, N.
America.
1160. Fraxinus, or AJh-tree,
Three fpecies j viz. * excelfior, ornus, americana.
S. Europe, N. America.
* F. leafets ferrated j flowers without petals.—It flou-
rilhes beft in groves, but grows in a rich foil, though
in the open field. It bears tranfplanting and lopping,
siovfes, cows, fheep, and goats, eat it j but it is faid
1164. Anthospermum, or Amber-tree.
Three fpecies ; viz. sethiopicum, ciliare, herbaceum.
C. of G. Hope.
1336. Stilbe.
Three fpecies j viz. pinaftra, ericoides, cernua. C-
of G. Hope.
1165. Arctopus.
One fpecies ; viz. echinatus. C. of G. Hope.
1166. Panax, or Ginfeng.
Five fpecies 5 viz. quinquefolium, trifolium, fpinofa^
arborea, fruticofum. China, North America, Weft
Indies.—-The root of the P. quinquefolium is the gin¬
feng of the Chinefe, of which they have an extraordi¬
nary opinion, regarding it as an univerfal reftorative
in all decays from age, intemperance, or difeafe. It
is alfo found in North America, and frequently export¬
ed from thence to China. It has a very fweet tafte,
accompanied with a flight bitternefs and warmth.
Order III. TRICECIA.
1168. Ceratonia, or Crab-tree, St John’s Bread.
One fpecies ; viz. filiqua. Spain, Sicily, Levant,
Chili.
1168. Ficus, or Fig-tree.
15 fpecies j viz. carica, fycomorus, religiofa, benja-
mina, benghalenfis, indica, racemofa, pertufa, pumi-
la, toxicaria, maculata, trigona, hifpida, heterophyl-
la, microcarpa. S. Europe, India, China, America.
—The dried fruit of the F. carica or ordinary fig-
tree, is fometimes ufed in medicine as a foft emollient
fweet fubftance. It is much efteemed by fome as a
fuppurative 5 in which cafe it is applied as warm as it
can well be endured.
In the clafs Polygamia are
34 Genera, including 222 Species, of which
are found in Britain.
1162. Pi son 1 a, or Fingrido.
Two fpecies j viz. aculeata, inermis. W. Indies.
I335* Chrysitrix.
One fpecies j viz. capenfis. C. of G. Hope.
CLASSIS
Cryptogamia,
BOTANY.
283
CLASSIS XXIV.
CRYPT O G AMI A (o).
CLASS XXIV.
CRYPTOGAMIA.
Ordo I. FILICES.
Order I. FERNS.
Se£t. I. FruBlfications fpiked.
* E. Spike fcattered. Fruftifications target-fliaped,
valved at the bafe.
C. ( 1) Catkin tiled. Pollen or dull; covering the
fcale. (2) Sheath fword-lhaped. Drupe with a woody
kernel.
Z. (1) A cone with fcales covered beneath with
pollen. (2) A cone with fcales in each border. Drupe
folitary.
O. A 2-rowed fpike. Fru£lifications 5-valved.
* O. A jointed fpike. Fructifications cut round,
* O. Spike branchy. Fructifications 2-valved.
1
Se£t. II. Fruihjications frondcfe, in the under fur-
face.
* A. A fpot occupying the whole difc.
* P. DiftinCt dots on the difc.
N n 2 1176.
(o) This clafs contains a number of vegetables whofe ftamens and piftils are too minute to admit of that mod6
of inveftigation which prevails through the preceding claffes. The ftruCture too of thefe vegetables differs con-
fiderably from that of other plants.
The Fi/ices or Ferns conftitute the firft order. Their flowers are generally difpofed in fpots or lines on the
under furface of the leaves, but fometimes in fpikes. In the male flowers the anthers are found fitting or fup-
ported on a very fhort filament, egg-fhaped or globular, fcattered on the under furface of the leaves. 1 he male
flowers unite fo as to form a fpike or bunch, or form lines or dots underneath the leaves, either on the furface at
the edge, or at the point. In fome cafes they entirely cover the under furface. None oi the flowers have any
corolla, or even a calyx, excepting perhaps a fcale formed from the leaf, opening, containing globules. I he
feeds are very minute, and globular. *
The fecond order, called Mtfci or Mof'es, have the female parts of fruClification inclofed in a veil, which ad¬
heres to the top of the ripe capfnle, and covers it. Capfule opening tranfverfely. Stems leafy. Leaves mem¬
branaceous, reticulated j after being dead, reviving when foaked in water. In general the ftamens and piftils are
on feparate flowers on the fame or diftinCt plants.
The third order, or Algce, includes a divifion of plants which fcarcely admit of a diftinftion of root, ftem, and
leaf; much lefs can the parts of their flowers be defcribed. Their fubftance is flefh-like or leather-like, mem¬
branaceous or fibrous, jelly-like or horn-like, or refembling calcareous earth. 1 he female fructifications are
either found in faucers or tubercles, as in lichens ; in hollow bladders, as in fucus ; or difperfed through the fub¬
ftance of the plant, as in ulva. The aquatic genera, which grow on the fea coaft, are called, in ordinary lan¬
guage, or fea-ware, and by incineration, produce fodaor mineral alkali. The lichens are of much im¬
portance in the economy of nature. They grow on the bareft rocks, and their remains form a foil on which,
better vegetables afterwards flourifli. Some of them afford valuable colours.
The order of Fungi, or Mujhrocms, confifts of plants moftly of a cork-like texture, and thort duration, bearing
their feeds either in gills or tubes, or attached to fibres or to a Ipongy fubftance. As little is known of the.tr
fructification, the generic characters are taken from their external form.
Se£t. I. Fru&ifcat tones fpicatce.
* 1169. Equisetum. Spica fparfa. FruCtif. pelta-
tae, baft valvulatae.
1222. Cycas. (O Ament, imbricatum. Pollen
fquamam tegens. ( ) Spadix enfiformis. Drupa nu-
cleo lignofo.
1227. Zamia. (1) Strobilus fquamis fubtus polline
teftis. (2) Strobilus fquamis in utroque margine.
Drupa folitaria.
1170. Onoclea. Spica difticha. FruCtif. 5-valves.
* 1171. Ophioglossum. Spica articulata. FruCtif.
circumfciffae.
* 1172. Osmunda. Spica racemofa. FruCtif. 2-
valves.
Sect. II. FruBifcat tones frondofa, inpagina inferiore.
* 1173. Acrostichum. Macula difcum totum oc-
cupans.
* 1179. Polypodium. PunCta difci diftinCta.
284
B O T
1176. Hemionitis. Linear difci decuffantes.
* 1178. Asplenium. Lineae difci fubparallelae, va-
rlae.
* 11*1 Blechnum. Linese difci cofta: utrinque ad-
jacente?.
1177. Lonchitis. Lineae marginis ad finus.
* xi 74- Pteris. Linese raarginis ad peripberiam.
* 1180. Adianthum. Maculae apicum margine re-
flexo obteftum.
* xi8i. Trichomanes. Fr. folitariae, raargini ipfi In-
fertae.
Sccl. III. Fruffificaticnes radicales.
1182. Marsilea. Fruft. 4-capfularis.
* 1183. PlLULAREA. Fruft. 4-loCularis.
* 1184. Isoetes. Fruft. 2-locularis.
Ordo II. MUSCI.
Sed. I. Acalyptrati.
* 1185. Lycopodium. Antbera 2-valvis, feffilis.
1186. Porella. Antbera pertui’a poris.
* 1187. Sphagnum. Antbera ore lievi.
Sed. II. Calyptrati diclini*
* 1191. Splachnum. Antb. cum apopbyfi maxima.
* 1192. Polytrichum. Antb.cumapophyfi.mini-
ma, marginata.
* 1193. Mnium. Anth. fine apopbyfi.
Sed. III. Calptrati monoclim.
* 1189. Phascum. Antb. operculata, ore ciliato.
* 1194. Bryum. Anth. pedunculo terminali e tuber-
culo.
* 1197. Hypnum. iVntb. pedunculo laterali e peri-
chaetio.
* 1190. Fontinalis. Antb. feflilis, pericbaetio im-
bricato obvoluta.
* 1188. Buxbaumia. Antb. pedunculata, altero la¬
tere membranacea.
Ordo III. ALGiE.
Sed. I. Ferrejlres.
* 1198. Marchantia. FI. calyci communi peltato,
fubtus florido.
'* 1196. Jungermannia. FI. calyci fimplici, 4-valvi.
* 1197- Targionia. FI. calyci 2-valvi.
•* 1201. Anthoceros. FI. calyce tubulofo. Anther,
fubulata, bivalvis.
* 1199. Blasia. Fr. cylindrica, tubulofa.
* 1200. Riccia. Fr. granulis frondi innatis.
* 1202. Lichen. Fr. receptaculo laevi nitido.
1208. Byssus. Subftantia lanuginofa, vel pulveru-
lenta.
A N Y. Cryptogam!*.
H. Lines of the difc crofs pairs.
* A. Lines of the difc nearly parallel, various.
* B. Lines of the difc adjacent to the rib on each fide,
L. Lines at the infide of the margin.
* P. Lines at the extremity of the margin.
* A. Spots covered with the refledted margin of the
points.
* T. Frudlifications folitary, placed on the very margin.
Sed. III. FruBifications at (or very nearJ the root,
M. Frudlification 4-capfuled.
* P. Fiudtif. 4-celled.
* I. Frudtif. 2-celled,
Order II. MOSSES.
Sed. I. Not calyptred, i. e. not veiled.
* L. Anther 2-valved, fitting.
P. Anther pierced wuth holes.
* S. Anther with a level mouth.
Sed. II. Veiled dioicous.
* S. Anth. wdth a very large excrefcence.
* P. Anth. with a very fmall excrefcence, bordered.
* M. Anth. without an excrefcence.
Sed. III. Veiled monoicous.
* P. Anth. lidded, mouth fringed.
* B. Anth. on a terminal fruit-ftalk arifing out of a
little folid pimple.
* H. Anth. on a lateral fruit-ftalk out of an involu*
crum or cover.
* F. Anth. fitting, enveloped in a tiled cover.
* B. Anth. on a fruit-ftalk, one fide membranous.
N. B. The term anthera in this order ought
rather to be tranflated by the word capfule^
as there are feeds contained in it.
Order III. ALGiE.
Sed. I. Terrejlrial.
* M. Flower with a common calyx, target-fhaped,
flowering underneath.
* J. Flow, calyx Ample, 4-valved,
* T. Flow, calyx 2-valved.
* A. Flow, calyx tubular. Anther awl-fhaped, 2»
valved.
* B. Frudtif. cylindrical, tubular.
* R. Frudtif. granules imbedded in the frond.
* L. Frudtif. receptacle even, ftiining.
B, Subftance dowmy, or powdery.
Sect.
Ciyptogamia,
O
T A N Y.
B
Seel. II. Aquatica.
* 1204. Tremella. A. gelatinofa.
* 1206. Ulva. A. membranacea.
* 120^. Fucus. A. coriacea.
* 1207, Conferva. A, capillaris.
Ordo IV. FUNGI.
Se£l. I. PUeatl.
* 1209. Agaricus. Pileus fubtus lamellofu?,
* I2TO. Boletus. Pileus fubtus porofus.
* 1211. Hydnum. Pileus fubtus eebinatus.
* x212. Phallus. Pileus fubtus laevis.
Se£t. II. Pileo dejlituti.
'* 1213. Clathrus. F. cancellatus.
* 1214. Helvella. F. turbinatus.
* 1215. Peziza. F. campanulatus.
* 1216. Clavaria. F. oblongus.
* 1217. Lycoperdon. F. globofus.
* 1218. Mu cor. F. velicularis llipitatus.
Seel. II. Aquatic,
* T, A. gelatinous.
* U. A. membranous.
* F. A. leather-like.
* C. A. capillary.
Order IV. FUNGI,
Se£t. I. With a cap,
* A. Cap gilled underneath.
'* B. Cap porous underneath.
* H. Cap prickly underneath.
* P. Cap leavel beneath.
Seel. II. Without a cap,
* C. F. latticed.
* H. F. turban-draped.
* P. F. bell-fhaped.
* C. F. oblong.
* L. F. globular.
* M. F. little bladders on a pillar.
285
Without reciting the names of the fpecies of
this clafs, we lhall Hate their numbers, and fuch cir-
cumltances relative to particular kinds of plants be¬
longing to it as feem molt worthy of attention.
Order I. FERNS.
1169. Equisetum.
, Seven fpecies •, of which fix are Britilh.
hyemale. * ftem naked, rough, fomewhat branched at the
bafe. Rou^h horfetail, Jhave-grafs, pewter-wort, Dutch
rufhes.—The turners or cabinet-makers ufe it to polilh
their work. It is faid to be wholefome to horfes, but
hurtful to cows. Sheep diflike it.
1222. Cycas, or Podda Pana.
Two fpecies. E. Indies, China, Japan.
1227. Zamia.
Two fpecies. Cape, E. Florida, W. Indies.
1170. Onoclea, ox Senjible Fern.
Two fpecies. N. America.
1x71. Ophioglossum, ox Adder's Tongue.
Nine fpecies ; one Britilh. Europe, E. and W.
Indies, America.
1172. Osmunda, ox Flowering fern.
21 fpecies; 4 Britilh. Europe, America.
1173. Acrostichum, ox Forked-fern.
35 fpecies ; 2 Britilh. Europe, Africa, America.
1179. Polypodium, ox Polypody.
78 fpecies ; 18 Britilh. Europe, Madeira, India,
America.
flix-mas. * P. leaves almolt doubly winged ; leafets (trap-fpear-
Ihaped ; Item and midribs chaffy. Male fern, male
polypody.—The Siberians boil it in their ale, and ara
fond of the flavour it imparts. The powder of the
root is a remedy for expelling the tape-worm. A li¬
quid lubricating fupper is given to the patientand, u
coftive, a common glyller. Early next morning two
or three drams of the root in powder are mixed with
water, and fwallow’ed. If thrown up, the dofe muit
be repeated. Ihe patient mull fall two hours, and-
then take a llrong purge.
1176. Hemionitis, or Mules-fern.
Four fpecies. Jamaica, S. America.
1178. Asplenium, or Spleen wort.
28 fpecies; 9 Britilh. Europe, Java, America.
1175. Blechnum.
Six fpecies; one Britifh. America, Cape, E. Ind^
1177. Lonchitis, ox Rough Spleenwort.
Four fpecies. Jamaica, S. America.
1174. Pteris, Brakes ox Female fern.
23 fpecies; tw’o Britilh. Europe, E. and W. In¬
dies, N. America, China.
* P. leaves more than doubly compound ; leafets wing- aquilind,
ed ; wings fpear-lhaped ; the lowermoll wing-cleft, the
upper ones fmaller.—The common people in many
parts of England mix the alhes with water, and form
them into balls; thefe balls are afterwards made hot
in the fire, and then ufed to make an alkaline ley for
fcouring linen. It makes very durable thatch, and is
excellent litter for horfes and cows. It affords a vio¬
lent heat, and where coal is fcarce, is ufed to burn
limellone and heat ovens.
1180. Adiantum, ox Maiden-hair.
27 fpecies; one Britilh. Europe, Africa, Amer.
1181*
286
Cryptogamia*
B O T
1181. 'Frichomanes, or Tunbridge Maiden-hair.
13 Species j two Britifh. S. Europe, Cape, China,
America.
1182. Marsilea.
Three fpecies. Siberia, France, Italy, S. Amer.
1183. Pilularia, or Pepper-grafs,
One fpecies j Britifli.
1184. Isoetes, or ^uil/wort.
Two fpecies j one Britiih. Coromandel.
Order II. MUSCI.
1185. Lycopodium, or Club-mofs.
29 fpecies ; three Britifh. E. and W. Indies, Ma-
. deira, America.
* L. leaves fcattered, terminating in threads j fpikes
cylindrical, on fruitflalks, in pairs. Common club mojs,
Wolf’s claiu.—In Sweden they form it into mats or
baffes, which lie at their doors to clean fhoes upon.
It reftores ropy wine in a few days. The feeds flalh
when cafl into a flame, and are faid to be fometimes
ufed in theatres to imitate lightning. They are with
difficulty made wet, and if fcattered on a bafon of wa¬
ter, the hand may be dipped to the bottom without
wetting it.
11&6. Porella.
One fpecies. Pennfylvania.
1287. Sphagnum, ox Bog-mofs.
Three fpecies ; all found in Britain.
1191. Splachnum, ox Bottle-mofs.
13 fpecies j 12 Britifh. Europe.
1192. Polytrichum, or Golden Maiden-hair.
j8 fpecies 5 16 Britifh. Jamaica, Magellan.
1193. Mnium.
20 fpecies $ all Britilh.
1189. Phascum.
13 fpecies j 11 Britifh. Europe, N. America.
1194. Bryum.
93 fpecies; Britifh.
1195. Hypnum.
70 fpecies; all Britifh. W. Indies, &c.
1190. Fontinalis, ox Water-rnofs.
Six fpecies 5 Britifh.
antipyre- * F. capfules lateral j leaves acute, keeled, doubled
tica. together, difpofed in three rows. Greater water-mofs.
—Contrary to the nature of all other moffes, this fpe¬
cies is fcarcely combuflible. Accordingly, the Scan¬
dinavians line the infide of their chimnies with it to
defend them again!! fire.
tx88. Buxbaumia.
Tw^ fpecies j one Britifh. Europe.
Order III. ALGAL
1198. Marchantia, or ILiver-grten.
Seven fpecies; five Britifh. N. America, W. Ind.
1196' Jungermannia, or Star-tip.
48 fpecies; Britifh.
ANY.
1197. Targionia.
Two fpecies; Britifh. S. Europe.
1201. Anthoceros.
Three fpecies; two Britifh. N. Amer. Jamaica.
1199. Blasia.
One fpecies ; Britifh.
1200. Riccia, or Marjh Liverwort.
Five fpecies ; Britifh. Jamaica,
1202. Lichen, or Liverwort.
218 fpecies; all Britifh. Alfo Cape, India, Ame¬
rica.
Lord Dundonald obtained a patent, dated July 31.
1802, for the difcovery of a fubftitute for the foreign
gums, to be obtained from the plants of this genus.
The fpecification of his lordfhip’s patent is in thefe
terms: “ My invention confifts in procuring a fubfli-
tute or fubllitutes for gum fenegal, or other gums, from
the clafs of plants called in botany lichens ; from the
plants of hemp and flax, previous to being ffeeped in
water, or after being fteeped ; likewife from the bark
or rind of the wullow or lime tree. The procefs for
obtaining the gum may be varied according to circum-
flances, and is done by wafhing the materials in water,
digeflion, and boilings, and with or without the aid
of fixed or volatile alkaline falts or their folutions.
“ It does not appear, from fuch trials as I have hi¬
therto made, that there is any very great difference of
the produce of gum from the lichen colledfed from dif¬
ferent trees or fhrubs : all of them anfwer equally well
for yielding a gum fit for calico printing. The lichen
is mod abundant on the trees W'hich grow on a poor
ftiff clay foil, and particularly if fituated at fome con-
fiderable height above lea level. It fliould be pulled
in dry weather, otherwife it is apt to break in the
pulling; befides, in this cafe, requiring to be dried
before it can with fafety be laid up in the Itorehoufe,
where, if put in dry, it may be kept for years. Should
a fufficient quantity of it not be found in this country,
it may be had in almoft unlimited abundance in Swe¬
den, Norwray, and in the northern parts of America,
where it grows to the length of from a foot to 18
inches, depreffing the branches of the tree by its
weight. There is, however, every reafon to believe
that a fufficient quantity is to be had in this country.
According to information received from botanifts, it
takes three or four years in coming to maturity or
its full fize; lo that a crop from the fame tree may
be had every fourth year. The lichen does not con-
fift entirely of a gummy matter ; there is the outer
Ikin or cuticle, belowT that a green refinous matter.
The remainder of the plant confifls of partly gum,
partly fomewhat analogous to animal fubllances, and a
fmall proportion of fibrous matter, which cannot be
diffolved by boiling, or the aflion of alkaline falts.
“ The firft procefs in preparing gum from the li¬
chen, is to free it of the outer Ikin of the plant and
the refinous matter. This is done by fcalding the li¬
chen two or three times with boiling water, allowing
it to remain fo long in the water as by abforbing it to
Iwell ; in doing this the Ikin cracks, and comes off
along with the greatelf part of the refinous matter ; or
it may be freed from them by gently boiling the li¬
chen for about 15 or 20 minutes, then waffling it in cold
t water,
Crypt ogam'a. B O T
water, laying it afterwards on a "ftone or brick floor,
where it fhould lie for to or 12 hours, perhaps more.
The reafon for this is, that the expofure for that time
to air, greatly facilitates the fubfequent extraction of
the gum.
“ The fcalded lichen is then to be put into a copper
^ boiler, with a due proportion of water, fay three Scots
pints, or two wine gallons, to every pound of lichen,
and boiled during ro or 12 hours, adding about a
quarter of an ounce of foda or pearl allies, for every
pound of lichen 5 or inftead of thefe falls, about two
ounces of volatile alkali. The boiling fliould be con¬
tinued until the liquor acquires a confiderable degree
of gummy confidence. It is then to be taken out of
the boiler, allowed to drain or drip through a wire or
haircloth fearce. The refiduum to be put into a hair¬
cloth bag or bags, and to be fqueezed in a prefs fimi-
lar to that which is ufed by the melters or rinders of
tallow.
“ The firfl boiling does not extraCl the whole of the
gum. The lichen fhould be boiled a fecond, or even a
third time, repeating the procefs as above defcribed,
diminilhing at each procefs the quantity of water and
the quantity of alkali, which a little experience will
foon point out : vrhen three boilings are employed, the
gummy extracf of the laft boiling (hould be kept for
the firft boiling of a frefh batch of lichen ; the extraCI
proceeding from the firft and fecond boilings {hould be
mixed together, and evaporated to the confidence ne-
ceflary for block or prefs printing. The evaporating
veflels fhould be of tin or thin lead, placed over a range
of ftoves, and moderately heated by fire, or the fleam
of water. It has been neglecfted to ftate, that before
evaporating the gummy extradl to the confiftence ne-
ceflary, it fhould be kept 10 or 12 hours, fo as to al¬
low the fediment or dregs to fubfide. The clean li¬
quor may either be drawm off by a fyphon, or the dregs
may be drawm off by a cock at the bottom of the
wooden veffel ; the bottom of which fhould be made
Hoping, higher at the back than the fore part, in or¬
der that the dregs may run more completely off. The
proportion of gummy matter remaining in the dregs
may be got off by mixing them with a due proportion
of boiling wTater, allowing the liquor to clear, and pro¬
ceeding as above directed, employing this weak folu-
tion for boiling the next batch of lichen. When vo¬
latile alkali is ufed, the boiler fhould be of iron, as
volatile alkali a£ls on copper. Hemp, flax, and the
bark of the wfilkw and the lime trees, or fea weed, are
to be heated in a fimilar manner, to extradl the gum
or mucilage contained in them. Likewu'fe it is intended
that this patent fhall include every tree, plant, or ve¬
getable, of whatever kind, from whence a mucilage or
gum is to be obtained by the a&ion of volatile or fixed
alkaline falls, or their folutions, when ufed in the pro-
ceffes of maceration, digeftion, or boiling, thefe vege¬
table matters ; being a method of obtaining a mucilage
or gum never before praflifed and adopted by any
other perfon.”
The above invention was for fome time pra&ifed to
a great extent by the calico printers in the weft of
Scotland, where it was found to anfwrer for almoft all
colours. We have heard, however, that the ufe of it
has been difcontinued ; whether from the price of gum
fenegal, for which it was employed as a fubftitute, ha-
ANY. 2S7
ving fallen, or that it has otherwife failed of its effe<?l,
we have not been informed.
* L. tubercles black, cruft clear white.—Grows only calc a reus»
on limeftone rocks. When dried, pow’dered, and
fteeped in urine, it is ufed to dye fcarlet by the Welfh
and the inhabitants of the Orkneys, d he colour is
faid to be very fine.
* L. faucers white, mealy, with yellowifh white, \.\nck, pare Has,
blunt borders ; cruft yellow white.—Grows on rocks,
wralls, trunks of trees, &c. Litmus is prepared from
this fpecies. For this purpofe it is collefted from the
rocks in the north of England, and fent to London in
calks.
* L. faucers yellow, with a white border ; cruft whit- tartareur,
ifh—Grows on rocks and ftones. In Derbyftiire it is
gathered for the dyers. It gives a purple colour.
* L. faucers dull purple 5 leaves hoary, fmooth, blunt, otnpha-*
many-cleft, fprinkled with riling dots. Cork, corker lodes.
or arcelL—It dyes wool a reddifh browm, or a dull but
durable crimfon or purple, paler but more lafting than
that of orchal. In Ireland it is prepared by fteeping
in ftale urine, adding a little fait to it, and making it
up into balls with lime. Wool dyed with it, and then
dipped in the blue vat, becomes of a beautiful purple.
With rotten oak it makes a dark brown. It has been
ufed as a ftyptic.
* L. tubercles brown j plant hoary, hollow, rcmchrangiftr-*
branched j terminating branches turned dowmwards.— nus.
The Laplanders could not exift wfithout this plant,
which feeds, and even fattens, their rein deer.
* L. plant lemon-coloured, upright, much branched •yVu/pinus.
branches nearly of a length, angular •, angles unequal.
—In Norway they mix this plant wfith powdered glafs,
and ftrew it upon dead carcafes to poifon wolves.
* L. faucers brown, white on the outfide, on pedicles;prunajlra,
foliage nearly white, quite white and cottony under¬
neath 5 pitted rather than upright.—It imbibes and re¬
tains odours in a remarkable degree, and is therefore
the bafis of many perfumed powders.
* L. faucers red brown, moftly on the edges of the {o-pulmona*.
liage j leaves green, jagged, blunt, fmooth j pitted, rius.
downy underneath. Lungwort, hazel-rag or hazel-
crottles.—It is recommended for confumptive cafes.
Woollen cloth, boiled in it, is faid to become of a du¬
rable orange. In Herefordfhire it is ufed to dye {lock¬
ings of a durable brown.
* L. faucers red brown ; foliage pale green, wrinkled,
waved at the edge, creeping.—In Ireland and the Hie
of Man it is ufed to dye wool of an orange colour.
Serge, dyed with it, becomes of a lemon colour ; but,
if previoufly infufed and boiled in urine, of a ruffet
brown.
* L. faucers black, flattiflr •, foliage gray brown, cowkh-pujlulatur;
ing of a fingle leaf, circular, flightly lobed, fprinkled
with a black bran-like powder j pitted underneath.—
A beautiful red colour may be prepared from it (Lin¬
naeus). It may be converted into an exceedingly black
paint.
1208. Byssus.
I 2 fpecies ; Britifh.
1204. Tremella, os Star-jelly.
19 fpecies $ Britifh.
1206. Ulva, os Laver.
14 fpecies j Britith. '
1205,
288
Palmse,
B O T
1205. Fucus, or Wrach, Sea-nuecd.
85 fpecies; Britifh.
1207. Conferva, or Crow-Jike.
53 fpecies j Britifti.
ANY.
1214. Helvella, or 'Turban top.
13 fpecies ; Britifh.
1215. Peziza, or Cup-mujhroom.
39 fpecies j Britilh.
Order IV. FUNGI.
1209. Agaricus, ox Agaric.
278 fpecies} Britifh.
1210. Boletus.
50 fpecies ; Britifh. China, America.
1211. Hydnum.
II fpecies j Britifh. N. America, W. Indies.
1212. Phallus, ox Stink-horns,
Four fpecies ; three Britifh.
1213. Clathrus.
Four fpecies. S. Europe.
1216. Clay aria, or Club-tnujhroom.
24 fpecies; Britifh.
1217. Lycoperdon, or 'Truffle^ Puff-ball.
25 fpecies $ Britifh.
1218. Mucor^ or Mould..
17 fpecies 5 Britifh.
In the clafs Cryptogamia are
51 Genera, including 1467 Species, of which 12X3
are found in Britain.
A P P E
PALMiE, tripetalse (p).
Se£t. I. Flabellifolia.
1219. Chamasrops. Diceca. Drupae tres.
1220. Borassus. Dioeca. Drupa 3-fperma.
1221. Corypha. Dioeca. Drupa i-lperma.
Se«Sl. II. Pennatifolia.
1224. Phoenix. Diceca. Drupa i-fperma.
1284. El^eis. Dioeca. Drupa i-fperma, coriacea.
Cal. et cor. 6-partita.
1224. Areca. Monoeca. Drupa i-fperma, calyce
imbricata.
1226. Elate. Monoeca. Drupa i-fperma.
1223. Cocos. Monoeca. Drupa i-fperma, coriacea.
Se£t. III. Bipennatifolhz.
1228. Caryota. Monoeca. Drupa 2-fperma.
1436. Mauritia. Mafc. amentum.
N D I X.
PALMS, 3-petaled.
Se£l. I. Fan-JJjaped leave*
C. Dioecious. Drupes 3.
B. Dioecious. Drupe 3-feeded.
D. Dioecious. Drupe i-feeded.
Seel. II. Wing-Jhaped leaves.
P. Dioecious. Drupe i-feeded.
E. Dioecious. Drupe i-feeded, leather-like. Cal.
and cor. 6-parted.
A. Monoecious. Drupe i-feeded. Cal. tiled.
E. Monoecious. Drupe i-feeded.
C. Monoecious. Drupe i-feeded, leather-like.
Se£t. III. Double veing-Jloaped leaves.
C. Monoecious. Drupe 2-feeded.
M. Male flower catkin.
1219.
(p) Thefe, though capable of being arranged in the feveral claffes of the fyftem, yet, on account of their fm-
gular ftruaure, ha^e been placed in an appendix, containing fuch genera as have a fpadix and fpatha ue.
vvhofe flowers and fruit are produced on that particular receptacle or feat called a>7Ar, protruded from a co -
mon calyx in form of a fheath called fpatha. Phis order confifts of trees and fhru s on y. e e . ^
a fimple ttem, not branched, bearing leaves at the top, refembling thofe of fern, icing a compo K)^_ 0
and a branch, calPd frondes i and the corolla hath always three petals, or tnree deep iviion„. ae
genera are 10 in number.
Hiflory. B O T
1219. Cham^rops, or Dwarf Palm, Palmetto.
Two fpecies 5 viz. humilis, excelfa. S. Europe.
1220. Borassus, or Fan Palnn
One fpecies j viz. flabelliformis. Malabar.
1221. Corypha, or Mountain Palm.
Two fpecies ; viz. umbraculifera, minor. E. In¬
dies, Carolina.
1223. Cocos, or Cocoa-nut Tree.
Three fpecies; viz. nucifera, butyracea, guineenfis.
Guinea, E. and W. Indies.—This tree is wfell known
on account of the rich milky juice that its nut contains.
The fpecies, ftyled butyracea, yields what is called
palm oil. This oil, as brought to us from the Weft
Indies and Africa, is about the confidence of an oint¬
ment, and of an orange colour. It has a ftrong, not
difagreeable fmell, but very little tafte. By long
keeping it lofes its high colour, and becomes white,
when it ought to be reje61ed as no longer fit for ufe.
The inhabitants of the Guinea coaft are faid to make
this oil part of their food, and to employ it for the
fame purpofes as we do butter. With us it is rarely
given inwardly, and ufed only in fome external appli¬
cations for pains and weaknefles of the nerves, cramps,
fprains, and the like. The common people apply it
for the cure of chilblains} and when early made ufe
of, not without fuccefs.
1224. Phoenix, or Common Palm, Date-tree.
One fpecies *, viz. da&ylifera. Levant, India.—
Dates, the fruit of this tree, are imported into Britain
in the ftate of a half-dried fruit, about the fize of an
acorn, but generally larger, confifting of a fweet pul¬
py part, and a hard ftone : the beft are brought from
Tunis. They were formerly ufed in pe&oral decoc¬
tions ; and fuppofed, befides their emollient and in-
craffating virtue, to have a flight aftringency. They
form the principal part of the food of the inhabitants
of fome of the oafes, or inhabited fpots, of the great
African defert.
1284. El^is.
One fpecies } viz. guineenfis. Guinea.
1225. Areca, or Cabbage-tree.
Two fpecies $ viz. catechu, oleracea. E. and W. Ind.
ANY.
1 226. Elate, or Wild Malatar Palm.
One fpecies j viz. fylveftris. E. Indies.
1228. Caryota.
One fpecies j viz. urens. India.
1436. Mauritia, or Ginhgo, Maiden-hair-tret.
One fpecies $ viz. flexuofa.
In the order of Palma are
10 Genera, including 15 fpecies, all foreign.
The following TABLE contains a ftatement of the
number of Plants w'hich we have mentioned or de-
feribed in this Treatife.
Genera. Spec.
I. Monanbria contains
II. Diandria
III. Tr iandria
IV. Tetrandria
V. Pentandria
VI. Hexandria
VII. Heptandria
VIII. OcTANDRIA
IX. Enneandria
X. Decandria
XL Dodecandria
XII. IcOSANDRIA
XIII. PoLYANDRIA
XIV. Didynamia
XV. Tetradynamia
XVI. Monadelphia
XVII. Diadelp H IA
XVIII. PoLYADELPHIA
XIX. Syngenesia
XX. Gynandria
XXL Mo NOE C1A
XXII. Dioecia
XXIII. PoLYGAMIA
XXIV. Cryptogamia
Append. Palm.®
3°
39
90
1 x7
325
111
15
70
7
119
41
39
85
123
3+
60
56
12
JI5
3 2
79
55
34
51
10
84
299
920
638
2537
784
31
493
49
987
273
346
563
1006
426
682
710
65
1252
270
392
219
223
J447
*5
B. Spec.
8
29
J47
56
168
63
1
3°
t
84
18
42
5o
72
58
16
59
8
113
28
83
38
J5
1204
00
1749 14721 239!
S89
HISTORY OF BOTANY.
HAVING thus ftated the botanical arrangement
contrived by Linnaeus, which proceeds upon the fuppofi-
tion of the exiftence of a fexual fyftem in the vegetable
world we proceed to take notice of fome other im¬
portant circumftances connefted wdth this branch of
fcience, more particularly its hiftory, and the natural
orders, as oppofed to the above artificial claflification of
plants.
Seel. I. Ancient Writers upon Botany.
The origin of this fcience, like that of moft others,
cannot be found out from the moft ancient hiftories;
but it is very probable, that fome degree of botanical
knowledge has exifted in every age of the wrorld. The
firft botanical writings of which we have any account
Vol. IV. Part I.
are thofe of Solomon, who we are informed by Scripture
wrote a treatife upon this fubjefl; which, howrever, is
abfolutely loft, not being quoted by any ancient author,
nor the leaft fragment of it remaining. Among the
Greeks, Anaxagoras, Pythagoras, and other ancient
philofophers, wuote treatifes on plants 5 but their works
are alfo loft j and from the quotations that yet remain
in the works of Theophrartus, Diofcorides, and Pliny,
we learn, that thofe firft botanical writings could con¬
vey but very little information.
The hiftorical tera of botany, therefore, commences
with Theophraftus the difciple of Ariftotle. He was
born at Erefium, in the ifland of Lefbos ; and flourifh-
ed in the third century before the Chriftian a;ra, being
about 100 years pofterior to Hippocrates. His work
is entitled The Hi/lory of Plants, and treats of their
O o origin.
B O T
origin, propagation, anatomy, and conftrutlion} of
vegetable life, and of vegetation. It confided origi¬
nally of ten books ; but of which only nine are now
extant. In thefe, vegetables are diftributed into feven
claffes or primary divifions ; which have for their ob-
jeft, the generation ot plants; their place of growth ;
their fize, as trees and fhrubs •, their ufe, as pot herbs,
and efculent grains ; and their la&efcence, or the li¬
quor, of whatever colour, that How's from plants when
cut. In his work, above 500 different plants are de-
fcribed.
The next botanifl of any note was Diofcorides, a
Grecian by birth, but under the Roman empire, being
near 300 years poflerior to Theophraflus. He de-
fcribes about 600 plants j and thefe he has arranged,
from their ufes in medicine and domellic economy, into
four claffes, which are thus defigned : aromatics 5 ali¬
mentary vegetables, or fuch as ferve for food ; medi¬
cinal, and vinous plants.
Almoft cotemporary with Diofcorides flourifhed An-
tonius Mufa, Cato, Varro, Virgil, and Columella j the
firff, author of a treatife dill extant on the plant betony;
the four others celebrated for their ufeful trafts on agri¬
culture and rural economy.
Pliny the Elder, in his voluminous work entitled
The Hijlory of the World, hath a botanical part which
is contained in 15 books. In thefe, befides the plants
of Theophradus and Diofcorides, he has given defcrip-
tions of feveral new fpecies, extrafted probably from
works which would otherwife have been totally lod.
Pliny ufes fcarce any mode of arrangement, except the
ancient, but very incorreft, didinftion into trees,
ihrubs, and herbs. His plan, however, extends not
only to botanical didindlions, but to gardening, agri¬
culture, and whatever is conneiffed either more nearly
or remotely with the fcience of plants. He gives de-
fcriptions of above 1000 different fpecies j but from
the rvant of a proper fydematic arrangement, it is often
difficult, and perhaps impoffible, to determine wffiat
plants he or other ancient botanids do really defcribe.
This w'ant of precidon in properly arranging their
plants was the reafon wffiy the botany of the ancients
w as ahvavs very limited, and after the time of Pliny
declined fo rapidly. On the dedru&ion of the wedern
empire by the Goths and other barbarous nations, it is
not to be thought that botany could furvive any more
than the other fciences. It w'as not till near the clofe
of the eighth century, that the ancient botany began
again to appear in Arabia. Serapion, well known in
medicine, dands fird in the Arabian catalogue of bo¬
tanids; to him fucceeded Razis, Avicenna, Averrhoes,
Afluarius, &c. An author knowm by the name of
Plato, Si pule ins, or Apolienjis, of whofe Herbarium very
old manufcript copies are preferved in fome curious li¬
braries, is fuppofed to have lived near this period. The
works of mod of thefe botanids, how’ever, wTere only
tranflations and compilations from the Greek writers :
fo that, for wmnt of a proper fydematic arrangement,
the fcience funk a fecond time into total oblivion. For
near 4C0 years after Abenguefit, an Arabian phyfi-
cian wffio dourilhed in the end of the 12th century,
fcarce any attempts were made in the botanical w'ay.
Some obfcure writers indeed appeared in feveral parts
of Europe ; as Arnoldus de Ville Nova ; Platearius ;
Mattheus Sylvaticus; and Bartholomew Glanvil,
A N Y. Hiftory,
commonly called Bartholomeus Anglus, a Francifcan
monk, defcended of the family of the earls of Suffolk,
who lived in the reign of King Edward III. and wrote
a book of natural hidory, entitled De proprietatibus
rerum, which was tranflated into Englidi by John de
Trevifa in 1398 : but though all thefe wrote of plants,
they were io totally deditute of method, that their
wrorks remain one great chaos, from whence it is im¬
poffible to extraft any thing intelligible.
On the revival of letters in the beginning of the 16th
century, the botany of the ancients was redored a fe¬
cond time. The Greek writings were trandated into
Latin the common language of Europe, Gaza, a
Greek refugee at Rome, made elegant tranflations of
Aridotle and Theophradus, who afterwards were com¬
mented upon by Scaliger and Stapel. Diofcorides was
alfo trandated and commented on. His bed commen¬
tators are Hermolaus Barbarus, Fuchfcius, Ruellus
Cordus, Gefner, and Matthiolus. The mod didin-
guidred commentators on Pliny are Dalechamp in 1604,
Salmafius in 1689, Harduin and Guilandinus. Meur-
dus and Urfinus have written commentaries upon Cato;
Campegius and Monardes upon Mefue the Arabian,
and Lonicer upon Avicenna. This lad hath been,
trandated by feveral wmiters, particularly Alpagus,
Codaeus, and Plempius into Latin; and by one writer,
Amalthaeus, into Hebrew.
Hieronymus Bock, or Bouc, a German, generally
known by the name of Tragus, is the fird modern who
has given a methodical didribution of vegetables. In
1532, he publifhed a Hidory of Plants, in which he
delcribes 800 fpecies; and thefe he divides into three
claffes, founded on the qualities of vegetables, their
figure, habit, and fize. The fame method of arrange¬
ment was followed by Lonicer, Dodonaeus, L’Obel,
Clufius, Brunsfelfius, Monardes, Cordus, and feme other
botanifts of this period. How far fuch a method was
deficient, diall be confidered in the following feftion ;
however, it was not till 1560 that Conrad Gefner firft
propofed to the W'orld an arrangement of vegetables
from the parts of the dower and fruit. He did not e-
dablidr any plan founded upon this principle; but hav¬
ing fuggeded the idea, left the application to be made
by others : and in 1582, Dr Andrew Caefalpinus, phy-
fician at Pifa, and afterwards profeffor of botany at
Padua, fird availing himfelf of the ingenuity of his
predeceffor, propofed a method of arrangement which
has the fruit for its bafis ; and thus gave origin to
fydematic botany, the fecond grand aera in the hidory
of that fcience.
Even this improved method of Caefalpinus was net
without very great inconveniences, w hich diall be tak¬
en notice of hereafter. As it was, however, fo greatly
fuperior to every thing that had happened before, it
might have been expedfed that the learned would have
immediately adopted it, and that all the former equi¬
vocal and infufficient chara&ers would have been re-
jefted. But the fa£l was otherwife. Caefalpinus’s me¬
thod of arrangement died with him; and it was net till
near a century after, that Dr Robert Morrifon of A-
berdeen, attaching himfelf to the principles of Gefner
and Caefalpinus, re-edablidied fcientific arrangement
upon a folid foundation ; fo that, from being only the
redorer of fyftem, he has been generally celebrated as
its founder. In the long interval between CeefaJpinus
29 I
Hiftory. B O T
and Morrlfon flouriflied fome eminent botanifts. The
mod noted are, Dalechamp, author of A general Hi¬
ftory of Plants-, Theodore, furnamed Taberncemontanus,
and Thalius, two German writers 5 Porta, an Italian,
famous for an arrangement of plants from their relations
to the ftars, to men, and other animals ; Profper Al-
pinus, author of a Catalogue of the Plants of Egypt;
Fabius Columna, inventor of many of the botanical
terms now ufed ; the two Bauhins •, Gerard, and Park-
infon; Zaluzianfki, a Pole, author of an arrangement
from the qualities and habits of plants; Margrave and
Pifo, celebrated for their natural hiftory of Brazil;
Hernandez, equally celebrated for his hiftory of Mexi¬
co ; Paflmus, or Du Pas, author of an arrangement of
plants from the time of flowering, of all charafters the
moft uncertain and infufficient; Johnfton ; Bontius, a
Dutchman, author of a Natural Hiftory of the Eaft
Indies ; Aldrovandus, the celebrated naturalift ; and
Rheede, governor of Malabar, and author of the well-
known Hortus Malabaricus.
The method propofed by Morrifon has the fruit for
its bafts, as well as that of Caefalpinus ; to which, how¬
ever, it is greatly inferior both in the plan and execu¬
tion. It is indeed of all others the moft difficult in
praflice, and was therefore not adopted by any fuc-
ceeding writer, except Bobart, who in 1699 completed
Morrifon’s Univerfal Hiftory of Plants, and an anony¬
mous author whofe work appeared in 172c. Imper-
fefr, however, as his method is, it furniffied many ufe-
ful hints, which fucceeding botanifts have not failed to
improve. Ray and Tournefort have owed him much,
and are not afhamed to own the obligation. The
fame has been done even by Linnaeus; who hath efta-
blifhed the fcience of botany on the moft folid founda¬
tion, by 'introducing a method of arrangement, if not
abfolutely perfect, at leaft as nearly approaching to
-perfection as can be expefted; and which therefore hath
been defervedly followed, in preference to every other,
by all botanifts, fince its firft publication. But to give a
particular account of all the different botanical fyftems,
with the particular advantages and difadvantages at¬
tending each, ftiall be the bufinefs of the fubfequent
FeClions,
Sect. II. Of the Ancient Method of arranging
Vege tables.
DefeCls of In giving an account of the works of Theophraftus
the ar- and Diofcorides, we have already taken notice that
rangement former chofe feven diftinguiffiing charafters, viz.
°^C0" generati°n piants 5 their place of growth ; their
fize, as trees and ffirubs ; their ufe, as pot herbs and
efculent grains; and their laftefcence, or liquor that
flows from them wffien cut. Diofcorides divided them
into aromatics, alimentary, medicinal, and vinous plants.
The good properties of this method are, that the bo-
tanift as it were comes to the point at once; and when
he knows the plant, knows alfo its virtues and ufes, or
at leaft part of them : but this convenience is greatly
overbalanced by innumerable difadvantages ; for the
qualities and virtues of plants are neither fixed and in¬
variable, nor are they impreffed in legible charafters
on the plants themfelves. The different parts of a plant
often poffefs different and even oppofite virtues ; fo that
fuppofing the virtues to be known, and applied to the
ANY.
purpofe of vegetable arrangement, tbe roots mufl fre¬
quently fall under one divifion, the leaves under a fe-
cond, and the flower and fruit under a third. Befides,
if we refleft that the foie end of fuch arrangement is
to facilitate the knowledge of plants to others, the in-
fufficiency and even abfurdity of methods founded up¬
on their virtues will immediately appear. A ftalk of
vervain, for inftance, is prefented to me, which I am to
inveftigate from a prefuppofed knowledge of the virtues
of plants. Before I can fettle the clafs to which it be¬
longs, I muft difeover whether or not it has the virtues
belonging to any of the plants I know ; and this dif-
covery being the refult of repeated experiments on va¬
rious parts of the human body, may require many years
for its accomplrffiment.
The fame caufes which render methods founded on
the virtues of plants unfavourable for the purpofe of
inveftigation, muft evidently difqualify all their other
variable quantities and accidents from having a place in
a genuine fyftematic arrangement. The natale folum
of plants, which is one of Theophraftus’s divifiens, af- Defects of
fords no better diftinClive characters than their powers Theophra-
and virtues. Many countries as well as many foils pro- ^l!S s ar"
duce the fame individual plants. The fame fpecies ran°en‘eni
which crown the mountains, frequently cover the fens;
and plants which have long been reckoned the peculiar
inhabitants of fome parts of Afta and America, are now
found to grow naturally in equal perfection in the very
different climates of Lapland and Siberia. The fize
of plants, which fuggefted the ancient divifion into trees
and fhrubs, is no lefs an equivocal mark of diftinCtion
than the circumftances already mentioned. The vine
which modern botanifts denominate a flirub, was ranged
by Theophraftus in his third clafs containing trees. In
faCt, every thing refpeCting fize is fo much affeCted by
differences of foil, climate, and culture, that the fame
plant, in different circumftances, ffiall differ exceedingly
in height ; and in a method founded upon the fize,
would fometimes be ranged as a tree, and fometimes as
a flirub, or even an under-ffirub, according as it hap¬
pens to exceed, equal, or fall ftiort of, a given ftandard.
No lefs infufficient are charaCteriftical marks drawn from
the colour, tafte, and fmell of plants. Of all the at¬
tributes of vegetable nature, colour is perhaps the moft
inconftant. Heat, climate, culture, foil, &x. contri¬
bute to the production of endlefs diverfities of colour,
and render the tranfition from one to another natural
and eafy. Red and blue pafs eafily into white, white
into purple, yellow into white, red into blue, blue into
yellow, &c. In the fame leaf or flower, different co¬
lours are frequently obferved. Variations too in point
of colour are frequently obferved to take place not
only in different individuals of the fame fpecies, but
even in fimilar parts of the fame plant. Marvel of
Peru and fweetwilliam produce flowers of different
colour upon the fame ftalk. ObjeClions equally valid
lie againft charaCleriftical marks drawn from the tafte
and fmell. The former varies in different individuals
from differences of age, and even in the fame indivi¬
dual at different times, according to the morbid or
found ftate of the organ. The latter is different in dif¬
ferent fubjeCls, and varies in each ; nor are the efflu¬
via fent forth from the fame body always of equal in-
tenfity. In plants, tafte is fubjeCl to continual varia--
tions, from differences of elimatej- foil, and culture.
O o 2 Garlic
29
Gefner’s
arrange¬
ment.
Caefalpinus.
B O T
Garlic in loins climates, particularly in Greece, is faid
to lofe its ranknels : apples and pears, that grow na¬
turally in the woods, are intolerably acid ; celery and
lettuce, which culture renders fweet and palatable, are
in their wild uncultivated Hate bitter, difagreeable, and
in fome cafes noxious.
Thefe confiderations are abundantly fufficient to Ihow
the imperfeftions of the ancient fyftem of botany; and,
indeed, conlidering the vague and uncertain marks by
which the ancients dillinguilhed one plant from ano¬
ther, we may rather wonder how fuch a fcience as bo¬
tany came to have an exiftence among them, than that
they arrived at no greater perfeftion in it, or fuffered it
lb foon to fall into oblivion.
Sect. III. Of the different Botanical Sfflems from
the time of Gefner to that of Linnaus.
The infufficiency of the ancient botanical fyftem be¬
ing fo fully fhowm in the laft febtion, we think it need-
lefs to take much notice of the methods ufed by Tra¬
gus and his cotemporaries and folkrwers. The virtues
of plants being found an infufficient charadferiftic, fuc-
ceeding botanills had taken in the root, ftem, and
leaves; but thefe being alfo found infufficient and va¬
riable, Gefner turned his eye to the flower and fruit,
as being the moft permanent and unchangeable parts
of the plant. In propofing the parts of frudlification,
however, as the moft proper for arranging plants, he
communicated no hints refpedling the choice of fome
of thofe parts in preference to others. Each particular
organ of the flowrer and fruit furniffies fufficient variety
to ferve as the foundation of a method; but all of them
are not equally proper for this purpofe. Caefalpinus,
the firft follower of Gefner, made a miftake in his choice,
and took his diftinguilhing charadleriftics only from the.
fruit. The parts of the flower, therefore, being em¬
ployed by the firft fyftematic writers only as fubaltern
diredlions in finding out orders and genera, it is evident
that the plant could not be fully inveftigated for feve-
ral months. Suppofe a plant ripens its fruit in Odtober,
and does not produce flowers till the following May :
the clafs, upon infpedtion of the fruit in the month of
Odlober, is immediately afeertained; but the plant ftill
remains unknown, and will continue fo upwards of fix
months after, if the charadlers of the order and genus
have been made to depend on any part of the flow7er.
Methods founded on the fruit have another inconve¬
nience ; plants conftantly ripen their fruit in thefe
countries where they grow naturally, but not always in
the countries to which they may be accidentally tranf-
ported. So far from this, that many plants that are
natives of a warm climate, neither ripen nor form fruit
in a cold one. Few of the African, Afiatic, and Weft
Indian plants produce fruit in Britain. A method,
therefore, founded upon the fruit, could only facilitate
the knowledge of fuch plants to be inhabitants of thofe
countries where they grow : to the Englifh botanift
they could be of little or no fervice. The fame objec¬
tion cannot reafonably be urged againft methods found¬
ed on the flower, fince the influence of climates much
colder than that of Britain has not been able to deflroy
the faculty of producing flowers in many, perhaps in
moft, of the plants juft mentioned.
Csefalpinus fets out with an ancient diftinfticn of
A N Y. Hiftory.
vegetables, from their duration, into trees and herbs.
With the former he combines fhrubs; with the latter,
under-lhrubs; and diftributes his plants into the 15
following clafles. 1. Trees with the germ (radicle or
principle of life in the feed) on the point of the feed.
2. Trees with the germ on the hafe of the feed,
3. Herbs having one feed only. 4. Herbs having twro
feeds. 5. Herbs having four feeds. 6. Herbs having
many feeds. 7. Herbs having one grain or kernel.
8. Herbs having one capfule. 9. Herbs having two
capfules. 10. Herbs having fibrous roots. 11. Herbs
having bulbous roots. 12. Herbs having fuccory or
endive-like flowers. 13. Herbs having common flowers.
14. Herbs having feveral follicles or feed-bags. 15.
Herbs having neither flower nor feed.
The inconveniences of this method have been alreadv
pointed out pretty fully, and will evidently appear upon
an attempt to refer any common plant to one of the
15 above-mentioned clafles. His fe&ions, orders, or
fecondary divifions, are 47 in number, and depend upon
a variety of parts and circumftances. The principal
of theie are, the difpofition, fituation, and figure of
the flowers; the nature of the feed-veffel, or cover of
the feeds ; the fituation of the radicle in the feed ; the
number of feed-lobes, or feminal leaves; the difpofition
of the leaves, and colour of the flowers. The ladfef-
cence too, or milkinefs, which is obferved in the com¬
pound flo-wers with flat florets, is made a charafteriftic
diftindtion, and diferiminates the firft order of the 1 2th
clafs. Thus, in the firft fyftematic arrangements, the
chara&ers of the claffes only were borrowed from the
parts of fru&ification ; while thofe of the fubaltern di¬
vifions •were very numerous, and refpefted every part
of the plant ; but that fuch divifions might be perfedf,
they fliould be conftituted, like the clafles, from the
modifications of a Angle part of the frudlification.
The great objett had in view by Morrifon, who comes Mornfoa’a
next in order to Caefalpinus, was to inveftigate themethod‘
order of nature, not to fabricate an eafy method of
arranging plants. Hence his fyftem is devoid of uni¬
formity, and clogged with a multiplicity of characters;
his claffes are frequently not fufficiently diftinguiffied
from one another, and the key of arrangement feems
totally loft. He fets out with a divifion of plants, from
their confiftence, into ligneous or woody, and herbace¬
ous. He founds his fyftem on the fruit, the corollse or
bloffoms, and the habit of the plants. His claffes are
as follow: 1. Trees. 2. Shrubs. 3. Under-lhrubs.
4. Herbs climbing. 5. Herbs leguminous or papilio¬
naceous. 6. Herbs podded. 7. Herbs tricapfular or
with three capfules. 8. Herbs with four or five cap¬
fules. 9. Herbs corymbiferous. 10. Herbs having 3
milky juice, or downy tops. 11. Herbs culmiferous,
as graffes. 12. Herbs umbelliferous. 13. Herbs hav¬
ing three kernels. 14. Herbs having helmet-lhaped
flowers. 15. Herbs having many capfules. 16. Herbs
berry-bearing. 17. Herbs called capillary plants, as
the fern kind. 18. Anomalous or irregular herbs.
Of thefe clafles, the fourth and eighth poffefs no ge¬
nuine diftinClive charafter; nor are the ninth and tenth,
claffes fufficiently diftinguilhed ; the fifteenth clafs is
not fufficiently diftinguiffied from the eighth, nor the
16th from the fourth. His feCtions or fecondary di¬
vifions, which are ic8 in number, arife from the fi¬
gure and fubftance of the fruit 5 the number of feeds,
leaves.
«93
Hiftory. EOT
leaves, and petals; the figure of the root; the dlreo
tion of the ftem j the colour of the flowers ; the place
of growth ; and, in one clafs, from the medicinal vir¬
tues of fome of the plants that compofe it.
Ray’s me- In 1682, Ray propofed his method to the world,
tbod. two years after the publication of Morrifon’s, which
ferved in fome mealure as its balls. It confided ori¬
ginally of the following 25 clafies: l. Trees. 2. Shrubs.
3. Herbs imperfedf. 4. Herbs having no flow’ers. 5.
Capillary plants. 6. Staminous herbs having only the
ftamina. 7. Thofe having one naked feed. 8. Um¬
belliferous herbs. 9. Verticillated, annular, or ring-
fliaped ones. 10. Rough-leafed plants. 11. Stellated
or ftar-lhaped one*. 12. Apple-bearing herbs. 13. Ber¬
ry-bearing herbs. 14. Herbs having many pods.
15. Monopetalous uniform, or regular herbs. 16. Mo-
nopetalous irregular, or having different forms. 17. I e-
trapetalous, having large pods. 18. I etrapetalous,
having fmall pods. 19. Papilionaceous. 20. Penta-
petalous herbs. 21. Corns. 22. Graffes. 23. Grafs-
leafed plants. 24. Bulbous-rooted plants. 25. Plants
near akin to the bulbous.
This method Ray carefully corre&ed and amended
at different times *, fo that the plan of arrangement
which now bears the name of that author, and was firff
publilhed in 1700, is entirely different from what had
appeared in 1682. It now confifts of 33 claffes. Their
diftinguifliing marks are taken from the port or habit
of the plants j their greater or lefs degree of perfeftionj
their place of growth ; the number of feed-lobes, or
feminal leaves, petals, capfules, and feeds', the fituation
and difpofition of the flowers, flower-cup, and leaves;
the abfence or prefence of the buds, flower-cup, and
petals ; the fubllance of the leaves and fruit ; and the
difficulty of claffing certain plants. I hey are as follow:
I. Submarine, or fea plants. 2. Fungi. 3. Moffes.
4. Capillary plants. 5. Thofe without petals. 6. P/a-
niftetaLe, thofe with compound flowers 5 femiflofculous,
or half-florets. 7. Thofe with compound flowers ra¬
diated. 8. Thofe with compound flowers, flofculous,
or with whole florets. 9. Plants with one feed.
10. Plants umbellated. 11. Thofe ftellated or ftar-
lhaped. 12. Rough-leafed plants. 13. Plants verti-
cillate or whorled. 14. Thofe wfith many feeds.
15. Apple-bearing herbs. 16. Berry-bearing herbs.
17. Thofe with many pods. 18. Monopetalous herbs.
19. Thofe with two and three petals^ 20. Fhofe with
great and fmall, or long and ihort pods.- 21. Legu¬
minous plants. 22. Pentapetalous ones. 23. Bulbs,
and bulbous-like plants. 24. Stamineous ones, or
thofe having only the ftamina. 25. Anomalous plants,
or thofe of an uncertain family. 26^ The palms.
27. Trees without petals. 28. Trees with an umbi-
licated fruit. 29. Trees with fruit not umbilicated.
30. Trees with a dry fruit. 31. Trees with podded
fruit. 32. Anomalous or irregular trees.
The diftimftion into herbs and trees with which Ray’s
method fets out, acknowledges a different, though not
more certain principle than that of Caefalpinus and Mcr-
rifon. The former, in making this diftin&ion, had an
eye to the duration of the ftem •, the latter, to its con-
fiftence. Ray called in the buds as an auxiliary ; and
denominates trees, “ all fuch plants as bear buds j”
herbs, “ fuch as bear none.” But againft this auxi¬
liary there lies an unanfwerable objection j namely, that
ANY.
though all herbaceous plants rife without buds, all trees
are not furniihed with them : many of the largeft trees
in warm countries, and fome ffirubby plants in every
country, being totally deftitute of that fcaly appear¬
ance which conftitutes the effence of a bud. In other
refpefts, it is evident that neither Mr Ray’s plan nor
execution is in any degree calculated to facilitate the
knowledge of plants. In faft, it feems to have been
Ray’s great objedl, no lefs than Morrifon’s, to collett
as many natural clafles as poffible j and thefe being fe-
parately inveftigated, a multiplicity of characters and
fteps was neceffarily required to conned them : and
hence the intricacy complained of in both thefe me¬
thods, which muft always take place where the claffes
give rife to the connecting characters, not the charac¬
ters to the clafles. The characters of the orders, or
fecondary divifions, in Ray’s method, are no lefs mul¬
tifarious than thofe of the claffes. They refpeCt the^
place of grow th of plants j their qualities 5 the figure of
the ftem ; the number, fituation, fubftance, and divi-
fion, of the leaves 5 the fituation and difpofition of the
flowers and calyx ; the number and regularity of the
petals j with the number and figure of the fruit. In his
improved method, Ray has adopted Tournefort’s cha¬
racters of the genera, wherever his plan would permit-
His general Hiftory of Plants contains 18,655 fpecies,.
and varieties. The third volume, which was not pub-
lifhed till 1704, and was defigned as a fupplement to
the two former, contains the plants difcovered by Tour-
nefort in the Levant, and by Camelli at Luzon one of
the Philippine iflands. Ray’s method was followed by
Sir Hans Sloane, in his Natural Hiftory of Jamaica*, by
Petiver, in his Britifh Herbal j by Dillenius, in his Sy-
nopfis of Britifh plants; and by Martin, in his Catalogue
of plants that grow in the neighbourhood of Cambridge.
To Ray’s original method fucceeded that of Chrifto- Chriftopher
pher Knaut, a German*, which acknowledges the fameKnaut’s ar-
principle, and is manifeftly founded upon it. In his^S61116111,
enumeration of the plants that grow round Hal in
Saxony, publiffied in 1687, he divides vegetables into
17 claffes, which have for their bafis the fize and dura¬
tion of plants, the prefence or abfence of the petals, the
difpofition of the flowers, the fubftance of the fruit,
the number of capfules or feeds, the number and figure
of the petals, and the prefence, abfence, or figure of
the calyx. His claffes are, 1. Herbs berry-bearing,
2. Monopetalous, or with one flower-leaf. 3. Tetra-
petalous and regular, with four petals. 4. Tetrapeta-
lous and irregular. 5. Pentapetalous, or with five pe¬
tals. 6. Hexapetalous, or fix petals. 7. Polypetalous,
or many petals. 8. Multicapfular, or many capfules.
9. Naked feeds. 10. Solid, or not downy. 11. Downy
feeds. 12. Without petals. 13. Stamineous, without
petals or calyx. 14. Imperceptible, 15. ImperfeCt.
16. Trees. 17. Shrubs.
The feClions or fubdivifions of the claffes in Knaut’s
method are 62 in number j and arife frcm the figure of
the ftem and petals, the number of capfules and cells,
their figure, the number of feeds and leaves, and fitua¬
tion of the flowers.
In 1696, a new method, propofed by Dr Herman Herman’!^
profeffor of botany at Leyden was publiffied by Zum- method,
bac, who arranged according to it the plants contain¬
ed in the public garden of Leyden. Rudbcckius the
Younger, in a differtation publiffied the fame year, on
the
294
Eoer-
liaave’s
method.
B O T
tbe fundamental knowledge of plants, adopted Her¬
man’s method, with a few inconfiderable variations. The
claffes of Dr Herman are 25 in number. They are
founded on the fize and duration of the plants $ the
prefence or abfence of the petals and calyx j the num¬
ber of capfules, cells, and naked feeds; the fubftance
of the leaves and fruit $ the form and confiftence of the
roots j the fituation and difpofition of the flowers, leaves,
and calyx 5 and figure of the fruit. 1. Herbs having one
naked feed and a Ample flower. 2. Having one naked
feed and a compound flower. 3. With two naked feeds,
and ftellated or ftar-fhaped. 4. Two naked feeds, and
umbelliferous. 5. Four naked feeds, and rough leaves.
6. Four naked feeds, and verticillated or whorl-fhaped.
7. With many naked feeds. 8. Having feed-veffels.
bulbous and tricapfular. 9. Having one feed-veffel.
IO. With two feed-veflels. 11. With three feed-veflels.
12. With four feed-veffels. 13. With five feed-veffels.
14. Podded, which are always tetrapetalous. 15. Le¬
guminous and papilionaceous. 16. With many cap¬
fules. 17. Having fleflry fruit, berry-bearing. 18. With
fleftry fruit, apple-bearing. 19. Without petals, but
having a calyx. 20. Without petals, chaffy or ftami-
nous. 21. Without petals, calyx, chaff, or ftamina,
r. e. a naked antherse, as the moffes. 2 2. Trees. Im-
perfefl fru&ification, bearing catkins. 23. Trees with
a fleftry fruit umbilicated. 24. Trees with a fleftiy
fruit not umbilicated. 25. Trees with a dry fruit.
The claffes in Herman’s method are fubdivided in¬
to 82 fe&ions or orders; which have for their bafis
the number of petals, feeds, capfules, and cells, the
figure of the feeds and petals, and difpofition of the
flowers.
To the method of Dr Herman fucceeded that of
Dr Boerhaave, who fucceeded to the botanical chair of
Leyden in 1709. His method is that of Herman,
blended with part of the fyftems of Tournefort and
Ray; and contains the following claffes. 1. Herbs
fubmarine, or fea plants. 2. Imperfect land plants.
3. Capillary plants, of the fern kind. 4. Many naked
feeds. 5. Four naked feeds, and verticiliated. 6. Four
naked feeds, and rough leaves. 7. Four naked feeds,
and four petals. 8. Plants having one feed-veffel.
9. Two feed-veffels. 10. Three feed-veffels. 11. Four
feed veffels. 12. Five feed-veflels. 13. Many feed-
veffels. 14. Two naked feeds, and umbelliferous. 15.
Two naked feeds, and ftar-ftiaped. 16. One naked
feed, and a Ample flower. 17. One naked feed and
compound flowers femiflofculous. 18. One naked feed,
and compound flowers radiated. 19. One naked feed,
and compound flowers corymbiferous. 20. One naked
feed, and compound flowers flofculous. 21. Berry¬
bearing herbs. 22. Apple-bearing herbs. 23. With¬
out petals. 24. One cotyledon, and having petals.
25. One cotyledon, and without petals. 26. Trees
having one cotyledon. 27. Many podded. 28. Podded.
29. Tetrapetalous and cruciform. 30. Leguminous.
31. Having no petals. 32. Bearing catkins. 33. Mo-
nopetalous flowers. 34. Rofaceous flowers.
Thefe 34 claffes of Dr Boerhaave are fubdivided in
to 104 fe£lions, which have for their chara&ers, the
figure of the leaves, ftem, calyx, petals, and feeds ; the
. number of petals, feeds, and capfules *, the fubftance of
the leaves ; the fituation of the flowers, and their diffe¬
rence in point of fex. By this method, Dr Boerhaave
ANY. Hiftory.
arranged near 6000 plants, the produce of the bota¬
nical garden at Leyden, which he carefully fuperin-
tended for the fpace of 20 years, and left to his luccef-
for Dr Adrien Royen, in a much more flouriftung ftate
than he himfelf had received it. His Index or Cata¬
logue of the Leyden plants was publilhed in oftavo in
1710 $ and afterwards, with great additions, in quarto,
in 1720. This laft edition contains defcriptions of 5650
plants $ of which number upwards of two-thirds had
been introduced into the garden fince the time of Her¬
man, by his illuftrious fucceffor. Bperhaave’s charac¬
ters are derived from the habit or general appearance
of plants combined with all the parts of fructification $
fo that, as Linnaeus very properly obferves, he wTas the
firft who employed the calyx, ftamina, and ftyle, in de¬
termining the genus. About 17 new genera were efta-
bliftied by this author •, among others, the very fplen-
did family of the protea and filver tree, which, although
partly defcribed by Morrifon, had remained generally
unknown till this period. His method was adopted by
one Emfting, a German, in a treatife entitled The JirJl
Principle of Botany, publifhed in oflavo at Wolfenbut-
tle, in 1748.
Hitherto all the botanifts had been intent upon inve-Rdv'nus^
(ligating the order of nature, rather than facilitating1116^0^*
the arrangement of vegetables } therefore their methods
were very intricate and perplexed ; and their writings,
however entertaining to the learned, could afford but
very little inftruflion to the young botanift. In 1690,
however, Auguftus Quirinus Rivinus, a German, pro-
feffor of botany at Leipfic, relinquiftiing the purfuit of
natural affinities, and convinced of the infufficiency of
charafteriftic marks drawn only from the fruit, at¬
tached himfelf to the flowrer, which, he was fenfible,
would furnifh characters no lefs numerous, permanent,
and confpicuous, than thofe drawn from the fruit. The
calyx, petals, ftamina, and ftyle, or pointal, which
conftitute the flower, are fufficiently diverfified in point
of number, figure, proportion, and fituation, to ferve
as the bafis of a mode of arrangement 5 yet all are not
equally proper for this purpofe. Rivinus made ufe of
the petals as the largeft and mod beautiful part, and
that from which the flower itfelf is commonly charac¬
terized. His method confifts in the following 18 claf-
les, w’hich have for their bafis the perfection and difpo¬
fition of the flow'ers, and regularity and number of the
petals. 1. Regular monopetalous, or having one pe¬
tal. 2. Dipetalous. 3. Tripetalous, 4. Tetrapeta¬
lous. 5. Pentapetalous. 6. Hexapetalous. 7. Poly-
petalous, or having many petals. 8. Irregular mono¬
petalous. 9. Irregular dipetalous. 10. Irregular tri¬
petalous. xi. Irregular tetrapetalous. x2. Irregular
pentapetalous. 13. Irregular hexapetalous. 14 Ir¬
regular polypetalous. 15. Compound flowers of regu¬
lar florets. 16. Compound flowers of regular and ir¬
regular florets. 17. Compound flowers of irregular
florets only. 18. Incomplete, or imperfeCl plants.
As Rivinus fet out with the profeffed defign of im¬
parting facility to botany, he judged very properly in
divefting his method of all extraneous matter, and ren¬
dering it as fimple and uniform as the nature of the
fcience would admit. 7'he diftinCtion into herbs and
trees had been adopted by every writer on plants fince
the time of Ariftotle. Rendered in fome meafure fa-
cred by its antiquity, this diftinClion maintained a kind
Hiftory. B O T
of Importance to which it was by no means effentially
entitled. Rivinus was the firft who in this matter da¬
red to think for himfelf. He was early fenfible of the
inconveniences to which thofe had fubmitted who em¬
ployed it as a primary divifton ; and therefore refolved
at once to get rid of a diftin&ion that is frequently un¬
certain, always deftru£Hve to uniformity, and in its na¬
ture repugnant to the genuine fpirit of fyftem, becaufe
totally unconne&ed with the parts of fru&ification. In
the uniformity of its orders or fecondary divifions,
which are 91 in number, and acknowledge the fruit
for their principle, Rivinus’s method equals, perhaps
excels, all that went before or fucceeded it. Only three
claffes of his method were publilhed by Rivinus him¬
felf. Thefe are the nth, 14th, and 15th, which were
offered to the public at different times, illuftrated with
very fplendid figures. The method was completed and
publifhed entire by Heucher, in a work entitled Hor-
tus Wirtenbergenjis, printed in quarto at Wirtenberg
in 17x1.
Followers Several German authors have followed Rivinus’s me-
of Rivinus. thod, either wholly or in part, without offering any
confiderable amendment. The principal of thefe are,
Koenig, in a work on vegetables, publifhed at Bafil in
1696 j Welch, in his Bajis Botanica, printed at Leip-
fic in oftavo, in 1697 ; Gemeinhart, in a catalogue of
plants publifhed in 1725 ; Kramer, in a work entitled
Tentamen Botanicum, publifhed at Drefden in 1728,
and afterwards reprinted with additions at Vienna in
1744 ; and Hecker in a differtation on botany pub-
liflied at Hal in Saxony, in 1734. To thefe may be ad¬
ded Hebenflreit, an ingenious botanift, who in a trea-
tife on plants publifhed at Leipfic in 1731, juft before
his famous African expedition, eftablifhed generical
chara&ers, which had hitherto been wanting in Rivi¬
nus’s method.
The writers who have attempted to improve upon
Rivinus’s method are Bernard Ruppius, Chriftopher
Ludwig, and Chriftian Knaut. Ruppius, in his F/<?r«
JcnenfiS) publifhed at Francfort in 1718, has arranged
the 1200 plants there defcribed by a method partly
Rivinus’s and partly his own. It confifts of 17 claffes,
and fets out with the fame divifions and fubdivifions as
that of Rivinus’s $ with this difference, however, that,
svhereas in Rivinus’s method all perfedft flowers are di¬
vided into fimple and compound, in Ruppius the divi-
fion of regular and irregular flowers precedes that juft
mentioned, and fimple and compound flowers are made
fubdivifions of the regular flowers only.
Ludwig’s Chriftopher Ludwig’s method which was publifhed
method. in 1737, and confifts of 20 clafles, differs but little from
that of Rivinus. The author accompanied Hebenftreit
on his expedition to Africa, and feems to have made
plants his favourite ftudy. The improvement, however,
which he has made on Rivinus’s plan, confifts only in
rendering it more univerfal, having enriched it with a
multitude of genera collefted from the works of Tour-
nefort, Ray, Boerhaave, Dillenius, and other eminent
botanifts, whofe generical charaflers he has likewife
adopted. His plan of arrangement has been followed
by two fucceeding writers : M. Wedel, in a botanical
effay publifhed in 1747 j and three years after by M.
Bochmer, in his catalogue of the plants which grow in
the garden of Leipfic.
The method of Chriftian Knaut is much more pro-
A N Y. ' 295
perly his own, and departs in a much greater degree
from that of Rivinus than either of the two former.
The regularity and number of the petals furnifhed the
claflical divifions in Rivinus’s method : in that of Knaut, Chriflian
number takes place of regularity, fo that it is very pro- Knaut’3
perly termed by Linnaeus, “ The fyftem of Rivinus in- met 0 *
verted.” This method was publiftred in 1716 j and fets
out with a divifion into flowers which have one petal,
and fuch as have more than one. It confifts of the 17
following clafles. 1. Monopetalous uniform or regular.
2. Monopetalous difform or irregular. 3. Monopeta¬
lous compound uniform or regular. 4. Monopetalous
compound difform or irregular. 5. Monopetalous com¬
pound uniform and difform together. 6. Dipetalou^
uniform or regular. 7. Dipetalous difform or irregu¬
lar. 8. Tripetalous uniform or regular. 9. Tripeta-
lous difform or irregular. 10. Tetrapetalous uniform
or regular. 11. Tetrapetalous difform or irregular.
12. Pentapetalcus uniform or regular. 13. Pentape-
talous difform or irregular. 14. Hexapetalous uniform
or regular. 15. Hexapetalous diffoim or irregular.
16. Polypetalous uniform or regular. 17. Polypetal-
ous difform or irregular.
The fe&ions or fecondary divifions in Knaut’s me¬
thod are 121, and depend upon the internal divifions
of the fruit •, and upon this his opinions are fomewhat
fingular. Every kind of fruit, whether pulpy or mem¬
branaceous, is termed by our author a capfule. Neither
is the term reftrifted to fruits properly fo called : it is
extended alfo to thofe termed by botanifts nahedfeedsy
the exiftence of which Knaut abfolutely denies. Agree¬
able to this opinion, capfules, he fays, with refpeft to
their confiftence or fubftance, are of two forts j pulpy,
or membranaceous. The former correfpond to the
fruits of the apple, berry, and cherry kind ; the lattet
to the capfules properly fo called, and naked feeds of
other botanifts. Again, with refpeft to their cells or
internal divifions, capfules are either fimple or com¬
pound. Simple capfules have an undivided cavity or a
fingle cell $ compound capfules are internally divided
into two or more cells. With other botanifts, the um¬
belliferous flowers bear twm, the lip flow’ers four, nak¬
ed feeds*, according to Knaut, the former produce two,
the latter four, fimple capfules. Ranunculus, adonis,
anemony, herb-bennet, and fome other plants, have
their flowers fucceeded by a number of naked feeds col-
ledled into an aggregate or head ; each of thefe feeds
paffes with Knaut for a fimple capfule ; fo that the
whole is an aggregate of feveral capfules with an un¬
divided cavity or fingle cell. In numbering the cells
or internal divifions of the pulpy fruits, our author has
adopted a very fingular method. Some fruits of the
apple kind enclofe a capfule that is divided into five
membranaceous cells. It might then be very reafon-
ably expe&ed to find fuch fruits arranged wfith com¬
pound capfules of five cells : but, inftead of this, the
author whimfically enough combines in their arrange¬
ment the idea both of a fimple and compound capfule.
The pulpy part is undivided j in other wTords, it is a
fimple capfule furniftred with one cell; the compound
capfule enclofed contains five cells, which added to that
of the pulp make the number fix j and thus thefe kinds
of fruits are arranged with thofe having capfules of fix
cells. By the fame kind of reafoning, the fruit of the
dogwTood, which is of the cherry kind, and contains a,
ft on e*:'
zg6 B O T
ftone with two cells or cavities, is placed by Knaut
among compound capfules with three cells j the pulp
paffing for one divifion, and cavities of the ftone or nut
for the remaining two. This method of calculation is
not the only Angularity for which Knaut is remark¬
able. The effence of the flower is made by Ray, Tour,
nefort, Rivinus, and moft other botanifts, to confift in
the ftamina and ftyle. This pofition Knaut abfolutely
denies ; and has eftablifhed for a principle, that the
flower is effentially conftituted by the petals only. With
him, the flower cup, ftamina, and ftyle, are of little
fignificance : their prefence does not conftitute a flower,
if the petals are wanting j neither is their abfence fuf-
ficient to deftroy its exiftence, if the petals are prefent:
from this it follows, I. That there can be no flowers
without petals j and, 2. That the regularity or irre¬
gularity of the flower can never depend on the ftamina
and ftyle, which are only occafionally prefent, and no¬
wife effential to its exiftence ; both of which are evi¬
dently falfe to every botanical reader.
Tourne- Since the time of Rivinus, no leading method in bo-
fort’s me- tany has appeared except that of Tournefort and Lin-
thod. naeus. Tournefort fets out with reviving the diftinc-
tion of plants into herbs and trees, which bad been ex¬
ploded by Rivinus. His fyftem is founded on the re¬
gularity and figure of the petals, together with the
twofold fituation of the receptacle of the flowers $ his
orders, on the piftiUum or calyx. The claffes are,
I. Herbs with Ample flowers monopetalous, and bell-
fhaped. 2. Simple flowers monopetalous, tunnel and
wheel-fhaped. 3. Simple flowers monopetalous, labi-
ated or lipped. 4. Simple flowers monopetalous, ano¬
malous or irregular. 5. Simple flowers polypetalous
cruciform or crofs-fhaped. 6. Simple flowrers polype¬
talous, and rofaceous or rofe-like. 7. Simple flowers
polypetalous, umbellated. 8. Simple flowers polypeta-
lous, caryophyllaceous, or clove-form. 9. Simple flowers
polypetalous, liliaceous or lily-form. 1 o. Simple flowers
polypetalous, papilionaceous, or butterfly-form. 11.
Simple flowers polypetalous, anomalous or irregular.
12. Compound flowers, flofculous, tubular or whole
florets. 13. Compound flowers, femiflofculous, flat or
half florets. 14. Compound flowers radiated, like the
fpokes of a wheel. 15. Apetalous, having no petals
16. No flower, but bearing feed. 17. No flower nor
feed, in the vulgar eftimation. 18. Trees with no
petals, but bare ftamina. 19. Trees with no petals
bearing catkins. 20. Trees monopetalous. 21. Trees
rofaceous. 22. Trees papilionaceous.
The fecondary diviAons in Tournefort’s method,
which are 122 in number, have obtained the name of
feBions. Their general diftinftions are founded princi¬
pally upon the fruit, as thofe of the claffes are upon
the flower.
Other wri- Tournefort hath been followed by a v aft number of
ters. botanical writers, of whom the moft conflderable are,
Dr William Sherard, an eminent botanift of the laft
and prefent centuries. In 1689, he publiflied the firft
fketch of Tournefort’s method, under the title of Schola
Botanices ; or a catalogue of the plants demonftrated
by Dr Tournefort, in the royal garden at Paris. It
was not till five years after, that the Eletnenta Botanica^
a work which contains the rudiments and illuftration
q£ his method, was publifhed by Tournefort himfelf,—
A N Y. Hiftoryv
Father Plunder, termed by way of eminence the 7cwr-
nefort of America, publilhed in 1703, at Paris, a de-
fcription of American plants, which he has arranged
according to the fyftem of Tournefort. In this work
he accurately charafterized 96 new genera. Falugi, an
Italian, has defcribed, in pretty elegant Latin verfe, all
the genera of Tournefort, in a w’ork entitled Profo-
-fiotamoF, publiftied at Florence, l2mo, 1705.
Several celebrated French academicians, particularly
Marchant, Dodart, Niffole, Joflieu, and Vaillant, have
alfo occafionally paid their tribute of acknowledgement
to this author, from the year 1700 to 1740. The
other authors of note who have follow'ed Tournefort’s
method, are, M. Petit, an ingenious French botanift j
Johren, a Getman, author of a treatife publifhed at
Colberg in 1710, entitled Vade mecum Botanicum, feu
Odegus Botanicus j Fueille, in his defcription of the
plants of Chili and Peru, publifhed at Paris in quarto,
J714; Chriftopher Valentin, a German author of a
book entitled Pournefortius ContraBus, publiflied at
Francfort, in folio, 1715 ; Ripa, an Italian, in a
work entitled Hi/ioria Univerfahs Plantarum Confcri-
bendi Propq/itutn, publifhed in quarto, at Padua, in 1718 $
Michael Valentin, a German, in his Viridanum Refor-
matum, publifhed in folio, at Francfort, in 1719 j the
celebrated Dillenius, profeffor of botany at Oxford, and
author of feveralmuch efteemed publications on botany,
particularly the Hortus E/thamenfs, and Hiftory of
Moffes, in his Flora Giffenfis, printed at Francfort in
17x9 j Pontedera, an Italian, author of the dilinea-
tion of a method which combines thofe of Tournefort
and Rivinus, publifhed at Padua, in his botanical dif-
fertations, in 17205 Monti, an Italian, in a work pu¬
blifhed at Bologna in 1724, under the title of Indices
BlantarumVani; Lindem, a German, in his Pourne*
fortius Alfaticus, firft publifhed in 1728 5 Signior Mi-
cheli, author of feveral curious difcoveries refpeding
moffes and mufhrooms, in his Nova Genera Plantarutn,
publifhed in folio at Florence in 1729 5 Elvebemes, a
Sw’ede, in a work publifhed in the Swredifti language
at Upfal in 1730 5 Fabricius, a German, author of a
work entitled Primiticc Florce Butifbacenfs,feu fex De¬
cades Plantarum Rariorum, publilhed in 17435 Sab-
bati, an Italian, in his catalogue of the plants that grow
in the neighbourhood of Rome, printed at Rome in
1745 5 and the ingenious Dr Charles Alfton, late pro¬
feffor of botany at Edinburgh, in his Pyrocimum Bo¬
tanicum, publifhed at Edinburgh in 1753.
Of all this numerous lift of writers, Father Plunder Plumier's
and Pontedera alone have ventured to quit the track “^Ap¬
pointed out by Tournefort. The former, in his ar¬
rangement of American plants, has relinquifhed the
diftinftion into herbs and trees j but the latter has at¬
tempted more confiderable variations. His claffes are,
1. Uncertain. 2. Having no flowers; 3. Without
buds, imperfed plants. 4. Anomalous or irregular.
5. Labiated. 6. Bell-fhaped. 7. Saucer-fhnped. 8.
Wheel-fhaped. 9. Tunnel-fhaped. 10. Flofculous.
XI. Semiflofculous. 12. Radiated. 13. Irregular. 14.
Papilionaceous. 15. Liliaceous. 16. Caryophyllace¬
ous. 17. Cruciform or crofs-fhaped. 18. Umbellated.
19. Staminous, or with naked ftamina. 20. Bearing
buds apetalous, or without petals. 21. Bearing buds
irregular. 22. Bearing buds bell-fhaped. 23. Bear-
29?
Hiftoiy. B O T
ing buds wbeel-fliaped. 24. Bearing buds tunnel-
fliaped. 25. Bearing buds papilionaceous. 26. Bear¬
ing buds rofaceous.
Magnol’s Befides all thefe methods, there have been invented
method. tw0 others, founded upon the calyx. The firft of thefe
was the invention of Peter Magnol, a celebrated pro-
feflbr of botany at Montpellier, and publilhed in 1720,
five years after the author’s death. The other was de¬
lineated by Linnaeus, and publifhed in his CloJJes Plan¬
tar um in 1738, three years after the publication of
the fexual fyftem. Magnol diftinguilhes two kinds of
calyx ; one external, which envelopes and fuftains the
flotver, and is the flower-cup properly fo called ; the
other internal, wdiich is the feed-veflel or fruit. Ac¬
cording to this idea, all plants, wdiether herbaceous or
woody, are furnilhed with either the external calyx only,
or with both. His clafles are, 1. Herbs with the calyx
external, including a flower unknown. 2. Calyx ex¬
ternal, including a flower llaminous. 3. Calyx external,
including a flower monopetalous. 4. Calyx external,
including a flower polypetalous. 5. Calyx external,
including a flower compound. 6. Calyx external, fup-
porting a flower monopetalous. 7. Calyx external,
fupporting a flower polypetalous. 8. Calyx internal
only, which is the corolla. 9. Calyx external and in¬
ternal, flower monopetalous. 10. Calyx external and
internal, flower with two and three petals, it. Calyx
external and internal, tetrapetalous. 12. Calyx ex¬
ternal and internal, polypetalous. 13. Trees with the
calyx external only. 14. Calyx internal only. 15. Ca¬
lyx external and internal both.
The chara&ers of the orders, or fecondary divifions,
in Magnol’s method, are derived chiefly from the figure
of the calyx, petals, and feeds j from the difpofition
of the flowers ; from the number of petals, and fub-
ilance of the fruit. Fifty-five fe&ions or orders arife
from the combination of thefe characters with thofe of
the clafles; and thefe are again fubdivided into genera,
which pofiefs this Angularity, that, in place of diftinc-
tive characters hitherto employed, they exhibit com¬
plete defc-riptions of all the parts of fructification of
one or two fpecies of each genus. From this improve¬
ment Linnaeus manifeftly borrowed the hint of his ge-
nerical characters.
grj°hn Sjr john HiU, in his Vegetable Syfiem, endeavours
fyftem. to c^s P^ants according to their internal ftruCture *.
m yoI ; “ Perhaps (fays he), upon the foundation of a true
p j^0<' anatomy of plants a natural method may be eftablilhed:
for it is certain, the forms of all the external parts of
vegetables depend on the difpofition of the internal j
and all their differences are founded there. On the
different inner ftruCture of the vegetable body, under
certain courfes of its veffels, evidently depend the dif¬
ferences w’hich characterize the feven firft families, to
the diftinCtions of wTich all claffes are fubordinate *, and
as thefe original diftinCtions are truly natural, we may
here begin very fafely.
“ The feven families are thefe, 1. The mufhrooms.
2. The alga?, or foliaceous fea and land plants. 3. The
moffes. 4. The ferns. 5. The graffes. 6. The palms.
7. The common race of plants. Their diftinCtions one
from another are thefe :
“ 1. The muftirooms are flelhy; and are deftitute of
leaves and vifible flowers. 2. The algae are merely
tbliaceous, the entire plant conlifting of a leafy matter
Vol. IV. Part I.
ANY.
without other vifible parts. 3. The moffes have pro-
ceffes of the inner rind for leaves. 4. The ferns con-
fift of a Angle leaf raifed on a fialk; and bear their
flowers upon its back. 5. The graffes have jointed
ftalks and undivided leaves, and hulks to hold the feeds.
6. The palms have a Ample trunk, with leaves only
on the top, and have the flowers and fruit in divided
ears.”
Laftly, The feventh clafs, which he calls the com¬
mon race of p/anti, are luch as have their roots,
leaves, ftalks, flowers and fruits, diftinC! and obvious ^
and have not the characters of any of the other fix
families.
To this natural method his artificial one, confift-
ing of 43 claffes, and which takes up the whole of
his voluminous work, is defigned only as an index $
but as this is univerfally allowed to be inferior to
Linnams’s, though he intends to improve that fyf¬
tem, we think it needlefs to take any further notice
of it.
Befides the fexual fyftem of Linnaeus, which is now ^,nn3eus’3
almoft uuiverfally followed, he formed another, which,arran^"
like that of Magnol, had the calyx for its balls, but^"cal/x.
greatly fuperior both in the idea and execution, be¬
ing indeed Angularly ferviceable to the novice in bo¬
tany, by familiarizing to him various appearances of
an organ fo important in its nature, and fo diverfified
in its form, as the calyx is. The claffes are, 1. Spa-
thaceous, like a fheath or hofe. 2. Glumofe or chaffy.
3. Amentaceous, or catkins. 4. Umbellated. 5.
Common calyx or flower-cup. 6. Double calyx. 7.
Flowering ; the petals and ftamina inferted into the
flowrer-cup. £ Crowned, or crowm-fhaped, with a ra¬
dius. 9. Irregular. 10. Difform, or different fhapes.
11. Caducous, wrhich fall off or {bed their leaves. 12.
Not caducous, uniform and monopetalous. 13. Not
caducous, uniform and polypetalous. 14. Not cadu¬
cous, difform and monopetalous. 15. Not caducous,
difform and polypetalous. 16. Incomplete calyx. 17.
Apetalous, or a bare calyx without petals. 18. Na¬
ked, or neither petals nor calyx.
Seel. IV. Of the Sexes of Plants.
As many philofophers and botanifts deny that fuch
a thing as the diftinflion of fexes takes place in vege¬
tables, it wdll be neceffary to give a ftatement of the
arguments employed by both parties on this fubjedl.
We fhall begin with the arguments in favour of the
fexes.
I. Linnaeus is at great pains in tracing the notion Sexual
of fexes in plants to the remoteft periods of antiquity. fyftern
He informs us, that Empedocles, Anaxagoras, andancient
other ancient philofophers, not only attributed the di-
ftin£Hon of fexes to plants, but maintained that they
were capable of perqeiving pleafure and pain.
Hippocrates and Theophraftus are next introduced
as diftinguilhing the conyza, the abies, the filix, &c.
into male and female. The latter of thefe writers
affirms that the fruit of the female palm will not germi¬
nate, unlefs the pollen of the male be ftiaken over the
fpatha of the female previous to the ripening of the
feed.
Diofcorides takes notice of a male and female man-
dragora, mercuiialis, ciftus, &cc.
P p Pliny
98 B O T
Pliny does not confine his views of fex to animals,
but exclaims, that every thing this earth produces is
t;hara£terized by the diftm&ion ot fex.
From the days of Pliny to thofe of Csefalpinus, who
lived in the 16th century, the analogy between the ve¬
getable and animal leems to have been entirely ne¬
glected. Ctefalpinus tells us, that the males of the
oxycedrus, taxus, mercurialis, urtica, and cannabis, are
barren j and that the females of thefe plants only bear
fruit.
After Ccefalpinus, we find Dr Grew and Sir Thomas
Millington engaged in a converfation concerning the
utility of the ftamina and ftyli of plants. The refult
of this converfation was the mutual agreement of thefe
two eminent naturalifts, that the ftamina and ftyli of
vegetables were analogous to the organs of generation
in animals, and that they were adapted by nature to
anfwer the fame purpofes. Dr Grew', in his anatomy
of plants, after enumerating the analogies between plants
and animals, concludes, that the pollen probably emits
certain vivijic effluvia, which may ferve for the impreg¬
nation of the feeds.
Mr Ray gave a further fan&ion to the do&rine of
fexes, by concuring with Grew, and adding fome fur¬
ther illuftrations from analogy.
In the year 1695, Camerarius attempted to prove
the fexes of plants. But, as he trufted folely to the
palm tree, and withal fcemed to be doubtful as to the
authenticity of the fa£t, he cannot be confidered as ha¬
ving done any thing in confirmation of the fexual hy-
pothefis.
Mr Morland, in the year I^OJ, adopted the fame
hypothefis *, but gave it a new modification, by fuppo-
fing that the pollen contained the feminal plant in
miniature, and confequently that it behoved one pollen
at leaft to be conveyed into every feparate feed be¬
fore it could be properly impregnated. Analogy and
the ftruCfure of the parts are the only arguments he
employs.
Some years after this, Mr Geoffrey wrote a treatife
on the fexes of plants: but as he advanced nothing new,
we Pnall take no farther notice of him.
Vaillant, in the year T717, judicioufiy confidering
that the canal in the ftylus of moft plants wras too nar¬
row to admit the pollen itfelf, republifhed Dr Grew’s
theory of impregnation by means of a fubtile feminal
aura.
Thefe are the fentiments of the principal botanifts
with regard to the generation of plants, till the cele¬
brated Linnaeus made his appearance as a botanical
writer, who has extended the idea fo far as to compofe
a complete fyftem upon it.
Although Linnaeus can have no claim to the fuppo-
fed difeovery of the fexual hypothefis, his being pre-
cilely the fame with that of Dr Grew ; yet, as he is the
chief fupporter and improver of this doftrine, we (hall
five a fuccindt narration of the arguments he makes
fe of in order to prove that vegetables propagate their
fpecies by a regular commerce of fexes.
In a treatile entitled, Sponfalia Plantarum, publiftied
as an inaugural differtation by Wahlbom, in the firft
volume of the Amcemtates Academicce^ all the arguments
made ufe of by Linnaeus in his Fundamenta Botanica,
and other works, are colle&ed and arranged in one
A N Y. Hiftorj,
view. But as Wahlbom honeftly attributes all the me¬
rit of this differtation to his great mafter, we fhall here
drop his name altogether, and give the arguments as
the property of Linnaeus, by whom they were origi¬
nally employed,
Linnaeus, then, firft attempts to fhow, that vege¬
tables are endowed with a certain degree of life j and,
fecondly, that they propagate their fpecies in a man¬
ner fimilar to that of animals.
“ That vegetables are really living beings (fays he), Vegetables'
muft be obviwus at firft fight j becaufe they poffefs all pofiefs life,
the properties contained in that accurate definition of
life laid dowm by the great Dr Harvey, namely, Vita
ejl fpontnnea propuljio humorutn. But univerfal experi¬
ence teaches, that vegetables propel humours or juices;
hence it is plain that vegetables muft be endowed with
a certain degree of life.”
Not trufting folely to a fyllogifm founded on a defi¬
nition, Linnaeus proceeds to fuppert the life of vege¬
tables by arguments drawn from the following particu¬
lars in their economy j the firft of which he entitles,
“ I. Nutritio,—The very idea of nutrition implies a
propulfion of humours, and of courfe the idea of life.
But vegetables derive their nourifhment from the earth,
air, &c. and confequently muft be confidered as living
creatures.
“ 2. Astar.—Every animal muft not only begin to
exift, and have that exiftence diffolved by death, but
muft likewife pafs through a number of intermediate
changes in its appearance and affe&ions. Infancy, youth,
manhood, old age, are characterized by imbecility, beauty,
fertility, dotage. Are not all thefe viciflitudes confpi-
cuous in the vegetable world ? Weak and tender in in*
fancy ; beautiful and falacious in youth $ grave, robuft,
and fruitful, in manhood; and when <7^ approaches,
the head droops, the fprings of life dry up, and, in fine,
the poor tottering vegetable returns to that dujl from
whence it fprung.
“ 3. Motus.—No inanimate body is capable of felf*
motion. Whatever moves fpontaneoufly, is endowed
with a living principle : for motion depends on the fpon-
taneous propulfion of humours : and wherever there is
a fpontaneous propulfion of humours, there alfo is life.
That vegetables are capable of motion, is evident from
the following faCls: Plants, when confined within doors,
always bend towards the light, and fome of them even
attempt to make their efcape by the window’s. The
flowers of many plants, efpecially thofe of the fynge-
nefia clafs, purfue the fun from eaft to weft, rejoicing
in his beams. Who then can deny that vegetables are
poffeffed of living and felf-moving powers ?
“ 4. Morbus.—The term difeafe means nothing more
than a certain corruption of life. It is well known,
that vegetables are fubjeCl to difeafes as well as ani¬
mals : when over-heated, they turn thirfty, languifti,
and fall to the ground j when too cold, they are tor¬
mented with the chilblain, and not unfrequently expire;
they are fometimes afflifted with cancers j and every
plant is infefted with lice peculiar to its fpecies.
“ 5. Mors.—Death is oppofed to life, the former
being only a privation of the latter. Experience (how’s
that every living creature muft die. But as vegetables
are daily cut off by internal dileafes and external inju¬
ries ; as they are fubieCl to death from the attacks ot
hunger.
Hiftory, B O T
hunger, thiril, heat, cold, &c. with ivhat propriety
could vegetables be thus faid to die, unlels we allow
that they previoully lived?
“ 6. Anatornia.—Under this article we are referred
to Malpighius and Grew for the organic fibres, mem¬
branes, canals, veficles, &c. of plants, as additional
proofs of their living powers.
“ 7. Organixatio.—Vegetables not only propel hu¬
mours, but alfo prepare and fecern a number of differ¬
ent juices for the fruit, the nedfar, &c. analogous to
the various fecretions in animal bodies.”
From thefe fadts and obfervations, Linnteus con¬
cludes, that plants are unqueftionably endowed with
life as well as animals j and then proceeds in the fol¬
lowing manner to fhow how thefe animated vegetables
propagate their fpecies.
Arguments After difcufling the long-exploded dodfrine of equi-
for the fex- vocal generation, he lays hold of another maxim of Dr
«al lyftem. Harvey, viz. Omne vivum ex ovo.—“ It being fully
evident (!'ays he), from the foregoing chain of reafon-
ing, that vegetables are endowed with life, it neceffa-
rily follows, agreeable to this maxim of Harvey’s, that
every vegetable muft in like manner derive its exiftence
from an egg. But as vegetables proceed from eggs, and
as it is the diflinguifhing property of an egg to give
birth to a being fimilar to that which produced it, the
feeds mull of courfe be the eggs of vegetables.
“ Granting then that the feeds of vegetables are in¬
tended by nature to anfwer the fame end as the eggs
of animals, and confidering at the fame time that no
«gg can be fecundated without receiving an impregna¬
tion from the male, it follows, that the feed or eggs of
vegetables cannot be fecundated by any other means.
Hence alfo the necellity of vegetables being provided
with organs of generation. But where are thefe organs
fituated ? The anfwer is eafy :—We have already found
impregnated feeds within the flow'ers of plants j and it
is natural to expedt that the genitalia fhould not be at
a greater diftance. Now, as copulation always precedes
birth, and every Jlower precedes the fruit, xht genera¬
ting faculty muft be aferibed to the flower, and the birth
to the fruit. Again, As the antherce ax\& fligsnata are
the only effential parts of flow'ers, thefe parts muft ne-
ceffarily be the organs of generation A
Being thus far advanced, Linnaeus affirms, that the
antheree are the tefles, and that the pollen performs the
office of the male femen. Thefe affirmations he at¬
tempts to eftabliffi by the following arguments ; the
firff of which he terms
I. Prcccedentia.—The antherae, or vegetable te-
ftes, alw’ays precede the fruit; and as foon as the an-
therse come to maturity, which conftantly happens be¬
fore the maturity of the fruit, they continue to throw
out their pollen as long as the flower lafts ; but decay
and fall effi wffienever the fruit comes to perfedlion.
“ 2. Situs.—The antherse of all plants are uniform¬
ly fituated in fuch a manner that the pollen may wdth
the greateft facility fall upon the ftigma or female
organ.
“ 3. Tempus.—The antherae and ftigma always flou-
rifh at the fame time, whether the flow'ers be of the her¬
maphrodite or dioicous kind.
“ 4. Loculamenta.—When the antheroe are diffedled,
they difeover as great a variety of ftrudfure as the
pericarpia or feed-capfules ; for fome of them have
ANY. 299
one cell, as the mercury j fome two, as the hellebore,
&c.
“ 5. Caflratio.—If all the antherce be cut off from
an hermaphrodite plant, juft before the flowers begin to
expand, taking care at the fame time that no plant of
the fame fpecies grow near it, the fruit will either prove
entirely abortive, or produce barren feeds.
“ 6. Figure.—When the pollen of different plants
is examined by the microfcope, it exhibits as great a
variety of figures as is difcoverable in the feeds them-
felves.
“ The accumulated force of thefe arguments (con¬
cludes Linnceus) amounts to a full demonftration that
the antherae are the teftes, and that the pollen is the
femen or genitura of vegetables.
“ The male organ being thus inveftigated, wre hope
(fays Linnaeus) that none will hefitate to pronounce
the ftigma to be the female organ, efpecially when the
following obfervations are attended to.
“ The piftillum is compofed of the germen, ftylus,
and ftigma. The germen, being only a kind of rudi¬
ment of the future foetus or feed, ceafes to exift as
foon as the flower comes to maturity. Neither is the
ftylus an effential part, as many flowers have no ftylus.
But no fruit ever comes to maturity without the af-
fiftance of the ftigma. It follows, that the ftigma
muft be the female organ adapted by nature for the re¬
ception of the pollen or impregnating fubftance. This
w’ill appear ftill clearer from the following chain of rea-
foning.
“ 1. Situs.—The ftigmata are always fituated fo that
the pollen may with moft eafe fall upon them. Be-
fides, it is remarkable, that in moft plants (though not
in all) the number of the ftigmata exadlly correfponds
with the loculamenta or cells of the pericarpium.
“ 2. Tempus.—Here the obfervation, that the ftig¬
mata and antherge conftantly flourifti at the fame time,
is repeated.
“ 3. Decidentia.—The ftigmata of moft plants, like
the antherce, decay and fall off as foon as they have dif-
charged their proper fundlion ; which evidently ftiows,
that their office is not to ripen the fruit, but folely to
anfwer the important purpofe of impregnation.
“ 4. Abfciflio.—The argument here is precifely the
fame with the caftration of the antherae 5 and the re-
fult is likewife the fame, namely the deftrudtion of the
fruit.
“ Thefe arguments (concludes Linnaeus) are fuffi-
cient to demonftrate, that the ftigma is the female or¬
gan of generation, or that organ which is fuited for the
reception and conveyance of the femen to the vegetable
eggs. Hence plants may be faid to be in aBu veneris,
when the antherae or tefticuli fpread their pollen over
the ftigma or female vulva.'''1
To fhowT how the coitus of vegetables is effedfed, is
our author’s next objedl of inveftigation. He affirms,
that the pollen is conveyed, by means of the wind or
infers, to the moift ftigma, where it remains until it
ditcharges a fubtile fluid, w'hich being abforbed by the
veffels of the ftigma, is carried to the feeds or ova, and
impregnates them. His proofs are taken from the fol-
low’ing particulars.
“ 1. Oculus.—When the flowers are in full blow',
and the pollen flying about, every one may then fee the
pollen adhering to the ftigma. This he illuftrates by
P p 2 mentioning
3oo
B G T
mentioning as examples the viola tricolor, iris, campa¬
nula, &c.
“ 2. Proportio.—The flamina and piftilla, in moft
plants, are of equal heights, that the pollen, by the in¬
tervention of the wind may, with the greater facility,
fall upon the ftigma,
“ 3. Locus.—The ftamina of moft plants furround
the piftillum, to give the pollen an opportunity of fall¬
ing upon the ftigma at every breeze of wind. Even in
the moncecia clafs, the male flowers ftand generally a-
bove the female ones, to afford an eafter conveyance of
the pollen to the ftigma.
“ 4. Tctnpus.—It is remarkable that the ftamina and
piftilla conftantly appear at the fame time, even in plants
belonging to the monoecia clafs.
“ 5. Plumcc.—The flowers of moft plants expand by
the heat of the fun, and fhut themfelves up in the even¬
ing or in rainy weather. The final caufe of this muft
be to keep the moiiture from the pollen, left it fhould
be thereby coagulated, and of courfe prevented from
being blown upon the ftigma.
“ 6 PalmicoU.—That the cultivators of palm-trees
were in ufe to pull off the fpadices from the males, and
fufpend them over the fpathte of the females, is attefted
by Theophraftus, Pliny, Profper Alpinus, Kempfer,
and many others. If this operation happened to be
nerdefted, the dates were four and deftitute of nuts.
Kempfer adds this fingular circumftance, that the male
fpadix, after being thoroughly dried and kept till next
feafon, ftill retained its impregnating virtue.
“ 7. Flores nutanles.~Ks the pollen is fpecifically
heavier than air, fuch flowers as have their piftillum
longer than the ftamina, hang down, or incline to one
fide, e. g. the fritillaria, campanula, &c. An eafy ad-
miflion of the pollen to the ftigma is the final caufe of
this appearance.
“ 8. Submerji.—Many plants that grow below wa¬
ter, emerge when their flowers begin to blow, and fwim
upon the furface till they receive their impregnation,
and then fink down.
“ 9. Omnium Jlorum genuine confideratio.'1'1—Here a
number of particulars are recited. We fhall confine
ourfelves to thofe that are moft linking and applicable
to the fubjeft.
“ When the flowers of the male hemp are pulled off
before thofe of the female are fully expanded, the fe¬
males do not produce fertile feeds. But as a male flower
is fometimes found upon a female plant, this may be the
reafon why fertile feeds are fometimes produced even
after this precaution has been obferved.
“ The tulip affords another experiment of the fame
purpofe. Cut off all the antherse of a red tulip before
the pollen is emitted ; then take the ripe antherae of a
white tulip, and throw' the pollen of the white one upon
the ftigma of the red *, the feeds of the red tulip being
thus impregnated by one of a different complexion, will
next feafon produce fome red, fome white, but moft
Variegated flowers.”
In the year 1744, Linnaeus publiflred a defeription of
a new genus which he called peloria, on the fuppofition
of its being a hybrid or mule plant, i. e. a plant pro¬
duced by an unnatural commixture of two different
genera. The root, leaves, caulis, &c. of this plant are
exceedingly fimilar to thofe of the antirrhinum linaria;
but the flower and other parts of the fru&ification are
A N Y. Hiftory,
totally different. On account of its fimilarity to the li-
naria in every part but the flow'er, Linnaeus imagined it
to have been produced by a fortuitous commixture of
the linaria with fome other plant, although he has ne¬
ver yet been able to point out the father. This do£lrine
of the production of mule plants has fince been greatly
prized, and carefully propagated, by Linnaeus and the
other fupporters of the fexual hypothefis. In the third
volume of the Amnnitates Academics, there is a com¬
plete differtation, entitled Plantce Hybridce, W'herein the
doClrine of vegetable mules is much improved and ex¬
tended. This differtation contains a lift of 47 mules,
with their fuppofed fathers and mothers. For ex¬
ample.
The Veronica fpuria is faid to be a mule plant begot
by the Verbena officinalis upon the Veronica ma-
ritima.
The Delphinium hybridum, a mule begot by the Aconi-
tum napellus upon the Delphinium datum.
The ArClotis calendula, a mule begot by the Calendula
pluvialis upon the ArClotis triftis.
The Afclepias nigra, a mule begot by the Cynanchum
acutum upon the Afclepias vincetoxicum, &.c.
From the examples given in this differtation, Lin¬
naeus draws this conclufion, That only two fpecies of
each genus exifted ab origine ; and that all the variety
of fpecies which now appear have been produced by
unnatural embraces betwixt fpecies of different genera.
Under this head Linnaeus likewife quotes from Ray
the ftory of Richard Baal gardener at Brentford. This
Baal fold a large quantity of the feeds of the braffica
florida to feveral gardeners in the fuburbs of London.
Thefe gardeners, after fowdng their feeds in the ufual
manner, were furprifed to find them turn out to be
plants of a different fpecies from that wdiich Baal made
them believe they had purchafedj for, inftead of the
braflica florida, the plants turned out to be the braffica
longifolia. The gardeners, upon making the difeovery,
commenced a profecution of fraud againft Baal in Weft-
minfter-hall. The court found Baal guilty of fraud,
and decerned him not only to reftore the price of the
feeds, but likewife to pay the gardeners for their loft
time, and the ufe of their ground. “ Had thefe judges
(fays Linnseus) been acquainted with the fexual hy¬
pothefis, they would not have found Baal guilty of any
crime, but would have aferibed the accident to the for¬
tuitous impregnation of the braffica florida by the pollen
of the braffica longifolia.”
Linnaeus next proceeds to celebrate the utility of in-
fedls, becaufe they convey the pollen of the male to the
ftigma of the female. “ In this way (fays he), it is
reafonable to think that many dioicous plants are im¬
pregnated. Nay, even the hermaphrodites themfelves"
are greatly obliged to the different tribes of infedls,
which, by fluttering and treading in the corolla, are
conftantly fcattering the pollen about the ftigma.
“ Upon the whole then, (concludes Linnaeus), the
coitus of vegetables is evident to a demonftration. This
coitus is nothing more than the conveyance of the pol¬
len to the ftigma, to w'hich it adheres till it burfts, and
difeharges a lubtile elaftic fluid. This fluid or aura is
abforbed by the veffels of the ftylus, and carried directly
to the ovarium or germen, where the myfterious work
of impregnation is fully completed.”
These are the arguments employed by Linnaeus and
othes
30J
Hifiory. B O T
otlier advocates for tlie fexual commerce of vegetables.
Let us next attend to thole employed by the oppofers
of this hypothecs.
Objedlions It is admitted by Pontedera, Dr Alfton, &c. that
to the fex- fome of the ancients applied the terms male and female
«a yftem. tQ pevera^ plants. But then they deny that thefe terms
conveyed the fame ideas to the ancients that they do to
the moderns. Male and female, when applied to plants,
were to the ancients mere terms of diftin&ion, ferving
only as trivial names to diftinguifh one fpecies or va¬
riety from another. The ancients were ignorant of the
very characters which conftitute the difference between
what is called a male and female plant among the mo¬
derns. Theophraftus, Diofcorides, Pliny, and, in a
word, the whole ancient botanical writers, confound
the very notion of the modern fexes: they call the real
female, or leed-bearing plant, the male ; and the male,
or barren plant, the female. Nay, they have even ap¬
plied the terms male and female to many plants which
bear nothing but hermaphrodite flow'ers.
Such is the nature of this controverfy, that it cannot
be determined with any degree of certainty, but by ex¬
periments made upon dioicous plants. If a female plant
can produce fertile feeds without having any communi¬
cation with the pollen of the male, the ufe of this pollen
with refpefl to the impregnation of feeds muff of ne-
ceffity be entirely fuperfeded.
Now, both Camerarius and Dr Alfton tried thefe ex¬
periments u'ith the fame fuccefs. Thefe two eminent
botanifts took female plants of the mercury, fpinage,
and hemp ; tranfplanted them at a great diftance from
any males of the fame genus, and befides had them en-
elofed by double rowrs of hedges. The refult wras, that
each of thefe plants produced great quantities of fer¬
tile feeds. Tournefort made the lame trial upon the
lupulus, Miller upon the bryony, and Geoffroy upon
the mays j and all of them declared that the feeds of
thefe plants were as fertile as if they had been fur-
rounded by a thoufand males.
Linnaeus, in his firft argument for the coitus of plants,
refers every man to the evidence of his fenfes.
“ Do we not fee (fays he) the ftigma of almoft every
hermaphrodite flower covered over with the pollen or
impregnating fubftance ? Do not we fee the parietaria,
the urtica, &c. by violent explofions, difcharging their
pollen in the open air, that it may be carried in that ve¬
hicle to the ftigmata of their refpeftive females ?—All
this is admitted by the oppofers of the fexes : but then
they deny that thefe explofions, &c. are intended to
create any intercourfe between the male and the female;
and further allege, that this ejeClion of the pollen is in¬
tended by nature to throw off fomething excrementi-
tious, or at leaf! fomething which, if retained, would
prove noxious to the fru&ification.
Linnaeus takes his fecond argument from the propor¬
tion which the ftamina bear to the ttylus, alleging that
they are generally of the fame height.—T his obferva-
tion (fay the anti-fexualifts) is not only contrary to
experience, but, allowing it to be univerfal, no conclu-
fion can be drawn from it either for or againft the fex-
ual hypothefis.
The third argument is taken from the locus or fitua-
tion of the ftamina with refpeft to the ftylus: “ and
as the male flowers in the moncecia clafs Hand always
above the female flowers, it muft be concluded (fays
A N Y.
Linnaeus), that the intention of nature, in this difpofi-
tion of the parts, is to allow a free and eafy accefs of
the pollen to the ftigma.”—But the ftamina cannot be
faid to furround the piftillum in the monandria and di-
andria claffes : and the pofition of the male flowers in
the moncecia clafs is a mere chimera \ for in the rici-
nus, one of the examples which Linnaeus mentions in
confirmation of his dodlrine, the female flowers ftand
uniformly fome inches above the males.
That the ftamina and piftilla generally come to per-
fedlion at the fame time, and that this happens even irt
the dioicous plants, is Linnaeus’s fourth argument. But>
as it is acknowledged by Linnaeus himfelf, that there
are many exceptions with refpedt to this fadl, the op¬
pofers of the fexual hypothefis allege that it carries the
beft anlwer in its owm bofom.
The fifth argument is founded on the circumftance of
fome flowers (hutting up their petals in rainy or moift
evenings.—But many flowers do not (hut themfelves
up, either in the night or moift weather, as the paflion-
flower, &c. : the lychnis nodliflora, mirabilis peruvi¬
ana, &c. open their flowers in the night, and (hut them
at the approach of the fun. Hence this is another fi¬
nal caule (fay the anti-fexualifts) perverted to fupport
a favourite hypothefis.
We come now to the culture of the palm tree, which
is the fixth and moft plaufible argument employed by
the fexualifts. Of this, the moft authentic account we
have is the following by Dr Haffelquift, in one of his
letters to Linnaeus, dated Alexandria May 18. 1750.
“ The firft thing I did after my arrival was to fee the
date tree, the ornament and a great part of the riches
of this country. It had already bloffomed \ but I had,
neverthelefs, the pleafure of feeing how the Arabs aflift
its fecundation, and by that means fecure to themfelves
a plentiful harveft of a vegetable, which w7as fo import¬
ant to them, and known to them many centuries be¬
fore any botanift dreamed of the difference of fexes in
vegetables. The gardener informed me of this before
I had time to enquire 5 and would (how me as a very
curious thing, the male and female of the date or palm
trees : nor could he conceive how' I, a Frank, lately
arrived, could know it before *, for (fays he) all who
have yet come from Europe to fee this country, have
regarded this relation either as a fable or miracle. The
Arab feeing me inclined to be further informed, accom¬
panied me and my French interpreter to a palm tree,
which was very full of young fruit, and had by him
been wedded or fecundated with the male wTen both
were in bloffom. I his the Arabs do in the following
manner: when the fpadix has female flowers, that come
out of its fpatha, they fearch on a tree that has male
flowers, which they know by experience, for a fpadix
which has not yet burfted out of its fpatha : this they
open, take out the fpadix, and cut it lengthwife in fe-
veral pieces, but take care not to hurt the flowers. A
piece of this fpadix with male flowers they put length-
wife between the fmall branches of the fpadix which
hath female flowers, and then lay the leaf of a palm
over the branches. In this fituation I yet faw the
greateft part of the fpadices which bore their young
fruit j but the male flowers which were put between
were withered. The Arab befides gave me the follow7-
ing anecdotes : Firft, Unlefs they in this manner, wed
and fecundate the date tree, it bears no fruit. Se¬
condly,
302
EOT
condly, They always take the precaution to preferve
fome unopened fpatlue with male flowers from one year
to another, to be applied for this purpofe, in cafe the
male flowers Ihould mifcarry or fuffer damage. Third¬
ly, If they permit the fpadix of the male flowers to burft
or come out, it becomes ulelefs for fecundation: it muft
have its maidenhead (thefe were the words of the Arab),
which is loll in the lame moment the bloflbms burfl: out
of their cafe. Therefore the perfon who cultivates
date trees mull: be careful to hit the right time of af-
fifting their fecundation, vrhich is almolt the only ar¬
ticle in their cultivation. Fourthly, On opening the
fpatha, he finds all the male flowers full of a liquid which
refemblcs the fineft dew ; it is of a fweet and pleafant
tafte, refembling much the talk of frefh dates, but
much more refined and aromatic 5 this u’as likewife
confirmed by my interpreter, who hath lived 32 years
in Egypt, and therefore had opportunities enough of
tailing both the neftar of the bloffoms and the frefh
dates.”
Now, though this account feems fully to confirm the
faft, viz. that luch a prablice obtains among the A-
rabs, and that they aflert its efficacy in fecundating the
trees, it is certain (fay the oppofers of this do&rine),
that no intelligent perfon, who is not already wedded
to an hypothefis, will attempt to found an argument
upon the affertions of a people fo full of ridiculous fu-
perftitions. Before Dr Haflelquift, or any other per¬
fon, can draw any argument from the above mentioned
account, he ought to fee the experiment feveral times
repeated, with his own eyes, and not take it upon the
word of a people who, befides their fuperftition, may
very probably find it their intereft to impofe upon tra¬
vellers.
Mr Milne, author of the Botanical Di6tionary, how¬
ever, relates an experiment, near akin to the above
mentioned, which merits fome attention : “ In the
garden of M. de la Serre, of the Rue S. Jacques at
Paris, was a female turpentine tree, which flowered
every year, without furniffiing any fruit capable of ve¬
getation. This was a fenfible mortification to the
owner, who greatly defired to have the tree increafed.
Meffieurs Duhamel and Jeffieu very properly judged
that they might procure him that pleafure by the affift-
ance of a male piftachio tree. Tney fent him one very
much loaded with flowers. It was planted in the gar¬
den of M. de la Serre, very near the female turpentine
tree, wffiich the fame year produced a great quantity of
fruits, that were well conditioned, and rofe with faci¬
lity. The male plant was then removed 5 the confe-
quence of which was, that the turpentine tree of M.
de la Serre in none of the fucceeding years bore any
fruit that, upon examination, w7as found to germi¬
nate.” 6
Upon this experiment it is obferved by the antifex-
ualifts, that, though it were a thoufand times repeated,
it never could be decifive. The nature of the contro-
verfy, fay they, is fuch, that one experiment is more
decifive in favour of their opinion, that 10.000 can be
againfl; them. I he reafon is plain : If there is fuch a
thing as a lexual intercourfe in vegetables, it is as won¬
derful that any feeds fliould be pertefted without that
intercourfe, as that a virgin fhould have a child ; the
laft is not in the lea1! more extraordinary than the firft.
One experiment, therefore, which Ihows that feeds may
^ ^ Hiftory,
be perfedkd without fucb fexual intercourfe, is either
to be refolved into a miracle, or muft prove abfolutely
decifive againrt the fexual fyftem; while numberlefs ex¬
periments i'uch as that above mentioned could prove no¬
thing, becaufe we know not what effecl vegetables may
have by growing in each other’s neighbourhood, inde«
pendent of any fexual intercourfe.
In Milne’s Botanical Di&ionary, under the article
Sexus Plant arum., the author quotes Dr Alfton’s experi¬
ments partially. The fafts recorded by Dr Alfton are as
follow: 1. Three fets of fpinach, planted at a great di-
ftance from each other, proved all of them fertile, and
ripened plenty of feeds, which were found to anfwer as
well as other fpinach feed. 2. A plant of hemp grow-
ing by itfelf, being taken care of, produced about 30
good feeds, though in a fttuation very much expofed,
and plucked up too foon, on account of bad weather,
in the autumn. 3. This experiment, which is the moft
remarkable of the three, w7e ftiall give in the Dolor’s
own words. “ In the fpring of 1741, I carried two
young feedling plants of the French mercury, long be¬
fore there w7as any in, from this city phyfic garden, the
only place where it was then to be found in this coun¬
try, to the king’s garden at the Abbey ; which are
more than 700 yards diftant from one another, wfith
many high houfes, trees, hedges, and part of a high hill
between them $ and planted one of them in one enclo-
fure, where it was ffiaded from the fun the greateft part
of the day ; and the other in another 25 yards diftant,
expofed to the fouth and weft. Both plants ripened fer¬
tile feeds ; and the laft ffied them fo plentifully, that it
proved a troublefome weed for feveral years, though
none of the fpecies was to be found in that garden tor
more than 20 years preceding.”
Of this experiment Mr Milne hath not taken any
notice ; but upon the other two, has the following re¬
mark : “ The refult of thefe, and fuch like experi¬
ments, can be accounted for, on the principle of the
fexes, in no other way than on the fuppofition that
fome male flowers have been intermixed with the fe¬
male, and operated the fecundation in queftion. This
appears the more probable, as only a part of the feeds
in the above experiments attained to perfeft maturity,
fo as to be capable of vegetation.
The feventh argument of Linnaeus is taken from the
floras nut antes.— The piftils of thefe flowers, according
to Linnaeus, are always longer than the ftamina ; and
nature has affigned them this penfile pofture, that the
pollen, which is fpecifically heavier than air, may the
more conveniently fall upon the ftigma. But the pi¬
ftils c the campanula, lilium, and many other floras nu-
tantes, are not longer than the ftamina. Befides, grant¬
ing this were uniformly the cafe ; yet, as the pollen is
heavier than air, this pofture muft of neceffity either
make the pollen mifs the piftiilum altogether, or, at any
rate, it can only fall upon the back part of the piftil in
place of the ftigma ; and, of couife, fuch a dire&ion
would rather tend to fruftrate than promote the im¬
pregnation of the feed.
The eighth argument is taken from the p/antee Jub-
merfle, which are laid to emerge as foon as their flowers
begin to blow, left the pollen Ihould be coagulated or
walked off .by the water. But many iubmarine and
aquatic plants frudlify entirely below water ; and, fup-
pofing they did not, the fame argument would equally
prove
Hi (lory. B O T
prove it to be tbe intention of nature, that the pollen
fhould be blown away by the winds, as that it fhould
be fubfervient to the impregnation of the feed.
The ninth and laft argument is entitled Omnium
jlorum genu in a conjideratio ; which (fay the antifexual-
ills) is nothing more than a collection of vague ob-
lervations upon the ftruCture and economy of particu¬
lar plants, fome of them true, others falfe, but all of
them evidently thrull in as fupports to a favourite hy-
pothelis.
Farther Thus the difpute reded fome years ago; but of late
byLinnaeus. t^ele ^laS aPPearec^ a tranflation of one of Linnteus’s
wmrks upon the fubjeft, which, though publilhed in
1759, was but little knowm in this country. A trea-
tife on the Sexual Syftem had alfo been publilhed by
the Abbe Spalanzani, in which he not only oppofed the
Linnaean doCtrinc, but treated it with ridicule, though
without taking any notice of this lad publication,
which he feems to have been ignorant of. In this he
mentions an experiment with hemp dmilar to fome of
thole already related; but which was alfo tried by Lin-
njeus, and in his hands turned out the very reverfe of
what it did with Spalanzani. In the treatife alluded
to, Linneeus mentions Sir Thomas Millington as the
fird among the moderns who thought of the didin&ion
of fexes in plants. He was Savilian profeffor at Ox¬
ford ; and Dr Grew, in his Anatomy of Plants, relates,
that in a converfation on the nature of the antherce of
flowers, Sir Thomas hinted, that thofe parts might pro¬
bably be analogous to the male organs of animals, and
ferve for the impregnation of the fruit. Grew impro¬
ved on the idea, and purfued it. That the fubjeft,
howrever, may be properly underflood, our author is of
opinion, that u’e Humid frit accurately underdand the
nature of vegetable bodies; and in order to do this, we
ought fird to confider the operations of nature in the
human frame, and ficm thence continue our refearches
through the various tribes of inferior animals, till at
lad we arrive at the vegetable creation. In like man¬
ner, to illudrate the generation of plants, W'e mud like-
wife take our fird lights from the animal kingdom, and
purfue the fame chain till we come to vegetables. This
fubjeCf, indeed, he owns to be fo obfeure, that no natu-
ralid has hitherto been able to fay any thing fatisfac-
lory concerning it; he only mentions fome remarkable
fads concerning the produCHon of mule animals from
the copulation of two individuals of different fpecies.
In the horfe kind we fee two different kinds of mules
produced. “ From the mare and male afs (fays he
proceeds the mule properly fo called, which in its na¬
ture, that is, in its medullary fubdance and nervous fy-
Item, agrees with its mother; but in its cortical fub-
ftance and outward form, in its mane and tail, refem-
bles the afs. Between the female afs and the horfe,
the other kind of mule is engendered, whofe nature or
medullary fubdance refembies that of the afs ; but its
cortical llrudfure that of the horfe. If the he-goat of
Angora copulates with the common Ihe-goat, the kid,
by that means procured, inherits the external drufture
•and valuable coat of its father ; while, on the other
hand, if the common he-goat impregnates the goat of
Angora, the kid produced has the fame external form,
and bears the fame worthlefs hair with its father. Hence
it feems probable, that the medullary fubdance, with
AN Y. 303
wrhat Malpighi calls the keel (ennna), and the ner¬
vous fyflem, are latent in the egg of the mother ; the
cortical fubdance, or vafcular fyflem, being derived
from tbe father.”
Thefe cortical and medullary fubdances are previouf-
ly explained by our author to be thofe of which both
animal and vegetable bodies are compofed. By the
medullary fubdance in animal bodies, he means the fpi-
nal marrow arifing from the organized brain, and fend¬
ing off the nerves; by the cortical fubdance the veffels
with the heart attached to them, by w'hich the medul¬
lary part is nouriihed. In vegetables, the cortical part
nourilhes the plant, not only by its roots, but with its
WThole furface. For a fmall branch torn from the pa¬
rent ftem, and placed in w'atcr, imbibes nourifliment at
its pores. Thus the Fuci, and other marine vegetables,
are nourifhed without a root, folely by the pores dif-
perfed through their w'hole fubdance. The bark of
trees every year depofites its gelatinous internal layer,
which is added to the wood, and aflimilates itfelf to it.
The medullary, which is the other effential part of ve¬
getables, is multiplied and extended without end ; and
whenever it is entirely lofl, the death of the plant ne-
ceffarily follows. In examining this lubflance, w*e mud
be careful, in two cafes, that we be not milled; fird, by
the draws of grades, and by other hollow flems, where
the medulla lines the infide of the bark; and fecondly,
by large trees, whofe trunks become perfeftly lolid
throughout, except in the very fummits of the branches.
The wood performs the office of bones, when there is
no longer any occafion for the medulla in that part;
and trees, although become hollow, continue never-
thelels to grow fo long as this fubflance remains in the
extreme branches. It is by no means neceffary that
the medulla Ihould have any connexion with the root,
as it is only nouriflred by the cortical fubdance of the
plant, and is therefore increafed at its upper extre¬
mity without end if it meets with no refiflance. In
thole animals whofe fpinal marrow is furrounded by a
bony covering, as in the larger and more perfedf kinds,
this fubdance never comes out of its confinement; and
the harder its cafe, the more abfolutely is its increafe
prevented ; but in the fmaller tribes of worms, where
this covering is lefs rigid, a perpetual and unlimited in¬
creafe of the animal takes place.
“ The mod important parts of the flower, and
which are abfolutely effential to it, (our author pro¬
ceeds to ob ferve *), are the damina and piflilla. So * on
eflential are they, that among the many thoufands of ^ ^
flowers with which w-e are acquainted, no one can
be found not fumilhed with both thefe organs. TheTranfl.
flamina derive their origin from the fubdance of the P- 38. feq.
wood, which was originally formed from the inner
bark, and they may therefore be faid to fpring from the
cortical fubflance of the vegetable. This is perfe&ly
evident in the afarum (afarabacca), whofe twelve fta-
mina proceed from twelve fibres in the inner bark.
Double flowers illudrate the fame fa£! : in them, the
flamina being weakened and diflblved by excefs of nou-
rilhment, the woody fubflance reaflumes the foftnefs
of the inner bark, of which it was originally formed.
All flamina confid of veffels containing the pollen, or
impregnating pow'der, which they difeharge in due
time, not without the flridefl obfervance of certain
natural laws. The form of thefe veffels, like that of
the-
304
B 0 T
the capfules of the fruit, is accurately defined, as well
as their cells, their particular manner of burfting, and
the pollen which they contain j this pollen, like wife, is
no lefs certain and uniform in its figure, fize, and co¬
lour, than the feeds themfelves.
“The piftillum is the only part which originates from
the medullary fubftance, and is therefore invariably fi
tuated in the centre of the flower. It alwrays contains
the rudiments of the feed, which, in procefs of time,
ripen into fruit. The rudiments of the fruit are called
the germen, or feed-bud $ this has conftantly another
organ conne£led with it, named the JHgma, which is
in its higheft degree of vigour and perfedion during
the time of flowering.
“ Another circumitance worthy of attention is, that
the root, which the firft year of its growth is large
and filled with medullary pulp, the following feafon
becomes hollow, in producing the ftem, flowTers, and
feed ; all this pulp being conveyed to the flower, and
feeming to be only deftined to the formation of feed,
fo many new and diftind animations being formed from
it as there are rudiments of new plants. This is par¬
ticularly obfervable in the turnip.
“ Thus vegetables, like infeds, are fubjed to a me-
tamorphofis *, with this difference only, that their flowers
are fixed to one fpot, inftead of being able, like in¬
feds, to fly from place to place ; and that their nou*
rifliment is not given them by means of peculiar organs
for the formation of chyle. We have feen, that the
outer bark becomes calyx, the internal bark corolla,
the wood ftamina, and the medulla piftillum $ the
frudification exhibiting the internal parts of a plant
naked and unfolded. We have likewife feen, that the
frudification puts an end to vegetation in the part
from whence it arifes, flopping the progrefs of the
medulla, which would otherwife have extended itfelf
without end by the branches, and occafioning the di-
vifion of that medulla into a number of feeds, each
endowed wflth a feparate living principle. But as the
medulla exifts naked in the germen, it cannot fupport
itfelf, or make any farther progrefs, without the af-
fiftance of the cortical fubftance which it has left j it
muft therefore receive this afliftance by fome means or
other, and in fad does receive it from the ftamina and
their pollen, which owe their origin to the woody mat¬
ter derived from the inner bark, and originally gene¬
rated by the outer bark. But if it happens that the
cortical fubftance is able to inveft the medullary rudi¬
ments of the feed in the flower itfelf, the plant becomes
viviparous, as in fejhica, aira, and poa viviparay in
which nearly the fame thing takes place as in the me¬
dulla of other plants, which remains in the branches,
and is varioufly diftributed, being at once both clothed
and nouriftied by the bark, and enabled to form new
branches, juft as it happens in the compound animals,
or fertularia.
“ The organs common in general to all plants are,
I. The root, with its capillary veffels, extrading nou-
rifhment from the ground. 2. The leaves, which may
be called the limbs, and which, like the feet and v\ings
of animals, are organs of motion $ for being them¬
felves ftiaken by the external air, they (hake and exer-
cife the plant. 3. The trunk containing the medul¬
lary fubftance, which is nourifhed by the bark, and for
the molt part-multiplied into ieveral compound plants.
ANY. Hifiory,
4. The frudification, which is the true body of the
plant, fet at liberty by a metamorphofis, and confifts
only of the organs of generation ; it is often defended
by a calyx, and furniihed wflth petals, by means of
which it in a manner flutters in the air.
“ Many flowers have no calyx, as feveral of the lily
tribe, the hippuns, &c.; many want the corolla, as
graffes, and the plants called apetalous; but there are
none deftitute of ftamina and piftilla, thofe important
organs deftined to the formation of fruit. We there¬
fore infer from experience, that the ftamina are the
male organs of generation, and the piftilla the female j
and as many flowers are furnifhed with both at once,
it follows that fuch flowers are hermaphrodites. Nor
is this fo wonderful, as that there fhould be any plants
in which the different fexes are in diftind individuals $
for plants being immoveably fixed to one fpot, cannot,
like animals, travel in fearch of a mate. There exifts,
however, in fome plants, a real difference of fex. From
feeds of the fame mother, fome individual^ (hall be
produced, wdiofe flowers exhibit ftamina without piftil¬
la, and may therefore be properly called males; while
the reft, being furniftied with pift.lla without ftamina,
are therefore denominated females : and fo uniformly
does this take place, that no vegetable was ever found
to produce female flowers, without flowers furniftied
with ftamina being produced, either on the fame indi¬
vidual, or on another plant of the fame fpecies, and
vice verfa.
“ As all feed-veffels are deftined to produce feeds,
fo are the ftamina to bear the pollen, or fecundating
powrder. All feeds contain within their membranes a
certain medullary fubftance, which fwTells when dipped
into warm water. All pollen, likewife, contains in
its membrane an elaftic fubftance, which, although ve¬
ry fubtile and almoft invifible, by means of warm wa¬
ter often explodes writh great vehemence. While plants
are in flower, the pollen falls from the antherte, and
is difperfed abroad, as feeds are diflodged from their
fituation when the fruit is ripe. At the fame time
that the pollen is fcattered, the piftillum prefents its
ftigma, which is then in its higheft vigour, and, for
a portion of the day at lead, is moiftened with a fine
dew. The ftamina either furround this ftigma, or, if
the flowers are of the drooping kind, they are bent
towards one fide, fo that the pollen can eafily find ac-
cefs to the ftigma 5 where it not only adheres by means
of the dew of that part, but the moifture occafions its
burfting, by which means its contents are dilcharged*
What iffued from it, being mixed with the fluid of the
ftigma, is conveyed to the rudiments of the feed. Ma¬
ny evident inftances of this prefent themfelves to our
notice \ but I have nowhere feen it more manifeft than
in the Jacobean lily {amaryllis formofjjima), the piftil¬
lum of which, when iufticient heat is given the plant
to make it flower in perfection, is bent downwards,
and from its ftigma iffues a drop of limpid fluid, fo
large that one would think it in danger of falling to
the ground. It is, however, gradually re-abforbed
into the ftyle about three or four o’clock, and becomes
invifible till about ten the next morning, when it ap¬
pears again j by noon it attain its largeft dimenfions $
and in the afternoon, by a gentle and fcarcely percep¬
tible dtcreafe, it returns to its fource. If we (hake
the antherae over the ftigma, fo that the pollen may
Hiftory. B O T
fall on tKii limpid drop, xve fee the fluid foon after be¬
come turbid, and affume a yellow colour ; and we per¬
ceive little rivulets, or opake ftreaks, running from
the ftigma towards the rudiments of the feed. Some
time afterwards, when the drop has totally difappear-
ed, the pollen maybe obferved adhering to the fligma,
but of an irregular figure, having loft its original
form. No one, therefore, can alfent to what Morland
and others have afferted, that the pollen paffes into the
ftigma, pervades the ftyle, and enters the tender rudi¬
ments of the feed, as Leeuwenhoek fuppofed his worms
to enter the ova. A moft evident proof of the falfe-
hood of this opinion may be obtained from any fpecies
oi vurabilis (marvel of Peru), whofe pollen is fo very
large, that it almoft exceeds the ftyle itfelf in thick-
nefs, and, falling on the ftigma, adheres firmly to it j
that organ fucking and exhaufting the pollen, as a
euttle-fifh devours every thing that comes within its
grafp. One evening in the month of Auguft I re¬
moved all the ftamina from three flowers of the mira-
bihs longi/lora, at the fame time deftroying all the reft
of the flowers which were expanded ; I fprinkled thefe
three flowers with the pollen of tnirabi/is ja/appa : the
feed-buds fwelled, but did not ripen. Another even¬
ing I performed a fimilar experiment, only fprinkling
the flowers with the pollen of the fame fpecies j all
thefe flowers produced ripe feeds.
“ Some writers have believed, that the ftamina are
parts of the fruftification, wdiich ferve only to dif-
charge an impure or excrementitious matter, and by
no means formed for fo important a w^ork as genera¬
tion. But it is very evident, that thefe authors have
not fufficiently examined the fubjeifl ; for as, in many
vegetables, fome flowers are furnifhed wfith ftamina
nnly, and others only with piftilla, it is altogether im-
poffible, that ftamina fituated at fo very great a di-
ftance from the fruit as on a different branch, or per¬
haps on a feparate plant, fhould ferve to convey any
impurities from the embryo.
“ No phyliologift could demonftrate, a priori^ the
neceflity of the mafculine fluid to the rendering the
eggs of animals prolific j but experience has eftablifhed
it beyond a doubt. We therefore judge a pqfleriori
principally of the fame effedl in plants.
“ In the month of January 1760 the antholyza cu-
nonia flowered in a pot in my parlour : but produced
no fruit, the air of the room not being fufficiently
agitated to waft the pollen to the -ftigma. One day,
about noon, feeing the ftigma very moift, I plucked
off one of the antherse, by means of a fine pair of
forceps, and gently rubbed it oy one of the expanded
ftigmata. The fpike of flowers remained eight or ten
days longer ; when I obferved, in gathering the branch
for my herbarium, that the fruit of that flower only
on u'hich the experiment had been made had fw7elled
to the fize of a bean. I then differed this fruit, and
difcovered that one of the three cells contained feeds
in confiderable number, the other tw7o being entirely
withered.
“ In the month of April I fowed the feeds of hemp
[cannabis) in two different pots. The young plants
came up fb plentifully, that each pot contained 30 or
40. I placed each by the light of a window, but in
different and remote apartments. The hemp grew ex¬
tremely w7ell in both pots. In one of them I permit-
Vol. IV. Part I.
A N Y. 305
ted the male and female plants to remain together, to
flower and bear fruit, which ripened in July ; and be¬
ing macerated in water and committed to the earth,
fprung up in twelve dayr. From the other, however,
I removed all the male plants as foon as they were old
enough for me to diftinguilh them from the females.
The remaining females grew very well, and prefented
their long piftiila in great abundance, thefe flowers
continuing a very long time, as if in expectation of
their mates ; while the plants in the other pot had al¬
ready ripened their fruit, their piftilla having, quite
in a different manner, faded as foon as the males had
difeharged all their pollen. It was certainly a beauti¬
ful and truly admirable fpectacle, to fee the unimpreg-
nated females preferve their piftilla fo long green and
flourilhing, not permitting them to begin to fade till
they had been for a confiderable time expofed, in vain,
to the accefs of the male pollen. Afterwards, when
thefe virgin plants began to decay through age, I exa ¬
mined all their calyxes in the prefence of feveral bota-
nifts, and found them large and flourifhing, although
every one of the feed-buds was brown, comprefted,
membranaceous, and dry, not exhibiting any appear¬
ance of cotyledons or pulp. Hence I am perfectly
convinced, that the circumftance which authors have
recorded, of the female hemp having produced feeds,
although deprived of the male, could only have hap¬
pened by means of pollen brought by the wind from
fome diftant place. No experiment can be more eafily
performed than the above j none more fatisfaCIory in
demonftrating the generation of plants.
“ The clucia tenella wTas in like manner kept growing
in my window through the months of June and July.
The male plant was in one pot, the female in another.
The latter abounded with fruit, not one of its flowers
proving abortive. I removed the two pots into differ¬
ent windows of the fame apartment: ftill all the fe¬
male flowers continued to become fruitful. At length
I took away the male entirely, leaving the female alone,
and cutting off all the flowers which it had already
borne. Every day new ones appeared from the axilla
of every leaf j each remained eight or ten days \ after
which their footftalks turning yellow, they fell barren
to the ground. A botanical friend, who had amufed
himfelf with obferving this phenomenon with me, per-
fuaded me to bring from the ftove in the garden a An¬
gle male flower, which he placed over one of the fe¬
male ones, then in perfeftion, tying a piece of red filk
round its piftillum. The next day the male flower
was taken aw7ay, and this Angle feed-bud remained and
bore fruit. Afterwards I took another male flower
out of the fame ftove, and with a pair of ftender for¬
ceps pinched off one of its antherse, which I after¬
wards gently fcratched with a feather, fo that a very
fmall portion of its pollen was difeharged upon one of
the three ftigmata of a female flower, the two other
ftigmata being covered with paper. This fruit likewife
attained its due fize ; and on being cut tranfverfely,
exhibited one cell filled with a large feed, and the other
two empty. The reft of the flowers, being unimpreg-
, nated, faded and fell off. This experiment may be per¬
formed with as little trouble as the former.
“ The clatifca cannabina came up in my garden from
feed ten years ago, and has every year been plentifully
increafed by means of its perennial root. Flowers in
Qji great
306
B G T
^I’eat numbeif ii&ve been produced by it ; but being all
i’emale, tliey proved abortive. Being defirous of pro¬
curing male plants, I obtained more feeds from Paris.
Some more plants were railed •, but thefe likewife, to
my great mortiucation, all proved females, and bore
flowers but no fruit. In the year 1757, I received
another parcel of feeds. From thefe I obtained a few
male plants, which flowered in 1758. Thefe were
planted at a great diftance from the females j and when
their flowers were juft ready to emit their pollen, hold¬
ing a paper under them, I gently (hook the fpike or
panicle with my finger, till the paper was almoft cover¬
ed with the yellow powder. I carried this to the fe¬
males, which were flowering in another part of the
garden, and placed it over them. The cold nights of
the year in which this experiment was made, deftroyed
thefe datifcas, with many other plants, much earlier
than ufual. Neverthelefs, when I examined the flowers
of thofe plants which I had fprinkled with the fertili¬
zing powder, I found the feeds of their due magni¬
tude ; while in the more remote datifcas, which had
not been impregnated with pollen, no traces of feeds
were vifible.
Several fpecies of momordica, cultivated with us,
like other Indian vegetables, in clofe ftoves, have fre¬
quently borne female flowers $ which, although at firft
very vigorous, after a (hort time have conftantly faded
and turned yellow, without perfecting any feed, till I
inftrufted the gardener, as foon as he obferved a female
flower, to gather a male one and place it above the fe¬
male. By this contrivance we are fo certain of ob¬
taining fruit, that we dare pledge ourfelves to make
any female flowers fertile that (ball be fixed on.
“ rV\\z. jatropha urens has flowered every year in my
hot-houfe 5 but the female flowers coming before the
males, in a week’s time dropped their petals, and faded
before the latter were opened $ from which caufe no
fruit has been produced, but the germina themfelves
have fallen off. We have therefore never had any fruit
of the jatropha till the year 1752, when the male
flowers were in vigour on a tall tree at the fame time
that the females began to appear on a fmall jatropha
which was growing in a garden pot. I placed this
pot under the other tree, by which means the female
flowers bore feeds, which grew on being fown. I have
frequently (ince amufed myfelf with taking the male
flowers from one plant, and fcattering them over the
female (lowers of another, and have always found the
feeds of the latter impregnated by it.
“ Two years ago I placed a piece of paper under
fome of thefe male flowers, and afterwards folded up
the pollen which had fallen upon it, preferving it fo
folded up, if I remember right, four or fix weeks, at
the end of which time another branch of the fame ja¬
tropha w7as in flower. I then took the pollen, which I
had fo long preferved in paper, and ftrewed it over
three female (lowers, the only ones at that time ex¬
panded. Thefe three females proved fruitful, while
all the reft which grew in the fame bunch fell off abor¬
tive.
“ The interior petals of the ornithogalutn, common¬
ly, but improperly, called canadenfe, cohere fo clofely
together, that they only juft admit the air to the ger-
rnen, and will fcarcely permit the pollen of another
flower to pafs; this plant produced every day new
A ,K Y. Hiftoiy.
flowers and fruit, the fru&ification never failing in any
inftance *, I therefore, with the utmoft care, extra&ed
the anther* from one of the flowers with a hooked
needle ; and, as I hoped, this Angle flower proved bar¬
ren. This experiment was repeated about a week af¬
ter wdth the fame fuccefs.
“ I removed all the anther* out of a flower of che-
lidoniunt cormculatum (fcarlet horned poppy), which
was growing in a remote part of the garden, upon the
firft opening of its petals, and (tripped off all the reft
of the flowTers ; another day I treated another flower
of the fame plant in a fimilar manner, but fprinkled
the piftillum of this with the pollen borrowed from an¬
other plant of the fame fpecies : the refult w?as, that
the firft. flower produced no fruit, but the fecond af¬
forded very perfect feed. My defign in this experi¬
ment was to prove, that the mere removal of the an¬
ther* from a flower is not in itfelf fufficieiit to render
the germen abortive.
“ Having the nicotiana fruticofa growing in a gar¬
den-pot, and producing plenty of flowers and feed, I
extra&ed the anther* from a newly-expanded flower
before they had burft, at the fame time cutting away
all the other (lowers $ this germen produced no fruit»
nor did it even fwell.
“ I removed an urn, in wdiich the afphodelas Ji/lulo-
fus was growing, to one corner of the garden, and from
one of the flowers which had lately opened I extrafled
its anther* j this caufed the impregnation to fail.
Another day I treated another flow'er in the fame man¬
ner : but bringing a flower from a plant in a different
part of the garden, with which I fprinkled the piftil¬
lum of the mutilated one, its germen became by that
means fruitful.
“ Ixia chinenjts, flowering in my ftove, the windows
of which were (hut, all its flow'ers proved abortive. I
therefore took fome of its anther* in a pair of pincers,
and with them fprinkled the ftigmata of two flowers,
and the next day one ftigma only of a third flower ^
the feed-buds of thefe flowers remained, grew to a large
fize, and bore feed j the fruit of the third, however,
contained ripe feed only in one of its cells.
“ To relate more experiments wTould only be to fa¬
tigue the reader unneceffarily. All nature proclaims
the truth I have endeavoured to inculcate, and every
fkwer bears witnefs to it. Any perfon may make the
experiment for himfelf, with any plant he pleafes, only
taking care to place the pot in which it is growing in
the window of a room fufficiently out of the reach of
other flowers 5 and I will venture to promife him that
he will obtain no perfect fruit, unlefs the pollen has
accefs to the piftillum.”
Se£t. V. Of the Natural Method of Clajfijication.
Besides all the afiovementioned methods of claffing
and diftributing plants into their different orders, ge¬
nera, &c. which are deduced from the frudification,
and are therefore called artificial^ Linnaeus and moll
other botanifts are of opinion that there is a natural
method, or nature’s f>ftem, which we fhould diligently
endeavour to find out. That this fyftem, fay they, is
no chimera, as fome imagine, will appear particularly
from hence, that all plants, of what order foever, (how
an affinity to fome others; and thus, as formerly ob¬
ferved.
3°7
Hiftory. EOT
ferved, not only the virtues of a great number of fpe-
cies may be afcertained, but we may know with cer¬
tainty how to find a proper fuccedaneum for plants
which cannot eafily be had—Linnaeus divides vegeta¬
bles into the 58 natural methods following.
1. Palma. Thefe are perennial, and moftly of the
(hrub and tree kind. The ftem is in height from a to
100 feet and upwards. The roots form a mafs of fi¬
bres wLich are commonly fun pie and without any ra¬
mifications. The ftem is generally fimple, without
branches, cylindrical, and compofed of ftrong longitu¬
dinal fibres. The leaves, wLich are a compofition of
a leaf and a branch, by Linnaeus called frondes, are
of different forms $ being fometimes fhaped like an um¬
brella or fan y fometimes fingly or doubly winged ;
the fmall or partial leaves, which are often three feet
in length, being ranged alternately. The branches,
or principal leaves, are fix, eight, ten, or twelve feet
long 5 the length varying according to the age and
fize of the plant. They are covered at firft wuth a
thick brown duft, like thofe of the ferns. The bafe of
the leaves frequently embraces the greater part of the
ftem. The flowers are male and female upon the fame
or different roots. The flowers are all difpofed in a
panicle or diffufed fpike, except in the hydrocharis,
ftratiotes, and vallifneria y in which they proceed fingly
from the wings or angles of the leaves. The common
calyx, in this order, is that termed a fpatha or Jheathy
and has either one or twTo valves. The fpadix, or head
of flowers protruded from the fheath, is generally
branched. Each flower is generally furnifhed with a
perianthiura or proper flower-cup, confifting of three
leaves or divifions that are fmall and permanent. The
•petals are three in number, of a fubftance like leather,
and permanent like the leaves of the calyx. The fta-
mina are from l to 20 and upwards, cohering flightly
at their bafe. The feed-buds are from one to three in
number, placed in the middle of the flower, and fup-
porting a like number of ftyles, which are very fhort.
The feed-veffel is generally a pulpy fruit of the ber¬
ry or cherry kind, containing one cell filled with fi¬
brous flefh, and covered with a {kin which is of a
fubftance like leather. The feeds are in number from
one to- three in each pulpy fruit, of a hard bony
fubftance, round or oval, and attached by their bafe
to the bottom of the fruit.—-Thefe plants, particu¬
larly the feeds, are aftringent, and of efficacy in dy-
fenteries.
2. Pipeutoe. Thefe plants are moftly herbaceous
and perennial. The ftalks of pothos creep along rocks
and trees, into wffiich they ftrike root at certain di-
ftances. The greateft height which any of them is
known to attain is 15 feet ; the greater part do not
exceed three or four. The flethy roots of many of
thefe plants are extremely acrid when frefti. They
lofe this pungent quality, however, by being dried,
and become of a foapy nature. The fmell of many
of them is extremely fetid, frequently refembling that
of human excrements. The flowers, however, of an
Ethiopian dracunculus or arum, and the cover in which
they are involved, are faid to emit a very fragrant
odour. With regard to their virtues, thefe plants are
commonly aftringent.
3. Calamarie. In this clafs the bafe of the leaf,
A N Y.
which embraces the ftalk like a glove, has no longitu¬
dinal aperture, but is perfeftly entire. The ftalk is ge¬
nerally triangular, and without knots or joints. The
roots of feme are long and knotty ; in others they are
compofed of fleftiy fibres which pierce deep into the
ground : and in others, of a bulb. The flowers are
either hermaphrodite, or male and female upon the fame
root. The mode of inflorefcence in this order is gene¬
rally a fpike ; fometimes a capitulum or head. The
calyx is either a gluma or an amentum. The corolla
is wanting. The filaments of the ftamina are three
in number, fhort, flender like a hair, and fometimes
briftly. The antherae are generally long, flender, and
erett. The feed-bud is very fmall, blunt, and fome¬
times three-cornered. The ftyle is thread-fhaped, and
of the length of the fcaly calyx. The ftigmata are ge¬
nerally three in number ; flender, hairy, and fometimes
permanent. The virtues, ufes, and fenfible qualities,
of this order of plants are the fame with thofe of the
following.
4. Gramina. Moft of thefe plants are annual or pe
rennial herbs ; feme of them creep upon the ground,
others are ereft. The roots, in the greateft number,
are creeping, and emit fibres from each knot or joint ;
in others they are fimply branching and fibrous. The
items and branches are round. The leaves are fimple,
alternate, entire, very long, and commonly narrow.
They form below a fort of fheath, which embraces or
furrounds the ftem, and is generally cleft or divided on
one fide through its whole length. The flowrers are
either hermaphrodite, male and female on the fam6
root, or hermaphrodite and male on the fame root.
They proceed either fingly from the fheath of the
leaves, or are formed into a panicle or loofe fpike.
The calyx and corolla in this order are not fufficiently
afcertained $ in feme a fingle fcale or hufk, in others
two, fupply the place of both covers $ fome grafles
have four hufky feales, two of which ferve for the ca¬
lyx, and the other two for the corolla ; fome have
five ; others fix, four of which conftitute the calyx,
and the other two are termed improperly enough the
hujky petals. The corolla is fometimes compofed of
one petal with' two divifions ; and in general the hulks
of the calyx are always placed oppofite to thofe of the
corolla. The ftamina are generally three in number,
and placed irregularly with regard to the fituation of
the calyx and corolla. The antherse are long, fur¬
nifhed with two cells, and flightly attached to the fi¬
laments. The feed-bud is placed upon the fame re¬
ceptacle as the calyx, corolla, and ftamina. The ftyle
is generally double, and crowned with a hairy ftigma
or fummit. The feed-veffel is wanting. The feeds are
fingle, oval, and attached below to the bottom of the
flower.-—The roots of the graffes are opening j fuch as
have an aromatic fmell are ftomachic ; their feeds are
mealy, mucilaginous, and nourifhing. All the parts
of thefe plants are wholefome.
5. Tripetaloidea (from tres, three; and pet alum, a
petal). Thete plants have no very ftriking charadfers,
and are nearly allied to the graffes. All the genera of
this order have not the circumftance exprefled in the
title.
6. Enfate. This order, which is very nearly allied
to the graffes and liliaceous plants, fumiffies a very
Qjl 2 beautiful
3q8 B O T
beautiful coikcfion of perennial herbs, which are of
difterent heights, from one inch to 15 feet. The roots
are tuberous or tleihy, ami garni(hed with fibres j the
(talks are fimple, and commonly fiat or comprefl’ed on
the iides. The leaves are fimple, alternate, entire,
(word-ihaped, and, like the liliaceous plants, form at
their origin a (heath or glove, which in the greateft
number is cleft or divided through the whole length,
except at the bafe, where it is entire, and embraces the
(talk like a ring. The flowers are hermaphrodite, and
generally pioceed from the fummit of the (talks either
(ingly, in an umbel, a fpike, or in a panicle. In pon-
tederia they proceed from the wings or angles of the
leaves either fingly or in an umbel. Moll of thefe
plants want the perianthium or fiower-cup j the flowers
built from a common cover or (heath, termed by Lin-
uku* fpatba, which in this order is frequently perma¬
nent. The petals are in number from one to fix. The
(tamina are generally three. The feed-bud is placed
fometimes above the flower, fometimes below it. The
(tyle is generally fingle, and crowned with a triple
(tigma. The feed-velTel is a dry capfule, generally of
an oblong Ihape, and opens at three valves, difeover-
ing the fame number of cells, each inclofing a quanti¬
ty of roundifh feeds.-—Thefe plants refemble the lilia¬
ceous in their powers and fenlible qualities j very few
of them, however, are ufed in medicine.
7. Orchidea. The roots of many of thefe plants are
compofed of one or more flefliy tubercles or knobs, at¬
tached to the lower part of the ftem,' and feuding forth
fibres from the top. Thofe of orchis bear an obvious
refemblance to the ferotum in animals : from which
circumftance the genus has derived its name. The
leaves are of a moderate fize, inferibed with a number
of longitudinal nerves or ribs, and without any foot-
ftalk. At their origin they form round the (talk a
kind of (heath, which is long, entire, cylindrical, but
not furniflred, like the grafles and fome other plants,
with a crown at top. The flowers are hermaphrodite,
and placed at the fummit of the (talk either in a fpike
or in a panicle. The calyx is that fort termed by Lin¬
naeus a fpatha or jheath, that burfting open protrudes
a head or clufter of flowers, termed fpadix, which
have no perianthium or flower-cup. The petals are
five in number, and very irregular. The nedfarium in
this order is remarkably confpicuous ; yet fo different
in the different genera, that Linnaeus has employed it
for his principal charadler or mark of diftindlion, in-
ftead of the root, which had chiefly engaged the at¬
tention of former botanifts. It has the appearance of
a lixth petal. The filaments are always two in num¬
ber, and placed upon the piftillum or female organ.
The antherae are erecl, and generally covered by the
upper lip of the nedtarium. The feed-bud is either
oblong or pillar-fhaped, twilled like a ferew, and uni-
verfally placed below the receptacle of the flower. The
ilyle is fingle, very fhort, and forms one fubflance wuth
the inner margin of the nedfarium. The feed-veffel is
generally a capfule with one cavity or cell, and three
valves or openings, which are keel-fliaped, and open
on the angular fides, being jointed both at the bottom
and top. The feeds are numerous; very frnall, like
faw-duft y and attached, without footflalks, to a (len¬
der receptacle or rib, which extends itfelf lengthwife
A N Y. Hiftory.
in the middle of each inclofure or valve. The plants
of this order are reckoned (Irong aphrodifiacs.
8. Scitartunea. This clafs confiifs of beautiful exo¬
tic plants, all natives of very warm countries. Some
of them furnifh exquifite fruits ; but though the plants
rife very high, they are perennial only by their roots.
Thofe which have only one filament, have in all their
parts an aromatic odour, and an acrid or poignant taftej
qualities, however, poffeffed in a much greater degree
by the roots, which are hot and refinous.
9. Spathacea, fo called becaufe their flowers are
protruded from a fpatha or (heath. They are nearly
allied in habit and ftrufture to the liliaceous plants,
from which they are chiefly diftinguifhed by the fpatha
but of which their flowers are protruded.
10. Coronaria. Thefe plants are herbaceous, per¬
ennial, and from one inch to J 5 feet high. The roots
are either bulbous, fibrous, or compofed of fmall fiefhy
knots, which are jointed at top. rI he bulbs either con-
fift of feales laid over each other like tiles, or are folid.
The ftem of the liliaceous bulbous plants is properly-
wanting ; what fupplies its place being nothing elfc
than the bafe of the leaves, which, wrapping or enfold¬
ing each other, form at bottom a roundifti fleftiy bulb
hitherto diftinguifhed, though perhaps improperly, by
the name of root. In the others the ftem is fimple,
that is, has few branches, and is either furnifhed with
leaves, or rifes naked. The branches are alternate and
cylindrical. The leaves are fimple, alternate, and en¬
tire. Thofe next the root, termed radical leaves, ge¬
nerally form at their origin a (heath, which in a great
number is entire $ that is, goes all round j whilft in
others, it is cleft or divided longitudinally on one fide.
The flowers are univerfally hermaphrodite, except in
white hellebore, which has both male and hermaphrodite
flowers mixed together on the fame root. The flowers
are fometimes fingle, and terminate the ftem, fometimes
they form an umbel, fometimes a fpike, and fometimes
a panicle. The calyx or flower cup, in this order, ac¬
cording to Linnseus, is generally wanting. In Uriel
propriety, however, the fingle cover that is preient in
moil of thefe plants, though beautifully coloured, ought
to be denominated n calyx; as its divifions, generally fix
in number, are placed oppofite to the ftamina. The
petals, or, to fpeak more properly, the coloured leaves
of the flower, are in number from one to fix. Plants
which have a fingle petal, have the limb or upper part
fplit into fix divifions or fegments. The petals in fome
fpecies are rolled or turned back. T he ne£larium is
various j in the lily it is a longitudinal line which runs
through each petal, and reaches from the bafe to the
middle. In crown imperial, it is a fmall hollow or
pore, formed at the bafe of each petal j in afphodel it
confifts of fix very fmall valves, which, approaching,
form a globe, and are inferted into the bafe of the pe¬
tal 5 in hyacinth, it is compofed of three melliferous
pores, fituated on the top of the feed-bud. In pine¬
apple, it is a fmall fcale lying within the fubftance
of each petal above the bafe j and in albuca, or baftard
flat of Bethlehem, it confifts of two (harp-pointed bodies
proceeding from the furrows of the feed-bud, and co¬
vered by the broader bafe of the three fertile filaments.
In fome fpecies of lily the nedlarium is hairy j in o-
thers it is naked. 'I he ftamina are fix in number 5
ereft.
3°9
Hiftory. ^ 1
ereS, and inferted into the common receptacle, if the
flower confifts of many petals j into the tube, or divi-
fions of the corolla, if it confifts of one. 1 he anther®
are long, commonly divided below, and llightly attach¬
ed by their Tides to the filaments on which they turn like
a vane or the needle of a compafs. 1 he leefl-bud is
Tingle, and placed either within the flower-cup or be¬
low it. The ftyle is Tingle, thread-illaped, and gene¬
rally of the length of the petals. The Ttigma is gene¬
rally Tingle, of a conic form, and (baggy or hairy at the
extremity. The feed-veffel is generally a capfule, di¬
vided externally into three valves, internally into three
cells.- With refpeft to the powers of the plants of this
order, it may be affirmed in general, that fuch as have
little tafte or fmell, as the roots of tulip, and (far. of
Bethlehem, are perfe&ly innocent; whilff thofe which
have a heavy naufeous imell, asfquill, hyacinth, crown
imperial, and fpider-wort, are at leaft fufpicious, and
frequently prove noxious.
ii. Stirmentofce, (from far men turn, a long (hoot,
like that of a vine.^) This order confifts of plants
which have climbing ftems and branches, that, like the
vine, attach themfelves to the bodies in tbeir neigh¬
bourhood for the purpofe oi lupport. 1 hele plants are
far from being a true natural affemblage •, in fact they
fcarce agree in a Tingle circumilance, except that ex-
preffed in the title, which is far from being peculiar to
this order.
t 2. Rjleracea. This order confifts of plants wdiich
are ufed for the table, and enter into the oeconomy of
domeftic affairs : it contains trees, (lirubs, perennial,
and annual herbs. Some of the woody vegetables retain
their green leaves during the winter. The roots are
very long, and frequently fpindle-lhaped j from the
knots on the ftems and branches of fuch plants as creep
on the ground, or float on the water, proceed fibrous
and branching roots. The ftems and young branches
are cylindric \ and in the greateft part of the aquatic
plants of this order, the ftalks are hollow within. The
buds are of a conic form, and naked j that is, not ac¬
companied with fcales. The leaves are generally fimple,
entire, alternate, and attached to the branches by a
cylindric foot-ftalk, which is fometimes very long, but
commonly very (hort. Some plants of this kind have
two ftipulee or fcales which are attached to the branches
near the origin of the foot-ftalk of each leaf. In many
others, inftead of ftipul®, each leaf bears on its foot-
ftalk a membranaceous (heath, which is cylindric, fre¬
quently fringed on the margin, and pierced or pene¬
trated by the ftem. The flowers are either hermaphro¬
dite ; male and female upon the fame root j male and
female upon different roots; hermaphrodite and male
on the fame root j hermaphrodite and female on the
fame root; or hermaphrodite and male on different
roots.
13. Succulent#. This order confifts of flat, fleftiy,
and juicy plants, moft of them evergreens. They are
aftringent, refrelhing, and very wholefome.
14. Gruinales (from^rwr a crane). Thefe confiftof
geranium, vulgarly called cranes-bill, and a few other
genera which Linnaeus confiders as allied to it in their
habit and external ftru&ure. This order furnifties both
herbaceous and woody plants. The roots are fometimes
fibrous, fometimes tuberous. In fome fpecies of wood-
forrel they are jointed. The ftems are cylindric j the
A N Y.
young branches, in Tome, nearly fquarc. i ne buds are
of a conic form, and covered with fcales. The leaves
are either fimple or compound. The flowers are her¬
maphrodite ; they proceed from the wings of the leaves
either fingly or in clufters. The calyx or flower-dip
confifts of five diftimff leaves, or of one leaf divided al-
moft to the bottom into five parts. It generally ac¬
companies the feed-bud to its maturity. The petals
are five in number, fpreading, and frequently funnel-
(haped. The (lamina are generally ten in number,
awl (haped, ere£l, and of the length of the petals, '['he
(lamina are generally oblong ; and frequently attached
to the filaments by the middle, fo as to lie, and Tome-
times to veer about, upon them. The Teed-bud is ei¬
ther oblong or five-cornered. The number of ftyles is
either one or five. In tribulus, the ftyle is wanting.
The feed-veffel is generally a five-cornered capfule,
with one, three, five, or ten cells. The feeds are ge¬
nera]’) equal in number to the internal divifibns or the
cells of the feed-veffel; one feed being placed in each
cell.
15. Inundates. The plants of this order are aqua¬
tic, of low ftature, herbaceous, and moftly perennial.
The roots are fibrous. The ftem is generally wanting.
In its place is an affemblage of leaves, which wrap¬
ping or enfolding each other mutually form a (heath , ■
and from the middle of this (heath is produced the foot-
ftalk of the flower. The leaves are fometimes alternate,
fometimes placed in wdiirls round the ftem. In a great
many genera the foot-ftalk is extended at its origin into
a membranaceous fubftance, which forms a (heath that
is cleft through the whole length, on the fide oppofite
to the leaf. The flowers are hermaphrodite, or male
and female on the Tame root. The flow®r-cup is either
wanting, or confifts of three, four, or five divifions or
leaves, wdiich accompany the Teed-bud to its maturity.
The petals are generally wanting. The (lamina are
in number from 1 to 16 and upwards. The filaments
in fome genera are fo Ihort, that they feem wanting.
The anther® are fliort, and generally marked with four
longitudinal furrows. The feed-buds are in number
from one to four, the ftyle is frequently wanting. The
feed-veffel is univerfally wanting, except in elatine,
which has a dry capfule, with four external openings,
and the fame number of cells. The feeds are generally
four in fiumber.
16. Calyciflor*, (from calyx the flowrer-cup, zn&Jlos
the flower), confiding of fuch plants as have the (la¬
mina (the flower)inferted into the calyx. All the plants
of this order are of the (hrub and tree kind. Some of
them rife to the height of 12 or 14 feet j others not
above two or three. The roots are branching, fibrous,
and woody. The ftems are cylindric. The branches,
when young, are cornered } the buds of a conic form,
and without fcales. The leaves are fimple, alternate,
and attached to the branches by a very (hort foot-ftalk.
The flowers are either male or female upon diftinft
roots, or hermaphrodite and male on the fame root.
The calyx is a perianthium compofed of one leaf di¬
vided into tw'O, three, or four fegments. It is com¬
monly placed upon the germen or feed-bud, which
accompanies it to maturity. The corolla is univerfally
wanting, except in trophis, the male plants of which,
according to Linnaeus, have four obtufe and fpreading
petals. The ftamina are generally four in number,,
(lender
B O T
{lender like a hair, Jliort, placed at a confiderable di-
flance from the rtyle, and inferted into the tube of the
calyx. The piitillum is compofed of a roundidi ger-
men, crowned with the calyx ; a fingle thread-fhaped
ifyle ; and a cylindric fligma. The feed-vedel is either
an obtufe oval fruit of the cherry kind, or a globular
berry with one cell, containing a roundifh feed. The
plants of this order are aftringent.
17. Ca/ycanthenue, (from rWj/.v the flower-cup, and
the jlovjer); confiding of plants, which, among
other charafters, have the corolla and ftamina inferted
in the calyx. This order furnifhes trees, flmibs, and
annual, biennial, and perennial herbs. The herbaceous
annuals are by much the mod numerous. The roots are
branching and fibrous; the ftems and branches cylin¬
dric, fquare, or four-cornered while young. The buds
are of a conic form, and without fcales. The leaves are
generally either alternate, fimple, and attached to the
branches by a fhort foot-dalk, or oppofite at tile bot¬
tom of the dem ; and in forae, alternate towards the
top. They are univerfally feflile ; that is, attached to
the branches, without any foot-dalk. The calyx is uni¬
verfally a perianthium, and generally monophyllous, or
compofed of one leaf. The corolla confids of four, five,
and fix petals, which are attached to the tube of the
calyx, and are fometimes placed alternate, fometimes
oppofite to the divifions of the limb. The ftamina,
which are in number from 4 to 20 and upwards, are at¬
tached to the tube of the calyx either on its margin or
lower down. When the number of ftamina is double
the divifions of the calyx, the ftamina which ftand op¬
pofite thefe divifions are a little longer than the reft.
The antherse are generally of a hemifpherical figure ;
frequently cleft or flit beloiv 5 and by that aperture at¬
tached (lightly to the filaments, on which they often
veer about like a vane or needle. They are furrounded
longitudinally, and open on the fides into two loculi or
cells. The pollen, or male duft, confifts of a number
of minute particles, of an oval figure, yellow and tranf-
parent. The germen, or feed-bud, is placed either a-
bove or under the receptacle of the flower. The ftyle
is fingle, thread-fhaped, and of the length of the fta¬
mina. The ftigma is generally fingle and undivided.
The feed-veflel is a capfule, which is generally divided
internally into four loculi or cells. The feeds are nume¬
rous, minute, and frequently three-cornered. The
plants of this order are reckoned aftringent.
18. Bicornes, (from twice, and cornu a horn),
plants whofe antherse have the appearance of two horns.
This appearance, however, is not very confpicuous,
unlefs in a few genera. The plants of this order are
all of the fhrub and tree kind. The roots are branch¬
ing and fibrous. The ftems and branches are cylin¬
dric. The buds conic, fometimes covered with fcales,
and fometimes naked. The leaves are generally alter¬
nate. In moft plants of this order they are either fefiile,
or fupported by a very fhort foot-ftalk, which is femi-
eylindnc, and flat above. The flowers are univerfally
hermaphrodite, except in one genus, the Indian date-
plum, where hermaphiodite and male flow’ers are pro¬
duced in the fame fpecies upon diftinft roots. They
proceed either fobtary, or in a corymbus from the
angles formed by the leaves and branches : or hang
dowmin fpikes and clufters at the end of the branches;
.each flower having a fmall Icale or floral leaf placed
A N Y. 1
under it. In moft plants of this order the calyx is
placed around er below the germen. The calyx is uni¬
verfally a perianthium, and generally monopr.yllcus or
of one piece, deeply divided into four or five legments,
which are permanent, that is, accompany the germen
to its maturity. The fegments are often acute, and
fometimes coloured. The corolla is generally rr-onope-
talous, and bell or funnel fhaped ; the figure, however,
is not very conftant, even in plants of the fame genus.
The limb, or upper part of the petal, is generally di¬
vided into four or five fegments, which are fometimes
rolled back, lometimes bent inwards. The limb too is
fometimes (lightly cut, fometimes divided almoft to the
bottom. 7 he tube, or lower part of the petal, is cy-
lindric, and generally of the fame length wu’th the cahx,
ri'he number of ftamina is from 4 to 20. Thefe are ge¬
nerally ereft, and attached to the lower part of the tube
of the corolla. The anthers} are bifid or forked below,
and, being (lightly attached to the filaments, are fre¬
quently inverted in fuch a manner as to exhibit the ap¬
pearance of two horns at top. The germen or feed-
bud, is generally roundifh, and feated above the recep¬
tacle. The ftyle is fingle, thread-fhaped, of the fame
length wdth the corolla, and in a fewT genera permanent,
i he feed-veffel is either a capfule with five cells, a round¬
ifh berry, or an oblong four-corned nut with two cells.
—The plants of this order are aftringent.
19. Hefperidecv, (from the Hefperides, whofe or¬
chards are faid to have produced golden apples). The
plants of this order are of the fhrub and tree kind, and
moftly evergreen. The bark of the ftalks is (lender,
and comes off in thin plates. The leaves are general¬
ly oppofite, and covered with fmall tranfparent points.
In feme, the leaves are placed oppofite at the bottom
of the ftalks, and alternate above. The buds are of a
conic form, the flowers generally hermaphrodite ; they
proceed from the wings of the leaves either fingly, or
in clufters like ivy-berries. The calyx is placed above
the feed-bud, and accompanies it to its maturity. The
petals are three, four, or five in number, and ftand upon
the brims of the tube of the calyx. The feed-bud is
large, oblong, and placed below the receptacle of the
flower. The ftyle is fingle, awl-fhaped, of the length
of the ftamina, and terminated with a fingle ftigma,
1'he feed-veflel in fome genera is a berry furnifhed
w ith one or three cells ; a capfule with four cells, or of
the nature of a cherry, containing a ftone. The feeds
are generally numerous, fmall, and oblong. The leaves
and fruits are aftringent, the berries elculent.
20. Rotacea, (from rota, a wdieel), confifting of plants
wuth one wdieel-fhaped petal without a tube. Thefe
referable in quality thofe of the order of Precia-, to
which they are in all refpedfs very nearly allied ; but
very few' of them can be faid in ftrift propriety to pof-
fefs the charafter fpecified in the title.
2T. P’ecia-, (from prcents early). Thefe confift of
primrofe, an early flowering plant, and fome others
which agree with it in habit and ftruflure, though not
always in the ehara&er or circumftance expreflfed in the
title. Thefe plants, w'hich pofliefs no ftriking uniform
chara&ers, are, in general, innocent in their quality;
yet the root of fow-bread is dangerous, if taken inter¬
nally.
22. Caryophylletc. All the plants of this order are her¬
baceous, and moftly annual. Some of the creeping
kinds
Hillary. B O T
kinds do not rife above an inch, and the tailed: exceed
not feven or eight feet. The roots are branching,
fibrous, and of a moderate length. The dems are cy¬
lindrical. The branches proceed from the wings or
angles of the leaves, and are generally oppofite, and
as it were jointed at each knot. In fome fpecies of
ceradium the branches are fquare. The leaves are ge¬
nerally placed oppofite in pairs, fo as to referable a
crofs ; and are nightly united at the bottom by their
foot-dalks, which form a fort of glove round the dem.
The hairs are Ample, like fiik. The flowers are her¬
maphrodite *, but fome have male and female flowers
upon didinct roots. They either dand fingle on their
foot-dalks, and proceed from the wings or angles of
the leaves and branches, or are difpofed in a fpike,
corymbus, umbel, or panicle. The calyx is permanent,
and compofed either of one piece with five indentments,
or of four or five didintt leaves. The corolla generally
confids of five petals, which have claws of the length
of the calyx ; and a fpreading limb, fometimes entire,
but oftener cleft or divided in two. The damina are
in number from 3 to 15, and of a moderate length.
When their number is double the divifions of the calyx,
they are attached alternately to the claw's of the petals,
thofe fo attached being diorter tha9 the red 5 the re¬
maining damina are inlerted into the common recepta¬
cle, and dand oppofite to the fegments of the calyx. In
fome genera of this order the number of damina is found
to vary, even in the different flowers of the fame plant.
The antherae are Ihort, hemifpherical, marked with
four longitudinal furrows, frequently divided or cleft
below, mod commonly ereid 5 fometimes, however, m-
cumbent, that is, fadened to the filaments by the fidcs.
The pointal is compofed of a fingle feed-bud, which is
generally roundilh, fometimes cornered. The dyles
are thread-fliaped, of the length of the damina, and
crowned with a fimple digma, which is deck or fmooth
externally, and dightly hollowed or vaulted within.
The feed-veffel is a dry capfule, of an oval form, of the
length of the calyx, and confids of one or three cells.
The plants of this order are innocent in their quality ;
they abound in a watery fort of phlegm, and have bit¬
ter feed. With refpeft to their virtues, they are rec¬
koned adringent, attenuating, and deterfive.
23. Tnhilattfy (from tres three, and hilum an ex¬
ternal mark on the feed) ; confiding of plants with
three feeds, which are marked didinftly with an exter¬
nal cicatrix or fear, where they are fadened within
to the fruit.
24. Corydales, (from xejv? a helmet) ; confiding of
plants which have irregular flowers, fomewhat refem-
bling a helmet or hood. Thefe plants 'are moflly her¬
baceous and perennial. The roots are tuberous or
knobby. The dems are generally branching. The
leaves are alternate, fometimes fimple, but mod com¬
monly winged. The foot-dalk of the leaves is drait
or narrow, except in epimedium, where it is large,
and has a membranous edge or border. The flowers
are univerally hermaphrodite. They proceed either
fingly from the wings and angles of the leaves, or are
collected in duffers at the end of the branches. The
calyx confids of two, four, five, or fix leaves, which are
frequently coloured, and commonly fall off immediately
before, or very foon after, the expanfion of the petals.
The corolla is generally irregular} of one, or many
A N Y.
pieces j gaping j and furnilhed with a ne61arium, which
is very different in the different genera. The damina
are in number from two to fix, and of a proportionate
length, except in honey-flower, rvhich has two fhorter
than the red. The filaments are diffincl, except in
two genera, fumitory and monnieriay which have tw?o
fets of firings or filaments united in a cylinder. The
antherae are univerfally diflindl, except in impatiens,
wffere they are formed into a cylinder divided at the
bafe. The feed-bud is generally roundiffi, but fome¬
times angular or cornered. The dyle is commonly
fingle, extremely fhort, flender, or thread-draped, and
crowned with a fimple fligma. The feed-veffel is ei¬
ther a hollow blown-up berry, a capfule of one cell,
a longilh, or a rounaiffi pod. The feeds are generally'
numerous and round.
25. Putaminea, (from put amen a fliell) : confiding
of a few genera of plants allied in habit, whofe flefliy
feed-veffel or fruit is frequently covered with a hard
woody fliell. Mod of thefe plants are acrid and pe¬
netrating ; and yield, by burning, a great quantity of
fixed alkab. With refpect to their virtues, they are
powerful aperients. The Indians pretend that the
fruit of a fpecies of caper-bufli, which they call baducca,
extinguifhes the flames of love.
26. Multifiiiquce, (from multui many, and Jiliqua a
pod) ; confiding of plants which have more feed-vef-
fels than one. From the etymology of the term, one
would naturally imagine that the feed-veffels in quedion
were of that kind called by Linnteus Jiliqua,, or pod j.,
but the faff is, that not a fingle plant of this order
bears podsj the greater part having many dry capfules,
and the remainder being furnifhed properly with no
feed-veffel, but bearing numerous diflinfl feeds. Plants
of this order are moffly perennial herbs : the flems of
fome are ere<fl ; others creep upon the ground, and
produce roots near the origin of each leaf; laflly, others
climb, and attach themfelves to the bodies in their
neighbourhood, either by the foot-dalk of the leaves,
or by tendrils and clafpers which terminate the foot-
ftalk. The greated height of thofe which rife ereiff,
feldom exceeds eight feet. Thofe wfliicli climb, rarely
exceed 15 or 20 feet. The roots are generally flediv.
In fome they are hand-fhaped 5 in others finger-fliaped,
or cylindric. In fome fpecies of hellebore and ranun¬
culus they ard divided into fpherical knobs. Laflly, In
fome plants of this order, the roots are fibrous. The
dems and young branches are cylindric. The leaves,
which are of different forms, being fometimes fimple and
entire, fometimes hand-diaped or winged, are generally
alternate. The foot-dalk, which is fometimes cylindric,
fometimes angular, is membranous, and very large at
its origin, furrounding a great part of the flem from
which it proceeds. The flowTers are hermaphrodite.
They proceed either fingly from the wings of the leaves
«r termination of the branches, or terminate the branch¬
es in a fpike, panicle, or head. The calyx in fome
is wanting*; in others it is generally compofed of five
pieces, which fall off with the petals. The petals are in
number from 4 to 15; generally equal, and fome¬
times difpofed in twra or three feries; five is the pre¬
vailing number. The flamina are in number from 5
to 300* didindf, and attached generally in feveral rows
or feries to the receptacle. The feed-buds are gene¬
rally numerous; the flyle is frequently wanting. In
fomc
312
B O T
fome the fced-vuTei is xvantlng j in others it is compofed
of feveral dry capfules, each containing a fingle cell.
The feeds are numerous, and frequently angular. Moll
of thefe plants are aciid, and many of them poifonous.
In general, plants that have a great number of ftamina
are noxious in their quality. When burnt, thefe plants
furnifh a fixed alkali ; by diflillation there is drawn
from them a kind of nitrous and aluminous fubfiance.
With refpect to their virtues, they are cauftic and pur¬
gative.
27. Rhtttdecey confiding of poppy, and a few genera
which refemble it in habit and ftruflure. Thefe plants,
upon being cut, emit plentifully a juice, which is white
in poppy, and yellow in the others. With refpeft to
their virtues, they feem to operate principally upon the
nerves. Their juice is foporific and narcotic, their
feeds lefs fo, their roots aperient. Applied externally,
they are {lightly corrofive.
28. Lurid<ty confilting of plants whofe pale and
ominous appearance feems to indicate fomething bale¬
ful and noxious in their natural quality. Moft of thefe
plants are herbaceous and perennial. Many of them
are of the mafked tribe of flowers ; others refemble
thefe in their general appearance, but differ from them
effentially in the equality of their ftamina. The roots
are generally branched, fometimes tuberous. The
Items and branches are cylindric. The leaves are ge¬
nerally iimple, and placed alternate. The flowers are
hermaphrodite. They proceed either fingly or in cluf-
ters from the angle formed by the leaves and branches.
In fome fpecies of lycium, they terminate the branch¬
es. The calyx is generally of one piece deeply divid¬
ed into five parts. The corolla confifts of one petal,
which is either bell, funnel, or wheel-fhaped. The
ftamina are four or five in number ; and thofe either of
equal lengths, as in the greater, or unequal. The feed-
bud is placed above the receptacle of the florver. The
ftyle is Angle } and is terminated by a fummit which is
hemifpherical, and frequently channelled or furrowed.
The feed-veffel, in fuch as have equal ftamina, is a berry;
in the reft, it is generally a capfule. The feeds are nu¬
merous, and frequently kidney-ftiaped.—Thefe plants
in general are poifonous. They have an infipid tafte,
and a naufeous difagreeable fmell.
29. Campanacece, [ixoxa.campanay a bell); plants with
bell-fhaped flowers. The plants of this order are her¬
baceous and perennial. The roots are either fpindle-
{haped, or branching and fibrous. The items are round.
The branches are generally alternate. The leaves are
Ample, alternate, and commonly attached to the branch¬
es by a femi-cylindric foot-ftalk, which is furrowed
above. The indentments are terminated by a fmall
white tubercle or knob, which renders them confpicu-
ous. The flowers are hermaphrodite ; and proceed ei¬
ther (olitary from the wings of the leaves, or are col¬
lected into a fpike and head at the end of the flower-
ftalk. The calyx is univerfally a perianthium fituated
upon or round the germen, and generally compofed
of one leaf deeply divided into five fegments. The
corollais monopetalous, and ofthebell, funnel, orwheel-
fhape. The tube, in flowers of the bell and wheel-fhape,
is very fhort; in thofe of the funnel-fhape, very long.
In Greek valerian, the tube is (hut with five valves,
wh’’ch are olaced on its apex or top. The limb or up¬
per part of the corolla is deeply divided into five feg-
A N Y. Hifloiy.
ments, which fpread, and are alternate with the divifions
of the calyx. The corolla is generally permanent. The
ftamina are five in number, attached to the bafe of the
tube of the corolla, alternate with its divifions, and
oppofite to thofe of the calyx. The filaments are di-
ftincl ; very large at their origin ; and frequently ap¬
proach fo as to form a lort of vault, ■which covers the
fumxnit of the germen. They are {lender and awl-
fhaped above. The antherae are very long; oval;
marked with four longitudinal furrows, either diftinCf,
or united in a cylinder. The pollen is compoied of
very fmall, fpherical, white, fhining, and tranfparent
particles. The germen is roundifti, and fituated either
wdiolly or in part under the flower. 1 he ftyle is ge¬
nerally Angle, and of the length of the ftamina or co¬
rolla. The ftigma is commonly Angle, but deeply divid¬
ed. The feed-veffel is a roundifti capfule, generally
divided into three cells, and furniftied externally with
the fame number ©f valves. 7 he feeds are fmall, nu¬
merous, attached to a receptacle in the centre of the
fruit, generally rounded, and lometimes cornered.—
This order furnifhes many excellent medicines. 7 he
plants abound with a white milky juice, which, upon
the ftalk being cut, flows out in great quantities.
30. Contort a, (from con together, and torqueo to
twift) ; confifting of plants which have a Angle petal
that is twifted or bent towards one fide. 7’his order
furnifties trees, fhrubs, and fat fucculent plants, fome
of which retain their leaves during the winter. The
herbaceous vegetables in this order are generally peren¬
nial. 7'he roots are fometimes branching, but com¬
monly flefhy, fucculent, and garnifhed with fibres or
firings like thofe of turnip. The Items are round and
in fome genera pulpy and fucculent. The branches
are fometimes placed alternate, and fometimes oppofite.
The buds are of a conic form, and naked or without
feales. The leaves are fometimes alternate, fometimes
placed oppofite in pairs, and not feldom furround the
Item in whirls. They are attached to the branches by
a cylindrical foot-ftalk, which is fbort, and frequently
united to the foot-ftalk of the oppofite leaf. The de-
fenfive and ofi'enfive weapons in this order are a downy
fort of pubefcence, and fimple, or forked prickles,
which, in fome genera, iffue from the wings of the
leaves. The flowers are hermaphrodite ; and Hand ei¬
ther fingly upon their footftalks, or are collefted into
umbels and clufters. 7 htfe bunches or colleftions of
flowers fometimes terminate the branches, lometimes
proceed from the angles of the branches, and fometimes
Hand at the fide of the wings without iffuing from
them. The flower-cup is compofed of one leaf divided
almoft to the bafe in five unequal fegments, which em¬
brace each other, and are permanent, ©r accompany
the feed-bud to its maturity. The corolla confifts of
one petal, which in the different genera is bell, falver,
funnel, or wheel-Ihaped. The limb, or upper fpread-
ing part of the petal, is generally divided into five
equal parts, which are {lightly bent or twifted to the
left, and embrace or enfold each other like the petals
of the mallow tribe. 7 he tube is generally long and
cylindrical; fometimes club-lhaped, and often wanting.
In feveral flowers of this order the petal is accompanied
with that fpecies of fuperfluity termed a neEiariutn. In.
the different genera, however, it affumes very differ¬
ent aunearances. The ftamina are five in number, Ihort,
equal
Hiftory, B O T
equal, attaclied at the fame height to the tube of the
petal, alternate with its divilions, and oppolite to thole
of the calyx. The antheree are generally eredt, and
frequently approach fo as to form a compadt body in
the middle of the dower. The feed-bud is either lingle
or double. In fome the ftyle is wanting. The iligma
is frequently double. The feed-veffel in fome genera
is a pulpy fruit, of the berry and cherry kind j but
mod frequently that fpecies termed by Linnaeus ccn-
ceptaculum, and folliculus, which has one valve or ex¬
ternal enclofure, opens lengthways on one fide, and
has not the feeds faftened to it. Two of thefe dry
fruits, with a fingle cell, compofe the feed-veffel of molt
plants of this order. The feeds are generally numerous,
and in feveral genera crowned with a long pappus or
downy wing like that of the compound flowers, by
means of which they eafily difperfe and fow themfelves.
—The plants of this order being cut, emit a juice which
is generally milky, and fometimes of a greenilh white.
From the circumltance of their abounding in this milky
juice, the greater part are deemed poifonous ; repeated
obfervations having eftablilhed this aphorilm, That
milky plants, except thofeof the plain compound flowers,
arc generally of a baneful deftruftive nature, and ought
at lead to be adminidered with caution. With refpedl
to their fenfible qualities, they are bitter ; particularly
the feed roots and bark, in which relides their prin¬
cipal virtue.
31. Vepreculz, (from vepres, a briar or bramble),
confiding of plants refembling the daphne, dirca, gni-
dia, &c. but which, however, do not conditute a true
natural affemblage.
32. Papilionacea, plants that have papilionaceous
flowers, i. e. fomewhat refembling a butterfly in drape $
of w’hich number are all the leguminous plants. The
plants of this order are of very different duration •, fome
of them being herbaceous, and thofe either annual or
perennial : others wroody vegetables of the flirub and
tree kind, a few' of which rife to the height of 70 feet
and upwards. The herbaceous plants of this order ge¬
nerally climb *, for, being w'eak, and as it were help-
lefs of themfelves, they are provided by nature wuth
tendrils, and even (harp-pointed hooks, at their extre¬
mities, to faden upon the neighbouring trees or rocks;
or the dalks are endowed with a faculty of twilling
themfelves, for the purpofe of fupport, around the bo¬
dies in their neighbourhood. The pea, vetch, and kid¬
ney-bean, afford familiar examples of this appearance.
The ftrrubs and trees of this order are modiy armed with
ftrong fpines. The roots are very long, and furnilhed
w'ith fibres ; but fome genera have flefliy knobs or tu¬
bercles placed at proper intervals along the fibres. The
flems- are cylindric, as likewife the young branches,
which are placed alternately : thofe w'hich climb, twid
themfelves from right to left, in a direction oppofite to
the apparent motion of the fun. The bark of the large
trees is extremely thick and wwinkled, fo as to refemble
a net with long mefties ; the wood is very hard in the
middle, and commonly coloured or veined. The buds
are hemifpherical, w'ithout fcales, and proceed from the
branches horizontally a little above the angle which
they form with the leaves. The leaves are alternate,
and of different forms, being either fimple, finger-fha-
ped, or w'inged. This laff form is very common ; the
lobes or leffer leaves are entire, and fometimes placed
Vol. IV. Part I.
A N Y. 313
in pairs, but mod commonly the winged leaf is termi¬
nated by an odd lobe. The winged or pinnated leaves
of this order have a daily or periodical motion, de¬
pending upon the progrefs of the fun in his diurnal
courie. The common footftalk of the w'inged and com¬
pound leaves is marked on the upper furface with a ca¬
vity or furrow which runs through its whole length*
The flow'ers are hermaphrodite; and proceed either from
the wings of the leaves, or from the extremity of the
branches. The calyx is a perianthium of one leaf, bell-
(haped, bunching out at the bottom, and cut on its brim
or margin into five irregular divifions or teeth; the low-
ermoft of w'hich, being the odd one, is longer than the
reft : the other four ftand in pairs, of w'hich the upper-
moft is fhorteft, and (lands fartheft afunder. The bot¬
tom of the calyx is moiltened with a fweet liquor like
honey, fo may be deemed the nedlarium of tbefe plants.
The petals are four or five in number, very irregular,
and from their figure and pofition bear an obvious re-
femblance to a butterfly expanding its wings for flight.
Thefe petals have been characterized by diftinft names:
the upper one, which is commonly the largeft, is termed
the Jlandard, (yexi/lum) ; the two fide petals, the wingsy
(a/a) ; and the lowermoft, which is generally united
at top, and divided at bottom, the keel, {carina). The
(lamina are generally ten : thefe are either totally di-
llinft, or united by the filaments into one or two bun¬
dles involving the feed-bud. In the latter cafe, where
there are two fets of united filaments, one of the fetsis
compofed of nine (lamina, w hich are united into a crook¬
ed cylinder, that is cleft on one fide through its whole
length ; along this cleft lies the tenth filament 01 ftamen,
which conftitutes the fecond fet, and is often io clolely
attached to the fecond bundle, that it cannot be ft para-
ted without fome difficulty. The antherae are (mall,
round, marked wdth four longitudinal furrows, and
(lightly attached to the filaments. In lupine, the an¬
therae are alternately round and oblong. The (eed-bud
is fingle, placed upon the receptacle of the flow'er, ob¬
long, cylindrical, (lightly compreffed, of the length of
the cylinder of the united (lamina by which it is invol¬
ved, and fometimes elevated by a (lender footftalk
which iffues from the centre of the calyx. The ftyle is
fingle, (lender, and generally crooked or bent. The
fiigma is commonly covered with a beautiful down, and
placed immediately under the anther®. The feed-vef¬
fel is that fort of pod termed a legumen, which is of an
oblong figure, more or lefs compreffed, with two valves,
and one, twm, or more cavities. Thele cavities are oft¬
en feparated, W'hen ripe, by a fort of joints. The feeds
are generally few' in number, round, fmooth and fleftiy.
Jointed pods have generally a fingle feed in each arti¬
culation. The feeds are all faftened along one future,'
and not alternately to both, as in the other fpecies of
pod termed Jiliqua.—T he plants of this family are, in
general, mucilaginous. From the inner bark of moft of
them flows, either naturally or by incifion, a clammy '
liquor, which dries and hardens like gum ; the juice of
others is fweet like fugar ; fome tafte bitter, and are
purgative, emetic, or even mortal. A fpecies of eaftem
aftragalus, w'ith goats-rue leaves, is faid to be remark¬
ably cauftic, and to burn the tongue exceffively when
chew'ed. In general, however, thefe plants are foft
and clammy. With refpeft to their virtues, the plants
of this order are highly emollient; forae of them are
R r vulnerary
5i4 B O T
Vulnerary and aftringent j and the root of anonls, or
reft-harrow, is diuretic.
33. Lomentacea, {fcom lumentum, a colour ufed by-
painters). Many of thefe plants furnilh beautiful tinc¬
tures, and fome of them are much ufed in dyeing. They
very much referable the laft order, differing only in the
following particulars. 1. In all plants of this order,
except milk-wort, the ftamina are diftinft. The flower
is not fhaped like a butterfly, but is lefs irregular, and
frequently confifts but of one petal. The leaves are
fometimes Ample, but moft: commonly winged. The
feeds are commonly marked with a circular furrow on
both fldes. Like thofe of the leguminous tribe, the
plants of this order are generally mucilaginous. From
the inner bark of the greater number exfudes, either
naturally or by inciflon, a mucilaginous liquor, which
fometimes dries upon the plant, and becomes a gummy
fubftance.
34. Cucurbitacea, (from cucurbit a, a gourd) *, con¬
fiding of plants which referable the gourd in external
figure, habit, virtues, and fenfible qualities.—The
plants of this order, which generally climb, and have
long dilfufed branches, are moftly herbaceous anil per¬
ennial. The roots in the perennial plants of this or¬
der are fhaped like thofe of the turnip 5 in the annuals
they are branching and fibrous. The Items are cylin-
dric and fucculent. The young branches have gene¬
rally five corners. In fome fpecies of paflion-flower
they are fquare. The leaves are alternate, angular, and
fometimes hand-lhaped. They are attached to the
branches by a foot-ftalk, which is pretty long and cy¬
lindrical, without any furrow. From the wing or angle
of each of the upper leaves proceeds a tendril, which is
either fimple or branching, and twifis itfelf fpirally
round the different bodies in its neighbourhood, for
the purpofe of fupporting and training of the branches.
The lower leaves have no tendril. The flowers are ei¬
ther hermaphrodite or male and female. In this laft,
the male flowers are generally feparated from the female
upon the fame root; and that either in the fame wing
or angle of the leaves, or in different angles. The flower-
cup, in the female flowers, is placed upon the feed-
bud ; and generally confifts of one bell-fhaped leaf,
that is deeply divided into five unequal fegments, and
unlike the other plants which have the calyx feated up¬
on the fruit, falls off with the petals and the other
parts of the flower. The corolla confifts of one petal,
with five equal divifions, w'hich adhere to the tube of
the calyx, as if glued to it. A fpecies of paflion-flower,
termed by Linnaeus pajfijlora fuberofa, wants the petals.
The ftamina are in number from one to five, fliort, and
generally inferted into the calyx. The filaments are di-
ftinft j the antherae of many genera are united in a cy¬
linder. In the paflion-flower they are flightly attached
to the filaments, on which they turn like a vane or the
needle of a compafs. The feed-bud is Angle, and pla¬
ced below the receptacle of the flower. The ftyle is ge¬
nerally Angle, cylindrical, of the length of the calyx,
and crowmed with a triple ftigma. The feed-veffel is
generally pulpy, of the apple or berry kind, and con¬
fifts of one, two, or three cells. The feeds are numer¬
ous, generally flat or compreffed, and fometimes co¬
vered with that kind of proper coat called by Linnaeus
arillus.—The fruit of thefe plants is generally purga-
ANY. Hiftory.
tive and refreftiing j that of fome of them proves a very
violent emetic when ufed too freely.
35. Senticofa, (from fentis, a briar or bramble) ; con¬
fiding of the rofe, bramble, and other plants which re¬
ferable them in port and external ftrudture. Thefe
plants are fo nearly allied in form, habit, and ftruc-
ture, to thofe of the natural order Pomace* that they
ought never to have been feparated from it. The leaves
have a ftyptic tafte 5 the fruits are acid and cooling.
With refpeft to their virtues, the leaves are vulnerary
and aftringent, the roots are diuretic. The acid fruits,
as ftrawberry and rafpberry, are ufed with fuccefs in pu¬
trid and bilious fevers, as likewife in contagious and
epidemic dyfenteries, which prevail in fummer and au¬
tumn, and are occafioned by a hidden tranfition from a
hot to a cold air, or by the acrid humour which flows
into the inteftines.
36. Pomace*, (from pomum an apple) j confifting of
thofe which have a pulpy efculent fruit, of the apple,
berry, or cherry kind. The plants of this order, which
furnifti many of our moft efteemed fruits, are moftly
of the ftirub and tree kind. The roots are branched,
fibrous, and in the greater part very long. The ftems
and branches are cylindric. Thefe laft are placed al¬
ternate 5 and, when young, are, in fome genera angu¬
lar. The bark is thick and wrinkled. The buds are
of a conic form, placed in the angles of the leaves, and
covered with fcales which lie over each other like tiles.
The leaves, which differ in form, being in fome genera
fimple, in others winged, are, in the great number,
placed alternate. The footftalk of the leaves is fur¬
rowed above, and frequently accompanied by a number
of knobs like glands. Moft of thefe plants are fur-
niftied with two ftipuhe at the origin of the young foot-
ftalks of the leaves. Thefe, in fome genera are pretty
large : in others, they are fo fmall as fcarce to be per¬
ceived $ and in cocoa-plumb, in particular, they by their
minutenefs referable hairs. The flowers are univerfally
hermaphrodite, except in fpircea aruncus, in which male
and female flowers are produced on diftin£f plants. In
the greater number of genera they are produced in clu¬
tters or heads at the end of the branches. The calyx is
of one piece, with five fegments or divifions, w’hich are
permanent, and placed above the feed-bud in fome 5 in
the reft, they either fall off with the flower, or wither
upon the ftalk. The petals are five in number, and are
inferted into the tube of the calyx. The ftamina are
generally 20 and upwards, and attached like the petals
to the margin of the tube of the calyx. The antherae
are Ihort, and flightly attached to the filaments. The
feed-bud is Angle ; and in thofe genera w’hich have the
calyx permanent, it is placed below the receptacle of
the flower. The feed-veffel is a pulpy fruit of the apple,
berry, or cherry kind. Thofe of the apple kind are di¬
vided internally into a number of cavities or cells. The
feeds are numerous.——The pulpy fruits of this orde?
are acid, efculent, and of great efficacy in putrid and
bilious fevers.
37. Columniferce, (horn columna a pillar, and_/iro to
bear) $ confifting of plants whofe ftamina and piftil have
the appearance of a column or pillar in the centre of
the flower. This order furniflies a choice colle&ion of
herbs both annual and perennial, fhrubs and trees.
Thefe are very different in fize and height, from the
creeping
3lS
Hiftoiy. B O T
creeping mallows, and low fhrubby tea-tree, to the
flefliy limes, and the more lofty fllk-cotton trees, which
by fome modern writers are affirmed to be lb large as
not to be fathomed by 16 men, and fo tall that an ar¬
row cannot reach their top. The ffirubs and trees of
this order are deciduous, pretty thick, of a beautiful
appearance, with an ereft Item, which is formed by its
branches and foliage into a round head. The roots are
extremely long, branch but little, and either run per¬
pendicularly downwards, or extend themfelves horizon¬
tally below the furface. The ftems are cylindric. The
young branches, though commonly of the fame figure,
are fometimes angular. The bark is thick and pliant.
The wood, in general, is very foft and light. The buds
are of a conic form, naked, or without fcales j and fituat-
ed either at the extremity of the branches, or in the
angle formed by the branch and leaf. The leaves are
alternate,, fimple, divided into feveral lobes, and fre¬
quently hand or finger-ffiaped. The ribs or nerves on
the back of the leaf, in fome genera of this order, are
provided near their origin with a number of hollow fur¬
rows or glands, which, being filled with a clammy ho¬
ney-like liquor, have been confidered as fo many veffels
of fecretion. The footftalk of the leaves is cylindric,
fwelled at its origin, and appears jointed at its jun&ion
w’ith the branch. The flowers are univerfally herma¬
phrodite, except in higgeleria, and a fpecies of Virgi¬
nian marlhmallow, called by Linnaeus napaa dioica;
the former of which bears male and female, the latter
male and hermaphrodite, flowers on different roots. In
many plants of this order, the flowTers generally open
about nine in the morning, and remain expanded till
one in the afternoon. The flowers either terminate the
branches, proceed from the angles of the leaves, or
are difpofed either fingly or in a corymbus along the
branches or ftem. In moft of thefe genera the calyx is
fingle, but in others frequently double. In thefe laft
the inner calyx is always of one piece, generally divided
into five fegments; the outer confifts either of one leaf,
of three diftinft leaves, or of many. The calyx, when
fingle, is fometimes compofed of one leaf which is per¬
manent, or of feveral diftinct leaves which are generally
coloured, and fall off with the petals. In plants that
have a double calyx, both flower-cups are generally per¬
manent. The petals in this order are from four to nine j
five is the prevailing number. The ftamina, which are
in number from 5 to 20 and upwards, are generally in-
ferted into the common receptacle of the‘calyx, or into
the piftillum or feed-bud. The filaments are either di-
ftinft, or united in a cylinder, which, proceeding from
the receptacle of the calyx, furrounds the feed-bud, and
attaches itfelf to the bafe of the petals, with which it
(lightly unites. The antherse are frequently roundiffi,
and placed ereft on the filament; moft commonly, how¬
ever, they are oblong or kidney-ffiaped, and (lightly at¬
tached by the middle, or fides, to the filaments, on
which they turn like a vane or needle. This laft is, par¬
ticularly, the chara&eriftic of all the mallow tribe. The
feed-bud is generally roundiffi or conic ; and fometimes,
as in the tea tree, angular. The feed-Veffel is gene¬
rally a capfule j fometimes a pulpy fiuit of the berry
or cherry kind. In fome, it is a wmody or membra¬
nous capfule, divided into as many cells internally as
there were partitions in the feed-bud. The feeds are
generally folitary, fometimes angular, and fometimes
A N Y.
kidney-fliaped.-—Thefe plants are mucilaginous and
lubricating.
38. Tricoccece (from Tgs<s three, and awocej a grain) ;
confiding of plants wdth a fingle three-cornered cap¬
fule, having three cells or internal divifions, each con¬
taining a fingle feed. The fingle feed-veffel of thefe
plants is of a fingular form, and refembles three cap-
feles, which adhere to one common footftalk as a centre,
but are divided externally into three pretty deep parti¬
tions. This family is not completely natural. It muft
be obferved, however, that the chara&er expreffed in
the title is a ftriking one j and that though the plants
which poffefs it are not connedled by fuch numerous
relations as to form a true natural affemblage, yet they
are by that circumftance diftinguiffied from all other
plants with as great, nay greater facility, than by
any artificial charadter yet known. But all the gene¬
ra of this order have not the ftriking charadter juft
mentioned.
39. Siliquofce, (from filiqua a pod) ; confiding of
plants which have a pod for their feed-veffel. This
order chiefly furniffies biennial and perennial herbs of
an irregular figure. The roots are long, branched,
crooked, and fibrous. In fome they are fucculent and
fleffiy, in others jointed. The ftems and young
branches are cylindric. The leaves, which differ in
point of form, being fometirm fimple, fometimes
winged, are generally placed alternate. The flowers
are hermaphrodite, and in the greater number difpofed
in a fpike at the extremity of the branches. The
fiow'er-cup is compofed of four leaves, which are ob¬
long, hollow, blunt, bunched at the bafe, and fall
with the flower. Thele leaves are fometimes eredl,
and fometimes fpread horizontally. The petals, which
are four in number, fpread at top, and are difpofed
like a crofs: the claws or lower part of the petals are
eredl, flat, awl-ffiaped, and fomewhat longer than the
calyx. The upper part widens outwards. The ftami¬
na are fix in number 5 two of which are of the length
of the calyx, and the remaining four fomewhat longer,
but ftiorter than the petals. The antherae are of an >
oblong figure, pointed, thicker at the bafe, ^nd eredl.
Betwixt the ftamina, in plants of this order, are gene¬
rally lodged one, two, or four, round greenifh knots,
which in fome genera are fo fmall as to elude the fight.
Thefe glands, called by Linnaeus glandule nettarifere,
and ufed very improperly by that author as an effential
charadter in diferiminating the genera, feem to be pro¬
minences of the receptacle of the flower, occafioned
by the ftamina being deeply lodged in its fubffance.
The feed-bud is fingle, and (lands upon the receptacle
of the flower. The ftyle, which is either cylindric or
flat like a fcale, is of the length of the four longer
ftamina in fome genera : in others it is very ffiort, or
even wanting. It accompanies the feed-bud to its ma¬
turity. The ftigma is blunt, and fometimes deeply
divided into two parts. The feed-veffel is either a long
pod, or a ffiort and round one. Either fort has two
valves or external openings, and in a great many ge¬
nera the fame number of internal cavities or cells, the
partition of which projedls at the top beyond the
valves. The feeds are roundifti, fmall, and attached
alternately by a (lender thread to both futures or join¬
ings of the valves. Thefe plants have a watery, (harp,
lixivial tafte 3 and are charged with a fixed alkaline
R r 2 fait.
3i6 B O T
fait, which is drawn from them by burning, and being
diftiiled without any addition produces a volatile alkali.
Moft of them have a Winking fmell. With refpeit to
their virtues, they are diuretic, attenuating, deterfive,
und antifcorbutic. Thefe qualities, however, are molt
eminently pofieffed by the live plants j when dried,
they either entirely difappear, or are greatly diminilh-
ed. Applied externally, thefe plants arc ufeful in dif-
eafes of the Ikin, as the itch, leprofy, &c.
40. Perfonat/t, (from perfona, a mafque) ; conflft-
ing of a number of plants whofe flowers are furnifhed
with an irregular, gaping, or grinning petal, in figure
fomewhat refembling the fnout of an animal. This
order furnifhes both herbaceous and woody vegetables
of the fhrub and tree kind. The roots are generally
fibrous and branched. The ftems and branches are
cylindnc when young, except in fome fpecies of fig-
wort, in which they are fquare. The leaves are Am¬
ple, generally placed oppofite in pairs at the bottom
of the branches, but in many genera Hand alternate
towards the top. The flowers are univerfally herma¬
phrodite j they proceed either fingly or in clufters from
the wings of the leaves, or terminate the branches in a
fpike, panicle, or head. The calyx is of one leaf,
which is cut into two, three, four, or five fegments,
or divifions, that are permanent. The corolla is com-
pofed of one irregular petal, with two lips, refembling,
as was already obferved, the head or fnout of an ani¬
mal, In fome plants the ftamina are twm or four dn
number, and of an equal length $ in others they are
univerfally four in number, two of which are long and
two fhort. The feed-bud is Angle, and placed above
the receptacle of the flower. The ftyle is Angle;
thread-fhaped ; bent in the direction of the ftamina $
and crowned with a ftigma, which is generally blunt,
and fometimes divided into two. The feed-veiTel is a
capfule, generally divided internally into two cavities
or cells, and externally into the fame number of valves
or enclofures. The feeds are numerous, and affixed to
a receptacle in the middle of the capfule.—Thefe plants
poffefs nearly the fame qualities with the lip flowers,
t hough in a lefs degree. With refpe£t to their virtues,
many of them are aperient, anodyne, purgative, and
even emetic. The internal ufe of many of them is
extremely pernicious 5 applied externally, they are ano¬
dyne, and powerful refolvents.
41. Afpcrifolix, rough-leafed plants. The greateft
part of thefe are herbaceous and perennial. The roots
are branching and fibrous; the ftems and branches
rounded $ the buds of a conic form, naked or with¬
out fcales. The leaves are fimple, alternate, commonly
very rough to the touch, and in moft of the herbaceous
plants feffile, or attached to the Item and branches
without any footftalk. In the few trees, however, of
this order, the leaves have a footftalk, the lower part
of which, after the fall of the leaves, remains like a
fpine or thorn. The hairs are fimple, and generally
very rough to the touch. The flowers are in fome
genera folitary •, but commonly colle&ed into a fpike
or corymbus. They do not proceed from the angle
formed by the ftem or branch with the leaf, as in
many plants •, but from the fide of the leaf, or from
that part of the ftem which is oppofite to the leaf.
They are almoft univerfally hermaphrodite : in a few
fpecies of cordla^ male and female flowers are pro-
A N Y. Hiftoiy,
duced upon different roots. The calyx is compofed of
one leaf, which is divided from thiee to ten equal or
unequal parts. Thofe with four naked feeds have the
calyx deeply divided into five parts which are perma¬
nent. The corolla is monopetalous, or compofed of
one petal, which in different plants is bell, funnel, fal-
ver, and wheel-lhaped. The divifions of the limb or
upper part of the petal are generally five, alternate
with thofe of the calyx $ equal and regular, except irt
eehium. The ftamina are five in number, alternate
with the divifions of the corolla. They are equal, at¬
tached to the tube of the corolla a little above its ori¬
gin, and of the fame height. The antherge are in fome
connivent; that is, approach and form a com-
pad! body above the filaments. The piftillum is ge¬
nerally compofed of a flender ftyle of the fame length
with the ftamina, and crowned with a fimple ftigma.
It proceeds from a germen or feed-bud, which in fome
plants is undivided, but generally fplit into four. The
feeds are generally four in number, and lodged in the
bottom of the calyx. Moft of the rough-leaved plants
are ufed in medicine : the flowers are efteemed cordial $
the leaves and roots vulnerary and aftringent $ and the
hard bony feeds are reckoned powerful promoters of
urine. Externally, thefe plants are ufed for burnings
and poifonous bites ; they extirpate warts, and relieve
diforders of the loins.
43. Vertici/latce, confiding of herbaceous vegetables,
having four naked feeds, and the flowers placed in
whorls round the ftalk. The roots are branched and
fibrous. The ftems are round when old, but fquare
when young; as are likewife the young branches, which
ftand oppofite. The leaves are oppofite, and in the
greater number covered with tranfparent points. Thofe
which are placed next the flower generally differ from
the ftem leaves. In the greater number of plants of
this kind, the leaves are fupported upon a long cylin¬
drical footftalk that is furrowed above. The flowers
are univerfally hermaphrodite, except in a fpecies of
thyme mentioned by Mr Adanfon, which appears to
have male or barren flowers on one root, and female or
fertile flowers on the other. They are difpofed round
the ftem in whorls or fmall heads with Ihort footftalks.
The calyx is of one piece, that is generally cut into five
unequal divifions, whofe difpofition fometimes reprefents
two lips; the uppermoft of which has commonly a lefs
number of divifions : it accompanies the feeds, which it
nouriffies in its bofom, to their maturity. The petal
is of the gaping or lip kind, and in the different ge¬
nera is more or lefs irregular or unequal, either in its
tube, or in the divifions of the lips; the number of
which varies from two to five. Thefe divifions fre¬
quently form two lips ; of which the uppermoft, termed
the crejl and the helmet, is fometimes entire, fometimes
more or lefs deeply cut into two; the lowermoft, termed
the beard, generally into three. The ftamina are two
or four in number. In the greater part there are four
ftamina of unequal length, two of them being long
and two ffiort. Thefe four unequal ftamina are fre¬
quently diffimilar, and approach by- pairs: they are
inclined towards the back of the petal, and parallel:
the two innermoft being fhorteft, and attached fome¬
what lower than the two others to the tube of the
flower. The feed-bud, which confifts of four diftinft
ovaries, is placed upon the feat of the flower, and ele¬
vates
Hiitory, B O 1
vates from their centre a common ftyle, which is (len¬
der, bent in the fame manner as the filaments, which it
fomewhat exceeds in length, and terminated by a double
Itigma or fummit, the divifions of which are unequal,
and turned backwards. The feed-veffel in this order
is wanting. The feeds are four in number, and lodged
in the bottom of the calyx as in a matrix or feed-veffel.
Each feed has two covers j the one external, of a car¬
tilaginous or leathery fubltance ; the other internal,-
membranaceous, of a very fine texture, and placed
immediately above the radicle or embryo plant. The
plants of this order are fragrant, warm, penetrating,
and accounted cordial and cephalic. Their chief vir¬
tue refides in the leaves.
43. Dumofa, (from dumus, a bufii) j confiding of a
number of thrubby plants, which are thick fet with ir¬
regular branches, and bufhy. The plants of this order
are all of the Ihrub and tree kind, thick and bulky,
rifing from 6 to 25. 30, and even 40 feet high. Many
of them too, as baltard alaternus, holly, iron wood,
New Jerfey tea, liar apple, viburnum, winter berry,
and fome others, retain their beautiful leaves during
the -whole year. The roots are branched and fibrous.
The Items are cylindricj the young branches fometimes
angular. The buds are naked, that is, wdthout feales,
in the evergreen (hrubs of this order ; covered with
leaks in molt of the others. The leaves, which in fome
genera are fimple, in others compound, are placed al¬
ternate in fome, and oppofite in others. The flowers
are moftly hermaphrodite. They proceed from the
wings of the leaves either fingly or in clufters 5 or they
terminate the Item in that fort of flowering head called
a corymbus. The calyx is generally very fmall, placed
below or around the feed-bud 5 and confilts of one
leaf, with four, five, or fix divifions, which are per¬
manent. The rhamnus has no calyx. The petals are
in number from one to five. The ftamina are either
four, five, fix, or ten. The feed-bud is generally
roundish, and placed within the flower. The flyle is
commonly Angle, and fometimes wanting. The ftigma,
is either Angle or triple. The feed-veffel is generally
a berry, fometimes a dry capfule ; the feeds are gene¬
rally Angle and egg-fhaped. The berries, bark, and
flowers of many of thefe plants are purgative, and aft
particularly on the lymph and bile.
44. Sepiaria, (from fepes a hedge) j conAfling of a
beautiful colleftion of woody plants, fome of which,
from their fi-ze, elegance, and other circumftances, are
very proper furniture for hedges. This order furnifhes
woody plants both of the fhrub and tree kind, moft of
which do not drop their leaves till nearly the time when
the new leaves begin to appear.
45. Umbellate, (from umbella an umbel) j conAft-
ing of plants whofe flowers grow in umbels, with five
petals that are often unequal, and two naked feeds,
that are joined at top and feparated below. Thefe
plants are herbaceous, and chiefly perennial. The
roots are either tuberous or fpindle lhaped, and fome¬
times forked. The items are cylindric, full of pitch,
and frequently hollow. The branches are alternate.
The leaves, which like the branches are put on alter¬
nately, are very different in point of form j being fimple
and entire in fome ; target-ftraped, in a fpecies of na¬
vel-wort j finger or hand-fhaped, in fome others ; and
winged or pinnated with numerous minute divifions,
A N Y. 317
as in the greater number. They are fupported by a
footflalk, wdwch is very broad and membranous at its
origin, and commonly embraces the whole contour of
the Item and branches. The flowers are in general
hermaphrodite. There are, however, fome that have
male or barren flowers in the fame umbel. This is par¬
ticularly the cafe with thofe umbelliferous plants which
have the petals in the flow7ers of the circumference large
and unequal. In thefe plants the flowers in the cir¬
cumference only prove fertile ; thofe in the centre, or
difk, proving abortive. Oenanthe and imperatoria, on
the contrary, have the flowers in the circumference
abortive. In ginfeng, hermaphrodite and male flowers
are produced upon ditlinft plants. The flow'ers are
difpofed in an umbel, which is either fimple or com¬
pound. The common calyx in this order is that fort
termed very improperly by Linnaeus invo/i/crumy or
the flower-cover ; which in the greater number con-
fifts of one or more leaves placed under the partial or
univerfal umbel, or both, for the purpoie of fupport.
The prefence or abfence of one or both of thele covers
affords excellent marks in diferiminating the genera of
this very fimilar order of plants. The proper calyx of
each flower, in the aggregate, confifts of five minute im
dentments placed upon the feed-bud, which it enve¬
lopes, and accompanies to its maturity. The petals are
'five in number, and difpoled upon the fides of the
flower-cup in form of a rofe. In the florets of the
centre, the petals are generally pretty equal and fmallj
in thofe of the circumference, they are frequently un¬
equal and larger; in the greater number, they are heart-
Ihaped, and cut almoft to the middle in two. The
ffamina are five in number, placed oppofite to the di¬
vifions of the flower-cup, and alternate with the petals.
The feed-bud is univerfally placed under the feat of the
flower, and fupports Uvo llyles which are turned back¬
wards, and crowned with fimple fummits which do not
differ in appearance from the ftyles. The feed-veffel
in this order is wanting. The feeds are two in num¬
ber, which, when ripe, feparate below, but remain
clofely attached at top. The plants of this order, which
grow in dry places, are fudorific, ftomachic, and warm¬
ing. Their virtue refides chiefly in the feeds and leaves.
Thofe which grow in marfhy places are generally poi-
fonous; but, notwithffanding the extremely w’arm and
even cauftic quality of moff of thefe plants, many of
them are employed in the kitchen, and in the economy
of domeftic affairs.
46. Hederacea, (from hedera, ivy) ; confifting of ivy
and a few other genera that feem nearly allied to it.
This order furniflies both herbaceous and Ihrubby
plants; molt of which, particularly ivy and vine, have
creeping branches, which attach themfelves by roots or
tendrils to the bodies in their neighbourhood. The
roots are long, with few branches. The ftems and young
branches are cylindric. In fome fpecies of vine they
are fquare. The leaves are alternate; fometimes
fimple, fometimes winged, in which the furface of the
leaves is covered with points. The footftalk of the
leaves is cylindrical, and without any furrow. The
buds are of a conic form, and without any feales. The
flowers are either hermaphrodite, male and female up¬
on different roots, or hermaphrodite and male upon dif¬
ferent roots. In fome they terminate the branches in
an umbel; in others they proceed in clufters from the
3i8
B O T
fide oppofue to the leaves; and in fome, they are pro¬
duced along.the branches. The calyx confifts of one
leaf divided in five parts, which are fmall and general*
ly permanent. The ftamina are in number five ;awl-fha-
ed, eredf, and generally of the length of the petals.
Ciflus has only four ftamina, which are inferted into
the ne&arium, a fort of border furrounding the feed-
bud. The antherae are roundifh, and fometimes, as in
ivy, attached to the filaments by the fides. The feed-
bud is fometimes round, fometimes lhaped like a top
or pear, and ends in one, two, or five awl-lhaped ftyles,
which are crowned with a fimple ftigma. The flowers
of the vine have no ftyle. The feed-veffel is of the
berry kind, with one, two, or five ftyles. The feeds
are from one to five in number ; placed either in di-
ftindt cells, or difpeifed through the pulp without any
partition.
47. Stellata, (frornyfo/Az, a ftar) ; confifting of plants
with two naked feeds, and leaves difpofed round the
ftem in form of a radiant ftar. This order contains
herbs, fhrubs, and trees. The herbs, which are moft
numerous, are chiefly annual, and creep along the fur-
face of the ground. The fhrubs and trees are moftly
evergreens, which rife eredf, and are of an agreeable
conic form.—Thefe plants are opening ; fome of their
feeds, particularly thofe of coffee, are bitter and cordial;
fome of them are yfed in dyeing, and others in medicine.
4^- dggregata, (from aggregare, to affemble or col-
left) 5 comprehending thoie plants which have aggre¬
gate flowers, confifting of a number of florets or fmall
ftorvers, each of which have a proper and common
calyx.
49. Comps/ita, confifting of plants with compound
flowers. In this order Linnaeus has conftrufted his
firft or primary divifions from the different fexes of the
florets, which he terms polygamy; the fubaltern divi¬
fions are conftru&ed from the figure of the petals, the
difpofition of the flowers, the pappus or crown of the
feed, the common receptacle, and other circumftances
which charafterize the fubaltern divifions in other au¬
thors.
50. Atnentacea (from amentum a catkin), plants
bearing catkins; as falix, populus, plantanus, &c.
51. Conifera, (from conus a cone, and jero to bear) 5
confifting of plants, whofe female flowers, placed at a
diftance from the male, either on the fame or diftinft
roots, are formed into a cone. In this charafler, the
only one expreffed in the title, the plants in queftion
feem to be nearly allied to the family of moffes : from
which, however, they are eafily diftinguifhed by their
habit, as well as by the ftrudhire of the finall flowers,
in which the ftamina are united below into a cylinder,
and diftmcf at top. The plants of this order are moftlv
of the fhrub and tree kind, and retain their leaves all
the year. The form of thefe plants is generally conic,
and extremely beautiful, from the difpofition of the
branches, which cover the ftems even to the roots, ex¬
tending themfelves horizontally and circularly like fo
many rays. T. he height of lome genera of this order
does not exceed half a foot, that of others approaches
to a hundred. 1 he roots are ft.ort, branching, not very
fibrous, and extend horizontally. The ftems and
branches are cylindric. The bark is thin, and fplit into
flender fcales The wood, except that of the yew tree,
poffeffes little haidnefs. The buds are of a conic form.
A N Y. Hiftory.
and naked, or without fcales. The leaves are entire,
fmall, and thick, frequently triangular, and generally
pointed. Juniper has a prickly and thorny leaf. W ith
reipeef to fituation, they admit of great variety, being'
either alternate, oppofite, placed in whorls round the
ftem, or colledled into fmall bundles which proceed
from a Angle point. They are placed on the branches
without any fenfible footftalk. The flowers in this or¬
der are univerfally male and female. In fome genera,
the male flowers are collefted into a fpike or cone at
the end of the branches ; in others, they proceed fingly
fiom the wings of the leaves, or termination of the
branches. 1 he female flowers are generally collefted
into a cone 5 but in yewr tree and fhrubby horfe-tail
they are Angle, and terminate the branches. The ca¬
lyx of the male flowers is a catkin; of the female, a
cone. The petals of this order are wanting ; except in
the female flowers of juniper, which have three ftrarp,
rigid, and permanent petals. The ftamina are in num¬
ber from 3 to 20 and upwards; united by their fila¬
ments into a cylinder or pillar, which rifes out of the
centre of the calyx. The antherae are erefl, diftinft,
of a roundiftr form, and divided into internal partitions
or cells, which, in the different genera, are in number
from two to ten. The feed-buds are generally nume¬
rous, and placed betwixt the fcales of the cone, which
ferve for a calyx. From each feed-bud arifes a very
ftiort cylindric ftyle, crowned with a fimple ftigma,
of a conic form. Thefe plants have probably no feed-
veffel or fruit; the feeds being naked, and involved only
by the fcales of the calyx. In fome genera thefe fcales
are of a bony nature, and almoft united ; in others,
they are of a fubftance like leather; in juniper, they
are united, and become fleftiy and fueculent like a berry.
The feeds in this order, being nourifhed, as in a feed-
veffel, by the fcales of .the cone, or common calyx, dif¬
fer in nothing from the germina or feed-buds.—Moft
of the cone-bearing plants are refinous, or gummy ;
and the gums proceeding from them have a bitter tafte,
but generally a very agreeable fmell.
52. Coadunatx, (from coadunare, to join or gather
together) ; fo termed from the general appearance of
the feed-veffels, which are numerous, and being {lightly-
attached below-, form all together a Angle fruit in the
fhape of a fphere or cone; the parts of which, however,
are eafiiy feparated from one another. This order, which
confifts of exotic plants, furnifhes a beautiful and choice *
colle&ion of fhrubs and trees, both evergreen and deci¬
duous. The trees are often 60 feet high, and garnifbed
from the bottom to the top with fpreading branches
and leaves of a bright green colour, which affume a very
agieeable conic form. The roots are branching and
fibrous. The flems are cylindric, and the wood very
hard. The buds are conic, flat, and generally v itheui
fcales. The leaves are univerfally Ample and alternate.
The feotftalk is cylindric, without furrows, frequently
fwelled at its origin, and appears jointed at its inferticn
into the branch. The flowers are hermaphrodite, and
are generally produced either along or at the end of
the branches. 1 he calyx generally confifts of three
oblcng plain leaves, like petals, which fall off with the
flower. The petals are in number from 6 to 18, ob-
l°ng> concave, and frequently difpefed in two or three
feries or rows, the outermoft of which are largeft.
1 he ftamma are numerous, fhort, and inferted into the
common
3'9
Hlftory, B O T
common receptacle In fome, and into the feed-bud in
others. I he filaments are very fhort and fiender, fome
genera having fcarce any at all. The antherae are nu¬
merous, fiender, and placed round the feed-bud. The
piftillurr generally confills of a number of feed-buds
difpoled in the form of a cone, and feated upon a recep¬
tacle which rifes like a fmall pillar above the receptacle
of the calyx. From each feed-bud generally arifes a
cylindric ifyle, which is very firort. The ftigma is
commonly blunt. The feed-veffel is commonly a
berry; but in magnolia it is an oval cone, confilting
of a number of roundifh capfules laid over each other
like tiles. The fruits or feed-veffels, whether of the
berry, capfule, or cherry kind, are equal in number to
the feed-buds, and generally {lightly attached below.
I he feeds are numerous, hard, roundifii, and fome-
times cornered. The plants of this order have a ftrong,
agreeable, and aromatic fmell 5 the fruits and feeds
have a pungent tafte like pepper : the bark, and wood
are bitter.
53. Scabridee, ('fromfeaber, rough, rugged orbriftly),
confifting of plants with rough leaves. There feems to
be iome impropriety in characterizing theie plants by
a name exprellive of the roughnefs of their leaves, as
that circumftance had previoufly furnifhed the claflic
charafter of the Afpcrifoluz. The degree of roughnefs,
hovyever, is much greater in the plants which make the
fubjeCt or the prefent article.—The plants of this or¬
der are in general of an aftringent nature : their tafie
is bitter and ftyptic. '
54. Mifcellaneee, mifcellaneous plants. This order
confifts of fuch genera as are not connected together
ny very numerous relations. They are, datifea, pote-
rium, refeda, fanguiforba, lemna, piftia, coriaria, em-
petrum, achyranthus, amaranthus, celeofia, gomphrena,
irefine, phytolacca, nymphaea, faracenia, cedrela, fwie-
tenia, corrigola, limeum, telephium.
55. Filices, ferns ; confiiting of plants which bear
their flower and fruit on the back of the leaf or ftalk,
i hefe plants, in figure, approach the more perfeCt ve¬
getables ; being furnilhed, like them, with roots and
leaves. The roots creep, and extend themfelves hori¬
zontally under the earth, throwing out a number of
very {lender fibres on all Tides. The Hem is not to
be diftinguilhed from the common foot-ftalk, or rather
middle rib of the leaves : fo that in firiCt propriety the
greater number of ferns may be faid to be acaules: that,,
is, to want the Item altogether. In fome of them, how¬
ever, the middle rib, or {talk proceeding from the
root, overtops the leaves, and forms a ftem upon which
the flowers are fupported. The leaves proceed either
fingly, or in greater number, from the extremities of
the branches of the main root. T1 hey are winged or
hand-fhaped in all the genera except in adders-tongue,
pepper-grafs, and fome fpecies of fpleen-wort. The
flowers, whatever be their nature, are, in the greater
number of genera, faftened, and as it were glued, to
the back of the leaves ; in others, they are fupported
upon a ftem which rifes above the leaves; but in fome,
are fupported on a flower-ftalk, as already mentioned.
The Itamina are placed apart from the feed-bud in a
genus termed by Mr Adanfon palmaJilix\ in the other
ferns, where we have been able to difeover the ftamina,
they are found within the fame covers with the feed-
bud. Moft of the ferns have a heavy difagreeable
ANY.
fmell: as to their virtues, they are opening and at¬
tenuating.
56. Mtifci, mofles. Thefe plants refemble the pines,
firs, and other evergreens of that clafs, in the form and
dilpofition of their leaved, and manner of growth of the
female flowers, which are generally formed into a cone.
1 hey frequently creep, and extend themfelves like
a carpet upon the ground, trees, and flones, being ge¬
nerally collected into bunches and tufts : the fmalleft
are only one-third of an inch in height, and the lar-
geft do not exceed five or fix. Few of the moffes are
annual: fmall as they are, the greater number are pe¬
rennial and evergreens. Their growth is remarkably
flow, as may be judged by the time that the antherse
take to ripen. This, reckoning from the firft appear¬
ance of the antherae to the dilperfion of its powder or
male dull, is generally four or fix months. Although
preferved dry for feveral years, thefe plants have the lin¬
gular property of refuming their original verdure upon
being moiftened. It would be worth while to deter¬
mine whether they do not alfo refume their vegetative
quality. The roots of plants of this order are fibrous,
fiender, branched, and fhort. The ftems are cylindric
and weak, as are alfo the branches; they creep upon the
ground, and firike root on every fide. The leaves are
very {mail and undivided. They differ with refped to
fituation; being either alternate, oppofite, or placed bv
fours round the ftalk. They have no perceptible foot-
flalk nor middle rib, and are feated immediately upon
the ftems. The ilowrers are univerfally male and female:
in fome, the male flowers are produced upon the fame
plants with the female, and fland before them; in
others, they are produced fometimes on the fame, and
fometimes on diflinCl plants. The male flowers confift
entirely of antherae, and their covering; proceed either
fingly, or in clufters, from the extremity of the branches,
or angles of the leaves ; and are either feated imme¬
diately upon the branches, or fupported by a long foot-
ftalk. The female flowers, which generally refemble
capfules or cones, are all placed immediately upon the
ftem or branches, without any footftalk; and proceed
fingly either from the wings of the leaves, or fummit of
the branches; when produced upon the fame plant with
the male they are always placed under them. The fe¬
male cones of the moffes greatly refemble thofe of the
pines and evergreen trees of that clafs; the feales which
form them are true leaves, each containing in its wing or
angle a fingle feed. When the feeds are ripe, the cones
probably open for their difperfion. When flmt, they
redemble buds, and have fometimes been ignorantly mifi-
taken for fuch. The calyx, in this order, if it can be
called fuch, is that appearance refembling a vail or
monk’s cawl, which in the male flower covers or is fu-
fpended over the tops of the ftamina like an extinguifli-
er,. and is termed by Linnmus calyptra. The petals are
univerfally wanting. The moffes in general are almoft
taftelefs, have few juices, and being once dried do not
readily imbibe moiflure from the air. Thofe which
grow in water, being thrown into the fire, grow red,
and are reduced to allies without receiving or commu¬
nicating any flame ; on which account fome fuperfti-
tious people, the Siberians in particular, place water
mofs in their chimnies as a prefervative againft fire.
Moft of the moffes are purgative; lome violently fo, and
even emetic. I hey are all of wonderful efficacy in pre-
ferving
B O T
fervlng dry fuch bodies as are fufceptible of moifture $
and in retaining, for a long time, the humidity of young
plants without expoling them to putrefa&ion. For this
reafon, fuch plants as are to be fent to any confiderable
diftance, are generally wrapped up in them.
57. Alga, flags; confiding of plants whofe root,
leaf, and ftem, are all one. Under this defcription are
comprehended all the fea weeds, and iome other aqua¬
tic plants.
58 Fungi, mufhrooms. Thefe plants are rarely
branched, fometimes creeping, but moll commonly e-
reft. Such as are furniihed with branches have them
of a light fpongy fubllance like cork. Mufhrooms
differ from the fuci, in that thofe which, like the fuci,
have their feeds contained in capfules, are not branch¬
ed, as that numerous clafs of fea weeds are.. The
greatell part of mulhrooms have no root: fome, inftead
A N V. Hlflory.
of roots, have a number of fibres, which, by their in-
ofculations, frequently form a net with unequal melhes,
fome of which produce plants fimilar to their parent
vegetable. The (lamina in thefe plants are dill unde¬
termined. The feeds are fpread over the furface of the
plant, or placed in open holes or cavities, refembling'
the open caplules of fome of the fuci. In mulhrooms
which are branched, the feeds are frequently vifible by
the naked eye, and always to be didindlly oblerved by
the adidance of a good microfcope. Thefe plants are
very allringent, and fome of them are ufed for Hopping
violent hcemorrhagies. As a vegetable food, they
are at bell fufpicious: fome of them are rank poifon.
Dubii ordinis. Under this name Linnaeus claffes all
the other genera which cannot be reduced to any of:
the abovementioned orders, and which are near 120 in
number.
Alphabetical Explanation of Botanical Terms,
A.
Abbvpt (abruptus), when a winged leaf ends without
a little leaf.
Acorn, the feed of the oak.
Acotyledones, feeds without lobes, which produce no fe-
minal leaves.
Acute (acutus), tapering to a flender, but not thorny
termination.
Air-bag ( folliculus), a didended feed-veffel opening on
one fide.
Alternate (alternus), applied to branches, leaves, or
flowers, fpringing out regularly one above another.
Androgynous, having fome flowers on the fame plant,
■ bearing damens, but no pidils j and other flowers
bearing pidils, but no damens.
Angiofpermia, feeds in a capfule.
Angular (angulatus) having corners j oppofed to cy¬
lindrical.
  capfule, as in flower-de-luce.
Annual (annuus), living only one year.
Anomalous (anomalus), irregular.
Anther (anthera), the top of the flamen fixed on the fi¬
lament, and containing the pollen.
Apex, termination.
Apophy/is, excrefcence.
Approaching, fee Converging.
Arrow-Jhaped (fagittatus), leaf lliaped like an arrow
head, as forrel.
Afcending, growing fird horizontally, and then bent
upwards.
Attenuate (attenuatus). tapering.
Awl-fhaped (fubulatus), (lender.
Awn (arida) or beard, the lharp fubdance growing to
the valves of corn or grafs.
Avonlefs (muticus), without awns.
Axillary (axillaris) at the bafe of the leaves or
branches.
B.
Bark (cortex), the covering of the dems, roots, and
branches of vegetables.
Barren (mafculi, aKortivi). flowers or florets, which
produce no perfedl leeds j generally wanting piilils.
Bafe, fee Axillary.
Battledore-Jhaped (fpatulatum), rounded with a neck.
Beaded (granulatus), confiding of many little knobs,
connefted by fmall firings.
Beak or Bill (roftrum), a projeaing appendage to fome
feeds.
Bearded (barbatus), befet with draight parallel hairs.
Bell-Jhaped (campanulatus), like the bloffom of the
convolvulus.
Bellying (ventricofus) didended.
Beneath (inferus). A bloffom is beneath, when it includes
the germcn, and is attached to the part immediately
below it. A germen is faid to be beneath when it
is not included in the corolla or bloffom.
Berry (bacca), a pulpy feed-veffel without valves.
Biennial, continuing alive for two years.
Bird-footed (pedatus), refembling the foot of a land
fowl.
Bitten, ending in no regular form, not tapering.
Bill (rodrum), a long fubdance attached to a leed.
Bladders, air-bags on fome fpecies of fucus.
Bladder-Jhaped (it.flatus), inflated or didended.
Blijlered, when the furface of a leaf rifes high above
the veins.
Blojfom (corolla), part of a flower, confiding of one or
more leaves called petals. It is an expanfion of the
inner bark of the plant, and is the ornamented co¬
ver of the damens and pidils.
Blunt (obtufus), oppofed to acute. _
Boat-Jhaped (navicularis), like a little keel-bottomed
boat.
Border (limbus), the upper part of a corolla of one
petal.
Bowed (arcuatus), bent.
Branched (ramolus), having lateral divifions.
Brifles (fetae), diff cylindrical hairs.
Brifle-Jhaped (fetaceus), (lender, and like a bridle.
Bud (gemma), a protuberance on the flem or branches,
containing the rudiments of the leaves or flowers to
be expanded the following year.
Bulb (bulbus), a bud placed on the root or flem.
(gibbus), irregularly Iwollen out.
321
Hiftory. B O T
Bunch (racemus), a fruitftalk with ftiort lateral
branches.
Bundle (fafciculus), feveral flowers rifing to the fame
point from their refpeftive fruitftalks, as in fvveet-
william.
Bundled, applied to leaves, as in the larch.
Butterjly-Jhaped (papilionaceus), as the pea and broom
flowers.
C.
Ca/yclcd (calyculatus), having a double calyx.
Calyptre, veil.
Calyx, or empalement, a continuation of the outer bark
of the plant, forming part of the flower, is called a
cup, as in primrofe, involucrum in carrot, catkin in
hazel, calyptre in the moffes, a hulk in oats, a
flreath in the narciffus, and a curtain in Jome fun-
gufles.
Capfule, a dry hollow feed-veflel opening in fome de¬
terminate manner.
Catkin (amentum), a compofition of flowers and chaff
on a long thread-fhaped receptacle ; the whole like
a cat’s tail ; e. g. the willow.
Cell (loculamentum), vacuity in the capfule to lodge
the feed.
Central florets (flores flofculofi) •, thofe w'hich occupy
the middle part of a compound flower, as the yel¬
low ones in a common daify.
Chaff (palea), thin membranaceous fubftance feparat-
ing the florets from each other, and growing on a
common receptacle.
Channelled (canaliculatus), having a furrow from the
bafe to the end.
Cicatrized, fcarred.
Ciliate, fringed.
Circumference, the florets farthefl: from the centre of
a compound flower, as the white ones in the com¬
mon daify.
Clammy (vifcofus), adhefive like birdlime.
Claw (unguis), the part of a petal next the bafe, di-
ftinguifhed from the limb or upper part.
Cleft, divided half-way down.
Climbin'? (fcandens), plants that rife by the aid of
others.
Clcatbing (pubes), hairinefs on the furface of plants.
Cloven, fee Cleft.
Club-Jhaped (clavatus), thinner at the bafe, and thick¬
er upwards.
Clufler (thyrfus), flowers colledled in fomewhat of an
egg-lhaped form like the lilac.
Coated (tunicatus) root, compofed of layers like the
onion.
Cobwebbed (arachnoideus), covered with a fubftance
refembling a cobweb.
Coloured (coloratus), not green.
Column (columella), the little pillar in the centre of
fome capfules to which the feeds are fixed.
Comb (coma), a collection of floral leaves terminating
the flowering ftem, as in the pine-apple.
Comb-like (pe&inatum), a fort of winged leaf, the lea-
fets of which are like the teeth of a comb.
Common calyx, including feveral flowers, as in thiftles.
Compact, growing clofe together.
Compound flowers (compofiti flores) confift of many flo¬
rets or little flowers, on a receptacle or feat, as in
thiftles.
Vol. IV. Part I.
a n y.
Compreffed (compreflus), a cylindrical fubftance, more
or lefs flatted.
Cone (ftrobilus), a feed-veffel, formed by a catkin,
with hardened fcales, as in the pine and fir.
Cone-Jhaped (cucullatus), applied to leaves rolled up,
as the grocers roll up paper to hold fpices, iu-
gar, &tc.
Confluent (confluentia folia), running into one another
at the bafe.
Congregated (glomeratus), fpikes, &c. crowded toge¬
ther, fomewhat in a globular form.
ConneSled (adnatus) leaves, having their upper furface
at the bafe, growing to the ftem or branch.
Contiguous (adpreflus) leaves, &c. clofe to the ftem.
Converging (connivens), approaching at the top.
Convex, tifing like the furface of a globe.
Convolute, twifted fpirally.
Corolla, blofl'om.
Corymb, a colleClion of flowers Handing each on its
own fruitftalk, with fruitftalks of fuch a length,
that the whole colleClion forms a flat broad furface
at the top, as in the pear-tree.
Cotton, cottony (tomentum, tomentofus), downy, co¬
vered with a whitilh foft fubftance.
Cotyledones, feed-lobes.
Creeping (repens) ftem 5 creeping along the ground, as
ivy.
 root, as fpearmint.
Crefcent-Jhaped (lunaris, lunatus), fhaped like a wax¬
ing moon, like the anthers of the ftrawberry.
Crefled (criftatus) flowers, tufted.
Crooked (cernuus) fruitftalk, with the flower facing
the earth, and fo ftiff, that it cannot be ftraighted
without breaking; as in the crown imperial.
Crofs-pairs (decuffatus), leaves in pairs, each pair
pointing in a direflion different from the pair above
or below it.
Crofs-fl:aped (cruciatus, cruciformis) flowers, having
four petals in form of a crofs ; called cruciform
plants.
Crowned (coronatus) feed, a feed to which the calyx
adheres, ex gr. teazel.
Cruciform, fee Crofs-Jhaped.
Cryptogamia, ftamens and piftils indiftimEh
£>//( (perianthium), a calyx contiguous to the other
parts of the flower.
 double (calyculatus), when the bafe of one cup is
furrounded by another cup.
Curtain (volva), the calyx of agarics and boleti.
Cut-round (circumfciffus), when a feed-veffel opens in
a circle, and not longways.
Cylindrical (teres), round like a walking ftick.
D.
Dagger-pointed (mucronatus), ending, not gradually,
but fuddenly in a (harp point.
Deciduous (deciduus) leaves, which fall at the ap¬
proach of winter*
 cup or calyx, falling off before the blof-
lom.
— feed-veffel, falling off before it opens.
Declining (declinatus), bent like a bow, with the arch
downwards.
Decurrent (decurrens) leaf, without a leaf-ftalk, but
where the leaf runs down the ftem.
S f Dented
322
B O T
Dented (retufus), a blunt leaf with a blunt notch at
the end.
• DepreJJed (depreffus), when the furface of a leaf is
{lightly funk.
Diadelphia, the I yth clafs of plants, having the fila¬
ments united into twTo fets.
Diamond-fiaped (rhombeus), applied to leaves refem-
bling a diamond on cards.
Diandria, two flamens.
Didynamia, the 14th clafs, having two ftamens longer.
Digynia, two piftils.
Dimpled (umbilicatus), having a hollow dot.
Diacia, dioecious, having the flowers bearing ftamens
and thofe bearing piftils on different plants.
Dijk (difcus) of a leaf is its furface ; of a compound
flower is its central florets ; thus, in a daify, the
minute yellow florets form the difk, and the larger
white ftrap-fhaped florets form the ray.
Dijlant (diftans), far afunder, as the ftamens of mint.
‘Dijlended (ventricofus), as the cup of the rofe.
Diverging (divergens), fpreading wide from the ftem
almoft horizontally, oppofed to compadt.
Divided (partitus) or parted, partite, fignifies, that a
cup, leaf, or petal, is parted more than half w'ay
down.
Dodecandria, 12 ftamens.
Dorfal, fixed to the back.
Dotted (punflatus), marked with little hollowr dots.
Double (didymus), applied to two anthers on one fila¬
ment.
Doubly-compourid (decompofitus) leaves, having the
primary leaf-ftalk divided, fo that each divifion forms
a compound leaf. They are twinfork (bigeminus),
when a forked leaf-ftalk has feveral leaflets at the
end of each fork; or, doubly-threefold (bi-ternatus),
when a leaf-ftalk, wdth three divifions, has three
leafets on the end of each divifion or fork ; or, dou-
bly-wdnged ( duplicato-pinnatum, bi-pinnatum ), when
a leaf-ftalk has lateral ribs, each of which forms a
winged leaf. •
Down (pappus), the fine hair or feather-like fubftance,
crowning the feeds of fome plants, and wafting them
abroad.
Downy leaf, fee Cottony.
Drupe, a pulpy feed-veffel, without valves, confifting
of a nut, furrounded by a pulpy fubftance, ex gr. a
cherry.
Dufted (pulveratus), applied to fome plants wdflch ap¬
pear covered w ith a kind of pow7der.
E.
Ecr-Jhaped (auriculatus), fomewhat refembling a hu¬
man ear.
Egg-fhaped (ovatus), in form of an egg.
Egg-fpear-Jhaped (ovato-lanceolatum), fee Spear-egg-
Jhaped.
Elliptic, oval.
Embracing (amplexicaulis) the ftem, when the bafe of
a leaf nearly furrounds the ftem.
Entire (integer), oppofed to cleft, gaftied, &c.
Equal (aequalis), regular.
Erebl, upright.
Even (laevis) furface ; level, regular.
Excrefcence (apophyfis), a fubftance growing on fome
of the moffes from the feat of the flow'er.
Expanding (patens), between upright and horizontal.
A N Y. Hiftory*
Eye (hilium), the fear by which a feed is fixed to the
feed-veffel.
F.
Feathered (plumofum), the down of feeds when it fends
out lateral hairs.
Feeble (debilis), unable to ftand upright.
Female flow'ers or florets, fuch as have one or more pi¬
ftils, but no ftamens.
Ferns, the 1 ft order of the clafs of cryptogamia.
Fertile (fertiles vel feminei) flowers, thofe that produce
feed capable of vegetation. Thofe that have ftamens
only are always barren. Thofe that have piftils on¬
ly, are only barren when placed beyond the reach
of the pollen, coming from the anthers of ftaminife-
rous flowers.
Fibres (nervi), woody firings running along a leaf.
Fibrous (fibrofus) roots, compofed of fmall threads or
fibres.
Fiddle-Jhaped (panduriformis), oblong, but narrow7 in
the middle and broader below7.
Filament or thread (filamentum), the {lender part of a
ftamen flupporting the anther.
Fijlulous, hollow7.
Finger-like (digitatus) leaves, expanded like a man’s
hand, in pairs, threes and fives.
Flat-topped (faftigiatus), rifing to the fame height fo
as to form a flat furface.
Flejhy feed-veffel, ex gr. an apple.
Floral \tz\’ts (brafteae) are generally on the fruitftalk,
fo that they are fometimes miftaken for the calyx;
but the calyx withers when the fruit is ripe, w'here-
as the floral leaves endure as long as the other leaves
of the plant.
Floret (flofculus), one of the fmall fiowxrs forming a
compound or incorporated flower.
Flower (flos), a temporary part of a plant fubfervient
to the formation of the feed. It confifts of eight
parts, a calyx, corolla or bloffom, ftamens, piftils,
feed-veffel, feeds, receptacle, and a neftary. Want¬
ing any of thefe parts, a flower is incomplete.
Forked (furcatus, dichotomus) divided.
Fringed (aliatus), as the bloffom of the buck-bean.
Fruit (fruftus), a part of a flower confifting of the feed-
veffel, feeds, and receptacle.
Frintjlalk (pedunculus), a part of a branch or ftem
bearing flowers, but not leaves.
Fungus, the laft order of the clafs of cryptogamia.
Funnel-Jhaped (infundibuliformis)* when a one-petaled
bloffom is tubular at the bafe, and conical at the
top.
Furrowed (fulcatus), marked with lines running length-
wife.
G.
Gaping (ringens, perfonatus) bloffom, fo called from
its relemblance to a gaping mouth.
Gajhed (lobatus), divided nearly half-w7ay down into
lobes, convex at the edges, and diftant from each
other.
Gelatinous, jelly-like.
Gem, bud.
General involucrum, a calyx at the bale of a general
umbel, as in carrot.
Germ, germen, feed-bud.
Gibbous, bulged or bulging.
Gills (lamellge), thin plates on the under fide of the
pileus
323
Hiflory'. B O T
pileus or hat of an agaric $ remarkable in the com¬
mon mufliroom.
Glafs-Jhaped (cyathiformis), tubular, but widening to¬
wards the mouth.
Glaucous (glaucus), hoary, as the back of a cabbage-
leaf.
Globular (globofus), like a round ball.
Glume (gluma), hulk.
Gnawed (erofum), when an indented leaf feems as if
bitten at the edges.
Granulated, refembling beads.
Gymnofpermia, naked feeds.
Gynandria, ftamens on the piftils.
H.
Hair-like (capillaris), (lender, undivided, and cylin¬
drical.
Hairs (pili), by fome thought fecretory dufts.
Hand-Jhaped (palmatus), like the human hand with
the fingers ex^tanded.
Hat (pileus), the upper broad part of funguffes.
Hatched-Jhaped (dolabriforme) leaf, like an axe of un¬
equal thicknefs.
Headed (capitulus) ftalk, fupporting one compact knob
of flowers at its extremity.
Heads (capitatus) of flowers, growing in compa£t
knobs, as in peppermint.
Heart (corculum), that part of a feed which is the fu¬
ture plant in miniature.
Helmet (galea), the upper part of a gaping bloflbm.
Hemifpherical) like a half globe.
Herbaceous ftem, fucculent, oppofed to woody.
Hermaphrodite flowers or florets, fuch as contain both
a ftamen or ftamens, and a piftil or piftils, as the
greater part of flowers.
Hexagonal^ or fix-fided.
Hexagynia, having fix piftils.
Hexandna, fix-ftamened.
Hoary (incanus), covered with a filvery-looking fub-
ftance.
Honey-combed (favofum), a receptacle with cells open
at the top, and having a feed in each.
Hufk (gluma), the calyx of a grafs plant.
Hybrid (hybrida), a plant produced by the pollen of
one plant fertilizing the germen of a plant of a dif¬
ferent fpecies. A mule.
J;
Ragged (laciniatus) leaves, irregularly divided and fub-
divided into lobes.
Icofandria, 20-ftamened.
ImperfeB flowers, wanting anther or piftil, or both.
Incomplete flowers want the cup, the corolla, or fome
other important part. See Flower. The tulip wants
a cup, and the nettle has no bloflbm or corolla.
Incorporated (aggregatus), when little flowers or flo¬
rets form a compound flower, as a daify.
Incumbent, anthers fixed by the fide, or ftamens lean¬
ing or refting againft.
Indented leaf, having the edges deeply fcolloped, and
the lobes far afunder.
Inflated, as if blown up like a bladder.
Inferior, fee Beneath.
Interrupted, broken in its regular form, as a fpike by
leaves intervening.
Inverfe/y heart-lhaped (obcordatus), with the point of
the heart next the ftem.
ANY.
Involucellum, a partial involucrum.
Involucrum or fence, the calyx of an umbel placed at
a diftanc/j from the flowers.
Jointed (articulatus), ex gr. a wheat ftraw.
K-
Keel, the loweft petal in a butterfly-fliaped corolla.
Keeled (carinatus), bent.
Knob, fee Heads.
L.
LaBefcent, having a milky juice.
Laminated, when the flat furfaces of leaves lie clofe on
each other.
Lateral branches, growing from the fides of the ftem,
oppofed to terminating.
Leaf, the part of a plant correfponding to the lungs,
and alfo to the organs of motion of animals.
Leafet, or little leaf, one of the Angle leaves of a
compound leaf.
Leaf-flalk (petiolus), the footftalk of a leaf.
Leather-like (coriaceus), tough-like leather.
Legume (legumen) or {hell, a feed-vefiel of two valves
with the feeds fixed to one feam, as in the pea.
Level, when feveral branches or fruitftalks grow to
equal heights.
Lid (operculum), a cover to the capfules of feveral
mofles.
Ligulate, ftrap-ftiaped.
Limb, the upper fpreading part of a petal.
Limber (flaccidus) bending with its own weight.
Lip, the upper or under divifion of a gaping corolla.
Lobes, the divifions of a gafhed leaf.
Lopped (truncatus), looking as if cut oflfby fciflars.
M*
Male flowers, which have ftamens, but no piftils.
Matted (caefpitofus), thickly interwoven.
Membranous, membranaceous, thin, fldnny, and femi-
tranfparent.
Monadelphia, united filaments.
Monandria, one ftamen.
Moncecia, one houfe, or plants having the ftamens and
piftils in different flowers, but on the fame plant.
Monogynia, one piftil in each flower.
Monopeta/ous, one-petaled.
Mouth (faux), the upper or opening part of the tube
in a one-petaled corolla.
Mules, fee Hybrid,
N.
Naked, without leaves or hairs.
NeBary, or honey-cup, the part of the flower which fe-
cretes the honey.
Nut, a feed covered by a hard woody {hell.
O.
Oblong-egg-fhaped, oblong at the bafe, but egg-ftiaped
towards the end.
OBandria, eight-ftamined.
OBagynia, eight piftils.
P.
Paleaceous, chaffy.
Panicle, an irregular aflemblage of flowers.
Papilionaceous flowers, butterfly-fliaped, as the pea.
Parafltical plants, which grow not on the earth, but
on other plants.
Pedicle, a little fruitftalk.
Pentagon, five cornered.
Pentagynia, five piftils.
Sf s
. fentandriif,
324 B O T
Pentandria, five-ftamined.
Perennial, continuing more than two years.
Petals (petala), the leaves which conftitute the corol¬
la or bloflbm.
Pillar (ftipes), the pedicle of the down of fome feeds,
as in dandelion.
Pimpled (papillofus), befet with little hard protube¬
rances.
Pijlil, a part of a flower confifting of the germen, the
ftyle, and the fummit.
Pitcher-Jhaped (urceolatus), bellying like a jug.
Pith, a foft fubltance filling the cavity of fome plants.
Plaited, folded.
Pod (filiqua), a feed-veffel of two valves, -within which
the feeds are alternately fixed to each feam.
Pollen (farina), a fine powder in the anthers of flowers.
Polyadelphia, ilamens in three or more fets.
Potyandria, many flamens.
Polygattiia, fee Introduction to the 23d clafs.
Pores, little holes.
Pouch, a fhort pod.
Prifm-Jhaped, different from cylindrical, in having the
circumference angular.
Proliferous, when one flower, &c. fprings out of ano¬
ther.
Pubefcent, clothed with foft wool or hair.
R.
Radiate, compound flowers in which the florets of the
centre differ from thofe of the circumference. See
Dijh
Rays (radii), outer florets of a radiate compound
flower. See Difk.
Receptacle, the feat or bafe of a flowTer.*
RefleBed, bent back.
Remote whirls, having a confiderable length of Item
between each.
Rhomboidal, nearly diamond-ftiaped.
Rigid, inflexible.
Root-leaves (radicalia), thofe which proceed immedi¬
ately from the root.
Ruffle or ring, the part of the curtain of an agaric
which adheres to the Item after the outer part is gone.
Runner (flagellum), a barren twig lying on the ground.
S.
Salver-Jhaped (hypocrateriformis), when a one-petaled
corolla has its lower part tubular, and its higher part
flat and expanded.
Scaly (fquamofus), like the fkin of a fifh.
Scurfy (fquarrofus), applied to the rough cup of fome
compound flowers.
Seed, that which contains the rudiments of the new
plant.
Seed-lobes (cotyledones), the perifhable part of a feed
which affords food to the reft in germination.
ANY. Hiftory.
Seminal leaves, thofe which rife from the feed-lobes.
Serrated, like the teeth of a faw.
Sheath (fpatha), a kind of calyx like that of the crocus.
Simple, undivided.
Sitting leaves or flowers, without leaf or flowrer-ftalks.
Solitary, only one in a place.
Spear-egg-Jhaped, like a fpear at the bafe, and an egg
at the extremity.
Spike (fpica), a colleftion of flowers placed alternately
on each fide of a common fruitftalk without little
fruitftalks.
Stamen, confifts of a filament and anther.
Staminiferous, bearing ftamens.
Streaked, marked with depreffed lines.
Syngenefta, united anthers.
T.
Target-fhaped leaf, having the ftalk fixed, not in the
edge, but the centre.
Tetragynia, four piftils.
Petr adynamia, four ftamens longer.
Piled, one leaf or fcale partly covering another.
Pooth-ferraied, when the edge of a leaf is marked with
little ferrated teeth.
Priandria, three ftamens.
Prigynia, three piftils.
Pubercled, having folid warts; applied to certain lichens.
Puberous root, having many roundilh knobs in a bundle.
Pubular, hollow like a tube.
U.
Umbel (umbella), an affemblage of flowers in which a
number of flender fruitftalks, proceeding from the
fame centre, rife to nearly the fame height, fo as to
form a regular furface at the top, as in hemlock or
carrot.
Unequal florets (radiati), when the florets of an umbel
are larger in the circumference than in the centre.
Valve, the pieces of a capfule are called valves.
Vaulted (fornicatus), like the roof of the mouth.
Veil (calyptra), the calyx of moffes.
W.
Wheel-Jhaped, a corolla of one petal, with a flat border
and a ftiort tube.
Whirls of branches, leaves or flowers; ex gr. the
branches of the fir.
Wings, the lateral petals of a butterfly-ftiaped bloffom.
Winged leaf-ftalk, with a thin membrane on each fide.
 leaf, when an undivided leaf-ftalk has many
little leaves growing from each fide.
Wing cleft, a leaf deeply cut.
Woody, oppofed to herbaceous.
Wool, curly haired cloathing on fome plants.
Z.
Zigzag, having many contrary bendings.
INDEX.
I’lMr- X C I N
n '/rw/ry////y/^i/i yvY.// . 7//-
liOT.VN V
M o 11 <'Jud I’ i h
///r///////{ ^ y’/vy///
'f'Y/ V V'
Woy’/Z/ Ywi ’/a •
/Y-i
Z"Y/Y/Y'Y’Y /yY/Yy/ f
<£?•
YY/YY/
'Yy YY/YY YYY /YyYY Y V/Y ‘///Y/YY
//YYY'Y/yYYYYY .^/yYYYy/yYYYY
ryur///,, . ,
A./O/
CO/FAN Y.
Triandria.
^sr/t/sf f
Plate C.
</s/ra.yi. /oo.
' /■/>,//. v. ■
/ .7
/’r/f/s/rs?
k V -
< '■//' /'Ss'/se . //rr/U f t-'r y?\
BOTANY,
r entanctria.
riaU' (Mil ,
f
-
B O TA X Y.
Hexajadri a .
^ / //;; a o Ssy// ? y/ .
62> c7ey ,
' 'S/fV ///*////. //. /f/<y.
Q^Sayetz /// s i //syZ/j// s/s/.
/Y. / 5<Z-
riatr ('IV.
. /VO/.
' rYY?r// ' ■Z/y/t. //'//\ Zv/^iA '/• /rv y/
/
n <//// <7 wyi
f Sy? f s’f f ^/' . /& *£ •
> /s^//s/,f S. /OQ ■
’^Ssrs'/i/fr/M C^urryurs/.
,/i . /62.
15 O TAN Y.
ii cjjI.mkIi- i a.
r/trs/r/z/ vs- f f z r/z////•>.
/'z/i /zfz/.y/ . /6z2 .
zzz/rzz /z ZY,'j//'ZZ/z/ .
/t./ZzS.
ITate C \r.
t_ /./sr// .//'r/- • /rty:'/'S'. /r'<y/.
V
Plate C VI .
r///<t<-s t ■
/• /67'
."d
73 O rJ^VXY.
O ctandria.
r_ dddiSdd t??. #/(Ses/fi/or /tV'//. 11
///,//,/ssi S t'tYY/iS*/ .
A rtf-
TTss'/isr/scr/Yf d</ ?////<//////cvY/f'j.
/z./oy.
A As dr/?' Ss-y/?’//?//?/ .
SrV//’/;/
/t ■ .
,'-A<y?'rrr>e/ . /x. JS<3.
H O TAXY.
Becandria.
A f ////.) f/y///7A/
'/y /tsj'j ’ AY'/t, Z/y/i.y, .
Z '/r/Zr/s, r Zf~sZr x/sZ\
/*. /<96.
Z\r'r/Z/.i Sy,vY<'\f<ZZ't.
ZZ' 7>cZj r’f/ 't'Z.
/<9y.
*y/Ze//ZZ/Y/,. //„/!, fnv/
V . '
,4
/
Plate (' i X
B O IVAX .
I Jo dec an dna.
It— - • - .C l
X
Tlate CX .
IS O TAX Y.
«
' sr/t-Yr
/y/■///.)
C/d
t ' ///,
/t. /SjL^
li o TAX V.
riale CXI .
' S'/'ttv/.
J
( ■
CXI!
l’» OTA X Y
c <)'{■// /t-t n, Wet/ 4hu //.
c
Plate CX1IL
HOTjVNY .
P olyanctria.
M t /f? nm st/i'sYY.
/Yt u/ex’s &a/V<>yi. 2^6*.
I
li O T'AN y. IMffte (\XY1.
A f on a rl olpli i a.
. '£<&<■// . //„/J. f,.
Plate CXVJI.*
J3 O ’V A X V.
lJol vadr' Iphia.
rs/zcn . V ■ //
I'I ate C XAM 11
ZjLZ.
)</f’/f/fr yy/i
. %-4-Z.
),///
(7cr<
’ sr’///sr
r/„
/r/e
tf?cr>
-*42
rLate CXX.
I’. O T A X Y.
, r//rjr// t'S/'/s/ . // tf/! i Sf'if/j'f /r>f ^ /f ' *< /.
:
I’lat<* ('XXI
li O TAX V.
BOTANY. Plate CXXIl.
JJucr* cd a.
rial.' rxxru
riare czm.
B O T A X Y.
B O rr A X V.
MonoO c ici .
Plate CXX\r.
■>r-  
I
/
1
-B O T A’N . Plate (' X XVII
*
I1 late C XX VI11
’■///.7'
B O T A X Y.
Fatei ap.
COCOS NUCIFERA . ^Wie f^coa
46X '_y?'ee.
/>VV' .
f
Index,
B O
N
32S
INDEX.
A.
Abroma,
Abrus,
Acsena,
Acalypha,
Acanthus,
Acer,
Achania,
Achillaea,
Achimenes,
Achras,
Achyranthis,
Acia,
Acnida,
Aconitura,
Acorus,
Acroftichum,
Aftaea,
Adanfonia,
Adelia,
Adenanthera,
Adianthum,
Adonis,
Adoxa,
AEgiceras,
AEgilops,
^ginetia,
AEgiphila,
^Egopodium,
iEgopigron,
^fchynomene,
^fculus,
Althufa,
Agapanthus,
Agathophyllum,
Agaricus,
Agave,
Ageratum,
Agrimonia,
Agroftemma,
Agroftis,
Agyneia,
Aira,
Aitonia,
Ajuga,
Aizoon,
Alangium,
Albuca,
Alchemilla,
Aldrouandra,
Aleftra,
Aletris,
Alifma,
Allamanda,
Allionia,
Allium,
Allophylus,
Aloe,
page 241
235
m
264
2T3
279
23I
247
214
151
I24
230
273
202
J53
283
200
231
275
177
284
203
165
124
279
212
108
128
262
236
161
I27
152
189
285
152
245
189
180
97
265
97
229
211
*94
201
*53
111
129
213
1S2
*54
n9
108
*52
164
152
Alopecurus,
Alpinia,
Alfine,
Alflroemeria,
Althea,
Alyffum,
Amannia,
Amaranthus,
Amaryllis,
Amazonia,
Ambrofia,
Ambrofinia,
Amellus,
Amethyftea,
Ammi,
Amomum,
Amorpha,
Amygdalus,
Amyris,
Anabafis, '
Anacardium,
Anacyclis,
Anagallis,
Anagyris,
Anaftatica,
Anchufa,
page 97
74
128
152
231
224
110
263
*5X
2*5
263
259
247.
80
126
74
235
*93
164
125
169
246
118
176
224
Ancient writers on botany, 289
Anciftrum, 81
Andrachne, 265
Andromeda, 178
Andropogon, 279
Andryala, 244
Anemone, 203
Anethum, 127
Angelica, ib.
Anguria, v. Auguria, 262
Annona, 203
Anthemis, 247
Anthericum, 152
Antherylium, 193
Anthoceros, 284
Antholyza, 95
Anthofpermum, 280
Anthoxanthum, 81
Anthyllis,
Antichorus,
Antidefma,
Antirrhinum,
Apaftis,
Aphyllanthis,
Aphyteiar
Apium,
Apluda,
Apocynum,
Aponogeton,
Aquartia,
Aquilegia,
Aquilaria,
235
164
273
214
188
152
229
128
279
127
189
108
202
178
Arabis,
Arachis,
Aralia,
Arbutus,
Ar6lium,
Ar£l:opusy
Ar&otis,
Ardifia,
Arduina,
Areca,
Aren aria,
Arethufa,.
Aretia,
Argemone,
Argophyllum,
Ariftea,
Ariftida,
Ariftolochia,
Ariftotelia,
Arnica,
Artedia,
Artemifia,
Artocarpus,
Arum,
Aruna,
Arundo,
Afarum,
Afcium,
Afclepias,
Afcyrum,
Affbnia,
A fp ala thus,
Afparagus,
Afperugo,
Afperula,
Afphodelus,
Afplenium,
After,
Aftragalus,
Aftranthus,
Aftrantia,
Aftronium,
Athamanta,
Athanafia,
Atraftylis,
Atragyne,
Atraphaxis,
Atriplex,
Atropa,
Aubletia,.
Aucuba,
Augea,
Avena,
Averrhoa,
Avicennia,
Axyris,
Ayenia,
Azalea,
page 224
.235
128
178
245
280
247
120
ib.
288
179
258
119
201
124
95
97
258
i8p
246
126
245
261
259
81
97
188
201
125
242
230
235
153
118
109
152
284
246
236
152
126
273
127
245
ib.
203
*53
280
121
201
263
178
97
180
213
262
123
120
Azorella,
B.
page 12S
Bacalia, 245
Baccharis, 246
Bacopa, 119
Baea, 80
Baebotrus, 121
Baeckea, 163
Ballota, 212
Baltimora, 247
Bambufa, 153
Banaia, 193
Bankfia, 111
Bannifteria, 179
Barbacenia, 151
Barleria, 213
Barnadefia, 245
Barreria, 118
Barringtonia, 230
Bartfia, 213
Bafella, 128
' Baffia, 189
Baflbnia, 121
Batis, 273
Bauhinia, 176
Befaria, 189
Begonia, 264
Bellardia, 109
Beilis, 246
Bellium, ib.
Bellonia, 121
Berberis, 151
Bergera, 178
Bergia, 180
Bertiera, 122
Befleria, 215
Beta, 126
Betonica, 211
Betula, 263
Bidens, 245
Bignonia, 214
Billardiera, 123
Bifcutella, 224
Biferrula, 236
Bixa, 201
Blackwellia, 190
Bladhia, 120
Blaeria, 108.
Blakia, 189
Blafia, 284
Blechnum, ib.
Blitum, 7£
Bocconia, 188
Boerhaavia, 75
Boerhaave’s botanical ar¬
rangement, 294
Boletus, 285
Bombax, 230
Bonetia*
Bonetla,
Bonti a,
Boraffus,
Borago,
Borbonia,
Bofcia,
Bofea,
Botany, elements of,
Baradejum,
Braflica,
Briza,
Bromelia,
Bromus,
Broffea,
Browallia,
Brownea,
Brunfelfia,
Brunia,
Brunnichia,
Bryonia,
Biyum,
Bubon,
Buchnera,
Bucida,
Budleia,
Bufonia,
Buginvillea,
Bulbocodium,
Bumalda,
Bumelia,
Bunias,
Bunium,
Buphthalmum,
Bupleurum,
Burmannia,
Butomus,
Buttneria,
Buxbaumia,
Buxus,
Byflus,
Byftropogon,
page too
215
288
1x8
235
11 2
126
63
279
224
97
150
97
120
213
230
2x3
124
179
265
284
127
214
178
108
164
152
12 5
120
224
127
247
127
150
169
123
284
262
284
211
Cadrota, 165
Caefalpinia, 176
Caefalpinus’s botanical ar¬
rangement, 292
Caftus, 192
Cadia, 177
Cakile, 224
Calamus, 153
Calea, 245
Calceolaria, 80
Calendula, 247
Calla, 162
Callicarpa, 108
Calligonum, 189
Callilia, 96
Callitriche, 75
Calodendrum, 123
Callophyllum, 200
Caltha, 203
Calvcanthus, 194
Calyptranthes, 193
Camax, 12 x
Camellia, 231
B O T
Cameraria,
Campanula,
Camphorofma,
Canarina,
Canarium,
Canella,
Canna,
Cannabis,
Canephora,
Cantua,
Capparis,
Capraria,
Caplicum,
Capura,
Cardamine,
Cardiofpermum,
Carduus,
Carex,
Carica,
Cariffa,
Carlina,
Caroline a,
Carpefium,
Carphalea,
Carpinus,
Carpodetus,
Carthamus,
Carum,
Caryocar,
Caryota,
Cafearia,
Caffia,
Cafline,
CaflTyta,
Caftilleia,
Cafuarina,
Catananche,
Catelbaea,
Caturus,
Caucalis,
Ceanothus,
Cecropia,
Cedrela,
Celaftrus,
Celofia,
Celfia,
Celtis,
Cenchrus,
Centaurea,
Centella,
Centunculus,
Cepbselis,
Cepbalanthus,
Ceraftium,
Ceratocarpus,
Ceratonia,
Ceratopetalum,
Ceratophyllum,
Cerbera,
Cercis,
Cerinthe,
Ceropegia,
Ceftrum,
Chaerophyllum,
Chamserops,
page 120
1 21
in
‘Si
273
189
74
273
122
I ”9
200
214
121
151
225
165
245
262
274
120
243
230
246
109
264
124
245
127
202
288
178
176
128
169
2X2
26i
244
IO9
272
126
123
272
123
zL
124
214
279
96
247
263
108
122
108
180
261
280
177
264
120
176
118
125
120
127
288
A N
Chara,
Cheirauthus,
Chelidonium,
Chelone,
Chenolia,
Chenopodium,
Cherleria,
Chimarrhis,
Chiocorfca,
Chionanthus,
Chironia,
Chlora,
Chloranthus,
Chomelia,
Chondrilla,
Chorchorus,
Chryfanthemum,
Chryfitrix,
Chryfobalanus,
Chryfocoma,
Chryfogomum,
Chryfophyllum,
Chryfoplenium,
Cicca,
Cicer,
Cicborium,
Cicuta,
Cienfuegia,
Cimicifuga,
Cinchona,
Cineraria,
Cinna,
Circsea,
Ciflampelos,
Ciflus,
Ciftus,
Citharexylum,
Citrus,
Claffes, botanical,
Claflification of plants,
natural,
Clathrus,
Clavaria,
Claytonia,
Clematis,
Cleome,
Cleonia,
Clerodendron,
Clethra,
Clibadium,
ClifFortia,
Clinopodium,
Clitoria,
Clufia,
Clutia,
Clypeola,
C neorum,
Cnicus,
Coccoloba,
Coccopcyfilum,
Cochlearia,
Cochrys,
Cocos,
Codia,
Codon,
page 75
224
200
214
124
126
179
121
122
79
“9
164
111
108
244
200
246
280
‘93
245
248
121
179
263
236
244
127
230
202
121
246
75
81
275
215
242
€4, 67
306
285
lb.
123
203
224
2X2
2X5
177
263
274
2X2
236
279
275
224
96
245
165
IO9
224
127
288
165
178
Coffea,
Coix,
Colchicum,
Coldenia,
Collinfonia,
Colletia,
Columnea,
Colutea,
Comarum,
Combretum,
Commelina,
Commerfonia,
Comocladia,
Conarus,
Conferva,
Conium,
Conobea,
Conocarpus,
Convallaria,
Convolvulus,
. Conyza,
Cookia,
Copaifera,
Cordia,
Cordylocarpus,
Coreopfis,
Coriandrum,
Coriaria,
Coris,
Corifpermum,
Cornetes,
Cornucopiae,
Cornus,
Cornutea,
Coronilla,
Correa,
Corrigiola,
Cortufa,
Corylus,
Corymbum,
Corypha,
Coronycarpus,
Corypha,
Coflignea,
Coftus,
Cotula,
Cotyledon,
Crambe,
Craffula,
Cratsegus,
Crataeva,
Crenaea,
Crepis,
Crefcentia,
Crefla,
Crinodendrum,
Crinum,
Crithmum,
Crocus,
Croffoftylis,
Crotalaria,
Croton,
Crucianella,
Crudia,
Cruzita,
Index,
,page 122
262
154
112
80
I24
213
235
I94
163
95
129
96
229
285
127
213
124
152
119
246
177
179
120
224
247
127
274
118
75
111
97
110
215
236
164
128
118
264
118
151
123
288
151
74
246
180
224
129
193
188
ib.
244
213
125
229
i5*
127
95
230
235
265
no
178
I X I
Crypfis,
Index.
CrVpfis,
CrvMtoftomum,
Cubaea,
Cucubalus,
Cucullaria,
Cucumis,
Cucurbita,
Cuminum,
Cunila,
Cunninghamia,
Cunonia,
Cupania,
Cuphea,
Cupreffus,
Curatella,
Curculigo,
Curcuma
Curtifia,
Cufcuta,
Culibnia,
Cyanella,
Cycas,
Cyclamen,
Cymbaria,
Cynanchum,
Cynara,
Cynogloffum,
Cynometra,
Cyrtandra,
Cynomorium, '
Cyperus,
Cyphia,
Cypripedium,
Cyrilla,
Cyrtanthus,
Cytinus,
Cytifus,
D.
Dactylis,
Dais,
Dalbergia,
Dalechampia,
Damofonium,
Daphne,
Datifca,
Datura,
Daucus,
Decandria, clafs of,
Decumaria,
Delphinium,
Dentaria,
Dentella,
Deutzia,
Diadelphia, clafs of,
Dialium,
Diandria, clafs of,
Dianthus,
Diapenfia,
Dichondra,
Di&amnus,
Didynamia, dafs of,
Digitalis,
Dilartis,
Dillenia,
Dimocarpus,
page 81
12 I
I76
179
75
265
ib.
127
80
108
179
163
189
264
202
152
74
no
11 x
126
153
283
119
215
125
245
118
!77
80
261
96
X24
258
2x4
152
258
236
97
178
235
264
*54
164
274
1x9
126
176
189
202
224
121
179
234
80
79
179
119
125
176
211
214
95
203
163
B
Dioecia, clafs of,
Diodia,
Dionma,
Diofcorea,
Diofma,
Diofpyres,
Dipfacus,
Dirca,
Difa,
Difandra,
Dodartia,
Dodecandria, clafs of,
Dodecas,
Dodecatheon,
Dodonaea,
Dolichos,
Dombeia,
Donatia,
Dorsena,
Doronicum,
Dorftenia,
Draba,
Dracaena,
Dracocephalum,
Dracontium,
Drimia,
Drofera,
Dryas,
Dryphis,*
Duranta,
Duria,
Durio,
Duroia,
o
E.
page 272
no
178
274
123
280
107
164
258
161
214
188
ib.
119
165
235
230
98
1x9
246
111
223
i53
212
162
J52
129
J94
128
2x5
I5I
242
*51
Ebenus,
Echinophora,
Echinops,
Echites,
Echium,
Eclipta,
Ehretia,
Ehrharta,
Ekebergia,
Elaeagnus,
Elaeis,
Elaeocarpus,
Elaeodendrum,
Elate,
Elaterium,
Elatine,
Elephantopus,
Ellifia,
EKholtzia,
Embothrium,
Empetrum,
Enargia,
Enneandria, clafs of,
Epaeris,
Ephedra,
Ephielis,
Epidendrum,
Epigaea,
Epigeron,
Epilobium,
Equifetum,
235
126
248
120
118
247
120
T53
x??
in
288
201
123
288
261
165
248
121
211
111
272
152
169
120
275
i63
258
178
246
163
283
A N
Eranthemum,
Erica,
Erinus,
Eriocephalus,
Eriophorum,
Eriofpermum,
Erithalis,
Erithroxylon,
Ernodia,
Erodium,
Ervum,
Eryngium,
Eryfimum,
Erythrina,
Efcalonia,
Ethulia,
Eucalyptus,
Euclea,
Eucomis,
Eugenia,
Evolvulus,
Euparia,
Eupatorium,
Euphorbia,
Euphrafia,
Euftephia,
Eurya,
Evonymus,
Exccecaria,
Exoacantha,
Y.
Fabricia,
Fagara,
Fagonia,
Fagus,
Falkia,
Ferraria,
Ferula,
Feftuca,
Fewillaea,
Ficus,
Filago,
Fiflilia,
Flagellaria,
Foetidia,
Fontinalis,
Fontanelia,
Forlkelia,
Forftera,
Fothergilla,
Fragaea,
Fragaria,
Frankenia,
Fraxinus,
Freziera,
Fritillaria,
Froelichia,
Fucus,
Fuireria,
Fumaria,
Fufchia,
Gsertnera,
Gahnia,
Galanthus,
F.
G.
page 79
164
2x4
247
96
152
122
179
109
229
236
126
224
235
123
245
'93
274
152
'93
128
123
245
189
213
'52
188
123
272
127
'93
110
177
264
'53
229
127
97
273
280
247
96
'54
'93
284
80
165
258
202
120
'94
'5'
280
200
'53
109
285
96
235
164
176
'53
\5l
Galax,
Galaxia,
Galega,
Galenia,
Galeopfis,
Galipea,
Galium,
Galopina,
Garcinia,
Gardenia,
Garidella,
Gaura,
Genera, botanical, explained,68
Genioftoma, 119
Genifta, 235
Gentiana, 125
Geoffroya, 236
Geranium, 229
Gerardia, 214
Geropogon, 244
Gefneria, 214
Gefner’s botanical arrange-
327
page 118
228
236
'65
211
79
109
in
188
122
179
163
ment,
Gethyllis,
Geum,
Ghinia,
Gilibertia,
Ginoria,
Gifechia,
Glabraria,
Gladiolus,
Glaux,
Glecoma,
Gleditfia,
Glinus,
Globea,
Globularia,
Gloriofa,.
Gloffoma,
Gloflbpetalum,
Gloxinia,
Gluta,
Glycine,
Glycyrrhiza,
Gmelina,
Gnaphalium,
Gnetum,
Gnidia,
Gomphia,
Gomphrena,
Gonatocarpus,
Goodenia,
Gordonia,
Gorteria,
Goffypium,,
Gouania,
Grangeria,
Gratiola,
Grewia,
Grias,
Grielum,
Griflea,
Gronovia,
Grubbia,
Guarea,
292
152
'94
80
177
189
129
242
95
124
211
280
190
81
107
'53
no
129
214
123
236
ib.
213
246
265
164
176
126
ill
121
230
247
231
279
189
80
201
200
l8o
163
124
164
l6j
GuaiacuiUj,
328
Guaiacum, page
Gualtheria,
Guettarda,
Guillandina,
Gundelia,
Gunnera,
Guftavia,
Gynandria, clafs of,
Gynopogon,
Gypfophila,
H.
Haemanthus,
Haematoxylon,
Haemodorum,
Hagenia,
Hallefia,
Halleria,
Halloragis,
Hamamelis,
Hamellia,
•Hartogia,
HaffelquiftJa,
Hebenftretia,
Hedera,
Hedwigxa,
Hedycaria,
Hedychium,
Hedyotis,
Hedyfarum,
Heifteria,
Helenium,
Helianthus,
Heliconia,
Helifteris,
Heliocarpus
Heliophila,
Heliotropium,
Helonias,
Hellenia,
Helleborus,
Helvella,
Hemerocallis,
H emimeris,
Hemionitis,
Hcptandria, clafs of,
Herbarium, how formed,
Heraclium,
Hermarmia,
Herman’s botanical ar¬
rangement,
Hermas,
Hernandia,
Herniaria,
Hefperis,
Heuchera,
Hexandria, clafs of,
Hibifcus,
Hieracium,
Hillia,
Hippia,
Hippocrates,
Hippocrepis,
Hippomane,
Hippophae,
Hippuris,
botany.
17 7 Hiraea, page 179
178 Hirtella, 122
263 Hillory of botany, 289
176 Hoffmannia, 109
248 Holcus, 279
2^3 Holmlkioldia, 213
230 Holofteum, 98
257 Homalium, 202
120 Honkinya, 163
179 Hordeum, 98
Hornftedtia, 74
171 Hortus liccus, how formed, 72
177 Hopea, 242
95 Hoftea, 125
163 Hottonia, 119
188 Houflonia, 109
213 Houthilfnia, 162
165 Hovenia, 123
111 Hudfonia, 189
122 Hugonia, 229
110 Humboldtia, 123
126 Humulus, 273
212 Hura, 264
124 Hyacinthus, 152
164 Hydnum, 285
275 Hydrangea, 179
74 Hydraftis, 202
109 Hydrocharis, 274
236 Hydrocotyle, 126
177 Hydrolea, 125
246 Hydrophylax, 109
247 Hydrophyllum, 118
125 Hymaenea, 176
230 Hyobanche, 215
189 Hyofcyamus, 119
226 Hyoferis, 245
118 Hypecoum, in
154 Hyperanthera, 176
74 Hypericum, 242
203 Hypnum, 284
285 Hypochaeris, 244
152 Hypoxis, 152
214 Hyptis, 211
284 Hyffopus, ib.
161 I.
72 Jabarofa, 121
126 Jambolifera, 164
229 Jafione, 124
Jafminum, 79
2 93 Jatrophe, 265
280 Jaquinia, 120
262 Iber.is, 224
126 Icofandria, clafs of, 192
224 Ignatia, 120
125 Illecebrum, 124
150 Ilex, < 112
231 Illicium, 203
245 Impatiens, 123
151 Imperatoria, 127
247 Incarvillea, 2^4
9£ Indigofera, 236
236 Inocarpus, 17^
265 Inula, 246
273 Jonefia, 161
75 Jonquetia, 180
Ipomsea, page 119
Iris, 95
Irefine, 273
Ifatis, 224
Ifchaemum, 279
Ifnardia, ill
Ifcetes, 284
Ifopyrum, 203
Itea, 124
Iva, 263
Juglans, 264
Juncus, 153
Jungermannia, 284
Jungia, 248
Juniperus, 275
Juffieua, 17^
Jufticia, 80
Ixia, 95
Ixora, 109
K.
Kaempferia, 74
Kalmia, 178
Kiggelaria, 274
Kitaibelia, 231
Kleinhovia, 188
Knautia, 107
Knaut, Chriftopher’s, bota¬
nical arrangement, 293
Knaut, Chriftian’s, bota¬
nical arrangement, 295
Knoxia, 109
Koenigia, 9^
Koebreuteria, 163
Krameria, 111
Kyllingia, 96
Labatia, 108
Lachenalia, 152
Lachnaea, 164
Lacis, 202
Laciftema, 75
La£luca, 244
Leetia, 202
Lager ftroemia, 201
Lagoecia, 124
Lagunsea, 230
Lagurus, 97
Lamium, 211
Lanaria, 152
Langeria, 120
Lantana, 213
Lappago, 98
Lapfana, 245
Lalioftoma, 108
Laferpitium, 126
Lathroea, 213
Lathyrus, - 236
Lavatera, 231
Lavandula, 211
Laurus, 169
Lawdbnia, 164
Lechea, 9^
Lecythos, 201
Leea, 121
Ledum, 177
Leerfia,
Legnotis,
Lemna,
Lemnifcia,
Leontice,
Leontodon,
Leonurus,
Lepidagathis,
Lepidium,
Leptofpermum,
Lerchea,
Leucodendrum,
Leucoium,
Leyfera,
Lichen,
Licium,
Licuala,
Lightfootia,
Ligufticum,
Liguftrum,
Lilium,
Limeum,
Limodorum,
Limoaia,
Limofella,
Lindera,
Linconia,
Lindernia,
Linnaea,
Linociera,
Linum,
Liparia,
Lippia,
Liquidambar,
Liriodendrum,
Lifianthus,
Lita,
Lithophila,
Lithofpermum,
Littorella,
Loafa,
Lobelia,
Loefflingia,
Loefelia,
Lolium,
Lonchitis,
Lonicera,
Lopezia,
Loranthus,
Lotus,
Ludia,
Ludwigia,
Lunaria,
Lupinus,
Lychnis,
Lycoperdon,
Lycopodium,
Lycopus,
Lycoplis,
Lygeum, _
Lyfimachia,
Lythrum,
Index.
page 97
200
262
200
J5i
244
211
215
224
193
229
Protea.
151
246
284
I 2 £
151
I 24
12 7
79
153
162
258
177
213
*53
125
213
2I5
80
129
236
213
263
203
119
rb.
80
118
263
200
122
96
213
98
284
122
74
15I
236
201
110
223
235
180
285
284
80
118
96
119
189
Maba, 272
Macrocnemum, 121
Macrolobium,
Index.
Macrolobium,
Maerua,
Magnolia,
Mahernia,
Malachra,
Mallingtonia,
Malope,
Malpighxa,
Malva,
Maramea,
Manettia,
Mangifera,
Manifuris,
Manulea,
Mapanta,
Maranta,
Marchantia,
Marcgravia,
Margaritaria, ,,
Maiica,
Marila,
Marrubium,
Marfilea,
Martynia,
Maffonia,
Matricaria,
Matthiola,
Mattufchkea,
Maurandia,
Mauritia,
Medeola,
Medicago,
Melaleuca,
Melampodium,
Melampyrum,
Melanthium,
Melaftoma,
Melia,
Melianthus,
Melica,
Melicocca,
Melicope,
Meliffa,
Melittis,
Melochia,
Melodinus,
Melothria,
Memecylon,
Menais,
Menyantbes,
Menifpermum,
Mentha,
Mentzelia,
Menziefia,
Mercurialis,
Meriana,
Mefembryanthemum,
Mefpilus,
Mefferfchmidia,
Mefua,
Metrofideros,
Michauxia,
Michelia,
Microcos,
Vol. IV. Part L
page 95
201
203
I29
231
215
231
179
231
200
IO9
123
279
214
96
74
284
200
274
95
200
212
284
214
152
246
122
108
214
288
x54
236
242
247
213
*54
178
177
215
97
164
ib.
212
ib.
229
125
95
163
120
1 x9
274
211
200
164
274
178
194
ib.
118
230
I93
164
203
201
T
page 126
247
96
152
97
247
279
214
163
98
117
109
179
75
X5X
75
284
*65
163
98
2 12
265
228
74
80
B O
Microtea,
Micropus,
Miegia,
Millea,
Mi ilium,
Milleria,
Mimofa,
Mimulus,
Mimufops,
Minuartia,
Mirabilis,
Miichella,
Mitella,
Mithridatea,
Mnafium,
Mniarum,
Mnium,
Moehringia,
Molinaea,
Mollugo,
Molluccella,
Momordica,
Monadelphia, clafs of
Monandria, clafs of
Monarda,
Monetia, no
Monnieria, 234
Monoecia, clafs of 261
Monotropa, 177
Monfonia, 230
Montia, 98
Montinea, 273
Moraea, 91;
Morina, 80
Morinda, 122
Morifonia, 230
Moms, 268
Mucor, 285
Muhlenbergia, 97
Mullera, 236
Munchaufia, 242
Muntingia, 101
Murray a, 178
Mufa, 278
Muffienda, 122
Mutilia, 246
Myagrum, 223
Myginda, 1x2
Myonima, 108
Myoporum, 215
Myoibtis, 118
Myofurus, 129
Myrica, 273
Myriophyllum, 264
Myrmecia, ic8
Myrodia, 230
Myrofma, 74
Myrfine, 120
Myroxylon, 176
Myrtus, 193
N.
Najas, 272
Nama, 125
Nandina, 151
ANY.
Napsea, Page275
Nardus, 96
Natural clarification
of plants, 306
Nauclea, 123
Neftris, 153
Nelumbium, 203
Nepenthes, 258
Nepeta, 212
Nephelium, 263
Nerium, 120
Nerteria, 111
Neurada, 180
Nicandra, 178
Nicotiana, 119
Nigella, 202
Nipa, 261
Niflblia, 235
Nithraria, 189
Nolana, 118
Nyftanthes, 79
Nymphaea, 201
Nyffa, 280
°.
Obolaria, 212
Oboranche, ib.
Ochna, 201
Ochrona, 229
O&andria, clafs of 163
Ocymum, 212
Oedera, 248
Oenanthe, 126
Oenothera, 163
Olax, 96
Olea, <79
Olyra, 262
Omphalea, ib.
Oneftis, 180
Onoclea, 283
Ononis, 235
Onopordon, 245
Onofma, 118
Ophiorrhiza, 119
Ophioglofliim, 283
Ophioxylon, 279
Ophira, 164
Ophrys, 257
Orchis, ib.
Orders of plants explain¬
ed, 65,67
Origanum, 212
Orixa, no
Ornithogalum, 153
Ornithopus, 236
Ornitrophe, 1064
Orobus, 236
Orontium, 153
Ortegia, 96
Oryza, 153
Ofbeckia, 163
Ofmites, 247
Ofmunda, 283
Ofteofpermum, 247
Ofyris, 272
T t
Othera,
Othonna,
Ovieda,
Oxalis,
Oxybaphus,
Ozophyllum,
P
Paederota,
Psederia,
Paeonia,
Palavia,
Panax,
Pancouia,
Pancratium,
Pandanus,
Panicum,
Panke,
Panzera,
Papaver,
Pappophorum,
Parietaria,
Paris,
Parkinfonia,
Parnaflla,
Parthenium,
Pafpalum,
Pafferina,
Paffiflora,
Paftinaca,
Paullinia,
Pavetta,
Pavonia,
Peftis,
Pedalium,
Pedicularis,
Peganum,
Pelargonium,
Peltaria,
Pen tea,
Pentandria, clafs of
Pentapetes,
Penthorum,
Pentfternon,
Peplis,
Perdicium,
Pergularia,
Perilla,
Periploca,
Perotis,
Perfoonia,
Petaloma,
Petefia,
Petitia,
Petiveria,
Petrea,
Petrocarya,
Peucedanum,
Peziza,
Phaca,
Phalaris,
Phallus,
Pharnaceum,
Phams,
Phafcum,
329
page n0
247
215
180
95
229
79
120
202
230
280
161
150
272
96
169
178
200
97
280
169
170
128
263
97
164
229
127
165
109
231
246
215
214
188
229
224
108
1 x7
230
180
214
*53
246
I25
211
125
97
163
177
109
108
161
214
161
126
285
236
97
285
128
263
284
Phafeolus,
33°
Phafeolus,
Phayloplis,
Phellandrium,
Philadelphus,
Philefia,
Phillyrea,
Phleum,
Phlomis,
Phoenix,
Phlox,
Phormium,
Phryma,
Phrynium,
Phylidrum,
Phylica,
Phyllachne,
Phyllanthus,
Phyllis,
Phy falls,
Phyreuma,
Phytolacca,
Picris,
Pilocarpus,
Pilularia,
Pimelea,
Pimpinella,
Pinguicula,
Pinus,
Piper,
Pifcidia,
Pifonia,
Piftacia,
Piftia,
Pifum,
Pitcairnia,
Pittofporum,
Plagianthus,
Plantago,
Plants, parts of explained 63
Platanus, 264
Plates explained, 72
Pleftranthus, 212
Pledlronia, 124
Plegorrhiza, 169
Plocama, 122
Plukenetia, 265
Plumbago, 118
Plumieria, 120
Plumier’s botanical arrange¬
ment, 296
Podalyria, 176
Podophyllum, • 201
Polemonium, 119
Pollia, 153
Polyandria, clafs of 199
Polyanthes, 152
Pollichia, 75
Polydelphia, clafs of 241
Polycarpus, 98
Polycardia, 123
Polycnemum, 9^
Polygala, 235
Polygamia, clafs of 278
Polygonum, 165
BOTANY.
page 235
213
1Z1
193
*53
79
91
21 r
288
119
1SZ
212
74
tb.
I 24
261
262
126
1 2 I
ib.
180
2 44
123
284
79
128
80
264
81
235
161
273
229
236
150
123
2 30
108
Polymnea, page 247
Polypodium, 283
Polypremum, 108
Polytrichum, 284
Pomereulia, 96
Ponaea, 165
Pontederia, 152
Populus, 274
Porana, ' 119
Porella, 284
Portlandia, 121
Portulaca, 189
Portulacaria, 128
Potamogeton, 11 2
Potentilla, 194
Poterium, 264
Pothos, 111
Poureatia, 230
Prafium, 212
Premna, 213
Prenanthes, 244
Piimula, 119
Prinos, 151
Prockia, 201
Proferpinaca, 98
Profopis, 177
Protea, 111
Prunella, 212
Prunus, 193
Pfathura, 151
Pfidium, 193
Pforalea, 236
Pfychotria, 122
Pteris, 284
Pterocarpus, 235
Pteronia, 245
Pterofpermum, 230
Pugionium, 224
Pulmonaria, 118
Pultenaea, 176
Punica, 193
Pyrola, 177
Pyroftria, 108
Pyrus, 194
Qi.
Qualea, 75
QuaiTia, 177
Quercus, 264
Queria, 98
Quinchamala, 118
Qoifqualis, 177
R.
Rajania, 274
Ranunculus, 203
Raphanus, 224
Rawolfia, 120
Ray’s botanical arrange¬
ment, 293
Reaumuria, 202
Reichelia, 128
Renealmia, 74
Refeda, 189
Reftis, 272
Retzia, 119
Rhamnus, page 12 2
Rheum, 169
Rhexia, 163
Rhinanthus, 213
Rhizophora, 188
Rhodiola, 274
Rhododendron, 178
Rhodora, 176
Rhus, 128
Ribes, 124
Riccia, 284
Richardia, 151
Ricinus, 265
Ricotia, 224
Rivina, ill
Rivinus’s botanical arrange¬
ment, 294
Roberghia, 180
Robinia, 236
Robinfonia, 193
Rochefortia, 125
Roella, 121
Rohria, 95
Rondeletia, 121
Roridula, 124
Rofa, 194
Rofmarinus, 80
Rotala, 96
Rottboellia, 98
Rouffea, 108
Roxburghia, 163
Royena, 179
Rubia, 109
Rubus, 194
Rudbeckia, 247
Ruellia, 214
Ruigia, 231
Rumex, 154
Rumphia, 96
Rupala, in
Ruppia, 112
Rule us, 275
Ruffelia, 213
Ruta, 177
Ruyfchia, 123
Ryania, 202
S.
Saccharum, 97
Sagina, 112
Sagittaria, 264
Salacia, 258
Salicornia, 75
Salix, 272
Salmafia, 128
Salfola, 125
Salvadora, 111
Salvia, 80
Samara, no
Sambucus, 128
Samolus, 121
Samyda, 178
Sandoricum, 177
Sanguinaria, 201
Sanguiforba, 109
SanicuTa,
Sanfe viera,
Santalum,
Santolina,
Sapindus,
Saponaria,
Saraca,
Sarothra,
Sarracenia,
Satureia,
Satyrium,
Saururus,
Sauvagefia,
Saxifraga,
Scabiofa,
Scaevola,
Scandix,
Schefflera,
Scheuchzeria,
Schinus,
Schmidelia,
Schcenus,
Schcepfia,
Schotia,
Schoufbcea,
Schradera,
Schrebera,
Schwalbea,
Schwenckia,
Schwenkfeldia,
Scilla,
Scirpus,
Scitamineae,
Sciuris,
Scleranthus,
Sclerocarpus,
Scolopia,
Scolofanthus,
Scolymus,
Scoparia,
Scopolia,
Scorpiurus,
Scorzonera,
Scrophularia,
Scutellaria,
Secale,
SedHons in botany,
Securidsea,
Sedum,
Seguieria,
Selago,
Semicarpus,
Sempervivum,
Senexio,
Senraea,
Septas,
Serapias,
Seriana,
Seriola,
Seriphium,
Seriffa,
Serpicula,
Serratula,
Sefamum.
Index.
page 126
152
no
245
165
179
235
128
2CO
212
257
162
I24
179
107
I 22
127
129
154
274
165
96
I 22
177
ib.
123
213
80
122
152
96
74
80
179
247
*93
109
224
108
123
236
244
214
212
98
66
235
180
202
212
128
190
246
229
162
258
165
244
248
122
263
245
214
Sefeli,
Index,
Sefeli, page 127
Sefuvium, 193
Sheffieldia, ' 119
Sexes of plants, dlffertation
on the
Sherardia,
Sibbaldia,
Sibthorpia,
Sicyos,
Slda,
Sideritis,
Siderodendrura,
Sideroxylon,
Sigefbeckia,
Signs explained,
Silene,
Silphium,
Sinapis,
Siphonanthus,
Sifon,
Sifymbrium,
Sifynnchium,
Sium,
Skimmia,
Sloanea,
Smilax,
Smyrnium,
Solandra,
Solanum,
Soldanella,
Solidago,
Solina,
Sonchus,
Sonneratia,
Sophora,
Sorbus,
Sparganium,
Sparrmannia,
Spartium,
Spathelia,
Species in botany explain-
ed, 78
Spergula, I o
Spermacoce, 109
Sphaeranthus, 248
Sphagnum, 284
Sphenoclea, 119
Spicy plants, 74
Spielmannia, 215
Spigelia, 119
Spilanthus, 245
Spinacia, 273
Spinifex, 279
Spiraea, 194
Splachnum, 284
Sprengelia, 123
Spondias, 180
Staavia, 123
Staehelina, 245
Stapelia, 125
Staphylla, 12,8
Static!, 129
Stellaria, *79
Stellera, 165
Stephania, 15°
297
109
129
214
265
230
211
109
121
247
73
179
248
225
110
127
225
228
127
no
201
273
127
121
121
ng
246
122
245
I93
176
*93
262
200
235
z 28
DOT
Sterbeckia, Page 200
Sterculia, 188
Sternodea, 214
Stilbe, 280
Stipa, 97
Stilago, 258
Stillingia, 265
Stoebe, 248
Strelitzia, 125
Strigilia, 178
Strcemia, 122
Strumpfia, 124,248
Strumaria, 151
Struthiola, no
Strychnos, 120
Stuartia, 230
Styphelia, 120
Styrax, 178
Subularia, 223
Suriana, 180
Syena, 96
Symphonia, 229
Symplocos, 242
Syngenefia, clafs of 244
Syringa, 79
Syftems of botany, 292
Swartzia, 199
Swertia, J25
Swietenia, *77
Symphitum, 118
T.
Tabernaemontana, 120
Table of the numbers of
plants, 289
Tacca, 151
Tagetes, 246
Talinum, 189
Tamerindus, 229
Tamarix, 128
Tamus, 274
Tanaecium, 212
Tanacetum, 246
Targionia, 284
Taxus, 275
Tedlonia, 120
Telephium, 128
Terminalia, 279
Ternftroemia, 200
Tetracera, 202
Tetradynamia, clafs of, 223
Tetragonia, 194
Tetrandria, clafs of, 107
Tetratheca, 163
Teucrium, 2ti
Thalia, 74
Thali£lrum, 203
Thapfia, 127
Thea, 201
Theligonum, 264
Theobroma, 241
Theophrafta, np
Thefium, 125
Thlafpi, 224
Thouinia, 120
Thrinax, 153
ANY.
Thryallis, Page *77
Thuja, 264
Thunbergia, 215
Thymbra, 2 I 2
Thymus, tb.
Tiarella, 179
Tilia, 20I
Tillsea, 2 12
Tillandfia, 150
Toluifera, 176
Tonfella, 96
Tordylium, 126
Torenia, 212
Tormentilla, 194
Tornex, 188
Tortula, 215
Tourettia, 214
Tournefortia, 120
Tournefort’s botanical ar¬
rangement,
Tozzia,
Trachelium,
Trachonanthus,
Tradefcantia,
Tragia,
Tragopogon,
Tiapa,
Tremella,
Triandria, clafs of
Trianthema,
Tribulus,
Trichilia,
Trichocarpus,
Trichomanes,
Trichofanthes,
Trichoflema,
Tricratus,
Tridax,
Trientalis,
Trifolium,
Triglochin,
Trigonella,
Triguera,
Trillium,
Tiilix,
Tripteris,
Triofteum,
Tripfacum,
Triticum,
Triumfetta,
Trollius,
Tropaeolum,
Trophis,
Tulbagia,
Tulipa,
Turraea,
Turnera,
Turritis,
Tuflilago,
Typha,
U.
Ucriana,
Ulex,
Ulmus,
Ulva,
296
213
1 21
245
150
262
244
no
285
95
179
J77
ib.
202
284
265
2X2
117
247
l6l
236
I54
236
121
I54
200
179
122
262
98
188
203
163
273
152
*53
177
128
224
246
262
J22
235
I 26
285
T t 3
Uniols,
Unona,
Unxia,
Urania,
Urena,
Urtica,
Ufteria,
Utricularia,
Uvaria,
Uvularia,
Vaccinium,
Vahlia,
Vaillantia,
Valentinia,
Valeriana,
Vallea,
Vallifneria,
Vandellia,
Vangueria,
Varieties in botany
plained,
Varronia,
Vatica,
Velezia,
Vella,
Ventilago
Veratrum,
Verbafcum,
Verbena,
Verbeiina,
Verea,
Veronica,
Viburnum,
Vicia,
Vinea,
Viola,
Virefta,
Vifcum,
Vifnea,
Vitex,
Vitis,
Vitmannia,
Volkameria,
Voltheimia,
w.
Wachendorfia,
Wahlbomia,
Waldfteinia,
Wallenia,
Walkera,
Waltheria,
Webera,
Weigelia,
Weinmannia,
Wendlandia,
Willughbeia,
Willichia,
Wintera,
Witheringia,
Witfenia,
Writers, ancient on
tany,_
Wulfenia,
Wurmbea,
page 97
203
246
151
231.
262
75
80
203
*53
164
126
279
165
95
200
272
213
122
ex-
70
120
189
125
224
124
279
119
80
247
165
79
128
236
120
123
121
273
189
215
123
163
215
152
95
202
*93
108
123
229
122
Il8
I65
*54
120
96
202
I08
95
bo-
289
79
.*54
Xanthium,
332
B
x.
Xanthium,
Xeranthemura,
Xerophyta,
Xilophylla,
Ximenia,
Xiphidium,
page 263
246
152
128
164
95
Xylocarpus,
Xylopia,
Xyris,
Yucca,
Zamia,
Y.
O T
page 164
203
96
I53
283
A N
Zannichellia,
Zannonia,
Zanthoxylon,
Zanthorhiza,
Zea,
Zinnia,
Zizania,
Y.
page 261
273
273
129
262
247
263
Zizipliora,
Ziziphus,
Zoegea,
Zoftera,
Zwingera,
Zygophyllum,
Index.
page 80
123
247
75
177
ib*
Botany-
Bay
II .
Bothnia.
B O T
BOTANY-bAy, fo called from the great number
of new plants which were difeovered by the naturalifts
who firft vifited it. See New Holland.
BOTANOMANCY, (fromSar*)1)?, herb, and^^mi*,
divination), an ancient Ipecies of divination, by means
of plants } efpecially fage and fig leaves. The man¬
ner of performing it was thus : the perfons who con-
fulted wTrote their owrn names and their queftions on
leaves, which they expofed to the wind ; and as many
of the letters as remained in their own places were
taken up, and being joined together, contained an an-
fwer to the queftion.
BOTARGO, a kind of faufage, made with the
eggs and blood of the mullet, a large fifli common in
the Mediterranean. The bell kind comes from Tunis
in Barbary : It mull be chofen dry and reddilh. The
people of Provence ufe a great deal of it, the common
way of eating it being with olive oil and lemon juice.
There is alfo a great confumption of it throughout the
Levant.
BOTE, (Sax.), fignifies a recompenfe, fatisfa&ion,
or amends : hence comes manbote, compenfation or a-
mends for a man flain, &c. In King InaVJaws is de¬
clared what rate was ordained for expiation of this of¬
fence, according to the quality of the perfqn llain.
From hence likewife we have our common phrafe, to-
boot, i. e. compenfationis gratia. There are houfe-bote,
plough-bote, &c. privileges to tenants in cutting of w-ood,
&c.
BOTELESS, {fine remedio). In the charter of
Hen. I. to Tho. archbilhop of York, it is faid, “ that
no judgment or fum of money, lhall acquit him that
commits facrilege ; but he is in Englilh called botelefs,
viz. without emendation.” We retain the word Hill in
common fpeech : as, It is bootlefs to attempt fuch a
thing •, that is, It is in vain to attempt it.
BOTH, John and Andrew, Flemifh painters, and
pupils of Bloemart. The union of thefe brothers was
very fingular ■, they were infeparable in their lludies,
travels, and paintings. John painted the landfcape part
of their pictures in the manner of Lorrain, and Andrew
the figures and animals in the llyle of Bamboche. They
both died in 1650. John’s talle in landfcape is ele¬
gant ; his ideas are grand ; his compofition beautiful j
and his execution rich and mallerly in the highell de¬
gree. His light is not always wrell dillributed ; but his
figures are excellent. It is to be regretted that we have
not more of his w’orks; for they are certainly, upon the
whole, among the bell landfcapes wre have.
BOTHNIA, a province of Sweden, at the end of
B O T
the gulf of the fame name. It is divided into two
parts called cajl and wejl Bothnia, the former of which
belongs to Finland. Well Bothnia is full of mountains j
the earth is fandy, and yet a fcarcity of provifions is
feldom known. Cattle and game are fo common, fal-
mon and a fort of herrings fo plenty, and the trade of
fkins is fo gainful, that the inhabitants can command
wThat they w^ant from their neighbours. There are on¬
ly tw^o towns worth mentioning, viz. Tornea and Uma.
The inhabitants of this province are Protellants j and
are a civil well-behaved people.
BOTRYS,Botrus, or Bqflra, in Ancient Geography,
a town of Phoenicia, on the Mediterranean, built by
Saturn, (a proof at lealt of antiquity) •, twelve miles to
the north of Byblus, and twenty to the fouth of Tri-
polis. Now almoll in ruins, and called Boteron, or
Boturn, (Pollellus). E. Long. 37. 30. N. Lat. 34. 6.
BOTT, among bone-lace weavers, a kind of round
culhion of light matter placed on the knee, whereon
they work or weave their lace wuth bobbins, &c.
Bott, in "Zoology. See Botts.
BOTTICELLI, Sandro, or Alesandro, bom
at Florence in I43‘7, learned the rudiments of painting
under Filippo Lippi. He executed feveral piflures
for Pope Sixtus IV. and others for the city of Flo¬
rence : for thele he received large fums of money, all
of which he expended, and died at laft in great dillrefs,
aged 78. He was not only a painter but a man of
letters. Baldini, according to the general report, com¬
municated to him the fecret of engraving, then newly
difeovered by Finiguerra their townfman. The fa¬
mous edition of Dante’s Poem of Plell, printed at Flo¬
rence by Nicholo Lorenzo della Magna, A. D. 1481,
and to which, according to fome authors, Botticelli
undertook to write notes, was evidently intended to
have been ornamented with prints, one for each canto j
and thefe prints (as many of them as were finilhed)
were defigned, if not engraved, by Botticelli. It is
remarkable, that the two firll plates only were printed
upon the leaves of the book, and for want of a blank
fpace at the head of the firll canto, the plate belong¬
ing to it is placed at the bottom of the page. Blank
fpaces are left for all the reft ; that as many of them
as were finilhed might be palled on. Mr Wilbiaham
poffelfes the fineft copy of this book extant in any pri¬
vate library •, and the number of prints in it amounts
to nineteen. The two firll, as ufual, are printed on
the leaves j and the other feventeen, which follow re¬
gularly, are palled on the blank fpaces $ and thefe ap¬
parently were all that Botticelli ever executed. About
the
Botrys
|1
Botticelli.
B O T [ 333 1 B O T
Bottle, the year 1460, it is faid that he engraved a fet of
Botthng. p]ateS)
reprefenting the Prophets and Sibyls. Eafan
tells us that he marked thefe plates with a monogram
compofed of an A and a B joined together.
BOTTLE, a fmall veffel proper to contain liquors,
made of leather, glafs, or done. The word is formed
from butellus, or botc/lus, ufed in barbarous Latin wri¬
ters, for a leffer veflel of wine ; being a diminutive of
bota, which denoted a butt or calk of that liquor.
The ancient Jewifh bottles were cags made of goats
or other wild beads Ikins, with the hair on the infide,
well fewed and pitched together 5 an aperture in one
of the animal’s paws ferving for the mouth of the
VelTel.
Glafs-bottles are better for cyder than thofe of done.
Foul glafs-bottles are cured by rolling End or fmall
(hot in them; mudy bottles, by boiling them. See
Glass.
Bottles are chiefly made of thick coarfe glafs :
though there are likewife bottles of boiled leather made
and fold by the cafe-makers. Fine glafs-bottles cover¬
ed with draw or wicker, are called JlaJks, or bettees.
The quality of the glafs has been fometimes found to
affeft the liquor in the bottle.
Dr Percival cautions againd the practice of cleaning
of wine bottles with leaden {hot. It frequently hap¬
pens (he thinks), through inattention, that fome of the
little pellets are left behind ; and when wane or beer is
again poured into the bottles, this mineral poifon will
llowly diffolve, and impregnate thofe vinous liquors
■with its deleterious qualities. The fweetnefs which is
fometimes perceived in red port wine may arife from
this caufe, when fuch an adulteration is neither defign-
ed nor fufpefted.—Potafh is recommended forcleanfing
bottles : a fmall quantity in the water will clean two
grofs. '
BOTTLING, the operation of putting up liquors in
bottles corked, to keep, ripen, and improve. The wai¬
ters on good hufbandry give divers rules concerning the
bottling of beer, cyder, and the like. The virtues of
Spaw, Pyrmount, Scarborough, and other waters, de¬
pend on their being well bottled and corked, otherwife
they lofe both their tade and fmell. To preferve them,
it is neceflary the bottles be filled up to the mouth, that
all the air may be excluded, which is the great enemy
of bottled liquors. The cork is alfo further fecured by
a cement. Some improv^their bottled beer, by put¬
ting crydals of tartar, and wine or malt fpirits, and o-
thers, by putting fugar boiled up with the eflence of
fome herb, and cloves, into each bottle.
Cyder requires fpecial precautions in the bottling 5
being more apt to fly, and burd the bottle, than other
liquors. The bed way to fecure them, is to have the
liquor thoroughly fine before it be bottled. For w7ant
of this, fome leave the bottles open a while, or open
them after two or three days bottling to give them
vent. If one bottle break, through fermentation, it is
bed to give them all vent, and cork them up again.
Mean cyder is apter to break the bottles than rich.
Some foak the corks in fcalding wrater, to render them
more pliant and ferviceable. Another particular to be
obferved is, to lay the bottles fo as that the liquor may al¬
ways keep the cork wet and fwelled. Something alfo
depends on the place where the bottles are fet, which
ought to be fuch as expofes them as little as poffible to Bottom
the alterations and impreflions of the air: the ground II
is better for this purpofe than a frame j fand better. .
than the bare ground ; and a running water, or a fpring
often changed, bed of all.
To haden the ripening of bottled liquors, they are
fometimes fet in a warm place, or even expofed to the
fun, when a few days will bring them to maturity.
BOTTOM, in a general fenfe, denotes the lowed
part of a thing, in contradidinftion to the top or up-
permod part.
Bottom, in Navigation, is ufed to denote as well
the channel of rivers and harbours, as the body or hull
of a {hip. Thus, in the former fenfe, we fay, a gra¬
velly bottom, clayey bottom, fandy bottom, &c. and ii»
the latter fenfe, a Britifh bottotn, a Dutch bottom, &c.
By datute, certain commodities imported in foreign
bottoms pay a duty called petty cujloms, over and
above what they are liable to if imported in Britiflr
bottoms.
BOTTOMRY, in Commerce, (a practice which o-
riginally arofe from permitting the mader of a {hip in
a foreign country to hypothecate the {hip in order to
raife money to refit), is in the nature of a mortgage of
a fhip ; when the owner takes up money to enable him
to carry on his voyage, and pledges the keel or bot¬
tom of the fliip (pars pro toto) as a fecurity for the re¬
payment. In which cafe it is underdood, that if the
flop be lod, the lender lofes alfo his whole money ; but
if it return in fafety, then he {hall receive back his prin¬
cipal, and alfo the premium or intered agreed upon,
however it may exceed the legal rate of intered. And
this is allowed to be a valid contraf! in all trading na¬
tions, for the benefit of commerce, and by reafon of
the extraordinary hazard run by the lender. And in
this cafe, the fliip and tackle, if brought home, are an-
fwerable (as well as the perfon of the borrower) for
the money lent. But if the loan is not upon the veflel*
but upon the goods and merchandife, which mud ne-
ceffarily be fold or exchanged in the courfe of the
voyage, then only the borrower, perfonally, is bound
to anfwer the contraff who therefore, in this cafe, is
faid to take up the money at refpondentia. Thefe terms
are alfo applied to contratts for the repayment of mo¬
ney borrowed, not on the fhip and goods only, but on
the mere hazard of the voyage itfelf j when a man lends
a merchant 1000I. to be employed in a beneficial trade,
wdth condition to be repaid with extraordinary intered,
in cafe fuch a voyage be fafely performed 5 which kind
or agreement, is fometimes called fcenus nauticum, and
fometimes ujura fnaritima. But as this gave an open¬
ing for ufurious and gaming contrafts, efpecially upon
long voyages, it was enabled by the datute 19 Geo. II.
c. 37. that all monies lent on bottomry, or at refpon¬
dentia, on veflels bound to or from the Ead Indies,
{hall be exprefsly lent only upon the fliip, or upon the
merchandife \ that the lender fliall have the benefit of
falvage 5 and that if the borrower has not on board ef¬
fects to the value of the fum borrowed, he fliall be re-
fponfible to the lender for fo much of the principal as
hath not been laid out, with legal intered and all other
charges, though the fliip and merchandife be totally
lod.
BOTTONY. A crofs bottony, in Heraldry, termi¬
nates
.
EOT [ 334 ] EOT
Bottngaro, nates at eacli end in three buds, knots, or buttons, re-
. fernbling, in fome meafure, the three-leaved grafs ; on
which account Segoing, in his Trefor Heraldique, terms
it croix trefflee. It is the badge of the order of St Mau¬
rice. See Heraldry Plates.
BOTTRIGARO, Hercole, a perfon eminently
{killed in the fcience of mufic, though not a mulician
by profeffion. He was a man of rank in Bologna ; and
appears, from feveral letters to him that have been print¬
ed, to have had the title of Count. He publiflied feve¬
ral controverlial pieces on the fubjeft of mufic. It ieems
that he entertained ftrong prejudices in favour of the
ancient mufic ; and that he attempted, as Vincentine
and others had done, to introduce the chromatic ge¬
nus into pra&ice, but with no better fuccefs than had
attended the endeavours of others. He correfted Go-
gavino’s Latin verfion of Ptolemy in numberlefs in-
ilances \ and that to fo good a purpofe, that Dr Wallis
has in general conformed to it in that tranflation of the
fame author which he gave to the wTorld many years
after. He alfo tranllated into Italian Boetius de Mu-
Jica, and as much of Plutarch and Macrobius as relates
to mufic : befides this, he made annotations upon Ari-
floxenus, Franchinus, Snataro, Vicentino, Zarlino, and
Galillei; and, in fiiort, on almoft every mufical trea-
tife he could lay his hands on, as appears by the copies
which wrere once his own, and are now repofited in
many libraries in Italy. Of Bottrigaro’s works it is
laid, that they contain greater proofs of his learning
and Ikill in mufic, than of his abilities as a writer, his
Ifyle being remarkably inelegant : neverthelefs, he af-
fe&ed the chara&er of a poet; and there is extant a
■}■ Muf cal colledfion of poems by him, in 8vo, printed in 1557.
Lexuan. Walther f reprefents him as an able mathematician,
and a colleftor of rarities 5 and fays that he w'as pofief-
fed of a cabinet, wdiich the emperor Ferdinand II. had
a great defire to purchafe. He died in 1609.
BOTTS, in Zoology, a fpecies of worms which can
be produced and nourilhed only in the intellines of a
horfe. It is there alone they can enjoy the proper tem¬
perature of heat, and receive the nourifiiment neceflary
for them. See Oestrus, Entomology Index.
Befides the long wmrms which have been obferved in
the bodies of horfes, there are alfo fliort ones.—By
thefe are to be underftood what we call botts.
All authors, both ancient and modern, wdio have
treated of the difeafes of horfes, have taken notice of
thefe wmrms; but M. Vallifnieri is the firft who has tra¬
ced them to the laft llage of their transformation, and
has feen them change into a hairy kind of fly like the
drone.
The flies from which thefe botts are produced inha¬
bit the country, and do not come near houfes, at leaf!
not near thofe of great towns 5 and therefore horfes are
never liable to have the wmrms (z. e. botts) in their
bodies, if they have been kept in the houft, efpecially
in a town, during the fummer and autumn.
It is in the former of thefe feafons, and perhaps too
in the beginning of the latter, that the females of thefe
flies apply themfelves to the anus of horfes, and en¬
deavour to gain admittance, in order there to depdfite
their eggs, or perhaps their wmrms.
The precife inftant of their entrance will fcarce ad¬
mit of an eye-witnefs, but by the mereft chance 5 yet
M. Vallifnieri fays, that Dr Gaipari had attained this
very uncommon fight. The Do&or (he tells us) was Botts.
one day looking at his mares in the field 5 and from be-
ing very quiet, he obferved, that on a hidden they be¬
came very reftlefs, and ran about in great agitation,
prancing, plunging, and kicking, with violent motions
of their tails. He concluded, that thefe extraordinary
effects were produced by fome fly buzzing about them,
and endeavouring to fettle upon the anus of one of
them j but the fly not being able to fucceed, he obfer¬
ved it to go off with lefs noife than before, towards a
mare that was feeding at a diftance from the reft ; and
now' the fly taking a more effettual method to obtain
its defign, pafled under the tail of the mare, and fo
made its wTay to the anus. Here at firft it occafioned
only an itching, by wdiich the inteftine was protruded
with an increafing aperture of the anus ; the fly taking
the advantage of this, penetrated further, and fecured
itfelf in the fold of the inteftine :—this effefted, it was
in a fituation proper for laying its eggs. Soon af¬
ter this, the mare became very violent, running about,
prancing, and kicking, and throwing herfelf on the
ground 5 in fliort, w^as not quiet, nor returned to feed¬
ing, till after a quarter of an hour.
The fly then, we fee, can find means of depofiting its
eggs, or perhaps its worm (i. e. botts), in the funda¬
ment of the horfe ; which once effedfed, it has done all
that is neceffary for them. If thefe bott-wmrms are not
hatched when firft depofited in the horfe, but are then
only eggs, it will not be long before it happens, from
the nutritive heat they there receive.
Thefe bott-wmrms foon make their way into the in-
teftines of the horfe : they occupy fuch parts of this
region as are to them moft convenient j and fometimes
(as we fhall fee prefently) they penetrate even to the
ftomach. All the hazard they appear to be expofed
to, is that of being carried awTay from the places they
have fixed on by the excrement, which may feem likely
to drive all before it. But nature has provided for all
things; and when we {hall have further defcribed thefe
bott-wmrms, it will feem that they are able to main¬
tain their fituation, and to remain in the body of the
horfe, as long as they pleafe.
There is a time when thefe bott-wmrms are of them- *
felves defirous to leave this their habitation, it being no
longer convenient for them after the purpofes of their
growth are anfwmred. Their transformation to a fly
muft be performed out of the horfe’s body : and accord¬
ingly, when the time of their transformation draws near,
they approach towards the anus of the horfe j and then
leave him of their own accord, or with the excrement,
with which they then fuffer themfelves to be carried a-
long.
According to M. de Reaumur’s obfervalmns, the
bott-wmrms have two unequal claws, by wLich they are
enabled to remain in the inteftines of the horfe in op-
pofition to all efforts of the excrement to force them
out.—Thefe claw's are a fort of anchor, differently dif-
pofed from thofe of common anchors, but contrived to
produce the fame effeft. Befides thefe two claw's, na¬
ture has given them a very great number of triangular
fpines or briftles, very fuflicient to arm them againft
the coats of the inteftines, and to refift the force em¬
ployed to drive them towards the anus, provided the
head be directed towards the ftomach of the horfe.
It will be afked, no doubt, if thefe bott-wmrms are
not
B O T [ 335 ] B O U
Eotwar not dangerous to horfes ?—The mares which afforded
I! M. de Reaumur, for feveral years, thofe on which he
made his obfervations, did not appear to be lefs in
health than thofe which had none 5 but it may fome-
times happen, that they are in fo great a quantity in
the body of the horfe as to prove fatal to him. M.
Vallifnieri fuppofes thefe bott-worms to have been the
caufe of an epidemical difeafe that dcftroyed a great
many horfes about Verona and Mantua in the year 1713.
—The obfervations communicated to him by Dr Gaf-
pari fufficiently confirm his luppofition. This gentle¬
man, upon differing fome hovfes that died of this dif-
temper, found in their ftomachs a furprifing quantity
of (hort wmrms; of which to give us fome idea, he
compares them to the kernels of a pomegranate opened:
each of thefe, by gnawing on the coat of the ftomach,
had made to itfelf a kind of cellule therein, each of
which would ealily contain a grain of Indian wheat. It
is eafy to imagine by this means the ilomach mull be
reduced to a wretched condition 5 the outer membranes
were inflamed, and the inner ones ulcerated and cor¬
rupted •, a very fmall quantity of thefe worms were found
in the fmall inteftines, and only a few in the larger, to
which laft they were found affixed, but had not corro¬
ded them. It is only perhaps wffien thefe bott-worms
are in great numbers, and thereby incommode each
other in the inteftines of the horfe, that they make their
way towards the ftomach j and indeed a very few flies
muft be enough to overftock the infide of a horfe, pro¬
vided they ftiould depofite all their eggs, and fuch ftiould
all be animated, M. Vallifnieri having counted 700 and
odd in the body of one Angle fly.
When one of thefe botts has left the anus of the
horfe, it falls on the ground; and immediately feeks out
for fome place of fafety, where it may retire, to pre¬
pare for the laft ftage of its transformation, by which
it is to become a fly. And now by degrees the Ikin
hardens and thickens; and at length forms a (olid (hell
or cod, the form of which fcarce differs from that of
the worm. It is firft of a pale red colour, which
changes into chefnut; and at length, by the addition
of gradual and fucceflive (hades of brown, the {hell is
rendered black. The worm or bott, before it paffes
into a nymph, is of the form of an oblong ball ; it re¬
mains in this form much longer than, worms of the
fleffi-fly kind. M. de Reaumur met with worms that
retained this figure five or fix days : as yet, one can
perceive no traces of the legs, wings, and head of the
nymph. Hence he firft learned, that thofe bott-rvorms
do not become nymphs immediately upon their firft
change ; but that, in order to become flies, they muft
undergo one change more than caterpillars ordinarily
do to become butterflies.—For the' cure of horfes
troubled with botts, f«e Farriery Index.
EOT WAR, a town of Germany, in the circle of
Suabia, and fubjeft to the duke of Wirtemberg. E.
Long. 9. 15. N. Lat. 49. o.
BOTZENBURG, a towm of Germany, in the duchy
of Mecklenburg. It had a caftle, which was deftroyed
by the Danes in 1202. It is feated on the Elbe, and
the veffels that pafs by are obliged to pay a confiderable
toll. E. Long. 10. 48. N. Lat. 53. 34.
BOV A, an epifcopal town of Italy, in the kingdom
of Naples, feated near the Apennine mountains. E.
Long. 16. 15. N. Lat. 37. 15.
BOUCHAIN, a fortified town of the French Ne- Eouchain
therlands, in the province of Hainault. It is divided £ou||er
into two parts by the river Scheld. It was taken by .
the French in 1676 ; and by the allies under the duke
of Marlborough in 1711, which was the laft military
achievement of that great general; but the following
year it was retaken by the French. E. Long. 3.15.
N. Lat. 50. 17.
BOUCHE of court, the privilege of having meat
and drink at court fcot-free. The word is alfo w ritten
bowge, bouge, and budge; it is mere French, vffiere it
fignifies mouth.—The French ftill ufe the phrafe, Avoir
bouche a la cour; that is, to have table or diet at court.
This privilege is fometimes only extended to bread,
beer, and wine : it was a cuftom anciently in ufe, as
well in the houfes of noblemen as in the king’s court.
Thomas earl of Lancafter retained Sir John de Ewne,
to ferve him with ten men at arms in time of war, al¬
lowing them bouge of court, with livery of hay and oats,
horfe-ftroes and nails. Sir Hugh Merrill had the fame
privilege for life, on condition of ferving King Ed¬
ward II.
BOUCHET, John, a French poet and hiftorian,
flouriflred in the 16th century. The moft confiderable
of his writings are the Annals of Aquitaine, and his
Chapelet des Princes.
BOUDRY, a fmall town of Swifferland, in the pro- •
vince of Neufchatel, and capital of a chatelainry of the
fame name. E. Long. 7. 5. N. Lat. 47. n.
BOVEY coal, an inflammable foflil found in
England, France, Italy, Swifferland, Germany, Ireland,
&c. Its colour is brown or brownifti black, and of a
laminar ftruflure. It is compofed of wood, penetrated
by petrol or bitumen; and frequently contains pyrites,
alum, and vitriol.
BOUFLERS, Lewis Francis, Duke of, a peer
and marflral of France, and a general of diftinguillred
reputation, w'as the fon of Francis count of Bouflers.
He w’as born in the year 1644, and entering early in¬
to the army, wras raifed in 1669 to the rank of colonel
of dragoons, and in the conqueft of Lorraine, ferved
under Marftial Crequi. In the war againft Holland
he ferved under the celebrated Turenne, and frequent¬
ly diftinguifhed himfelf for his (kill and bravery; and
when that general wras killed, in 1675, command¬
ed the rear-guard during the retreat of the French ar¬
my. After performing various military fervices in
Germany, in Flanders, and on the frontiers of Spain,
he gradually rofe in rank as well as in reputation. In
1690, he was created general of the army of the Mofelle.
In the following year, he adled as lieutenant-general,
under the king in perfon; and while he invefted Mons
was wounded in an attack on that place. Fie conduced
the bombardment of Liege, although it was defended by
a fuperior enemy, and he forced the allied generals to
abandon Luxemburgh. Fie was entrufted with the com¬
mand of the covering army, againft King William, at the
fiege of Namur ; and for this and many other impor¬
tant fervices, he wras raifed in 1693 to the high rank
of marftial of France. In 1694, vvas appointed go¬
vernor of French Flanders, and of the town of Lifle.
By a (kilful manoeuvre he threw himfelf into Namur,
^in 1695, and held out for fixty-three days, againft the
combined armies of the allies under King William. Hav-
ing agreed to a capitulation, he was arrefted prifoner of
war,.
B O U r 336 ] B O U
Bougeant war, becaufe the French had not perfornaed the ftipulated
„ IL tei’ms on which the g-arrifon had furrendered; and when he
> * ' . remonftrated that the garrifon fhould have been retained
rather than himfelf, he received a fine compliment, by
being anfwered, that he wras eftimated at 10,000 men.
In the conferences which wrere held with the earl of
Portland, and which terminated in the peace of Ryf-
wick, he had a principal fhare.
During the following wv.r, when Lifle wras again
threatened, in 1708, with a fiege by the duke of Marl¬
borough and Prince Eugene, Boufiers wras appointed
to the command, and made a very obftinate refiftance
of four months- His magnanimity was not lefs re¬
markable than his military conduct ; for when a parti-
fan reprefented to him that it would not be difficult to
kill Prince Eugene, he was told by the maiffial, that
he might expeft a great reward for taking him pri-
foner, but the fevereft puniffiment if any thing were
attempted againlt his life. He wTas rewarded and ho¬
noured by the king for his defence of Lifle, as if he
had been victorious. When the affairs of France were
threatened with the moft urgent danger, though a fe-
nior officer to Villars, he made an offer to ferve under
that general, and was with him at tffef battle of Mal-
plaquet. Flere he again difplayed his military Ikill,
by conducing the retreat, fo that he loft neither can¬
non nor prifoners. He died at Fountainbleau in the
year 1711, at the age of 68, and left the character of
a true patriot, as well as of a great commander. Ma¬
dame de Maintenon, faid of him, “ that his heart was
the laft part that died.” His conduCt was uninfluenced
by private interelt, and fuperior to court intrigue. When
he wras ordered to take upon him the defence of Lifle,
and permitted to have the choice of his lieutenants, he
waited not to arrange or regulate his private affairs, or
even to take leave of his family, but flew to the place,
and carried with him only tw^o officers, one taken from
the Baftile, and another who had been in difgrace; pre¬
ferring merit obfcured in the (hades of retirement, to
the gaudy flutterer in the funfliine of court favour.
BOUGEANT, William Hyacinth, a famous Je-
fuit, firft taught humanity at Caen and Nevers, and
afterwards fettled at the college of Louis the Great,
where he employed himfelf in waiting feveral wTorks j
the principal of which were, 1. A collection of phyfi-
cal obfervations, extracted from the beft authors. 2. A
hiftory of the wars and negotiations wffiich preceded
the treaty of Weftphalia. 3. The female doCtor, a
philofophical amufement on the language of beafts, &c.
He died in 1743.
BOUGH, denotes much the fame wuth branch.—
Green boughs anciently made part of the decoration
of altars and temples, efpecially on feftival occafions.
Oaken boughs were offered to Jupiter; thofe of laurel,
to Apollo; of olive, to Minerva ; myrtle, to Venus;
ivy, to Bacchus; pine, to Pan; and cyprefs to Pluto.
Some make them the primitive food of mankind before
acorns were invented.
BOUGIE, in the French language, fignifies a wax
candle, and is applied to a machine which (as the
wax candle formerly wras) is introduced into the urethra
for removing obftruCHons there. Monf. Daran, a
JFrench fur^eon, lately boafted of his introducing them
an improvement in his art, and acquired confiderable
profit by making and felling them. Scultetus, about Bouhoras.
the middle cf the 17th century, ufed bougies in difeafes f" /TT*
of the urethra, and Monf. Daran probably took the
hint from him. Different compofitions have been ufed,
and generally mercury was a part of them. Riverius
made a plafter as follows : ol. oliv. lb iv. cerae ci-
trin. lb ii. minii & ceruff. aa lb ifs tereb. venet. & rez.
alb. aa § iii m. Whether the bougies are made up of
this or any other compofition, they muft be of different
fizes, from the bignefs of a knitting needle to that of
a goofe quill. They are made of linen rags, (pread
w ith a proper matter, and then rolled up as follows.
Having fpread any quantity of the linen rag with the
compofition that is chofen (or the purpoie, cut it into
flips from fix to ten inches long, and from half an inch
to an inch broad: then dexteroufly roll them on a
glazed tile into the form of a w;ax candle : and as the
end of the bougie that is to be entered firft into the
urethra fliould be fomewffiat (mailer than the reft, it
would be as well to cut the flips a little tapering. It
fliould alfo be obferved, that when the bougies are rol¬
led up, that fide muft be outward on which the plafter
is fpread.
Monf. Daran, and fome others, attributed the adlion
of their bougies to the compofition they made uie of in
forming them. Mr Sharp apprehended, that as much
of their efficacy was owing to the compreflion they
made on the affe&ed part, as to any other principle ;
and Mr Aiken very juftly fays, As it is evident that
bougies of very diiTerent compofitions fucceed equally
well in curing the lame diforders in the urethra, it is
plain that they do not aft by means of any peculiar-
qualities in their compofition, but by means of fome
property common to them all. This muft be their
mechanical form and texture, therefore their mode of
aftion muft be Ample compreffion. The efficacy of
mere compreffion in many cafes of conftriftion is well
known, from the ufe of fponge tents for widening
parts that are ftraitened by cicatrices ; and admitting
obftruftions in the urethra to be from a conftriftion
formed by cicatrized ulcers, or a projeftion of the
fpongy fubftance of the urethra into the canal, we may
eafily conceive, that a gentle continued elaftic comprel-
fion will in time overcome the difeafe. W e may alio
readily account for the inferior efficacy of metallic and
wffialebone bougies, from their not having the property
of fwelling with moifture, and therefore not making fo
equal a compreffion. As to bougies procuring a dif-
charge of matter, there is no doubt but the mechanical
ftimulus of a foreign body in fuch a tender part, though
free from difeafe, muft produce it in fome degree; and
that this will be varied according to the chemically
irritating quality of the compofition, and the irritable
(late of the urethra: but it feems an ablurdity to apply
a topic, made uniform throughout, to the whole length
of a canal, wdth a view of producing extraordinary ef-
fefts upon a particular part of it, by means of fome
powerful quality in the ingredients. As to that part
of the bougie wffiich was in contaft with the difealed
part, being particularly covered with matter ; this cir-
cumftance is probably owing to the greater irritation
of that part of the urethra where the diforder is, than
any other.
BOUHOURS, DofriiNic, a celebrated French cri¬
tic.
B O U [ 337 j B O U
Jiouillon. tic, xvas born at Paris in 1628 5 and bas been by fome
" confidered as a proper perfon to fucceed Malherbe, who
died about that time. He was entered into the fociety
of Jefuits at the age of 16; and was appointed to read
leftures upon polite literature in the college of Cler¬
mont at Paris, where he had lludied : but he was fo in-
ceffantly attacked with the headach, that he could not
purfue the deftined talk. He afterwards undertook the
education of two fons of the duke of Longueville,
xvhich he difcharged with great applaufe. The duke
had fuch a regard for Bouhours, that he would needs die
in his arms; and the “Account of the pious and Chri-
llian death” of this great perfonage was the firlt work
which Bouhours gave the public. He wras fent to Dun¬
kirk to the Popilh refugees from England ; and in the
midft of his miflionary occupations, found means to
compofe and publilh books. Among thefe were, £«-
tretiens cl''Arif!c et d'Eugene, or “ Dialogues between
Ariftus and Eugenius a work of a critical nature,
and concerning the French language. His book was
printed no lefs than five times at Paris, twice at Gre¬
noble, at Lyons, at Bruffels, at Amfterdam, at Ley¬
den, &c. and embroiled him in quarrels with a great
number of cenfors, with Menage in particular, who,
howev'er, lived in friendfhip with our author before
and after. The fame of this piece, and the pleafure he
took in reading it, recommended Bouhours fo effeflu-
ally to the celebrated minifter Colbert, that he trufted
him with the education of his fon the marquis of Seg-
nelai. He wrote afterwards feveral other works; the
chief of which are, 1. Remarks and doubts upon the
French language. 2. Dialogues upon the art of think¬
ing well in works of genius. 3. The life of St Igna¬
tius. 4. The art of pleafing in converfation. 5. The
life of St Francis Xavier, apoftle of the Indies and of
Japan. This laft work was tranllated from the French
into Englilh by Mr Dryden, and publilhed at London
in the year 1668, with a dedication prefixed to James II.’s
queen.
BOUILLON, a town of France, in the duchy of
the fame name, and in the county of Luxemburg, with
a fortified cattle, which is feated on a rock that is al-
molt inacceflible. The French took it in 1676 ; upon
wdrich it was given to the duke of Bouillon. This
duchy is a fovereignty, independent of France ; and in
1792, the king of Great Britain granted to Philip
d’Auvergne, captain in the royal navy, his licenfe to
accept the fuccefiion to the faid duchy, in the cafe of
the death of the hereditary prince, only fon of the
reigning duke, without iflue male, purfuant to a de¬
claration of his ferene highnefs, in 1791, “ at the de¬
fire, and with the exprefs and formal confent of the na¬
tion.” Accordingly, Captain d’Auvergne has fince af-
fumed the title of prince of Bouillon. In May 1794
this town was taken by ftorm, by General Beaulieu,
after defeating a confiderable body of republicans, and
given up to pillage; 1200 French were killed, and
300 taken prifoners. It is feated near the river Se-
mois, 12 miles north of Sedan. E. Long. c. 20. N
Lat. 49. 45. _
Bouillon, in the manege, a lump or excrefcence of
fiefii that grows either upon or juft by the frufh,^info-
much that the frufii (hoots out, juft like a lump of flelh,
and makes the horfe halt ; and this is called the Jlefh
blowing upon the frufh. Manege horfes, that never wet
Vol, IV. Part L
their feet, are fubjeft to thefe excrefcences, which make Bovina
them very km;. • See Frush. II
BOVINA affectio, a diftemper of black cattle,fiui^rificr'.
caufed by a worm lodging between the fkin and the
flefh, and perforating the fame. This diftemper is not
mentioned by the ancient Greeks, and is but little
known in Europe.
BOVINES, a fmall town of the Auftrian Nether¬
lands, in the province of Namur, feated on the river
Maefe or Meufe, in E. Long. 4. 50. N. Lat. 49. 45.
BOVINO, an epifcopal town of Italy, in the Capi-
tanata, feated at the foot of the Apennine mountains,
in E. Long. 16. 15. N. Lat. 41. 17.
BOVIUM, (Itinerary); a town of the Silures, in
Britain, fifteen miles to the fouth of- Ifca Silurum, of
Caer-leon, in Monmouthftiire: Now called Cowbridge;
according to Baudrand, Bangor in Carnarvonfliire.
BOULAINVILLIERS, Henry de, Lord of St
Saife, and an eminent French wrriter, was defeended
from a very ancient and noble family, and born at St
Saife in 1658. His education was among the fathers
of the oratory; where he difeovered from his infancy
thofe uncommon abilities for which he was afterwards
diftinguifhed. He applied himfelf principally to the
ftudy of hiftory ; and his performances in this wray are
numerous, and confiderable. He was the author of a
hiftory of the Arabians ; fourteen letters upon the
ancient parliaments of France; a hiftory of France to
the reign of Charles VIII. ; the ftate of France, with
hiftorical memoirs concerning the ancient government
of that monarchy, to the time of Hugh Capet, “ writ¬
ten (fays M. Montefquieu) with a fimplicity and ho-
neft freedom worthy of that ancient family from which
their author was defeended. M. Boulainvilliers died
at Paris in 1722; and after his death was publilhed his
Life of Mahomet.
BOULANGER, Nicholas Anthony, a very lin¬
gular Frenchman, was born at Paris in 1722, and died
there in 1759, aged only 37. During his education,
he is faid to have come out of the college of Beauvais
almoll as ignorant as he entered into it; but ftruggling
hard againft his unaptnefs to learn, he at length over¬
came it. At feventeen, he began to ftudy mathema¬
tics and architetture; and in three or four years made
fuch a progrefs, as to be ufeful to the baron of Thiers,
whom he accompanied to the army in quality of en¬
gineer. Afterwards he had the fupervifion of the
highways and bridges ; and he executed feveral public
works in Champagne, Burgundy, and Lorrain. The
author of his life, in the Didlionnaire des Hommes cele-
bres, writes, that in this province a terrible fpirit dif¬
eovered itfelf in him, which he himfelf did not fufpefl
before; and this was, it feems, the fpirit of “thinking
philofophically.” In cutting through mountains, di¬
recting and changing the courfes of rivers, and in
breaking up and turning over the ftrata of the earth,
he faw a multitude of different fubftances, which (he
thought) evinced the great antiquity of it, and a long
feries of revolutions which it mult have undergone.
From the revolutions in the *;lobe, he palled to the
changes that mult have happened in the manners of
men, in focieties, in governments, in religion; and he
formed many conjectures upon all thefe. To be far¬
ther fatisfied, he wanted to know what, in the hiftory
of ages, had been faid upon thefe particulars; and
U u that
B O U [ 338 ] B 0 IJ
Boulanger that he might be informed from the fountain head,
( H ^ he learned firft Latin and then Greek, Not yet
. 0Uiette,i content, he plunged into Hebrew, Syriac, Chaldaic,
and Arabic 5 and acquired fo immenfe an erudition,
that, if he had lived, he would have been one of
the moil learned men in Europe : but death, as we
have obferved, prematurely took him off. His works
are, I. ^Traits du Defpotiftne Oriental) 2 vols 12mo j
a very bold work ) but not fo bold and licentious as,
V AntiquitS devoilh) 3 vols 1 amo. This was puft-
. humous. 3. He lurnilhed to the KncyclopedU the ar¬
ticles Deluge, CorveJ, and Societe. 4. He left behind
him in MS. a Di&ionary, which may be regarded as a
concordance in ancient and modern language. As a
man, he is laid to have been of a fweet, calm, and en¬
gaging temper*, rvhich, horvever, it is very difficult to
reomcile with the dark, impetuous, ardent fpirit, that
appears to have a&uated him as a writer,
Strutts Boulanger, ^ohn, an engraver, who douriffied to-
■0'<f?* wards the end of the laft century, was a native of
France. His firft manner of engraving appears to have
been copied, in fome degree, from that of Francis dc
Poilly *, but foon after he adopted one of his own,
which, though not original, he however greatly im¬
proved: He finiffied the faces, hands, and all the naked
parts of his figures, Very neatly with dots inftead of
ftrokes, or ftrokes and dots. The effeft is Angular
enough, and by no means unpleafing: only, in fome
few inftances, he has oppofed the coarfe graving of his
draperies, and back-ground, fo violently to the neater
work of the fleffi, that the outline of the latter is t here¬
by rendered hard, and the general appearance of it flat
and chalky. This ftyle of engraving has been carried
to its greateft perfection in the prefent day, particu¬
larly in England. He did not draw the naked parts
of his figures corre&ly, or with fine tafte. His drape¬
ries are apt to be heavy, and the folds not well mark¬
ed. However, his beft prints poifefs much merit, and
are defervedly held in great efteem.
BOULAY, Caesar Egasse du, in Latin Bulatus,
was born at St Ellier, a village of Maine in France 5
and became profeffor of humanity at the college of Na¬
varre, regifter, rector, and hiftoriographer of the univer-
fityof Paris. He died in 1678, after having publifhed
feveral works. The principal of them are, A Hi/lory
ef the Vniverjity af Paris, in Latin, 6 vols folio 5 and
the Preafurc of Roman Antiquities, in I vol. folio.
BOULCOLACA, among the modern Greeks, de¬
notes the fpectre of fome wicked perlbn who died ex¬
communicated by the patriarch, reanimated by the
devil, and caufing great difturbance among the people j
of which many ftrange rtories are told. The xvord is
Greek, and is fometimes written bourholakos ;
and fuppofed to be derived from/3agxoj,or/3si§x«, “mud,”
and a “ ditch,” on account of the filthinefs of
the fight.
BOULDER-wall, a kind of vrall built of round
flints or pebbles, laid in ftrong mortar, and ufed where
the fea has a beach caft up, or where there are plenty
of flints.
BOULETTE, in the manege. A horfe is called
boulette, when the fetlock, or paftern-joint, bends for¬
ward, and out of its natural fituation, whether through
violent riding, or by reafon of being too fhort-jointed,
in which cafe the leaf! fatigue will bring it.
BOULLOGNE, Lewis, painter to the French Boullogne
king, and profeffor of the academy of painting, diftm- H .
guiffied himfelf by his art) and died at Paris in 1674, ,'0l_0Jin 1;
aged 65. There are three of his pictures in the church pukington.
of Notre Dame.—He left two fons who were admired
for their fkill in painting. The elder, who is well known
under the name of Bon Boullonne, was firft inftrucled
by his father) after which we went to perfect himfelf
in Italy, and for that purpofe the king allowed him a
penfion : at his return, he was made profeffor of the
academy of painting. Louis XIV. employed him in
adorning feveral of his palaces j and there are a great
number of his pi&ures at Paris. His talents for copy¬
ing the pictures of the great Italian mafters were fo
very extraordinary, that he frequently deceived the
greateft judges. He died in 1717Zetofr Boullonne
his brother, after being alfo inftrufted by his father,
gained the prize of painting at 18 years of age j upon
which he obtained the king’s penfion. He fet out for
Italy at his brother’s return, and acquired great ikill
in defigning and colouring. At his return to Paris he
was much employed j and at length became dlreflot of
the academy of painting, knight of the order of St
Michael, and firft painter to the king. Louis XIV,
allowed him feveral penfions, and railed him and his
pofterity to the rank of nobility. He embelliffied
tbe church of the Invalids, the chapel of Verfailles,
See.
Boullonne, Bon de, a painter of fome emi¬
nence, was born at Paris in 1649. From his father
Louis de Boullogne he learned the firft principles of
the art: but went to Rome in order to perfedt him¬
felf from the works of the beft mafters. He abode in
Italy five years. He excelled in hiftory and portrait.
His talents for copying the pictures of the great Ita¬
lian painters were fo very extraordinary, that he fre¬
quently deceived the greateft judges. He died at Pa¬
ris in 1717, aged 68.
Boullogne, Louis de, born at Paris in 1654, was
the younger brother of the preceding j and like him
learned from his father the firft principles of paint¬
ing, and afterwards went to Rome to complete his
ftudies. His works, on his return, were fo much
efteemed, that Louis XIV. honoured him with the or¬
der of St Michael, and, after the death of Antony
Coypell, appointed him his principal painter. He
chiefly excelled in hiftorical and allegorical fubjedts.
He died at Paris in 1734, aged 80 years.
BOULOGNE, a large fea-port town of Picardy in
France, and capital of the Boulognois, now called the
department of the Straits of Calais, with a harbour,
and formerly a biffiop’s fee. It is divided into two
towms the higher, and the lower. The former is
ftrong both by nature and art; and the latter is only
furrounded with a fingle wall. The harbour has a mole
for the fafety of ffiipping, which at the fame time pre¬
vents it from being choked up. The lower town is in¬
habited by merchants, and has three large ftreets, one-
of which leads to the high town, and the other two run
in a line on the fide of the river. It is fituated at the
mouth of the river Lianne, and 14 miles fouth of Ca¬
lais. E. Long. 1. 42. N. Lat. 50. 42.
BOULOGNOIS, a territory of France, in the north
part of Picardy, about 30 miles in length and 20 in
breadth. The chief town is Boulogne, and the chief
trade
B O U
Bouher. trade is In pit-coal and butter.
 v—partraent of the Straits of Calais.
BOULTER, Dr Hugh, was born in or near Lon¬
don, of reputable and wealthy parents. He was edu¬
cated at Merchant-taylors fchool $ and, before the Re¬
volution, was from thence admitted a commoner of
Chrift-church in Oxford. Some time after, he was cho-
fen a demy of Magdalen college, at the fame ekaion
with Mr Addifon and Dr Wilcox. From the merit and
learning of the perfons ekaed, this was commonly call¬
ed by Dr Hough, prefident of the college, the golden
eleBion. He afterwards became fellow of the fame col¬
lege j in which ftation he continued in the univerfity
till he was invited to London by Sir Charles Hodges,
principal fecretary of ftate, in the year 1700, who
made him his chaplain, and recommended him to Dr
Tenifon archbilhop of Canterbury 5 but his firft prefer¬
ments were owing to the earl of Sunderland, by whofe
intereft and influence he was promoted to the parfon-
age of St Olave in Southwark, and the archdeaconry
of Surry. Here he continued difcharging very faith¬
fully and diligently every part of his paftoral office, till
he was recommended to attend George I. as his chap¬
lain wThen he went to Hanover in 1719* ' ^ia<^
honour to teach Prince Frederic the Englifh language j
and by his conduft he fo won the king’s favour, that
he promoted him to the deanery of Chrift-church, and
the bilhopric of Briftol, in the fame year. As he was
viliting his diocefe five years afterwards, he received a
letter from the fecretary of ftate, acquainting him that
his majefty had nominated him to the archbilhopric of
Armagh and primacy of Ireland. This honour he would
gladly have declined 5 and defired the fecretary to ufe
his good offices with his majefty to excufe him from ac¬
cepting it. Ireland happened to be at this jun&ure in
a great flame, occafioned by Whod’s ruinous projetft j
and the miniftry thought that the biffiop would greatly
contribute to quench it by his judgment, moderation,
and addrefs. The king therefore laid his abfolute
commands upon him : to which he fubmitted, but with
Tome relu&ance. As foon as he had taken pofleflion
of the primacy, he began to confider that country, in
which his lot was call for life, as his own 5 and to pro¬
mote its true intereft with the greateft zeal and afli-
duity. Accordingly, in innumerable inftances, he ex¬
erted himfelf in the nobleft a&s of beneficence and pu¬
blic fpirit. In feafons of the greateft fcarcity, he was
more than once inftrumental in preventing a famine
which threatened that nation. On one of thefe occa-
fions he diftributed vaft quantities of corn throughout
the kingdom, for which the houfe of commons pafled
a vote of public thanks ; and at another time 2500 per¬
fons were fed at the poor-houfe in Dublin, every morn¬
ing, and as many every evening, fora confiderable time
together, moftly at the primate’s expence. When
fchemes were propofed for the advantage of the coun¬
try, he encouraged and promoted them not only with
bis counfel but his purfe. He had great compaffion for
the poor clergy of his diocefe, who were difabled from
giving their children a proper education \ and he main¬
tained feveral of the children of fuch in the univerfity.
He ere&ed four houfes at Drogheda for the reception
of clergymen’s widows, and purchafed an eftate for the
endowment of them. His charities for augmenting
fmall livings and buying glebes amounted to upwards
Boultine
l!
Bounty.
[ 339 1 B O U
It now forms the de- of 30,000!. befides what he devifed by will for the like
purpofes in England. In Ihort, the inftances he gave
of his generofity and benevolence of heart, his virtue, 1. ,„.y.
his piety, and his wifdom, are almoft innumerable, and
the hiftory of his life is his nobkft panegyric. 7 his ex¬
cellent prelate died at London, on the 2d of June
1742, and was interred in Weftminfter-abbey, wffiere a
beautiful monument of finely polilhed marble is creeled
to his memory.
BOULTINE, a term which workmen ufe for a
moulding, the convexity of which is juft one-fourth of
a circle j being the member juft below the plinth in the
Tufcan and Doric capital.
BOULUKE, in the military orders of the Turks, a
body of the janizaries, with an officer in the place of a
colonel at their head, fent upon feme particular enter-
prife ; they are feledted out of the body for this, and
as foon as the bufinefs is over, are received again into
their former companies.
BOUM, in Ancient Geography, a town in Ethiopia
beyond Egypt, on the weft fide of the Nik.
Boum SOLIS stabula, in Ancient Geography, the
territory of Mylae, fo called : A peninfula on the call
coaft of Sicily, to the north of Syracufe ; remarkable
for its fertility and rich paftures (Theophraftus) : and
hence arofe the fable of the oxen of the fun feeding
there (Scholiaft on Apollonius). Pliny and Seneca
fay, that fomething like dung is thrown out on the
coaft of Myke and Meffana, which gave rife to the
fable of the oxen of the fun being ftalkd there 5 and
at this day the inhabitants affirm the fame thing (Clu-
verius).
BOUNCE, in Ichthyology, the Englilh name of a
fpecies of fqualus. See Sqjjalus.
BOUND, in Dancing, a fpring from one foot to
the other*, by which it differs from a hop, where the
fpring is from one foot to the fame. It alfo differs
from a half coupee, as in the latter the body always
bears on the floor, either on one foot or the other j
whereas, in the bound, it is thrown quite from the
floor.
BovND-Bailijfs, are ftieriffs officers for executing of
procefs. The ftieriffs being anfwerabk for their mif-
demeanors, the bailiffs are ufually bound in a bond for
the due execution of their office ; and thence are called
bound-bailiff's, which the common people have corrupted
into a much more homely appellation.
BOUNDS of lands. See Abuttals.
BOUNTY, in Commerce, a premium paid by go¬
vernment to the exporters of certain Britifli commodi¬
ties, as fail-cloth, gold and filver lace, filk-ftockings,
fifti, corn, &c. The happy influence which bounties
have on trade and manufaflures is well known : nor can
there be a more convincing proof of the good inten¬
tions of the government under which we live, than the
great care that is taken to give all poffible encourage¬
ment to thofe who ffiall eftabliffi or improve any hazar¬
dous branch of trade.
All undertakings, in refpeft either to mercantile en- CaMplelVi
terprifes, or in the eftablilhment of manufa&ures, are Political
weak and feeble in their beginnings 5 and if unfuccefsful,
either fink entirely, or at kaft are feldom revived in ri al ‘
the fame age. Accidents of this nature are not only
deftruflive to private perfons, but exceedingly detri¬
mental to the public intereft. On this principle, more
U u a efpecially
B O U [ 34° 1 .B O U
efpecially lince trade, for whicli Providence defigned
us, hath been attended to, fuch attempts have been
thought deferving, and have been favoured with, pub¬
lic fupport. This in former times ufually flowed from
the crown, in the form of letters-patent, charters, or
other grants of privileges, which, however requifite
they might be, were notwithftanding very frequently
objefts of cenfure. If fuch as obtained them failed in
their endeavours, they were reputed projeBors ; if, on
the other hand, they fucceeded, they were confidered
as monopolizers. Corporations, which imply the uni¬
ting certain individuals into a body, that they may
thereby become more ufeful to the community, are
created by the crown. Many of thefe were formed for
promoting trade ; and, according to the old fyftem of
our government, rvere neceffary and ufeful. On the
fame principle, privileges were granted tp private per-
fons, on a fuggeftion, that what was immediately of
ufe to' them would terminate in public utility. Thefe
alfo did good in bringing in many arts and manufac¬
tures $ though, in fome cafes, tending to private in-
tereft more than public emolument, they were liable
to legal correftion. In later times, and in concerns of
moment, a much better method has been adopted, as
often as it hath been found practicable, by rejecting
private- or particular intereft, and propofing the de-
figned advantages to fuch as fliould perform the ftipu-
lations on which they are granted. Thefe bounties, as
they are paid by the public, fo they are folely calcu¬
lated for the benefit of the public. They are fometimes
given to encourage induftry and application in raifing
a neceffary commodity j which was intended by the
bounty on exporting corn. The intention of this
bounty was to encourage agriculture j and the confe-
quence hath been, that we now grow more than twice
as much as we did at the eftablifliment of the bounty j
we even confume twice as much bread as we then grew;
yet in A. D. 1697, we exported a fifteenth part of
what we grew, of late years a twenty-ninth part only.
The bounty on this twenty-ninth part amounted to
fomewdiat more than 50,000!. and the produce to
more than 400,000!. It is evident that all this is
fo much clear gain to the nation. But this is far from
being all that we have annually gained. For if our
cultivation is double, as indeed it is, then the rent
of lands, the fubfiftence of working hands, the profits
of the tradefmen fupplying them with utenfils, clothes,
the value of horfes employed, &c. muft all be taken
into the account. Befides this, we muft add the freight
(amounting to half the bounty), to make the idea of
the advantages complete.
Sometimes bounties are given with a view to promote
manufa&ures, as in the cafe of thofe made of filk. Many
law's are to be found in our ftatute books in favour of
the filk manufafture, made with great wifdom and pro¬
priety, for the encouragement and fupport of many
thousands of induftrious perfons employed therein. By
ftatute 8 Geo. I. cap. 15. § 1. a bounty was given on
the due exportation of ribbons and fluffs, of filk only,
of three {hillings upon a pound weight; filk, and rib¬
bons of filk, mixed with gold and filver, four (hillings
a-pound \ on filk gloves, filk ftockings, filk fringes,
filk laces, and fewing filk, one (hilling and threepence
a-pound ; on fluffs of filk and grogram yarn, eight-
pence a-pound} on filks mixed with inkle or cotton,
one (hilling j on fluffs of filk mixed with worfted, fix- Bounty,
pence a-pound, for three years ; and, from experience
of their utility, thefe were continued by fubfequent
ftatutes.
Sometimes bounties are given to fupport a new ma-
nufadlure againft foreigners already in poffeflion of it,
as in making linen and fail-cloth. The promoting of
the manufacture of Britiftr fail-cloth was undoubtedly
a very important national objeft, as the confumption
was very large, and of confequence the purchafe of it
from foreigners a heavy expence on the public. Ma¬
ny methods were therefore deviled, and countenanced
by law, both here and in Ireland, for introducing and
encouraging our owm in preference to that of ftrangers,
more elpecially in the royal navy. By flat. 12 Ann<zy
cap. 16. § 2. a bounty was given of one penny per ell
on all that w-as exported for a term, and continued by
fubfequent ftatutes. By 4 Geo. II. cap. 27. § 4. an
additional bounty of another penny an ell is granted.
Thefe bounties were to be paid out of an additional
duty on imported fail-cloth. By the fame ftatute every
(hip built in Britain, or in the plantations, is, under the
penalty of 50]. to be' furniftied with a complete fuit
of fails of Britifti manufacture. The amount of thefe
bounties mark the progrefs of the manufacture, which
is alfo aflifted by the fund on which the payment is
afligned.
The afliflances, howTever, are never beftowed but
on mature deliberation, in virtue of ftrong proofs, and
with a moral certainty of a national benefit. The great
intention of bounties is to place the Britifh trader on
fuch ground as to render his commerce beneficial to his
country. In order to this, fome profit muft accrue to
himfelf, otherwife he would not embark therein ; but
this, whatever it be, muft prove inconfiderable in com.
parifon of what refults to the public. For if, by the
help of fuch a bounty, one or many traders export to
the value of 1000, 10,000, or 100,000 pounds w orth
of commodities or manufactures, w hatever his or their
profit or lofs (for the latter, through avidity and over¬
loading the market, fometimes happens) may be, the
nation gains the locol. 10,cool, or ioo,oool. which
wTas the objeCl of the legiflature in granting the
bounty. Upon this confideration, that the entire pro¬
duce of what is exported accrues to the nation, the le¬
giflature, when an alteration of circumftances required
it, have made no fcruple of augmenting a bounty ; as
in the cafe of refined fugar exported, from three to nine
(hillings per hundred weight. In like manner, the ori¬
ginal bounty of one pound per ton in favour of veffels
employed in the whale-fi(hing hath been doubled, and
many new regulations made, in order to render this
filhery more advantageous to the public. As a bounty
is given on malt when allowed to be exported, fo an
equivalent of 30 (hillings per ton hath been granted on
all Britifti made malt-fpirits when exported, which is a
common benefit to land, manufactures, and commerce.
It is indeed true, that on whatever account, or to
whatever amount, this reward is given, the public feem
to pay, and private perfons feem to receive. But thefe
private perfons receive it as the hire from the public
for performing a fervice which otherwife they would
not perform, the benefit of which accrues to the public,
and who can therefore very well afford to pay that
reward in reality, which, as we have dated it, (he on¬
ly
Bounty.
B O U [ 34i 1 B O XT
ly Teems to do. For, looking a little clofer, we can¬
not help obferving, that the bounty is paid to indivi¬
duals, who, as fuch, make a part of the public. But
the commodities or manufactures exported are fold to
foreigners, and the whole produce of them, be it what
it will, comes into the purfe of the public. By at¬
tending to this felf-evident doClrine, every reafonable
and public-fpirited man will be eafily reconciled to
bounties ; and the three following confiderations will
be fufficient to obviate the moft common objections that
have been made to the praCtice of giving them. 1. That
no bounty can be defired but on the plea of national uti¬
lity, which alwrays deferves notice, and cannot be mif-
taken. It mult like wife be alleged and proved, that
this is the only means whereby the national benefit can
be attained. 2. The fums iffued on this account not
only (how the clear expence of the bounty, but alfo
indicate the profit gained by the public ; for as the one
cannot exift without the other, that amount mull be
the inconteftable index of both. 3. It mull be remem¬
bered (and of this too fome inftances might be given),
that if bounties Ihould be improperly bellowed, they
will of courfe prove ineffectual, and after a few fruit-
lefs trials will remain unclaimed, and confequently pro¬
duce no expence. There is indeed another objection
which hath been made againft the giving of bounties.
This is grounded on the frauds to which they are fup-
pofed to' be liable j and particularly the xelanding of
the goods on which the bounty hath been paid, and
thereby deceiving and cheating the public. But who¬
ever perufes the laws made on this head, and attentive¬
ly confiders the numerous precautions taken to fix every
circumltance relative to the obtaining the county, the
checks on the fhipping of goods, the fecurities taken
for their due exportation, the certificates required to
afcertain their being aCtually delivered and fold in a
foreign market, mult be convinced, that to difcharge
, all thofe fecurities, in cafe of an intended fraud, is a
thing very difficult, if not impoffible.
To thefe remarks we may add, that bounties are
ufually granted only for a limited time, and then expire;
are always liable to be fufpended •, and of courfe can
never be the caufe of any great national lofs. There
is no doubt that, exclufive of frauds, the immoderate
thirlt of gain may tempt interefted men to aim at con¬
verting what was calculated for public benefit to its
detriment, for their own private advantage. 1 hus, on
a profpeC! of Ihort crops in other countries, men may
take meaPures within the letter, but diredlly againft
the fpirit, of the law, to fend fo much of our corn
abroad as to endanger a famine at home. For this the
wifdom of parliament provides, not barely by fufpend-
ing the bounty, but by prohibiting exportation and
opening the ports for foreign fupplies. We cannot with
any lhadow of juftice afcribe fcarcity to the bounty on
the exportation. If this w>as the cafe, fufpenfions
would be frequent, whereas there have been but five
in a courfe of 70 years. If the bounty had any lhare,
the larger the exportation, the greater would be tho
fcarcity. In A. D. 17 $0 we exported more than one
fifth of our growth of wheat, which was notwithftand-
ing but at four fhillings per buffiel •, whereas a century
before, A. D. 1650, when we had neither bounty nor
exportation, wffieat wras at nine fhillings and fixpence
per buffiel. The caufes of fcarcity are unkindly fea-
fons; which though human policy cannot prevent, yet
their fad effe&s have been evidently leffened by our ^
increafed groVvth, fince the taking place of bounty
and exportation.
^ueen Anne's Bounty, for augmenting poor livings
under 50I. per annum, confiils of the produce of the
fir ft fruits and tenths, after the charges and penfions
payable out of the fame are defrayed. A corporation
for management of the fame was fettled, &c. in 1704.
See Augmentation.
BOURBON, or Masc Aren has, Ijle of, an ifland
in the Indian ocean, lying on the eaft of Madagafcar,
in E. Long. 58. 30. S. Lat. 21. 23. This ifland has
no port, and is in fome places inacccffible. Its length
and breadth have not been well determined •, but the
circumference, according to the account of a perfon
who refided there fome time, is about 57 leagues. It
is for the moft part mountainous, but in fome places
there are very beautiful and fertile plains. In the fouth
part of the ifland there is a burning mountain, which
has thrown out vaft quantities of bitumen, iulphur, and
other combuftible materials ; neither does it ceafe
throwing them out ftill, fo that the country about it
is ufelefs, and is called by the inhabitants pays brule,
that is, burnt land. The ftiore is high and rocky all
round •, but though on this account it hath no ports,
there are feveral good roads, particularly one on the
weft, and another on the north-eaft. As to its form,
this ifland is irregular, fo that it is difficult to judge
from the maps whether it is round or long. The air
is equally pleafant and wholefome, infomuch that tne
people live to a great age without feeling either infir¬
mities or difeafes. This is occafioned by the hurri¬
canes, of which they have one or two every year.
Thefe purge and cleanfe the air fo as to render it highly
falubrious; the certainty of which is thus diftinguiffied,
that when they fail of making their annual vifits, as
fometimes they do, difeafes and death find an entrance
into the ifland, which otherwife would foon be over-
ftocked with inhabitants. The climate is hot, but not
to fuch a degree as might be expected from its iituation,
the breezes from the mountains being condant and.
very refreffiing. The tops of thefe mountains are in
winter covered with fnow } which, melting in the fum-
mer, furniflres abundance of rivers and rivulets, with
which the country is plentifully watered : fo that the
foil, though not very deep, is wonderiully fruitful, pro¬
ducing Turkey corn and rice twice a-year, and the
latter in great abundance. l\loft forts of cattle are
found here, good in their kind, and are very cheap ;
wild goats and wild hogs are found in the woods and
on the tops of the mountains; here alfo are vaft quan¬
tities of wild fowl of different kinds, fifh, and land tor-
toifes, affording at once the moft delicate and whole¬
fome food. As to fruits, they have bananas, oranges,
citrons, tamarinds, and other kinds} neither does it
want valuable commodities, particularly ebony, cotton,
white pepper, gum benzoin, aloes, and tobacco $ all
excellent in their kind, when compared with thofe of
other countries, ft his ifland is alio happy in its defi¬
ciencies \ for no animals that are venomous are to be
found therein, and only two forts that are difagreeable
to the fight, viz. fpiders of the fize of a pigeon’s egg,
which weave nets of a furprifing ftrength, reckoned by
fome capable of being treated fo as to become as va¬
luable
Bounty,
Bourbon.
B O U [ 342 ] B O U
moft enormous fize, which fome benefit from their new mafters 5 but finding very Eourhon.
little, and thinking the governor took too much upon v——y——
him, they revolted at the inftigation of a prieft, feized
their governor and put him into a dungeon, where he
died of hunger and grief. For this fome of the ring¬
leaders were punilhed, a kind of fort was ere£ted, fome
guns placed on it, and th^ French flag kept flying ;
but in other refpe&s, fo little care was taken, that, till
within thefe 40 years, the ifland was in no ftate of de¬
fence.
The number of inhabitants in the year 1717 was
computed at 2000; viz. 900 free, and 1100 flaves. A-
mongfi; thefe people the ufual diftinftion of whites and
blacks entirely fails : for even the free are of different
colours and a French writer affures us, that he faw in
a church one family, confifling of five generations, of all
complexions. The eldeft was a female, 108 years of age,
of a brown black, like the Indians of Madagafcar; her
daughter, a mulatto j her grand-daughter, a meftizo j
her great-grand-daughter, of a dufky yellow 5 her
daughter again, of an olive colour ; and the daughter
of this laft, as fair as any Englifh girl of the fame age.
Thefe people are, generally fpeaking, of a gentle quiet
difpofition, very induflrious, and fubmiflive enough to
authority, provided it is exercifed with a tolerable de¬
gree of equity and decency j for otherwife the wrhole of
them are apt to rife in rebellion at once $ and the flaves
have fo little reafon to complain of their mafters, that
they are always on the fame fide. The ifland is divided
into four quarters. The firfl; is that of St Paul, which is
the largeft and beft peopled : their houfes are built at
the foot of a fteep mountain, on both fides of a frefh
water lake. As for the plantations, they are on the top
of a mountain, which they afcend by a very rough and
troublefome paflage. On the fummit there is a fpacious
plain, a great part of which is divided into plantations
of rice, tobacco, corn, fugar, and fruits. The quarter
of St Dennis lies feven leagues from that of St Paul,
towards the eaft, and there the governor refides. It is
not fo well peopled as the former j but the country is
more pleafant, and the fituation better. At two leagues
diftance, proceeding along the fea-coaft, is the quarter
of St Mary’s, which is but thinly peopled. The laft
and moft fertile quarter is that of St Sufannah, which
is at the diftance of four leagues from St Dennis. The
road between thefe two quarters is tolerable, though
part of it has been cut with much difficulty through a
wood •, but the paffage from St Dennis to St Paul is
only by fea.
When the prefent company of India became, by
their perpetual eftabliffiment, poffeffed of the ifland of
Bourbon, they began to improve it exceedingly ; rai-
fing new forts and batteries, fo as to render it in a man¬
ner inacceffible 5 and importing coffee-trees from Ara¬
bia ; which have fucceeded fo w^ell, that it is believed
they produce an eighth, according to fome a fixth, part
as much coffee as is raifed in the kingdom of Yemen in
Arabia, and it is likewife held next in goodnefs to that.
—In 1763, the population amounted to 4627 white
people, and 15,149 blacks j the cattle confifted of 8702
beeves,4084 ffieep, 7405 goats, and 7619 hogs. Upon
an extent of 125,909 acres of cultivated land, they
gathered as much caffava as would feed their flaves,
1,135,000 pounds weight of corn, 844,100 pounds of
Bourbon, luable as lilk •, and bats of
1 are not only fldnned and eaten, but efteemed alfo the
greateft delicacy that they have.
The ifland of Bourbon was difcovered by the Por-
tuguefe in 1545, as appears by a date infcribed by
them upon a pillar when they firft landed ; but when
the French fettled in Madagafcar, this ifland was to¬
tally defolate. Three Frenchmen being baniffied thi¬
ther, and left there for three years, made fuch a report
of it at their return as furprifed their countrymen.
They lived moft of that time upon pork ^ and though
they were in a manner naked, yet they affirmed that
they never had the leaft pain or ficknefs whatever.
This tempted one Anthony Taureau to go over thi¬
ther in 1654, accompanied by feven French and fix ne¬
groes, who carried with them the cattle from which the
ifland has been flocked ever fince. The firft thing they
did was to ereft the arms of France, by order of M.
Falcourt who was governor of Madagafcar, and to be¬
llow upon the ifland a new name. Then they fet up
huts, and laid out gardens, in which they cultivated
melons, different forts of roots, and tobacco j but juft
as the laft became ripe, the whole plantation was de-
ftroyed by a hurricane. The French, however, went
to work again •, and by having fome acquaintance wdth
the climate, fucceeded better, and added aloes to the
reft of their plantations ; but receiving no fuccour from
Madagafcar, and being tired of living by themfelves in
the ifle of Bourbon, they very readily embraced the
offer of an Engliffi captain, and in the year 1658 em¬
barked for Madras. When the laft great blow v*7as
given to the French at Madagafcar by the natives, wffio
furprifed and cut them off in one night, there efcaped
as many men as, with their wives, who were natives,
filled two canoes 5 and thefe being driven by the wind
on the ifle of Bourbon, were the next fet of people
who inhabited it. This laft colony, for want of an op¬
portunity to remove, were conftrained to cultivate this
new country of theirs, and to remain in it. It w7as
not long before a further flock of inhabitants arrived.
A pirate that had been committing depredations in the
Indies, returning to Europe, ran affiore and was fplit
to pieces upon the rocks, fo that the crew were forced
to join themfelves to the former inhabitants; and as
they had on board their veffel a great many Indian wo¬
men whom they had made prifoners, they lived with
them, and in procefs of time had a numerous pofterity.
As Eaft India ffiips touched frequently here, when too
late to double the Cape, many of the failors, for the
fake of the women, deferted at the time of their de¬
parture, and flaying behind became planters in the ifle
of Bourbon. As the place grew more populous, the
people naturally became more civilized, and defirous of
living in a more commodious manner; which induced
them to build froall veffels, that in thefe they might
fometimes make a trip to Madagafcar, in order to pur-
chafe flaves, whom they employed in their plantations
to cultivate aloes, tobacco, and other things, with
which they drove a fmall trade, when ffiips of any na¬
tion anchored in their roads for the fake of refreffiments.
In this fituation they were, when the French Eaft In¬
dia company put in their claim ; and affuming the pro¬
perty of the ifland, fent thither five or fix families and
a governor. At firft the inhabitants expe&ed to reap
B O U [ 343 ] B O U
Bourbon rice, 2,879,100 pounds of maize, and 2,535,100
li pounds of coffee ; which lafl the company bought up
Bourbourg.at about per pound.
In 1748, Admiral Bofcawen appeared before this
ifland with a Britifh fleet j but found it fo well forti¬
fied both by nature and art, that he was obliged, after
fpme cannonading to very little purpofe, to purfue his
voyage.
Bourbon, Nicholas, a famous Latin poet in the j6th
century, was a native of Vandeure near Langres, and
the fon of a wealthy man who was mafter of feveral
forges. Margaret de Valois appointed him preceptor
to her daughter Jane d’Albert of Navarre, the mother
of King Henry IV. At length he retired to Conde,
where he had a benefice, and died about the year 1550.
He wrote eight books of Epigrams j and a poem on
the forge, which he has entitled Terraria. He had
great knowledge of antiquity and of the Greek lan¬
guage. Erafmus praifes his Epigrams.
Bourbon, Nicholas, a celebrated Greek and Latin
poet, was nephew of the preceding. He taught rhe¬
toric in feveral colleges of Paris; and the cardinal de
Perron caufed him to be nominated profeffor of elo¬
quence in the Royal College : he was alfo canon of
Langres, and one of the 4a of the French academy.
At length he retired to the fathers of the oratory,
where he died in 1644, aged 70. He is eftecmed one
of the greateft Latin poets France has produced. His
poems were printed at Paris in 1630.
BovRBON-Lancy, a town of France, in the depart¬
ment of Saone and Loire. It is remarkable for
its caftle and baths *, and there is a large marble pave¬
ment, called the great bath, which is a work of the Ro¬
mans. It is feated near the river Loire, in E. Long.
3. 46. N. Lat. 46. 37.
Bourbon VArchambaud, a town of France, in the
department of Allier, remarkable for its baths, which
are excfeedingly hot. E. Long. 3. 28. N. Lat. 46. 35.
Tami/y of Bourbon, the late rpyal family of France.
Henry IV. in 1589, though of the loth generation,
was the neareft heir, and fucceeded Henry III. (the
lalt of the Valois race), whofe brother Francis II. mar¬
ried Mary queen of Scots, and both died without iffue.
Louis XVI. was the 5th king of this family in fucceffion.
This family alfo mounted the throne of Spain in 1700,
by Philip V. grandfon to Louis XIV. which was the oc-
cafion of the long and bloody war that ended in the
peace of Utrecht. A branch of the Spanifh family
likewife mounted the throne of the two Sicilies in
1734. Thefe three branches, entered into a treaty
offenfive and defenfive in 1761, which goes by the
name of the family-compaB.
BOURBONNE-le-bains, a town of France, in
Champagne, and in the Bafligni, famous for its hot
baths. E. Long. 5. 45. N. Lat. 47. 54.
BOURBONNOIS, a province of France, with the
title of a duchy ; bounded on the north, by Nivernois
and Berry j on the weft, by Berry and a fmall part of
Upper Marche; on the fouth, by Auvergne; and on the
eaft, by Burgundy and Forez. It abounds in corn,
fruits, paftures, wood, game, and wine. Its principal
town is Moulins ; and the rivers are the Loire, the Al¬
lier, and the Chur.
BOURBOURG, a town in French Flanders, whofe
fortifications are demolifhed. It is feated on a canal
that goes to Dunkirk, in E. Long. 2. 15. N. Lat. Bourduer
BOURCHIER, John, lord Bemars, grandfon and Bour<|eaux;
heir of a lord of the fame name, who was defcended
from Thomas .of Woodftock, duke of Gloucefter, and
had been knight of the garter, and conftable of Wind-
for-caftle. Under Edward IV. our lord John was
created a knight of the Bath, at the marriage of the
duke of York fecond fon of Edward IV. and was firft
known by quelling an infurreftion in Cornwall and De-
vonlhire, raifed by Michael Jofeph a blackfmith, in
I495, which recommended him to the favour of Hen¬
ry VII. He was a captain of the pioneers at the fiege
of Therounne, under Henry VIII. by whom he was
made chancellor of the exchequer for life, lieutenant of
Calais and the Marches, appointed to conduct the lady
Mary the king’s After into France on her marriage
with Louis XII. and had the extraordinary happinefs
of continuing in favour with Henry VIII. for the fpace
of 18 years. He died at Calais in 1532, aged 63. He
tranflated, by King Henry’s command, Froiffart’s Chro¬
nicle ; which was printed in 1523, by Richard Pinfon,
the fcholar of Caxton, and the fifth on the lift of Eng-
lifti printers. His other works were a whimfical med¬
ley of tranflations from French, Spanifh, and Italian
novels, which feem to have been the mode then, as they
were afterwards in the reign of Charles II. Thefe were,
The life of Sir Arthur, an Armorican knight ; The
famous exploits of Sir Hugh Bourdeaux ; Marcus
Aurelius ; and, The caftle of love. He compofed al¬
fo a book of the duties of the inhabitants of Calais ;
and a comedy entitled Ite in Vineam, which is mention¬
ed in none of our catalogues of Englifh plays. Anthony
Wood fays it was ufually a£ted at Calais after vefpers.
BOURDALOUE, Lewis, a celebrated preacher
among the Jefuits, and one of the greateft orators
France has produced, was born at Bourges on the 20th
of Auguft 1632. After having preached at Provence,
he in 1699 went to Paris j and there met with fuch
applaufe, that the king refolved to hear him ; on'which
he was fent for to court, and frequently preached be¬
fore Louis XIV. He affifted the fick, vifited the pri-
foners and hofpitals, and was very liberal in giving
alms. He died at Paris on the 13th of May 1704.
The beft edition of his fermons is in oftavo.
BOURDEAUX, an ancient, large, handfome, and
rich town of France, in the department of Gironde,
is the capital of Guienne, and an archbilhop’s fee ;
has an univerfity and an academy of arts and fcien-
ces. It is built in the form of a bow, of which the ri¬
ver Garonne is the firing. This river is bordered by a
large quay, and the water rifes four yards at full tide, for
which reafon the largeft veffels can come up to it very
readily. The caftle called the Trumpet is feated at the
entrance of the quay, and the river runs round its walls.
Moft of the great ftreets lead to the quay. The town
has 12 gates; and near another caftle are fine walks
under feveral row? of trees. The ancient city of Bour¬
deaux, though confiderable in point of fize, was ill
built, badly paved, dangerous, without policy or any
of thofe municipal regulations indifpenfably requifite
to render a city fplendid or elegant. It has entirely
changed its appearance within thefe laft thirty years.
The public edifices are very noble, and all the ftreets*
newly built are regular and handfome. The quays are.
four:
B O U [ 344 1 B O U
'Boarbon. four miles in length, and the river itfelf is confiderably
broader than the Thames at London bridge. On the
oppofite fide, a range of bills covered with woods, vine¬
yards, churches, and villas, extends beyond the view.
Almofi: in the centre of the town is a fine equeftrian
ftatue in bronze erefted to Louis XV. in 1743, with
the following infcription:
Ludovico quindecimo
Sape viBoriyfemper pacificatori;
Suos omnes, quam late regnum patet.
Pater no peBore gerenti ;
Suorum in animis penitus habitanti.
The beauty of the river Garonne, and the fertility of
the adjoining country, wTere probably the caufes which
induced the Romans to lay the foundations of this city.
The ruins of a very large amphitheatre yet remain, con-
ilrufled under the emperor Gallienus ; it is of brick, as
are moft of the edifices of that period, when the empire
was verging to its fall, and the arts began rapidly to
decline. During the irruptions of the barbarous na¬
tions, and particularly in thofe which the Normans re¬
peatedly made, Bourdeaux was ravaged, burnt, and al-
moft entirely deftroyed. It only began to recover
again under Henry II. of England, who having united
it to the crown by his marriage with Eleanor of Aqui¬
taine, rebuilt it, and made it a principal object of his
policy to reftore the city again to the luftre from which
it had fallen. The Black Prince received all Guienne,
Gafcony, and many inferior provinces, in full fovereign-
ty from his father Edward III. He brought his royal
captive, John king of France, to this city, after the
battle of Poidliers in 1356 ; and held his court and re-
fidence here during eleven years. His exalted charac¬
ter, his uninterrupted feries of good fortune, his vidto-
lies, his modefty, his affability, and his munificence,
drew ftrangers to Bourdeaux from every part of Eu¬
rope j but all this fplendour foon difappeared. He li¬
ved to experience the ingratitude of Peter jjthe Cruel,
to whom he had reftored the kingdom of Caftile ; he
became a prey to diftempers in the vigour of life ; he
law his dominions reunited again in many of their
branches to the crown of France, by Charles V j he
loft his eldeft fon Edward, a prince of the higheft ex¬
peditions j and at length, overcome with forrow’ at this
laft afflidlion, he quitted Bourdeaux, and re-embarked
for England, there to expire a memorable example of the
hafty revolution of human greatnefs ! In 1453, Charles
VII. king of France, re-entered the city, and fubjec-
ted the whole province of Guienne, which had been
near three centuries under fhe Englifh government.
Confcious of the importance of fuch a conqueft, he or¬
dered the Chateau Trompette to be built to defend
the paflage of the river; and Louis the XIV. afterwards
employed the celebrated Vauban to eredt a new fortrefs
in the modern ftyle of military architedlure, on the
lame fpot.—Madame de Maintenon, wdiom fortune
feemed to have chofen as the objedl of her extremeft
rigour and extremeft bounty, was removed from the
prifons of Niort in Poidlou, where fhe was born, with
her father the Baron d’Aubigne, to this caftle, where
ftie uled to play with the daughter of the turnkey, in
the greateft indigence. Bourdeaux prefents few re¬
mains of antiquity. The cathedral appears to be very
old, and has fuffered confiderably from the eftedls of
time. The unfortunate duke of Guienne, brother to Bouidelot
Louis the XL who was poifoned in 1473, lies buried II
before the high altar. The adjacent country, more ^ 'Bou*rges< ,
particularly the Pays de Medoc, which produces the v
fineft clarets, is exceedingly pleafant, and at the fea-
fon of the vintage forms one of the moft delicious
landfcapes in the world. W. Long. o. 39. N. Lat.
44. 50.
BOURDELOT, John, a learned French critic,
who lived at the clofe of the 16th and beginning of the
17th centuries. He diftinguiftied himfelf by writing
notes on Lucian, Petronius, and Heliodorus; by an
Univerfal Hiftory ; Commentaries on Juvenal; a Trea-
tife on the Etymology of French words ; and by fome
other works which were never publifhed.—There was
alfo an Abbe Bourdelot, his fifter’s fon, who changed
his name from Peter Michon to oblige his uncle. He
w7as a celebrated phyfician at Paris, who gained great
reputation by a Treatife on the Viper, and other works.
He died in 1685.
SOURDINES, a town of the Auftrian Nether¬
lands, in the province of Namur. E. Long. 5. o. N.
Lat. 50. 35.
BOURDON, Sebastian, a famous painter, born at
Montpelier, in 1619. He ftudied feven years at Rome;
and acquired fuch a reputation, that at his return to
France he had the honour of being the firft who w7as
made reftor of the academy of painting at Paris. He
fucceeded better in his landfcapes than in his hiftory-
painting. His pieces are feldomfinifired; and thofe that
are fo, are not always the fineft. He once laid a wager
with a friend, that he ftiould paint 1 2 heads after the
life, and as big as the life, in one day. He won it: and
thefe are faid not to be the worft things he ever did. His
moft confiderable pieces are, The gallery of M. de Bre-
tonvilliers, in the aide of Notre Dame; and, The feven
works of mercy, which he etched by himfelf. But the
moft efteemed of all his performances is, The martyrdom
of St Peter, drawn for the church of Notre Dame ; It
is kept as one of the choiceft rarities of that cathedral.
Bourdon was a Calvinift ; much valued and refpefted,
however, in a Popifti country, becaufe his life and man¬
ners were good. We have alfo by this mafter a great
number of etchings ; which are executed in a bold ma-
fterly ftyle, and much more finiftied than thofe we
generally meet with from the point of the painter.
They are juftly held in the higheft eftimation by the
generality of the colle&ors. He died in 1673, aged
54*
BOURDONE'E, in Heraldry, the fame with po-
MEE.
BOURG, the capital of the ifland of Cayenne, a
French colony on the coaft of Guiana, in South Ame¬
rica ; in W. Long. 52. o. N. Lat. 5. o.
BovRG-en-BreJ/'e, a town in France, and capital of
Breffe, in the province of Burgundy. It is feated on
the river Refoufle, almoft in the centre of Brefle, in
E. Long. 4. 19. N. Lat. 46. 13.
BouRG-fur-Mer, a fea-port town of France in Gui¬
enne, and in the Bourdelois, with a tolerable good har¬
bour : feated at the confluence of the rivers Dordogne
and Garonne, in W. Long. 3. 35. N. Lat. 45. o.
BOURGES, an ancient town of France, in the de¬
partment of Cher, and formerly an archbifhop’s fee,
with a famous univerfity. The archbilhop aflumes the
title
Bouget.
B O U [ 345 ] B O U
title oi Patriarch of the A quit aint, and enjoys the rights
of primacy with regard to Albi. It is feated between two
fmall rivers, the Every and the Orron, upon a hill that
has a gentle defeent down to thefe rivers, by which it is
almoft furrounded, for there is but one avenue to it by
land, which is that of Port Bourbonnoux. It Hands
upon a great deal of ground j but one part of it is with¬
out houfes} and the red is but thinly peopled wdth
gentlemen, ftudents, and ecclefiaftics, the whole num¬
ber of fouls amounting only to about 1800. They have
no manner of trade but for their own neccffaries. It is
divided into the old and new town. The walls of the
old are almoft entire, and the new town is almolt as
large as the old. There are feveral churches, convents,
and nunneries. The parifh-church, dedicated to St Ste¬
phen, is a fine old Gothic ftru&ure : it is feated in the
higheft part of the city, and on each fide of the front
are two handfome high towrers. The new one, which
is built in the room of one which fell down, is almoft
200 feet high. Bourbon fquare is the largeft in the city,
where there was formerly an amphitheatre, and now a
market. There is a fine w'alk from St Michael’s gate
into the fields, and three alleys, formed by four ranks
of trees, the middlemoft of which is fpacious \ befides
which, there is a very long mall. The univerfity is fa¬
mous for the ftudy of the law'. This city Hands almoft
in the centre of France. E. Long. 2. 30. N. Lat.
47. 10.
BOUGET, Dom John, an ingenious French an¬
tiquary, w7as born at the village of Beaumains near
Falaife, in the diocefe of Seez, in 1724. He was
educated at the grammar-fehool at Caen, whence he
svas removed to that univerfity, and purfued his ftu-
dies with great diligence and fuccefs till 1745, when
he became a Benedi<ftine monk of the abbey of St Mar¬
tin de Seez. Some time after this, he was appointed
prior clauftral of the faid abbey, and continued fix
years in that office, when he was nominated prior of
Tiron en Perche : whence being tranfiated to the ab¬
bey of St Stephen at Caen, in the capacity of fub-prior,
he managed the temporalties of that religious houfe
during two years, as he did their fpiritualties for one
year longer ; after which, according to the cuftom of
the houfe, he refigned his office. His fuperiors, fen-
fible of his merit and learning, removed him thence to
the abbey of Bee, where he refided till 1764. He was
elefted an honorary member of the Society of Anti¬
quaries of London, Jan. 10. 1765 •, in which year he
returned to the abbey of St Stephen at Caen, where
he continued to the time of his death. Thefe honour¬
able offices, to which he was promoted on account of
his great abilities, enabled him not only to purfue his
favourite ftudy of the hiftory and antiquities of fome
of the principal Benediftine abbeys in Normandy, but
likewdfe gave him accefs to all their charters, deeds,
regifter-books, &tc. &c. Thefe he examined wdth
great care, and left behind him in MS. large and ac¬
curate accounts of the abbeys of St Peter de Jumieges,
St Stephen, and the Holy Trinity at Caen (founded
by William the Conqueror and his queen Matilda),
and a very particular hiftory of the abbey of Bee.
Thefe were all written in French. The “ Hiftory of
the Royal Abbey of Bee” (which he prefented to Dr
Ducarel in 1764) is only an abftradt of his larger
work. This ancient abbey (which hath produced fe-
Vol. IV. Part I.
veral archbiffiops of Canterbury and other illuftrious Bourget
prelates of this kingdom) is frequently mentioned by tl .
our old hiftorians. The death of our worthy Benedic- ^nons'
tine (which happened on new-year’s day 1776) was ^ .
occafioned by his unfortunate negledl of a hurt he got
in his leg by falling down two or three fteps in going
from the hall to the cloifter of the abbey of St Ste¬
phen at Caen, being deceived by the ambiguous light
of a glimmering lamp that was placed in the paflage.
Fie lived univerfaliy efteemed, and died fincerely re¬
gretted by all thofe wffio were acquainted with him j
and was buried in the church of the faid abbey,
Jan. 3. 1776.
BOURGET, a town of Savoy, fubjecl to the
king of Sardinia, feated at the fouthern extremity of
a lake of the fame name. E. Long. 5. 55. N. Lat.
45- 45-
BOURGOGNE, or Burgundy, as it is called j
a confiderable province of France with the title of a
duchy. It is 130 miles in length, and 75 in breath.
It is bounded on the eaft, by the Franche Compte •, on
the weft, by Bourbonnois and Nivernois 5 on the fouth,
by Lyonnois; and on the north by Champagne. It is
very fertile in corn and fruit, and produces excellent
wine. It is watered by the rivers Seine, Dehune, Bre-
bince, Arman«fon, Ouche, Souzon, Tille, and Saone.
There are four mineral fprings at Apoigny, Primeau,
Bourbon-Lancy, and St Reine. The firft are obfeure,
and the two laft in high reputation. In the canton of
Breffe, there are two fubterranean lakes which often
overflow in times of the greateft drought, and lay a
large tra(ft of ground under water : one of them has no
apparent fpring or opening j and yet in a dry feafon, it
throws out water enough to overflow the meadow-land
near it. The grottoes or caves of Arcy are feated about
18 miles from Auxerre, and over them is foil about
10 feet deep. The entrance into thefe cavities is 200
paces long, but narrow. There are arches which form
feveral vaults, from whence drops clear water, which
turns into a brilliant hard ftone. Twenty paces from
the entrance is a lake, wffiich feems to be formed by that
part of the water that wdll not petrify. The higheft of
thefe vaults is not above eight feet. About 80 paces
from the entrance there is a kind of hall, with a coffee-
coloured ceiling, wherein there are a thoufand odd fi¬
gures, wdiich have a very agreeable effeft. Dijon is the
capital town.
BOURGUIGNONS, or Burgundians, one of the
northern nations who overran the Roman empire, and
fettled in Gaul. They were of a great ftature, and very
warlike j for which reafon the emperor Valentinian the
Great engaged them in his fervice againft the Germans.
They lived in tents which were clofe to each other, that
they might the more readily unite in arms on any un-
forefeen attack. Thefe conjunctions of tents, they called
burgs ; and they were to them what towns are to us.
Sidonius Apollinaris tells us, that they w ore long hair,
took great pleafure in finging, and were fond of praife
for their vocal talents. He adds, that they ate great
quantities j and anointed their hair with butter, deem¬
ing that unClion very ornamental. Their crown w7as
at firft eleftive, aud the authority of their kings expi¬
red with their fuccefs. They were not only account¬
able for their own mifconduCt, but likewife for the ca¬
lamities of nature, and the caprice of fortune. They
X x were
Bourne.
B O U [ 346
Boungnon were depofed if they liad loft a battle j if they fucceeded
ill in any enterprife; or if, in ftiort, any great event
had not correipondtd with the hopes of the public.
They were not more favourably treated in cafe of a bad
harveft or vintage, or if any epidemical diftemper had
ravaged the ftate. At firfl they were governed by many
kings, and henden was the title of the royal dignity.
But in latter times they were fubjeCt to one fovereign $
and they grew humane and civilized, efpecially when
Chriftianity was propagated in their country. Before
that epocha, their religion was much the fame with that
of the other northern nations. The had many priefts,
the chief of whom was diftinguiftied by the name of
Jtniftrus. He was perpetual, and they paid him great
refpedl and veneration.
BOURIGNC'N, Anto$iietta, a famous enthufiaftic
preacher and pretended prophetefs, was born at Lille
in r6i6. At her birth Ihe was fo deformed, that it was
debated lome days in the family whether it was not
proper to ftifle her as a monfter: but her deformity di-
miniftiing, ftie was fpared •, and afterwards attained fuch
a degree of beauty, that fhe had her admirers. From
her childhood to her old age Ihe had an extraordinary
turn of mind. She fet up for a reformer, and publilhed
a great number of books filled with very lingular no¬
tions; the moft remarkable of which are entitled 'The
light of the World, and the tefimony of Truth. She
was an enemy to reafon and common fenfe, which Ihe
maintained ought to give place to the illumination of
divine faith ; and aflerted, that whenever any one was
born again by embracing her dodlrine, Ihe felt the
pains and throws of a woman in labour. Of her pre¬
tended vifions and revelations we ftiall give one inftance
as a fample. In one of her ecftacies Ihe fawT Adam in
the fame form in which he appeared before his fall, and
the manner in which he was capable of procreating
other men, fince he himfelf pofleffed in himfelf the prin¬
ciples of both fexes *. Nay Ihe pretended it W’as told
her that he had carried this procreating faculty fo far
as to produce the human nature of Jefus Chrift. “ The
firft man (fays Ihe), whom Adam brought forth without
any concurrent afliftance in his glorified ftate, was cho-
fen by God to be the throne of the Divinity ; the or¬
gan and inftrument by which God w^ould communi¬
cate himfelf externally to men : This is Chiift the firft
born united to human nature, both God and man.”
Befides thefe and fuch like extravagancies, Ihe had other
forbidding qualities : her temper was moroie and pee-
vith, and was Ihe extremely avaricious and greedy of
amafling riches. She dreffed like a hermit, and travel¬
led to France, Holland, England, and Scotland.
In the laft <he made a ftrong party, and fome thou-
fand le&arifts, known by the name of Bourignonifs.
She died at Franeker in the province of Frife, Oftober
30th 1680. Her works have been printed in 18 vols
oblavo.
BOURN, a town of Lincolnftiire, in England,
feated in E. Long. 1. 17. N. Lat. 52. 40. It is a
pretty large place, has a good market for corn and pro-
vifions, and is noted for the coronation of King Ed¬
mund.
BOURNE, or Burn, an appellation anciently given
to all little brooks or rivulets, and ftill ufed in the
fame fenfe in Scotland and in the north of England.
BOURO, an ifland in the Eaft Indian ocean, be-
* See the
article A-
dam.
BOW
tween the Moluccas and Celebes. It is well cultivated ;
and is norv fubjtdf to the Dutch, who have built a for-
trefs here. Some mountains in it are exceeding high, (
and the fea on one fide is uncommonly deep. It pro¬
duces nutmegs and cloves, as well as cocoa and banana
trees; befides many vegetables introduced by the
Dutch. It is about 5c miles in circumference. E.
Long. 129. S. Lat. 4. 30.
BOUl ANT, or Arch-Boutant, in architedlure,
an arch, or part of an arch, abutting againft the reins
of a vault to prevent its giving way.
A Pillar Boutant, is a large chain or pile of ftone,
made to fupport a w!all, terrace, or vault.
BOUTE', in the manege. A horfe is called houte'
when his legs are in a ftraight line from the knee to
the coronet : Ihort-jointed horfes are apt to be boute,
and on the other hand long-jointed horfes are not.
BOUTS rimes, a popular term in the French pee-
try ; fignifying certain rhymes, difpofed in order, and
given to a poet together with a fubjedl, to be filled up
with verfes ending in the fame words, and the fame
order. The invention of the bouts-rimes is owing to
one Du Lot, a poet, in the year 1649. In fixing the
bouts, it is ufual to choofe fuch as leem the remoteft,
and have the leaft connedlion.
Some good authors fancy that thefe rhymes are of
all others the eafieft, that they afiift the invention,
and furnifh the moft new thoughts of all others. Sar-
rafin has a poem on the defeat of the bouts-rimes. The
academy of Lanternifts at Thouloufe have contributed
towards keeping in countenance the bouts-rimes, by
propofing each year a fet of fourteen, to be filled up on
the glories of the grand monarque ; the vidtoriius fon-
net to be rewarded with a fine medal.—An inftance
hereof may be given in the following one, filled up by
P. Commire.
Tout ef grand dans le roi, TafpeBfeul de fon bufte
gla$ons.
moifibns,
robufte.
Augufte 5
lemons :
chanfons:
jufte, &c.
Eaft Indian ocean,
about 12 miles diftant from the fouth-eaft part of the
illand of Macaffar, or Celebes. The inhabitants are
fmall but well fhaped, and of a daik olive complexion.
The principal town is Callafujung, which is about a
mile from the fea, on the top of a Imall hill, and round
it a ftone wall. The houfes are not built upon the
ground, but on pofts. The religion of the inhabitants
is Mahcmetanifm. E. long. 122. 30. S. Lat. 4.
3°-
BOU\ ILLON, a city of Luxemburg in the Au-
ftrian Netherlands, fituated in E. Long. 5. o. N. Lat.
49- 55-
BOW, (am/j), a weapon of offence made of wood,
horn, or other elaftic matter, which, after being ftrong-
ly bent, by means of a firing faftened to its two ends,
in returning to its natural ftate throws out an arrow
with great force. It is alfo called the long-bow, by¬
way of diftindfion from the crois-bow or arbalefl.
The bow is the moft ancient, and the moft univerfal
of
Ecuro
li
Bow.
Rend nos fiers enntmis plus fraids que des
Et Guillaume n'attend que le terns des
Pour fe voir foccomber fous un bras f
Quvn ne nous vante plus les miracles d'
Louis de bien regner lui feroit des
Horace en vain Regale aux dieux dans fts
Moms que mon heros il etoit fage et
BOUTON, an ifland in the
BOW [3
"Biw. of all weapons. It has been found to obtain among the
mod barbarous and remote people, and who had the
lead communication with the red of mankind.
The ufe of the bow and arrow was fird aboliOied in
France under Louis XI. in 14^*’ an(^ place
were introduced the Swifs arms, that is, the halberd,
pike, and broad-fword. The long-bow was formerly
in great vogue in England j mod of our victories in
France were acquired by itj and many law’s were made
to regulate and encourage its ufe. The parliament
under Henry VIII. complain “ of the difufe of the
long-bow, heretofore the fafeguard and defence of this
kingdom, and the dread and terror of its enemies.” 33
Hen. VIII. cap. 6.
The art of uling bow’s is called archery, and tbofe
pra£tifed therein, archers, or bowmen. See Archery.
The drength of a bow may be calculated on this
principle, that its fpring, i. e. the power wdiereby it re-
dores itfelf on its natural pofition, is always proportion¬
ate to the didance or fpace it is removed therefrom.
The mod barbarous nations often excel in the fabric
of the particular things wdiich they have the greated
necedity for in the common offices of life. The Lap¬
landers, who fupport themfelves almod entirely by
hunting, have an art of making bows, which we, in
thefe improved parts of the world, have never arrived at.
Their bow is made of two pieces of tough and drong
wood, Ihaved down to the fame fize, and flatted on
each flde j the two flat fides of the pieces are brought
clofely and evenly together, and then joined by means
eif a glue made of the fldns of perch, which they have
in great plenty, and of which they make a glue fupe-
rior in drength to any which we have. The two
pieces, when once united in this manner, wdll never fe-
parate, and the bow is of much more force to expel
the arrow, than it could poffibly have been under the
fame dimendons if made of only one piece.
Among the ancients, the bow-dring, called
was made of horfes hair, and hence alfo called 5
though Homer’s bow-drings are frequently made of
hides cut into fmall thongs : whence /3«s/aj. The
uppermod part of the bowr, to which the dring was
fadened, was called being commonly made of
gold, and the lad thing towards dnifhing the bow.
The Grecian bows were frequently beautified with
gold or filver ; whence rve have mention of aurei arcus;
and Apollo is called A^yi^orafa?. But the matter of
which they were ordinarily compofed, feems to have
been wood: though they were anciently, Scythian-
like, made of horn, as appears from that of Pandarus
in Homer, Iliad. v. 105.
The invention of the bow is ufually aferibed to A-
pollo, and wras communicated to the primitive inha¬
bitants of Crete, who are faid to have been the fird
of mortals who underdood the ufe of bows and arrows.
And hence, even in later ages, the Cretan bows w’ere
famous, and preferred by the Greeks to all others.
Some, however, rather choofe to honour Perfes, the
fon of Perfeus, with the invention of the bow ; while
others aferibe it to Scythes, fon of Jupiter, and pro¬
genitor to the Scythians, who were excellent at this
art, and by many reputed the fird madersof it. From
them it was derived to the Grecians, fome of whofe
ancient nobility were indru&ed by the Scythians in
the ufe of the bow, which m thofe days pafled for a
47 ] B 6 W
mod princely education. It was fird introduced into
the Roman army in the fecond Punic war.
The Indians dill retain the bow. In the repofitory
of the Royal Society wTe fee a Wed Indian bow tv\o
yards long.
The Scythian bow w’as famous for its incurvation,
which didinguiflred it from the bows of Greece and
other nations j being fo great as to form an half moon
or femicircle : whence the fiiepherd in Athenseus, be¬
ing to deferibe the letters in Thefeus’s name, and ex-
preffing each of them by fome appofite refemblance,
compares the third to the Scythian bow *, meaning not
the more modern character E, but the ancient C, which
is femicircular, and bears the third place in ©HCEVC-
Crofs~Borr, is alfo called arbalejl or arhalet; which
word is derived from arbalijla, e. \. arcuba/Jla, “ a
bow wdth a fling.” The arbalet confifls of a deel-bow,
fet in a ihaft of wood, furnifhed with a firing and a
trigger j and is bent with a piece of iron fitted for
that purpofe. It ferves to throw’ bullets, large ar¬
rows, darts, &c. The ancients had large machines for
throwing many arrows at once, called arbalets or ba-
iju. ■“   
Bow, is alfo an indrument ufed at fea, for taking the
fun’s altitude ; confiding of a large arch of 90° gra¬
duated, a (hank or dafl, a fide vane, a fight vane, and
an horizon vane. It is now out of ufe.
Bow, among builders, a beam of wood or brafs, with
three long ferews that diredfi a lathe of w’ood-or deel
to any arch j chiefly ufed in drawing draughts of fhips
and projeftions of the fphere, or wherever it is requi-
fite to draw large arches.
Bow, in Muftc, a fmall machine, which, being drawn
over the firings of a mufical indrument, makes it re¬
found, It is compofed of a fmall flick, to which are
fadened 80 or 100 horfe hairs, and a ferew which ferves
to give thefe hairs a proper tenfion. In order that the
bow may touch the firings brifkly, it is ufual to rub the
hairs with rofin. I he ancients do not appear to have
been acquainted with bows of hair : in lieu hereof they
touched their inflruments with a pleftrum j over which
our bows have great advantage, for giving long and
fhort founds, and other modifications which a pledlrum
cannot produce.
Bow, among artificers, an indrument fo called from
its figure ; in ufe among gunfmiths, lockfmiths, watch¬
makers, &c. for making a drill go. Among turners it
is the name of that pole fixed to the ceiling, to w'hich
they faflen the cord that whirls round the piece to be
turned.
Bow, a town of Devonfhire in England, 188 miles
W’efl from London, and a little to the wed of Crediton,
has a weekly market, and twro fairs in the year. I he
court of the duchy of Lancafler is commonly kept
here.
Bows of a Saddle, are twm pieces of wmod laid arch-
wife to receive the upper part of a horfe’s back, to give
the faddle its due form, and to keep it tight.
The fore-bow which fuflains the pommel, is compo¬
fed of the wdthers, the breads-, the points or toes, and
the corking.
The hind-bow bears the torfequin Or quilted roll.
The bow’s are covered with finews, that is, with bulls
pizzles beaten, and fo run all over the bows to make
them dronger. Then they are drengthened with bands
X x 2 of
Bov.1
BOW [ 348 ] BOW
Bow. of Iron to keep them tight : and on the lower fide are
   nailed on the faddle-ftraps, with which they make faft
the girths.
Bair, Epaule, in Ship building, the rounding part of
a (hip’s fide forward, beginning at the place where the
planks arch inwards j and terminated where they clofe,
at the ftem or prow. It is proved by a variety of ex¬
periments, that a (hip with a narrow bow is much bet¬
ter calculated for failing fwiftly, than one with a broad
bow ; but is not fo well fitted for a high fea, into
which (he always pitches or plunges her fore-part very
deep, for want of fufficient breadth to repel the volume
of water which (he fo eafily divides in her fall. The
former of thefe is called by feamen a lean, and the
other a bluff, bow. “ The bow which meets with the
lead refiftance in a direft courfe, not only meets with
the lead refidance in oblique courfes, but alfo has the
additional property of driving the lead to leew’ard $
which is a double advantage gained by forming the
bow fo as to give it that figure which will be lead re-
* Bougucr's fided in moving through any medium.*.”
Traite de Qn tfje Bofr, in Navigation, an arch of the horizon
Navire. comprehended between fome didant objeft and that
point of the compafs which is right a-head, or to which
the drip’s dern is direfted. This phrafe is equally ap¬
plicable when the object is beheld from the drip, or dif-
covered by trigonometrical calculation: As, We faw a
fieet at day-break bearing three points on the Jlarboard-
bow : that is, three points from that part of the hori¬
zon which is right a-head, towards the right-hand.
See the article Bearing.
Bo if-dye, a kind of fcarlet red, fuperior to madder ;
but inferior to the true fcarlet grain for fixednefs and
duration. It was brought into England, and fird prac-
tifed at the village of Bow, near London, by Kephler,
a Dutchman, in the year 1643.
BotF grace, in the fea language, a frame or compo-
fition of old ropes or junks of cables, ufed to be laid
out at the bows, dems, and fides of (hips, to preferve
them from great fiakes of ice, chiedy when they fail in
high north or fouth latitudes.
Bojr-net, or Bow-wheel, an engine for catching fi(h,
chiedy lobders and craw-fi(h, made of two round wick¬
er badcets, pointed at the end, one of which is thrud
into the other ; at the mouth is a little rim, four or five
inches broad, fomewhat bent inwards. It is alfo ufed
for catching fparrows.
Botr-legged, or Bandy-legged. Some children are
bow-legged from their birth ; others become fo from
fetting them on their feet too early. The tibia of fome
is crooked ; the knees of others are didorted ; from a
fault in the ankle, the feet of fome are turned inwards.
Thefe are called vari; and in others, who are called
valgi, they are turned outwards. The bed method of
preventing thefe diforders in weakly children is to ex-
ercife them duly, but not violently, by dancing or tof-
fing them about in one’s arms ; and not fetting them
much upon their feet, at lead not without properly
fupporting them : if the diforder attends at the birth,
or increafes after it is begun, apply emollients, then
apply boots of drong leather, wood, &c. fo as gradu¬
ally to difpofe the crooked legs to a proper form ; or
other indruments may be ufed indead of boots, which,
when not too codly, are ufually to be preferred.
Slighter indances of thefe diforders yield to careful Bow
nurfing, without indruments. jj.
Bow-Line, or Bowling, a rope fadened near the . °* in^'
middle of the leech, or perpendicular edge of the fquare
fails, by three or four fubordinate parts called bridles.
It is only ufed when the wind is fo unfavourable that
the fails mud be all braced fideways, or clofe hauled to
the wind : in this fituation the bow-lines are employed
to keep the weather or windward edges of the principal
fails tight, forward, and deady, without which they
wmuld always be (hivering, and rendered incapable of
fervice. To check the bow-line is to (lacken it, when
the wind becomes large.
Bo if-Pieces, are the pieces of ordnance at the bow
of a (hip.
Rain-Bow. See Rain-Bow.
Bow-Bearer, an inferior officer of the fored, who
is fworn to make inquifition of all trefpaffes againd vert
or venifon, and to attach offenders.
BOWELS, in Anatomy, the fame with intedines.
See Anatomy Index.
BOWER, in Gardening, a place under covert of
trees, differing only from an arbour, as being round or
fquare, and made with a kind of dome or ceiling at
top; whereas the arbour is always built long and
arched.
Bower, in the fea-language, the name of an anchor
carried at the bow of a (hip. There are generally two
bowers, called JirJl and fecond, great and little, or lejl
andyW//bower. See Anchor.
BOWESS, or Bowet, in Falconry ; a young hawk,
when (he draws any thing out of her ned, and covets
to clamber on the boughs.
BOWL, denotes either a ball of wood, for the ufe
of bowling : or a veffel of capacity, wherein to hold li¬
quors.
BOWLDER-stones, fmall dones of a roundilh fi¬
gure, and no determinate fize, found on the fea-fhore,
and on banks or rather channels of rivers.
BOWLING, the art of playing at bowls.—This
game is praftifed either in open places, as bares and
bowling-greens, or in clofe-bowling-alleys.
The (kill of bowling depends much on a knowledge
of the ground, and the right choice of a bowl fuitable
to it: for clofe alleys, the flat bowl •, for green fwards
plain and level, the bowl as round as a ball is prefer¬
red.
The terms ufed in bowling are, to bowl wide, which
is when the bias does not hold, or is not flrong enough5
narrow, when it is too drong, or holds too much j
finely bowled, is when the ground is well chofen, and
the bowl paffes near the block, even though it goes
much beyond it: bowling through, or a yard over, is
done in order to move the block ; an over-bowl, that
which goes beyond ita bowl laid at hand, is that put
down within the gameder’s reach, to be in the way of
the next bowler, and hinder his having the advantage
of the bed ground *, bowling at length, neither bowling
through nor ftiort; a dead length, a jud or exaft one ;
throwing or fiinging, is difcharging a bowl with a
flrength purpofely too great for a length, in order to
carry off either the block or fome near bowl; bowl-
room, or mifiing-wood, is when a bowl has free paffage,
without flriking on any other j get off, is when a bowl
BOW F 349 3 BOW
fowling- being narrow, is wanted to be wider ; bowl bejl at block.
Green that neareft the block : drawing a cajl or bowl, is to
II win it by bowling nearer, without ftirring either the
lawyer. ^ block ; a bowl is faid to rub, when it meets
with fome obftacle in the ground, which retards its
motion, and weakens its force ; it is gone, when far
beyond the block. Block fignifies a little bowl laid for
a mark, alfo called zjack. Mark, is a proper bowling
diftance, not under fo many yards ; and being at leaft
a yard and a half from the edge of the green. Ground,
a bag or handkerchief laid down to mark where a bowl
is to go. Lead, the advantage of throwing the block,
and bowling firft. Caft, is one beft bowl at an end.
End, a hit, or when all the bowls are out. The game,
or ut>, is five cafts or beft bowls.
BovruNG-Green, in Gardening, a kind of parterre in
a grove, laid with fine turf, requiring to be frequently
mowed, laid out in compartments of divers figures,
with dwarf-trees and other decorations. Bowling-
greens are of Englifh origin, but have been adopted
by the French and Italians, who have them only for
ornament ; being unacquainted with or not fancying
the exercife, on account of which they were firft made
in England.
Bow ling-Bridles, are the ropes by which the bow¬
line is faftened to the leech of the fail.
BOWSE, in the fea-language, fignifies as much as
to hale or pull. Thus bowjing upon a tack, is hauling
upon a tack. Bowfe away, that is, Pull away all to¬
gether.
BOWSPRIT, or Boltsprit, a kind of mart, reft-
ing flopewife on the head of the main ftern, and having
its lower end faftened to the partners of the fore-raaft,
and farther fupported by the fore ftay. It carries the
fprit-fail, fprit-top-fail, and jack-ftaff; and its length
is ufually the fame with that of the fore-maft.
BOWYER, William, the moft learned printer
of his age, was born at White Friars in London.
December 17. 1699. His father, whofe name alfo
was William, had been eminent in the fame profeflion j
and his maternal grandfather (Icabod Dawks) was
employed in printing the celebrated Polyglott bible
of Bifhop Walton. At a proper age, he was placed
for grammatical education under the care of Mr Am-
brofe Bonwicke, a nonjuring clergyman of known
piety and learning, who then lived at Headly, near
Leatherhead in Surry. Here Mr Bowyer made great
advances in literature, and a firm attachment com¬
menced betwixt him and his mafter. On the 30th of
January I7I3> the whole property of the elder Mr
Bowyer was deftroyed by fire *, on which occafion Mr
Bonwicke generoufly undertook the education of his
pupil for one year. In 1716, young Mr Bowyer was
admitted a fizar at St John’s college, Cambridge,
where Dr Robert Jenkin was at that time mafter.
He continued at the college of Cambridge under the
tuition of the reverend Dr John Newcombe till June
1722, during which period he probably took his de¬
gree of bachelor of arts •, and it appears that he was
defirous of obtaining a fellowlhip, though it is not cer¬
tain that he ever ftood a candidate for that honour.
Soon after this he had an opportunity of repaying the
kindnefs which Mr Bonwicke had ftiown him, by of¬
ficiating fome time after his death in the capacity of a
fchoolmafter for the benefit of his femily.
Mr Bowyer now entered into the printing-bufinefs Bowyer.
along with his father. One of the firft books which'V'—“
received the benefit of his correftion was the complete
edition of Selden in three volumes folio by Dr David
Wilkins. This edition was begun in 1722, and fi-
nilhed in 1726 *, and Mr Bowyer’s great attention to
it appeared in his drawing up an epitome of Selden
de Synedriis, as he read the proof-ftieets. In 1727, he
drewr up an excellent Iketch of William Baxter’s Glof-
fary of the Roman Antiquities. This was called “ A
view of a book entitled Rehquue Baxtenana. In a let¬
ter to a friend.” A fingle (beet 8vo. By this firft:
public proof of Mr Bowyer’s abilities, Dr Wotton and
Mr Clarke were highly pleafed ; but as it was never
publifhed, and very few copies printed, it is very feldom
found with the glofiary. In 1727 Mr Bowyer loft his
mother; on which occafion he received a letter of
confolation from Mr Chiftiull the learned editor of the
Antiquitates Ajintica. In October 1728 he married
Mifs Ann Prudom, his mother’s niece, a very accom-
plilhed lady, by whom he had twTo fons, William and
Thomas j the former of whom died an infant, and the
latter furvived his father. In 1729 Mr Bowyer pub-
lilhed a curious treatife, entitled, “ A Pattern for
young Students in the Univerfity *, fet forth in the
Life of Ambrofe Bonwicke, fome time fcholar of St
John’s College, Cambridge but though this treatife
was generally aferibed to Mr Bowyer, it was in reality
the produftion of Mr Ambrofe Bonwicke the elder.
About this time it appears, that Mr Bowyer had writ¬
ten a pamphlet againft the Separatifts, though neither
the title nor the occafion of it are now remembered.
The fame year, through the friendfhip of the Right
Hon. Arthur Onflow', he was appointed printer of the
votes of the houfe of commons; which office he
held, under three fucceffive fpeakers, for near fifty
years. In 1731 Mr Bowyer publiffied, and, it is be¬
lieved, tran/lated'VoXX-dwAs Life of Chailes XII. This
year alfo his wife died j on which occafion his friends
Mr Clarke and Mr Chiftiull wrote him very affedlionate
and Chriftian letters. He remained a widower till
1747, when he married a very benevolent and w’orthy
woman, Mrs Elizabeth Bill, by whom he had no chil¬
dren. In 1733 he publiffied a piece in twTo ftieets 410,
entitled, “ The Beau and the Academic j” being a
tranflation from a Latin poem recited that year at the
Sheldonian theatre 5 and in 1736 he was admitted in¬
to the Society of Antiquarians, where he became an
aftive and ufeful member. In 1737 Mr Bow'yer loft:
his father; and on this occafion Mr Clarke again ad-
drefled to him a letter of confolation. In 1742 our
author publiffied a trafiflation of Trapp’s Latin Lec¬
tures on Poetry, in which he was affifted by Mr Clarke,
though the latter had a contemptible opinion of the
performance.
In 1749, Mr Bowyer, along wdth Dr Burton, was
virulently attacked by Dr King in a piece entitled
Elogium farncc inferviens Jacci Etonenjis Jive Gigantis:
or, “ The praifes of Jack Eaton, commonly called
Jack the Giant."—This abufe was probably occafion-
ed by Mr Bowyer’s having hinted in converfation fome
doubts concerning the Dodlor’s {kill in Latin. Our au¬
thor drew up fome ftridlures in his own defence, which
he intended to infert at the conclufion of a preface to.
Montefquieu’s Refledions j but by Dr Clarke’s advice
BOW [ 3j
JJowyer, they were omitted. In 1750, a prefatory critical dif-
~—v—J fertation and fome notes were annexed by our author
to Kufter’s Treatife De ufu verborum mediorum; a
new edition of which, with farther improvements, ap¬
peared in 1773. He wrote likewife about the fame
time a Latin preface to Leedes’s Veteres poet* citati,
&c.—Being foon after employed to print an edition
of Col. Bladen’s tranflation of Caefar’s Commentaries,
that work received confiderable improvements from Mr
Bowyer’s hands, with the addition of fuch notes in it
as are figned Tv poor. In the fubfequent editions of
this work, though printed by another perfon during our
author’s lifetime, the fame lignature, though contrary
to decorum, and even to juftice, was ftill retained. In
1751, he wrote a long preface to Montefquieu’s “ Re¬
flections on the rife and fall of the Roman Empire $”
tranflated the dialogue between Sylla and Socrates ;
made feveral corrections to the work from the Baron’s
“ Spirit of Lawsand improved it with his own
notes. A new edition, with many new notes, was
printed in 1759. In 1751 he alfo publifhed the firft
tranflation that ever was made of Rouffeau’s paradoxi¬
cal oration, which gained the prize at the academy of
Dijon in 1750 *, and which firlt announced that lingu¬
lar genius to the attention and admiration of Europe.
On the publication of the third edition of Lord Orrery’s
“ Remarks on the Life and Writings of Dr Swift,” in
1752, Mr Bowyer wrote and printed, but never pub-
lilhed, “ Two Lefters from Dr Bentley in the Shades
below, to Lord Orrery in a Land of thick darknefs.”
The notes ligned B, in the ninth quarto volume of
Swift’s works, are extracted from thefe Letters. In
1753, he endeavoured to allay the ferment occafioned
by the Jew bill; with which view he publilhed, in
quarto, “ Remarks on the fpeech made in common-
council, on the bill for permitting perfons profefling
the Jewilh religion to be naturalized, fo far as prophe¬
cies are fuppofed to be affeCted by it.” This little traCt
was written with fpirit, and well received by thofe who
were fuperior to narrow prejudices. Its defign was to
Ihow, that whatever political reafons might be alleged
againft the bill, Chriftianity was in no danger of being
prejudiced by the intended protection promifed to the
Jews. The fame year fome of Mr Bowyer’s notes
were annexed to Bifliop Claton’s tranflation of ” A
Journal from Grand Cairo to Mount Sinai and back
again.”—-In 1754, Mr Bowyer, with a view of leffen-
ing his fatigue, entered into partnerlhip with a rela¬
tion 'j but fome difagreement arifing, the connection
^vas diffolved in three years. On the death of Mr
Richardfon in 1761, Mr Bowyer fucceeded him as
printer to the Royal Society, through the favour of
the late Earl of Macclesfield and, under the friend-
fliip of five fucceflive prefidcnts, enjoyed that office till
his death.
In 1763, Mr Bowyer publifhed an excellent edition
of the Greek Teftament, in two vols izmo. It ap¬
peared under the following title ; Novum Tejlamentum
Grcecum ; ad jidem Gracorum folum Codicum MSS.
nunc primum impre(fum, adjiipulante Joanne Jacobo
WetJlenio,juxta Se&iones Jo. Alberti Bengelii divifum ;
et nova interpretatione [<tpius illujlratum, NcceJJere in
altero volumine, Emendattones conjeElurales virorum doc~
torum undecunque colleBte, This fold with great rapi¬
dity: the ConjeClural Emendations were well received
o ] BOW
by the learned, and are thought to be a valuable work. Eowyer.
The prefiient and fellows of Havard college in Cam-
bridge exprefied their approbation of this edition in
very high terms. In a letter to Mr Bowyer, written
in the year 1767, “This work (fay they), though
fmall in bulk, we efteem as a rich treafure of facred
learning, and of more value than many large volumes
of the commentators.” A fecond edition of the Con-
jeClures on the New Teftament, with very confiderable
enlargements, was feparately publilhed, in one vol. 8vo,
in 1772. Bilhop Warburton having cenfured a paf-
fage in the former edition, Mr Bowyer fent him a copy
of this book, with a conciliatory letter. Dr War-
burton’s Divine Legation had received very confider¬
able advantage from Mr Bowyer’s corrections ; and
this even in an edition which was neceffarily given to
another prefs. In 1761 he was employed to print his
Lordfhip’s DoCtrine of Grace. A fecond edition be¬
ing foon wanted, and Mr Bowyer not having been in¬
truded with the care of it, he prepared a feries of let¬
ters to the bifliop in his own defence *, of which, toge¬
ther with a few he had formerly received from that
great writer, he afterwards printed twelve copies, of
which ten have fince been deftroyed. However, there
is the beft authority for aflerting, that notwithftand-
ing any little altercations which happened, Dr War-
burton always retained a fincere regard for our au¬
thor. In 1765, at the requeft of Thomas Hollis,
Efq. Mr Bowyer wrote a Ihort Latin preface to Dr
Wallis’s Grammatica Lingua Anglican#. He wrote
alfo a large Englifh preface for the fame work, which,
however, ftill remains unprinted. In x 766 he entered
into partnerlhip with Mr Nichols, who had been train¬
ed by him to the profeffion, and had for feveral years
affifted him in the management of his bufinefs. The
fame year, Mr Bowyer wrote an excellent Latin pre¬
face to Joannis Harduini, Jefuita, ad Cenfuram Scrip-
torum veterum Prolegomena. Juxta Autograpbum. In
1767 he was appointed to print the journals of the
houle of lords and the rolls of parliament. This
year he printed Mr Clarke’s excellent and learned
work on “ The ConneClion of the Roman, Saxon, and
Englilh Coins j” and wrote fomc notes upon it, which
are interfperfed throughout the volume with thofe of
the author. Part of the Diflertation on the Roman
fefterce was likewife Mr Bowyer’s produClion j and
the index, which is an uncommonly good one, was
drawn up by him entirely.
In January 1771 Mr Bowyer loft his fecond wife,
and again received a letter of confolation from his old
friend Mr Clarke, who had fent him one almoft forty
years before on a fimilar occafion. In the Philofophi-
cal TranfaCHons for this year was printed a very inge¬
nious “ Inquiry into the Value of the ancient Greek
and Roman Money,” by the late Matthew Raper,
Efq. But his opinions not coinciding with thofe of
Mr Bowyev, he printed a fmall pamphet, entitled,
“ Remarks, occafioned by a late Diflertation on the
Greek and Roman money.” In 1773 three little
trails were pubhihed by him, under the title of “ Se-
le<5! Difcourfes, 1, Of the correfpondence of the He¬
brew months with the Julian, from the Latin of Pro-
feflbr Michaelis. 2. Of the Sabbatical years, from the
fame. 3. Of the years of jubilee, from an anonymous
writer in MafTon’s Hiftoire Critique de la Republique
BOX
Bowyers,
Box.
des Lettres.” In 1774 he corrected a new edition
of Schrevelius’s Greek Lexicon ; to which he has ad¬
ded a number of w7ords, diftinguifhed by an afterifk,
wrhich he himfelf had collefted in the courfe of his
ftudies. Confiderable additions, dill in manufcript,
were made by him to the lexicons of Hederic and
Buxtorf, the Latin ones of Faber and Littleton, and
the Englilh Diftionary of Bailey ; and he left behind
him many other proofs of his critical Hull in the learn¬
ed languages. In 1774 was publifhed, “ The Origin
of printing, in two efiays. I. The fubflance of Dr
Pt^Iiddleton’s DilTertation on the Origin of Printing in
England. 2. Mr Meerman’s Account of the Inven¬
tion of the Art at Haarlem, and its progrefs to
Mentz, with occaflonal Remarks, and an Appendix.”
The original idea of this valuable traft w^as Mr Bow-
yer’s, but it was completed by Mr Nichols.
Although our author, during the lad ten years of
his life, had been afflicted with the palfy and done, he
not only preferved a remarkable cheerfulnefs of tem¬
per, but wTas enabled to fupport the labour of almod
inceffant reading j and he regularly corredted the
learned wmrks, efpecially the Greek books, which came
from his prefs. This he continued to do till within
a few weeks of his death, which happened in Novem-
ber 1777, when he had nearly completed his 78th year,
tor more than half a century Mr Bowyer was unrival¬
led as a learned printer ; and many of the mod ma-
derly productions of this kingdom have come from his
prefs. To his literary and profefflonal abilities he add¬
ed an excellent moral charadter; and he was particu¬
larly didinguilhed by his inflexible probity, and an un¬
common alacrity in relieving the neceflitous.
BOWYERS, artificers w'hofe bufinefs is to make
bows : in which fenfe, bowyers dand diltinguiflied
from fletchers, who made arrows.
Flie bowyers company in London was incorporated
in 1620: and confids of a mader, two w ardens, twTelve
afflflants, and 30 on the livery. See Archery.
BOX, in its mod common acceptation, denotes a
fnaall ched or coffer lor holding things.
Dice-Box, a narrow7 deep cornet, channelled within,
wherein the dice are fliaken and thrown. This anfwers
to w7hat the Romans called fntil/us; whence, crepitan-
ies fritilli; and, in Seneca, refonante fritillo. The fame
author ufes alfo concutere fritillum, figuratively, for
playing.—Befides the fritillus, the Romans, for greater
fecurity, had another kind of dice-box called pyrgus,
vrvgycg, and fometimes turncula. It was placed im¬
moveable in the middle of the table, being perforated
or open at both ends, and likewife channelled w’ithin ;
over the top was placed a kind of funnel, into wfflich
the dice w7ere cad out upon the fritillus ; whence de¬
fending, they fell through the bottom on the table ;
by which all praftifing on them with the fingers w7as
cffedlually prevented. For want of fome contrivance
of this kind, our fliarpers have opportunities of playing
divers tricks w7ith the box, as palming, topping, dab¬
bing, &c.
Box, is alfo ufed for an uncertain quantity or mea-
fure : thus a box of quickfilver contains from one to
tw7o hundred weight; a box of prunellas only 14 pounds;
a box of rings for keys, two grofi, &c.
Box-Tree. See Buxus, Botany Index.
xlfrican-Box. See Myrsine, Botany Index.
[ 1
BOX
BOXERS, a kind of athletce, w7ho combat or con¬
tend for victory with their fids. Boxers amount to the
lame w7ith wfflat among the Romans were called pugiles.
Fhe ancient boxers battled wTith great force and fury,
infomuch as to dafii out each others teeth, break bones,
and often kill each other. Hie drange disfigurements
thefe boxers underwent were fuch that they frequently
could not be known, and rendered them the fubjedt of
many railleries. In the Greek anthology there are four
epigrams of the poet Lucilius, and one of Lucian,
wherein their disfigurements are pleafantly enough ex-
pofed. See Boxing.
BOXHORNIUS, Marc Zuerius, a learned critic
born at Bergen-op-Zoom in 16x2, w7as profeffor of elo¬
quence at Leyden, and at length of politics and hidory
in the room of Heinfius. He publilhed, 1. Theatrum
urbium Holla nduv. 2. Sc rip tores hijlorice Augujlce, cum
tiotis. 3. Poetce fatyrici minores, cum comment. 4. Notes
on Judin, Tacitus; and a great number of other wrnrks.-
He died in 1653, aged 41.
BOXING, the exercile of fighting with the fids*
either naked or with a done or leaden ball grafped in
them: in which lenfe, boxing coincides with the pugil-
latus of the Romans, and what on our amphitheatres-
is fometimes called trial of manhood. When the
champions had a-'peu^xi, or balls, whether of lead or
done, it was properly denominated rputgofiecy/ix. The
ancient boxing differed from the pugna ccejluum, in
which the combatants had leathern thongs on their
hands, and balls to offend their antagonids; though
this didindlion is frequently overlooked, and fighting
with the ccejlus ranked as a part of the bufinefs of pu-
gdes. We may didinguifli three fpecies of boxing ;
viz. where both the head and hands were naked; where
the hands were armed and the head naked; and where
the head was covered with a kind of cap, called am-
photides, and the hands alfo furniflred with the cajlus.
Boxing is an ancient exercife, having been in ufe in
the heroic ages. Thofe who prepared themfelves for'
it, uied all the means that could be contrived to ren¬
der themfelves fat and flefliy, that they might be bet¬
ter able to endure blows : whence corpulent men or
women were ufually called pugiles, according to Te¬
rence: Siqua ejl habitior paulo, pugi/em eJJ'e aiunt.
In modern times this art has been in a manner appro¬
priated by the Englilh, About half a century ago it
formed as regular an exhibition as we now fee at any
of the places of public amufement, the theatres alone
excepted. It was encouraged by the lirft ranks of the
nobility, patronized by the firft fubjeft in the realm,
and tolerated by the magifirates. Before the cftablilh-
ment of Broughton’s amphitheatre, a booth was erec¬
ted at Tottenham Court, in which the proprietor, Mr
George Taylor, invited the profeffors of the art to
difplay tneir Ikill, and the public to be prefent at its
exhibition. The bruifers then had the reward due to
their prowefs, in a divifion of the entrance-money,
which fometimes was icol. or 150I. The general
mode of lharing was for two thirds to go to the win¬
ning champion, while the remaining third was the
right of the lofer ; though fometimes by an exprefs a-
greement of the parties, the conqueror and the van-
quilhed fliared alike. 1 he nobility and gentry ha¬
ving complained of the inconveniences fultained at
Taylor’s Booth; prevailed on Mr Broughton, who was-
thenK
Boxers
II
Boxing.
Boeing
II
Boyd,
13 O Y [ 3J2 1 , B O Y
then riling into note as the firft bruiler in London, to
build a place better adapted for fuch exhibitions.
This was accordingly done in 1742, principally by
lubfcription, behind Oxford-road. The building was
called Broughton’s New Amphitheatre ; and, befides
the Itage for the combatants, had feats correfponding
to the boxes, pit, and galleries, much in the fame man¬
ner with thofe at Aftley’s. After a courfe of years,
however, thefe exhibitions became gradually lefs pa¬
tronized and frequented, owing probably to the re¬
finement of our manners. Some time ago, indeed,
they feemed to be revived, and very confiderably en¬
gaged the attention of the public •, but a fatal iflue
which attended one of them, brought the pradlice a-
gain into difrepute. One of the combatants was kil¬
led on the fpot. His royal highnefs the Prince of
Wales was prefent, and declared that he would have
fome fettlement made on the neareft relation of the
deceafed, but that, on account of the dreadful exam¬
ple he had then witneffed, he would never more either
fee or patronize another ftage-fight.
Boxing, among failors, is ufed to denote the re-
hearfing the feveral points of the compafs in their pro¬
per order.
Boxing is alfo ufed for the tapping of a tree to
make it yield its juice. The boxing of maple is per¬
formed by making a hole with an axe or chiffel into
the fide of the tree about a foot from the ground j out
of it flows a liquor of which fugar is made.
BOXTEHUDE, a town of Germany, in the circle
of Lower Saxony, fubjedl to the Danes. It is feated
on the rivulet Eite, which falls into the Elbe, in E.
Long. 9. 35. N. Lat. 53. 40.
BOXTEL, a town in Dutch Brabant, with fluices
feated on the river Bommel. E. Long. 5. 15. N. Lat.
51.3°.
BOYAR, a term ufed for a grandee of Ruflia and
Tranfylvania. Becman fays, that the boyars are the
upper nobility, and adds, that the Czar of Mufcovy,
in his diplomas, names the boyars before the way-
wodes. See Waywode.
BOYAU, in Fortification, a ditch covered with a
parapet, which ferves as a communication between two
trenches. It runs parallel to the works of the body of
the place ; and ferves as a line of contravallation, not
only to hinder the fallies of the befieged, but alfo to
fecure the miners. But when it is a particular cut
that runs from the trenches to cover fome fpot of
ground, it is drawn fo as not to be enfiladed or fcoured
by the (hot from the town.
BOYD, Mark Alexander, an extraordinary ge¬
nius, was fon of Robert Boyd, who was eldeft fon of
Adam Boyd of Pinkhill, brother to Lord Boyd. He
was born in Galloway on the I3th January 1562,
and came into the world with teeth. He learned the
rudiments of the Latin and Greek languages at Glaf-
gow under two grammarians', but was of fo high and
untraflable a fpirit, that they delpaired of ever making
him a fcholar. Having quarrelled with his mailers,
he beat them both, burnt his books, and forfwore learn¬
ing. While he was yet a youth, he followed the court,
and did his utmoft to pufh his intereft there ; but the
fervour of his temper foon precipitated him into quar¬
rels, from which he came off with honour and fafety,
though frequently at the hazard of his life. He, with
the approbation of his friends, went to ferve in the Boy
French army, and carried his little patrimony with him, v
which he foon diflipated at play. He was Ihortly af¬
ter roufed by that emulation which is natural to great
minds, and applied himfelf to letters with unremitted
ardour, till he became one of the moll confummate
fcholars of his age. He is faid to have tranflated Cac-
far’s Commentaries into Greek in the ftyle of Herodo¬
tus, and to have written many Latin poems w'hich were
little inferior to the firlt productions of the Augultan
age. He alfo left feveral manuferipts on philological,
political, and hiftorical fubjefts, in Latin and French,
which languages were as familiar to him as his native
tongue. He could with facility dictate to three ama-
nuenfes at the fame time, in different languages, and
on different fubjeCts. He was alfo one of the belt Scot-
ifh poets of the age. To all this we muff add, that
his perfonal beauty and accomplilhments were equal to
his mental fuperiority. He died at Pinkhill in Scot¬
land, in 1601. The following works, which are all
that have been printed, were publifhed in the Dehcue
Poetarum Scotorum; Amftel. 1637, izmo. I. Fpi-
grammata, lib. ii. 2. lleroidum Epfiolte XIV. lib. ii.
3. Hymni XIV.
BOYER, Abel, a w’ell-known gloffographer and
hiltoriographer, born at Caftres in France, in 1664,
Upon the revocation of the edift of Nantz, he went
firfl to Geneva, then to Franeker, where he finilhed
his ftudiesj and came finally to England, where he ap¬
plied himfelf fo afliduoufly to the ftudy of the Englilh
language, and made fo great a proficiency therein, that
he became an author of confiderable note in it, being
employed in the writing of feveral periodical and poli-
cal works. He was for many years concerned in %
newfpaper called the Pofi-boy, of which he had the prin¬
cipal management. He likewife publilhed a monthly
work entitled the PoliticalJlate of Great Britain. He
wrote a life ©f Queen Anne in folio, which is efteemed
a very good chronicle of that period of the Englilh
hiftory. But what has rendered him the moft known,
and has moft firmly eftablilhed his reputation, are the
excellent DiCHonary and Grammar of the French lan¬
guage, which he compiled, and which are ftill rec¬
koned the beft in their kind. He alfo wrote, or ra¬
ther tranflated from the French of M. de Racine, the
tragedy of Iphigenia, which he publilhed under the
title of The ViBim. It was performed with fuccefs at
the theatre of Drury-lane, and is far from being a bad
play. Nor can there perhaps be a ftronger inftance of
the abilities of its author, than fuccefs in fuch an at¬
tempt \ fince writing with any degree of corre£lnef$
or elegance, even in prole, in a foreign language, is
an excellence not very frequently attained; but to pro¬
ceed fo far in the perfedlion of it as to be even toler¬
able in poetry, and more efpecially in that of the
drama, in which the didlion and manner of expreflion
require a peculiar dignity and force, and in a language
fo difficult to attain the perfett command of as the
Englilh, is what has been very feldom accomplilhed.
He died in 1729.
Boyer, in Navigation, a kind of Flemilh Hoop, or
fmall veffel of burden, having a boltfprit, a caille at
each end, and a tall malt; chiefly fit 'Or the naviga¬
tion of rivers, and in many of its parts refembhng a
fmack,
BOYES,
BOY [3
Boyes, BOYES, idolatrous priefts among tlie favages of
Farida. Every prieft attends a particular idol, and
the natives addrefs themfelves to the prieft of that idol
to which they intend to pay their devotion. The idol
is invoked in hymns, and his ufual offering is the fmoke
of tobacco.
BOYLE, Richard, one of the greateft ftatefmen
of the 17th century, and generally ftyled the Great earl
of Corke, was the youngeft fon of Mr Roger Boyle, and
was born at Canterbury, on the 3d of October, 1566.
He ftudied at Bennet college, Cambridge, and afterwards
became a ftudent in the Middle Temple. Having loft
his father and mother, and being unable to fupport
himfelf in the profecution of his ftudies, he became
clerk to Sir Richard Manhood, one of the chief barons
of the exchequer j but finding that by his employment
he could not improve his fortune, he went to Ireland in
1588, with fewer pounds in his pocket than he after-
wards acquired thoufands a-year. He was then about
22, had a graceful perfon, and many accomplifhments,
which enabled him to render himfelf ufeful to feveral of
the principal perfons employed in the government, by
drawing up for them memorials, cafes, and anfwers. In
J595, he married Joan the daughter and coheirefs of
William Anfley, who had fallen in love wfith him; and
ftie dying in 1599 in labour of her firft child, which
was ftillborn, left him an eftate of 500I. a year in land.
In confequenoe of various fervices, and the great abi¬
lities he difplayed, he gradually rofe to the higheft of¬
fices, and even to the dignity of the peerage of Ire¬
land; to which he was railed by King James I. on the
29th of September 1616, by the ftyle and title of
baron of Youghall, in the county of Cork : four years
after, he was created Vifcount Dungarvan and earl of
Cork; and in 1631 was made lord treafurer of Ireland,
an honour that was made hereditary to his family. He
particularly diftinguilhed himfelf by the noble Hand he
made, when the fatal rebellion broke out in that king¬
dom, in the reign of Charles I.; and in his old age
a6ted with as much bravery and military {kill, as if he
had been trained from his infancy to the profeffion of
arms. He turned the caftle of Lifmore, his capital
feat, into a fortrefs capable of demanding refpeft from
the Irilh. He immediately armed and difciplined his
fervants and Proteftant tenants; and by their afliftance,
and a fmall army raifed and maintained at his own ex¬
pence, which he put under the command of his four
fons, defended the province of Munfter, and in the
fpace of a year took feveral ftrong caftles, and killed
upwards, of 3000 of the enemy : during which time
he paid his forces regularly ; and when all his money
was gone, like a true patriot converted his plate into
coin. This great man died on the 15th of September,
i634-
Boyle, Richard, earl of Burlington and Cork,
fon to the former, was a nobleman of unblemilhed
loyalty in rebellious times, and of untainted integrity
Jn times of the greateft: corruption. He was born at
Youghall, Oftober 20th, 1612, while his father was in
the beginning of his profperity, and only Sir Richard
Boyle. He diftinguiflied himfelf by his loyalty to King
Charles I. He not only commanded troops, but raifed
und for a long time paid them, and continued to wait
upon the king as long as any one place held out for
him in England, and then was forced to compound for
Vol. IV. Part I.
<5 1 . B 0 Y
his eftate. He contributed all in his power to the Re-
ftoration; on which King Charles II. raifed him to the
dignity of earl of Burlington, or Bridlington, in the
county of York, in the year 1663. He died Jan. 15.
1697-8, in the 86th year of his age.
Boyle, Roger, earl of Orrery, younger brother of
the former, and the fifth fon of Richard, ftyled the Great
earl of Cork, was born April 25. 1621; and by the
credit of his father with the lord deputy Faulkland,
raifed to the dignity and title of Baron Broghill, when
only feven years old. He was educated at the college
of Dublin, where he foon diftinguiftied himfelf as an
early and promifing genius. He afterwards made the
tour of France and Italy; and at his return afiifted his
father in oppofing the rebellious Irifh, in which he be¬
haved with all the fpirit of a young, and all the difere-
tion of an old, officer. Upon the murder of the king,
he retired to Marfton in Somerfetffiire, and hid him¬
felf in the privacy of a clofe retirement; but being at
length affiamed to fit the tame fpe£!ator of all the mif-
chief that appeared round him, he refolvcd to attempt
fomething in favour of the king ; and under the pre¬
tence of going to the Spa for the recovery of his health,
he determined to crofs the feas, and apply himfelf to
King Charles II. for a commiffion to raife what forces
he could in Ireland, in order to reftore his majefty, and
recover his own eftate. To this purpofe, he prevailed
on the earl of Warwick to procure a licenfe for his
going to the Spa; and having raifed a confiderable firm
of money, came up to London to profecute his voy¬
age : but he had not been long in town when he re¬
ceived a meffage from Cromwell, who wras then gene¬
ral of the parliament’s forces, that he intended to wait
upon him. The lord Broghill was furprifed at this
meffage, having never had the leaft acquaintance with
Cromwell; and defired the gentleman to let the gene¬
ral know, that he wTould wait upon his excellency. But
while he was waiting the return of the meffenger,
Cromwell entered the room; and after mutual civilities
had paffed between them, told him in few words, that
the committee of ftate were apprifed of his defign of
going over and applying to Charles Stuart for a com¬
miffion to raife forces in Ireland ; and that they were
determined to make an example of him, if he himfelf
had not diverted them from that refolution. The
lord Broghill interrupted him, by affuring him that the
intelligence which the committee had received was
falfe, and that he neither was in a capacity nor had
any inclination to raife difturbances in Ireland : but
Cromwell, inftead of making any reply, drew fome
papers out of his pocket, which were the copies of fe¬
veral letters which the lord Broghill had fent to thofe
perfons in whom he moft confided, and put them into
his hands. The lord Broghill, upon the perufal of
thefe papers, finding it to no purpofe to diffemble any
longer, alked his excellency’s pardon for what he had
faid, returned him his humble thanks for his prote&ion
againft the committee, and intreated his dire&ion how
to behave in fuch a delicate conjundlure. Cromwell
told him, that though till this time he had been a
ftranger to his perfon, he was not fo to his merit and
chara&er : he had heard how gallantly his lordftiip
had behaved in the Irifh wars; and therefore, fince he
was named lerd lieutenant of Ireland, and the reducing
that kingdom was now become his province, he had
Y y obtained
V.
, . . BOY [ 354 ]
obtained leave of the committee to offer his lordfhip horfe and
the command of a general officer, if he would ferve in
that war} and he fliould have no oaths or engagements
impofed upon him, nor be obliged to draw his fword
againft any but the Irifh rebels.
The lord Broghill was infinitely furprifed at fo ge¬
nerous and unexpected an offer. He faw himfelf at li¬
berty, by all the rules of honour, to ferve againft the
Inlh, whole rebellion and barbarities were equally de-
tefted by the royal party and the parliament. He de-
ffred, however, feme time to confider of what had been
propofed to him. But Cromwell brifkly told him, that
he muft come to fome refolution that very inftant: that
he himfelf was returning to the committee, who were
ftill fitting •, and if his lordftiip rejected their offer,
they had determined to fend him to the tower. Up¬
on this, die lord Broghill, finding that his liberty and
life were in the utmoft danger, gave his word and ho¬
nour that he would faithfully ferve him againft the
Irilh rebels : on which Cromwell once more affured
him, that the conditions which he had made with him
ftiould be puinftually obferved } and then ordered him
to repair to Brirtol, adding, that he himfelf would
foon follow him into Ireland. Lord Broghill, there¬
fore, having fettled the bufinefs of his command, went
over into that country; where, by his conduct and
intrepidity, he performed many important fervices, and
fully juftified the opinion Cromwell had conceived of
him. By his own intereft he now raifed a gallant troop
of horfe, confiding chiefly of gentlemen attached to him
by perfonal friendlhipj which corps was foon increafed
to a complete regiment of 1500 men. Thefe he led
into the field againft the Irifh rebels; and was fpeedily
joined by Cromwell, who placed the higheft confidence
in his new ally, and found him of the greateft confe-
quence to the intereft of the commonwealth.
Among other confiderable exploits performed by
Lord Broghill, the following deferves to be particu¬
larly mentioned. Whilft Cromwell laid fiege to Clon-
mell, Broghill being detached to difperfe a body of
5000 men who had affembled to relieve the place, he,
with 2000 horfe and dragoons, came up with the ene¬
my at Maccrooms on the 10th of May 1650} and,
without waiting for the arrival of his foot, immediate-
ly attacked and routed them, making their general
prifoner. Then proceeding to the caftle of Carrig-
drohid, he fent a fummons to the garrifon to furrender
before the arrival of his battering cannon, otherwife
they were to expeft no quarter. His own army was
furprifed at this fummons, as knowing he had not one
piece of heavy cannon : but Broghill had ordered the
trunks of leveral large trees to be drawn at a diftance
by his baggage horfes } which the befieged perceiving,
and judging from the flownefs of the motion that the
guns muft be of a vaft bore, immediately capitulated.
He afterwards relieved Cromwell himfelf at Clonmell,
where that great commander happened to be fo dan-
geroufly fituated, that he confeffed, nothing but the
feafonable relief afforded him by Lord Broghill could
have faved him from deftruftion. When Ireton fat
down before jLimeric, he gave Broghill 600 foot and
400 horfe, with orders to prevent Lord Mulkerry’s
joining the pope’s nuncio, who had got together a bo¬
dy of 8000 men, and wTas determined to attempt the
relief of Limeric. Mufkerry was at the head of 1000
BOY
dragoons, and about 2000 foot : notwith-
ftanding ■which, Lord Broghill fell refolutely uponv
him. The Irilh, having the advantage of the ground
and numbers, w^ould have conquered, but for a ftrata-
gem of Lord Broghill. In the heat of the adfion he
defired thofe about him to repeat what he faid } and
then cried out as loud as he could, “ They run, they
run.” The firft line of the Irilh looked round to fee
if their rear broke ; and the rear feeing the faces of
their friends, and hearing the fhouts of the enemy,
imagined that the firft line was routed, and fled. The
taking of Limeric, which put an end to the W’ar in
Ireland, was the confequence of this defeat.
When Cromwell became proteftor, he fent for Lord
Broghill, merely to take his advice occafionally. And,
we are told, that, not long after his coming to Eng¬
land, he formed a project for engaging Cronwell to
reftore the old conftitution. The balls of the fcheme
was to be a match between the king (Charles II.) and
the proteftor’s daughter. As his lordlhip maintained
a fecret correfpondence with the exiled monarch and
his friends, it was imagined that he was beforehand
pretty fure that Charles wras not averfe to the fcheme,
or he would not have ventured to have propofed it fe-
rioufly to Cromwell} who at firft feemed to think it
not unfeafible. He foon changed his mind, however,
and told Broghill that he thought his projeft imprac¬
ticable : “ For (faid he) Charles can never forgive me
the death of his father.” In fine, the bufinefs came
to nothing, although his lordlhip had engaged Crom¬
well’s wife and daughter in the fcheme } but he never
durft let the proteftor know that he had previoufly
treated with Charles about it.
On the death of the proteflor, Lord Broghill con¬
tinued attached to his fon Richard, till, wffien he fawr
that the honefty and good-nature of that worthy man
wTould infallibly render him a prey to his many ene¬
mies, he did not think it advifable to fink wdth a man
that he could not fave. The dark clouds of anarchy
feemed now to be hovering over the Britilh ifland.
Lord Broghill fawr the ftorm gathering, and he deem¬
ed it prudent to retire to his command in Ireland,
where he Ihortly after had the fatisfaffion of feeing
things take a turn extremely favourable to the defign
he had long been a well-wifher to, viz. that of the
king’s reftoration. In this great event Lord Broghill
was not a little inftrumental} and, in confideration of
his eminent fervices in this refpeft, Charles created
him earl of Orrery by letters-patent bearing date Sep¬
tember 5. 1660. He w'as foon after made one of the
lords juftices of Ireland } and his conduct, while at the
head of affairs in that kingdom, w as fuch as greatly
added to the general efteem in wffiich his character
was held before.
His lordlhip’s aflive and toilfome courfe of life at
length brought upon him fome difeafes and infirmities
W'hich gave him much pain and uneafinefs } and a fe¬
ver which fell into his feet, joined to the gout with
W'hich he wTas often afflifted, abated much of that vi¬
gour which he had fhowm in the early part of his life :
but his induftry and application were ftill the fame,
and bent to the fame purpofes } as appears from his
letters, w’hich fhow at once a capacity, and an atten-
tention to bufinefs, wdrich do honour to that age, and
may ferve as an example to this.
Notwithftanding
Boyle.
BOY [ 3J5 ] BOY
fEoyle. NotwitliftandHig his infirmities, on the king’s defir- Boyle, Robert, one of the greateft philofophers as Boyle.
^ee iordfiiip in England, he went over in well as belt men that our own or indeed any other na- 1 y—
1665. ^ He found the court in fome diforder j where tion has produced, was the feventh ion and the 14th
his majefty was on the point of removing the great child of Richard earl of Cork, and born at Lifmore in
earl of Clarendon, lord high chancellor; and there was the province of Munfter in Ireland, January 25.
alfo a great mifunderftanding between the two royal 1626-7. Before he went to fchool, he was tauaht to
brothers. Lord Orrery undertook to reconcile the write a very fair hand, and to fpeak French and La-
king with the duke of York ; which he effbaed by tin, by one of the earl’s chaplains, and a Frenchman
prevailing on the latter to alk his majefty’s pardon for that he kept in the houfe. In the year 1635, his fa-
fome fteps he had taken in fupport of the lord chancellor, ther fent him over to England, in order to be’educat-
On his return t0>Ireland, he found himfelf called to ed at Eton fchool, under'Sir Henry Wotton, who was
a new fcene of adlion. I he Dutch war was then at the earl of Cork’s old friend and acquaintance. Here
its height; and the French, in confederacy with the he foon difcovered a force of underftanding which pro-
Hollanders, v.ere endeavouring to ftir up the allies of mifed great things, and a difpolition to cultivate and
rebellion in Ireland. The duke de Beaufort, admiral improve it to the utmoft. While he remained at Eton,
ot h ranee, had formed a fcheme for a defeent upon there were feveral very extraordinary accidents that
Ireland ; but this wasrendered abortive by the extra- befel him, of which he has given us an account; and
ordinaly diligence, military Ikill, and prudent mea- three of which were very near provinp1 fatal to him
Lures, of Lord Orrery _ The firft was, the hidden fall of the chamber where
But in midlt of all his labours, a difpute arofe, he was lodged, when himfelf w^as in bed ; when, be-
founded on a mutual jealoufy of each other’s greatnefs, fides the danger he run of being crufhed to pieces, he
betwixt hirn and his old friend the duke of Ormond, had certainly been choked with the dull during the
then lend lieutenantthe bad effects of which were time he lay under the rubbifh, if he had not had pre-
foon felt by both difputants,. who reforted to England fence of mind enough to have wrapped his head up in
to defend their refpeflive interells and pretenfions, the fheet, which gave him an opportunity of breathing
both having been attacked by fecret enemies who fag- without hazard. A little after this, he had been
gelled many things to their prejudice. This quarrel, crulhed to pieces by a ftarting horfe that rofe up fud-
though of a private beginning, became at lall of a pu- denly, and threw himfelf backwards, if he had not
bhc nature *, and producing firll an attempt to frame happily difengaged his feet from the flirrups, and call
an impeachment agamft the duke of Ormond, occa- himfelf from his back before he fell. A third acci-
fioned in the end, by the way of revenge, an aflual dent proceeded from the careleffnefs of an apothecary’s
impeachment againll the earl of Orrery. He defend- fervant, who, by millaking the phials, brought him a
■cd hxmlelf, however, fo well againll a charge of high Itrong vomit inllead of a cooling julep,
crimes, and even of treafon itfelf, that the profecution He remained at Eton, upon the whole, between
came to nothing. He neverthelefs loft his public em- three and four years; and then his father carried him
ployments j but not the king’s favour : he ftill came to his own feat at Stalbridge in Dorfetlhire, where he
frequently to court, and fometimes to council. After remained for fome time under the care of one of his
this revolution in his affairs, he made feveral voyages chaplains who was the parfon of the place. In
to and front Ireland ; was often confulted by his ma- he attended his father to London ; and remained with
jefty on affairs of the utmoft confequence ; and on all him at the Savoy, till his brother Mr Francis Boyle
occafions gave his opinion and advice with the freedom efpoufed Mrs Elifabeth Killigrew 5 and then, towards
of an honeft plain-dealing man and a fincere friend ; the end of Odlober, within four days after the marri-
which the king always found him, and refpedted him age, the two brothers, Francis and Robert, were fent
accordingly. . abroad upon their travels, under the care of Mr Mar-
In 1678, being attacked more cruelly than ever by combes. They embarked at Rye in Suffex, and from
his old enemy the gout, he made his laft voyage to thence proceeded to Dieppe in Normandy : then they
England for advice in the medical way. But his dif- travelled by land to Rouen, fo to Paris, and from
order was beyond the power of medicine j and having thence to Lyons; from which city they continued their
m his laft illnefs given the ftrongeft proofs of Chriftian journey to Geneva, where his governor had a familv •
-patience, manly courage, and rational fortitude, he and there the two gentlemen pur-fued their ftudies with-
breathed his laft on the 16th of Oftober 1679, in the out interruption. Mr Boyle, during his ftayhere, re-
59th year of his age. His lordlhip wrote, 1. A work fumed his acquaintance with the mathematics, or at
entitled * The Art of War.” 2. Partheniffa, a ro- leaft with -the elements of that fcience, of which he
mance, in one volume folio. 5. Several poems. 4. had before gained fome knowledge. For he tells us
Dramatic pieces, two volumes. 5. State-trafts, in in his own memoirs, that while he was at Eton and
one volume folio, &c. Mr Walpole, fpeaking of this affli&ed with an ague, before he was ten years old by
nobleman, fays, he never made a bad figure but as a way of diverting his melancholy, they made him read
p jet. As a foldier, his bravery was diftinguifhed, his Amadis de Gaul, and other romantic books which
ftratagems remarkable. As a ftatefman, it is fufficient produced fuch a reftleffnefs in him, that he was obliged
to fay, that he had the confidence of Cromwell. As to apply himfelf to the extradion of the fquare and cube
r ma r’, • 7-aS ^rat,e^U^ w.ou^ ^ave fijPPor_ted the roots, and to the more laborious operations of algebra.
Ion of his friend : but,, hke Cicero and Richelieu, he in order to fix and fettle the volatile operations of his
could not be content without being a poet; though he fancy.
was ill qualified, his writings of that kind being flat . In September 1641, he quitted Geneva, after ha-
and trivial. ving fpent 21 months in that city j and palling through
Y y 2 Switzerland
BOY [ 35<5 ] BOY
Boyle. Switzerland and the country of the Grifons, entered
Lombardy. Then, taking his route through Bergamo,
Brefcia, and Verona, he arrived at Venice ; where
having made a (hort ftay, he returned to the continent,
and fpent the winter at Florence. Here he employed
his fpare hours in reading the modern hiftory in Ita¬
lian, and the works of the celebrated aftronomer Ga¬
lileo, who died in a village near this city during Mr
Boyle’s refidence in it. It was at Florence that he ac¬
quired the Italian language; which he underltood per-
fe£tly, though he never fpoke it fo fluently as the
French. Of this indeed he was fuch a mafter, that as
occaflon required he paffed for a native of that country
in more places than one during his travels.
About the end of March 1642, he began his jour¬
ney from Florence to Rome, which took up but five
days. He furveyed the numerous curiofities of that
city ; among which, he tells us, “ he had the fortune
to fee Pope Urban VIII. at chapel, with the cardinals,
who, feverally appearing mighty princes, in that afiem-
bly looked like a company of common friars.” He
vifited the adjacent villages which had any thing cu¬
rious or antique belonging to them ; and had probably
made a longer ftay, had not the heats difagreed with
his brother. He returned to Florence ; from thence
to Leghorn ; and fo by fea to Genoa : then palling
through the county of Nice, he crofted the fea to An¬
tibes, where he fell into danger from refilling to ho¬
nour the crucifix : from thence he went to Marfeilles
by land. He was in that city, in May 1642, when
he received his father’s letters, which informed him
that the rebellion had broken out in Ireland, and how
difficultly he had procured the 250I. then remitted to
them in order to help them home. They never receiv¬
ed this money; and were obliged to go to Geneva
with their governor Marcombes, who fupplied them
with as much at leaft as carried them thither. They
continued there a confiderable time, without either ad-»
vice or fupplies from England; upon wffiich Mar¬
combes was obliged to take up fome jewels upon his
owm credit, which were afterwards dilpofed of with as
little lofs as might be ; and with the money thus rai-
fed, they continued their journey for England, where
they arrived in the year 1644. On their arrival, Mr
Boyle found his father dead ; and though the earl had
made an ample provifion for him, by leaving him his
manor of Stalbridge in England, as vTell as other con-
llderable eftates in Ireland, yet it wTas fome time be¬
fore he could receive any money. However, he pro¬
cured proteftions for his eftates in both kingdoms from
the powers then in being ; from which he alfo ob¬
tained leave to go over to France for a Ihort fpace,
probably to fettle accounts with his governor Mr Mar¬
combes.
In March 1646, he retired to his manor at Stal¬
bridge, w’here he refided for the moft part till May
1650. He made excurfions fometimes to London,
fometimes to Oxford ; and in February 1647, he went
over to Holland : but he made no confiderable ftay
anywhere. During his retirement at Stalbridge, he
applied himfelf with incredible induftry to ftudies of
various kinds, to thofe of natural philofophy and che-
miftry in particular. Fie omitted no opportunity of
obtaining the acquaintance of perfons diftinguilhed for
parts and learning ; to whom he uTas in every refpecl Boyle,
a ready, ufeful, generous affiftant, and with wffiom he '—■“■Y'—•
held a conftant correfpondence. He W’as alfo one of
the firft members of that fmall but learned body of
men wffiich, when all academical ftudies wrere inter¬
rupted by the civil wars, fecreted themfelves about the
year 1645; and held private meetings, firft in Lon¬
don, afterwards at Oxford, for the fake of canvafling
fubjefls of natural knowledge upon that plan of expe¬
riment wffiich Lord Bacon had delineated. They ftyled
themfelves then The phi/ofophic college } and, after the
Reftoration, when they were incorporated, and di¬
ftinguilhed openly, they took the name of the Royal
Society.
In the fummer of 1654, he put in execution a de-
fign he had formed for fome time of refiding at Oxford,
where he chofe to live in the houfe of one Mr Crofle,
an apothecary, rather than in a college, for the fake
of his health, and becaufe he had more room to make
experiments. Oxford was indeed the only place at
that time in England where Mr Boyle could have liv¬
ed wuth much fatisfa&ion ; for here he found himfelf
furrounded with a number of learned friends, fuch as
Wilkins, Wallis, Ward, Willis, Wren, &c. fuited
exaftly to his tafte, and who had reforted thither for
the fame reafons that he had done, the philofophical
fociety being now removed from London to Oxford.
It wras during his refidence here that he improved that
admirable engine the air-pump ; and by numerous ex¬
periments was enabled to difcover feveral qualities of
the air, fo as to lay a foundation for a complete theo¬
ry. He was not, howrever, fatisfied with this; but
laboured inceflantly in collefting and digefting, chiefly
from his owm experiments, the materials requifite for
this purpofe. He declared againft the philofophy of
Ariftotle, as having in it more wmrds than things ;
promifing much, and performing little; and giving
the inventions of men for indubitable proofs, inftead
of building upon obfervation and experiment. He wras
fo zealous for, and fo careful about, this true method
of learning by experiment, that though the Cartefian
philofophy then made a great noife in the world, yet
he would never be perfuaded to read the works of Des
Cartes, for fear he Ihould be amufed and led away by
plaufible accounts of things founded on conjefture, and
merely hypothetical. But philofophy, and inquiries
into nature, though they engaged his attention deeply,
did not occupy it entirely ; fince we find that he ftill
continued to purfue critical and theological ftudies.
In thefe he had the affiftance of fome great men, par¬
ticularly Dr Edward Pocock, Mr Thomas Hyde, and
Mr Samuel Clarke, all of great eminence for their
{kill in the oriental languages. He had alfo a ftridl
intimacy with Dr Thomas Barlow, at that time head
keeper of the Bodleian library, and afterwards bifhop
of Lincoln, a man of various and extenfive learning.
In the year 1659, Mr Boyle, being acquainted with
the unhappy circumftances of the learned Sanderfon,
afterwards bilhop of Lincoln, who had loft all his pre¬
ferments on account of his attachment to the royal
party, conferred upon him an honorary ftipend of 50I.
a-year. This ftipend was given as an encouragement
to that excellent mafter of reafoning to apply himfelf
to the writing of “ Cafes of Confcience and accord-
BOY
[ 357 ]
BOY
Boyle, ingly he printed his leftures De obligatione covfcientue,
which he read at Oxford in 1647, and dedicated them
to his friend and patron.
Upon the reftoration of Charles II. Mr Boyle was
treated with great civility and relpeft by the king, as
well as by the two great minifters the lord treafurer
Southampton and the lord chancellor Clatendon. He
was folicited by the latter to enter into holy orders,
not only out of regard to him and his family, but
ehiefiy with a view to lerve the church itfell} for Mr
Boyle’s noble family, his diftinguilhed learning, and,
above all, his unblemilhed reputation, induced Lord
Clarendon to think that any ecclefiaftical preferments
he might attain would be worthily difcharged, fo as to
do honour to the clergy, and fervice to the eftablifhed
communion. Mr Boyle conlidered all this with due
attention : but, to balance thefe, he refle&ed, that,
in the lituation of life in which he was, whatever he
wrote with refpeft to religion would have io much the
greater weight as coming from a layman : lince he well
knew that the irreligious fortified themfelves againft
all that the clergy could offer, by fuppofing, and fay¬
ing, that it was their trade, and that they were paid
for it. He confidered likewife, that, in point of for¬
tune and charafter, he needed no acceffions \ and 3n-
. deed he never had any appetite for either. He chofe,
therefore, to purfue his philofophical ffudies in fuch a
manner as might be moft effeftual for the fupport of
religion ; and began to communicate to the world the
fruits of thefe fiudies.
The firft of thefe was printed at Oxford in 1660, in
8vo, under the title of, 1. New experiments, phyfico-
mechanical, touching the fpring of the air and its ef-
fefts. 2. Seraphic love j or fome motives and incen¬
tives to the love of God, pathetically difcourfed of in a
letter to a friend. 3. Certain phyfiological effays and
other trafts, 1661, 4to. 4. Sceptical chemift, 1662,
8vo} a very curious and excellent work, reprinted a-
bout the year 1679, 8vo, with the addition of divers
experiments and notes about the produciblenefs of che¬
mical principles. \
In the year 1663, the Royal Society being incorpo¬
rated by King Charles II. Mr Boyle was appointed
one of the council; and as he might be juftly reckon¬
ed among the founders of that learned body, fo he con¬
tinued one of the moft ufeful and induftrious of its
members during the whole courfe of his life. In June
1663. he publifhed, 5. Confideratlons^ touching the
ufefulnefs of experimental natural philofophy, 4to.
6. Experiments and confiderations upon colours ; to
which was added a letter, containing Obfervations on
a diamond that Ihines in the dark, 1663, 8vo. This
treatife is full of curious and ufeful remarks on the hi¬
therto unexplained doftrine of light and colours j in
which he {hows great judgment, accuracy, and pene¬
tration ; and may be faid to have led the way to that
mighty genius the great Sir Ifaac Newton, w’ho has
frnce fet that point in the cleareft and moft convincing
light. 7. Confiderations on the ftyle of the Holy
Scriptures, 1663, 8vo. It was an extraft from a lar¬
ger work, entitled, “ An Effay on Scripture j” which
was afterwards publiftied by Sir Peter Pett, a friend
of Mr Boyle’s.
In 1664, he wTas ele&ed into the company of the
royal mines j and was all this year taken up in the
profecution of various good defigns, which probably
was the reafon why he did not {end abroad any trea-
tifes either of religion or philofophy. T he year fol¬
lowing, came forth, 8. Occafional refle&ions upon fe-
veral fubjefts ; whereto is prefixed a difcourfe about
fuch kind of thoughts, 166.5, ^v0. This piece is ad-
dreffed to Sophronia, under whofe name he concealed
that of his beloved lifter the vifcountefs of Ranelagh.
The thoughts themfelves are on a vaft variety of fub-
jefts, written many years before ; fome indeed upon
trivial occafions, but all with great accuracy of lan¬
guage, much wit, more learning, and in a wonderful
ftrain of rtioral and pious reflection. Yet this expofed
him to the only fevere cenfure that ever was paffed up¬
on him ; and that too from no lefs a man than the ce¬
lebrated Dean Swift, who, to ridicule thefe difcourfes,
wrote .Ypious meditation upon a broomjlick, in thejyh?
of the honourable Mr Boyle. But as his noble relation
the late Lord Orrery has faid, “ To what a height
muft the fpirit of farcafm arife in an author, who could
prevail on himfelf to ridicule fo good a man as Mr
Boyle ? The fword of wit, like the fcythe of time,
cuts down friend and foe, and attacks every objeft
that lies in its way. But, {harp and irrefiftible as the
edge of it may be, Mr Boyle will always remain in¬
vulnerable.”
The fame year, he publifhed an important work, en¬
titled, 9. New experiments and obfervations upon cold,
1665, 8vo. In the year 1666, he publiflied, 10. Hy-
droftatical paradoxes made out by new experiments,
for the moft part phyfical and eafy, in 8vo. 11. The
origin of forms and qualities, according to the corpuf-
cular philofophy, illuftrated by confiderations and ex¬
periments. This treatife did great honour to Mr
Boyle, whether we confider the quicknefs of his wit,
the' depth of his judgment, or his indefatigable pains in
fearching after truth. We muft not forget to obferve,
that, both in this and the former year, he communi¬
cated to his friend Mr Oldenburgh, who was fecretary
to the Royal Society, feveral curious and excellent ftiort
treatifes of his own, upon a great variety of fubjeCls,
and others tranfmitted to him by his learned friends
both at home and abroad, which are printed and pre-
ferved in the- Philofophical TranfaClions.
In the year 1668, Mr Boyle refolved to fettle in
London for life : and removed for that purpofe to the
houfe of his filler, the lady Ranelagh, in Pall-Mall.-
This was to the infinite benefit of the learned in gene¬
ral, and particularly to the advantage of the Royal So¬
ciety, to whom he gave great and continual afliftance,
as the feveral pieces communicated to them from time
to time, and printed in their TranfaClions, do abun¬
dantly teftify. Thofe who applied to him, either to
defire his help, or to communicate to him any new
difcoveries in fcience, he had his fet hours for receiv¬
ing •, otherwife it is eafy to conceive that he would
have had very little of his time for himfelf. But, be-
fides thefe, he kept a very extenfive correfpondence
with perfons of the greateft figure, and moll famous
for learning, in all parts of Europe. In the year
1669, he publiftied, 12. A continuation of new expe¬
riments touching the weight and fpring of the air j to
which is added, A difcourfe of the atmofpheres of con-
fiftent bodies : and the fame year he revifed and made
many additions to feveral of his former trails, fome of
which, t
Boyle-
BOY [ 358 1 BOY
Boyle, which were now tranflated into Latin, in order to gra-
—v 1 tify the curious abroad. 13. Tra&s about the colmi-
cal qualities of things 5 col'mical fufpicions ; the tem¬
perature of the fubterraneous regions j the bottom of
the fea : to which is prefixed an introduflion to the
hiftory of particular qualities. This book occafioned
much fpeculation, as it feemed to contain a vaft trea-
fure of knowledge which had never been communicat¬
ed to the world before j and this too grounded upon
adlual experiments, and arguments juftly drawn from
them, inftead of that notional and conjeftural philofo-
phy which in the beginning of the 17th century had
been ,fo much in fafhion.
In the year 1671, he publifiied, 14. Confiderations
on the ufefulnefs of experimental and natural philofo-
phy *, the fecond part, qto. And, 15. A colleftion
of trafts upon feveral ufeful and important points of
pra&ical philofophy, 4to. Both of which works were
received as new and valuable gifts to the learned
world. 16. An effay about the origin and virtues of
gems, 1672, 8vo. 17. A colle&ipn of tra&s upon
the relation between flame and air; and feveral other
ufeful and curious fubje&s : befides furniflung, in this
and the former year, a great number of fliort differta-
tions upon a vafl: variety of topics, addrefled to the
Royal Society, and inferted in their Tranfaftions. 18.
Effays on the ftrange fubtilty, great efficacy, and de¬
terminate nature, of effluvia; to which were added a
variety of experiments on other fubje&s j 1673, 8vo.
19. A collection of tracts upon the faltnefs of the fea,
the moifture of the air, the natural and preternatural
ftate of bodies; to which is prefixed a dialogue con¬
cerning cold*, 1674, 8vo. 20. The excellency of
theology compared with philofophy, 1673, 8vo. This
difcourfe was written in the year 1665, while Mr
, Boyle, to avoid the great plague which then raged in
London, was forced to go from place to place in the
country, and had little or no opportunity of confulting
his books. It contains a great number of curious and
ufeful, as well as juft and natural, obfervations. 21.
A colleClion of tra&s containing fufpicions about hid¬
den qualities of the air ; with an appendix touching
celeftial magnets j animadverfions upon Mr Hobbes’s
problem about a vacuum ; a difcourfe of the caufe of
attra&ion and fuClion ; 1674, 8vo. 2 2. Some confi¬
derations about the reconcileablenefs of reafon and re¬
ligion. By T. E. a layman. To which is annexed a
difcourfe about the poffibility of the refurre&ion. By
Mr Boyle, 1675, 8vo. The reader muft be inform¬
ed, that both thefe pieces were of his writing; only
he thought fit to mark the former with the final leters
of his name. Among other papers that he communi¬
cated this year to the Royal Society, there were two
conneded into one difcourfe ; the firft was entitled,
An experimental difcourfe of quickfilver growing hot
with gold : the other related to the fame fubjeCt; and
both of them contained difcoveries of the utmoft im¬
portance.
In the year 1676, he publiffied, 23. Experiments
and notes about the mechanical origin or production
of particular qualities, in feveral difcourfes on a great
variety of fubjeCts, and among the reft on eleCtricity.
In 1678, he communicated to Mr Hooke a ftiort me¬
morial of fome obfervations made upon an artificial
fubftance that ftiines without any preceding illuftra-
tion *, which that gentleman thought fit to publiffi in
his LeBioncs Cullcriance. 24. Hiftorical account oi a
degradation of gold made by an anti-elixir. This
made a great noife both at home and abroad, and is
looked upon as one of the moft remarkable pieces that
ever fell from his pen j fince the faCts contained in it
would have been efteemed incredible, if they had been
related by a man of lefs integrity and piety than Mr
Boyle. The regard which the great Newton had for
Mr Boyle, appears from a very curious letter, which
the former w’rote to him, at the latter end of this year,
for the fake of laying before him his fentiments of that
etherial medium, which he afterwards confidered in
his Optics as the caufe of gravitation. This letter is
to be found in the life of our author by the reverend
Dr Birch.
In the year 1680, Mr Boyle publilhed, 25. The
aerial noftiluca 5 or fome new phenomena, and a pro-
cefs of a faftitious felf-fliining fubftance, 8vo. This
year the Royal Society, as a proof of the juft fenfe of
his great worth, and of the conftant and particular fer-
vices which through a courfe of many years he had
done them, made choice of him for their prefident $
but he being extremely, and, as he fays, peculiarly
tender in point of oaths, declined the honour done
him, by a letter addreffed to “ his much refpedled
friend Mr Robert Hooke, profeflbr of mathematics at
Grelham college.” 26. Difcourfe of things above rea¬
fon ; inquiring, whether a philofophcr Ihould admit
any fuch j 1681, 8vo. 27. New experiments and ob¬
fervations upon the icy no&iluca : to which is added a
chemical paradox, grounded upon new experiments,
making it probable that chemical principles are tranf-
mutable, fo that out of one of them others may be
produced: 1682, 8vo. 28. A continuation of new
experiments, phyfico-mechanical, touching the fpring
and rveight of the air, and their effedls, 1682, 8vo.
In 1683, he publilhed nothing but a ffiort letter to
Dr Beale, in relation to the making of frefti wrater
out of fait. In 1684, he publiflied two very confider-
able works, viz. 29. Memoirs for the natural hiftory
of human blood, efpecially the fpirit of that liquor,
8vo 5 and, 30. Experiments and confiderations about
the porofity of bodies, &c.
In 1685, Mr Boyle obliged the world with,
Short memoirs for the natural experimental hiftory of
mineral waters, with direftions as to the feveral me¬
thods of trying them 5 including abundance of new and
ufeful remarks, as w^ell as feveral curious experiments.
32. An effay on the great effe&s of even languid and
unheeded motion ; whereunto is annexed an experi¬
mental difcourfc of fome hitherto little regarded caufes
of the falubrity and infalubrity of the air and its ef¬
fects. None of his treatifes, it is faid, w^ere ever re¬
ceived with greater or more general applaufe than
this. 33. Of the reconcileablenefs of fpecific me¬
dicines to the corpufcular philofophy ; to which is an¬
nexed a difcourfe about the advantages of the ufe of
Ample medicines j 8vo. Befides thefe philofophical
tra£ls, he gave the wrorld the fame year, an excellent
theological one, 34. Of the high veneration man’s in-
telleft owes to God, peculiarly for his wufdom and
power, 8vo.
At the entrance of the fucceeding year, came abroad
his, 35. Free inquiry into the vulgarly received notion
o£
BOY r 359 J BOY
Boyle, of nature $ a piece which was then, and will always
be, greatly admired by thofe who have a true zeal and
reliih for pure religion and philofophy. In 1687, he
publiihed, 36. The martyrdom of Theodora and Di-
dymia } a work he had drawn up in his youth. 37. A
difquifition about the final caufes of natural things j
whferein it is inquired, whether, and (if at all) with
what caution, a naturalift (hould admit them 5 with an
appendix about vitiated light j 1688, 8vo. In the
month of May this year, our author, though very un¬
willing, was conftrained to make his complaint to the
public, of fome inconveniences under which he had
long laboured ; and this he did by an advertifement,
about “ the lofs of many of his writings addrefled to
J. W. to be communicated to thofe of his friends that
are virtuofi 5 which may ferve as a kind of preface to
moll of his mutilated and unfinilhed writings.” He
complains in this advertifement of the treatment he
had met with from plagiaries both at home and abroad $
and though it might have been difficult in any other
man to have done lo without incurring the imputation
of felf-conceit and vanity, yet Mr Boyle’s manner is
fuch as only to raife in us a higher efteem and admira¬
tion of him. This advertifement is inferted at length
in his life by Birch.
He began now to find that his health and ftrength,
notwithflanding all his care and caution, gradually de¬
clined, as he obferves in a letter to M. le Clerc, dat¬
ed May 30. 1689 > which put him upon ufing every
poffible method of hufbanding his remaining time for
the benefit of the learned. It was with this view that
he no longer communicated particular difcourfes, ox-
new difcoveries, to the Royal Society; becaufe this could
not be done without withdrawing his thoughts from
talks which he thought of Hill greater importance. It
rvas the more Headily to attend to thefe, that he re-
figned his poll of governor of the corporation for pro¬
pagating the gofpel in New England ; nay, he went fo
far as to fignify to the world that he could no longer
receive vifits as ufual, in an advertifement which be¬
gins in the following manner : “ Mr Boyle finds him-
felf obliged to intimate to thofe of his friends and ac¬
quaintance, that are wont to do him the honour and fa¬
vour of vifiting him, 1. That he has by fome unlucky
accidents, namely, by his fervant’s breaking a bottle
of oil of vitriol over a chell which contained his pa¬
pers, had many of his writings corroded here and
there, or otherwife fo maimed, that, without he him-
felf fill up the lacunae out of his memory or invention,
they will not be intelligible. 2. That his age and
fickhnefs have for a good while admoniffied him to put
his icattered and partly defaced writings into fome
kind of order, that they may not remain quite ufelefs.
And, 3. That his Ikilful and friendly phyfician, Sir
Edmund King, feconded by Mr Boyle’s bell friends,
has preffingly advifed him again!! fpeaking daily with
fo many perfons as are wont to vifit him, reprefenting
it as what cannot but waite his fpirits, &c. He or¬
dered likewife a board to be placed over his door,
with an infcription fignifying when he did, and when
he did not, receive vifits.”
Among the other great works, which by this means
he gained time to finiffi, there is great reafon to be¬
lieve, that one was a colleddion of elaborate procefies
in chemiftry ; concerning which he wrote a letter to
a friend, which is Hill extant; wherein we read, that Boyle.
“ he left it as a kind of hermetic legacy to the Hu- '""v
dious difciples of that art.” Befides thefe papers com¬
mitted to the care of one whom he efleemed his friend,
he left very many behind him at his death, relating to
chemiftry ; which, as appears by a letter diredled to
one of his executors, he defired might be infpeffed by
three phyficians whom he named, and that fome of
the moft valuable might be preferved.
In the mean time, Mr Boyle publiftxed fome other
works before his death; as, 38. Mcdicina Hydrq/1 atica ;
or, Hydroftatics applied to the materia medica, flxow-
ing how, by the weight that divers bodies ufed in phy-
fic have in water, one may difcover whether they be
genuine or adulterated. To which is fubjoined a pre¬
vious hydroftatical way of eftimating ores, 1690, 8vo.
39. The Chriftian virtuofo ; fhowing, that, by being
addifled to experimental philofophy, 3 man is rather
affifted than indifpofed to be a good Chriftian. To
which are fubjoined, 1. A difcourfe about the diftinc-
tion that reprefents fome things as above reafon, but
not contrary to reafon. 2. The firft chapters of a dif¬
courfe entitled Greatnefs of mind promoted by Chrifianity.
The laft work which he publiffied himfelf, was in the
fpring of 169J and is entitled, 40. Experimenta et 01-
fervationes Pbyftcce : wherein are briefly treated of fe-
veral fubjedls relating to natuial philofophy in an expe¬
rimental way. To which is added a fmall collection
of ftrange repoi-ts, 8vo.
About the entrance of the fummer, he began to feel
fuch an alteration in his health as induced him to think
of fettling his affairs; and accordingly, on the 18th of
July, he figned and fealed his laft will, to which he af¬
terwards added feveral codicils. In October, his diftem-
pers incx-eafed; and on the laft day of December 1691,
he departed this life, in the bjth year of his age. He
was buried in St Martin’s church in the Fields, Weft-
minfter, on the 7th of January following ; and his fu¬
neral fermon was preached by Dr Gilbert Burnet, bi-
ffiop of Salifbury. The bilhop made choice upon this
occafion of a text very appofite t® the fubjeCt; namely,
“ For God giveth to a man that is good in his fight,
wifdom, knowledge, and joy After explaining the * Ecclef. is,
meaning of the words, he applied the doCtrine to the
honourable perfon deceafed ; of whom, he tells us, he
was the better able to give a charaCler from the many
happy hours he had fpent in converfation with him, in
the courfe of 29 years. He gives a large account of
Mr Boyle’s fincere and unaffeCled piety ; and more e-
fpecially of his zeal for the Chriftian religion, without
having any narrow notions concerning it, or miftaking,
as fo many do, a bigotted heat in favour of a particu¬
lar feCt, for that zeal which is an ornament of a true
Chriftian. He mentions as a proof of this, his noble
foundation for leClures in defence of the gofpel again!!
infidels of all forts; the effeCls of which have been fo
confpicuous in the many volumes of excellent difcourfes
which have been publilhed in confequence of that noble
and pious foundation. He was at the charge of the
tranflation and impreflion of the New Teftament into
the Malayan tongue, which he fent over all the Eaft
Indies. He gave a noble reward to him that tranfla-
ted Grotius’s incomparable book “ Of the truth of
the Chriftian religion” into Arabic ; and was at the
charge of a whole impreffion, which he took care
ftiould.'
BOY
E°yIe- fliould be difperfed in all the countries where that
**'v language was underftood. He was refolved to have
carried on the impreflion of the New Teftament in the
Turkifh language •, but the company thought it be¬
came them to be the doers of it, and fo fullered him
only to give a large lhare towards it. He was at 700I.
charge in the edition oi the Irifh bible, w’hich he or¬
dered to be diftributed in Ireland } and he contri¬
buted liberally to the impreflion of the Wellh bible.
He gave, during his life, 300I to advance the defign
of propagating the Chriftian religion in America ;
and as loon as he heard that the E ill India Company
were entertaining propolitions for the like defign in the
call, he fent tool, for a beginning, as an example, but
intended to carry it much farther when it Ihould be fet
on foot to purpofe.
In other refpefts his charities were fo bountiful
and extenfive, that they amounted, as this prelate tells
us, from his own knowledge, to upwards of 1000I.
a-year. But as our limits will not allow us to follow
the bilhop in the copious and eloquent account he
has given of this great man’s abilities, we mult there¬
fore content ourfelves with adding the Ihort eulogium
by the celebrated phyfician, philofopher, and chemift,
Dr Herman Boerhaave j who, after having declared
Lord Bacon to be the father of experimental philofo-
phy, a Herts, that “ Mr Boyle, the ornament of his
age and country, fucceeded to the genius and inqui¬
ries of the great chancellor Verulam. Which (fays
he) of all Mr Boyle’s writings lhall I recommend ? All
of them. To him we owe the fecrets of fire, air, wa¬
ter, animals, vegetables, foflils: fo that from his works
may be deduced the wdiole fyftem of natural know¬
ledge.” The reader perhaps may here be pleafed to
know, that Mr Boyle was born the fame year in which
Lord Bacon died.
As to the perfon of this great man, we are told,
that he was tall, but flender •, and his countenance
pale and emaciated. His conftitution was fo tender
and delicate, that he had divers forts of cloaks to put
on when he went abroad, according to the temperature
of the air ; and in this he governed himfelf by his
thermometer. He efcaped indeed the fmall-pox ; but
for almoft forty years he laboured under fuch feeble-
nefs of body, and fuch lownefs of ftrength and fpirits,
that it was allonilhing how he could read, meditate,
make experiments, and write, as he did. He had like-
wife a weaknefs of his eyes j which made him very
tender of them, and extremely apprehenfive of fuch
diftempers as might affe£t them. He imagined like-
wife, that if ficknefs Ihould confine him to his bed, it
might raife the pains of the ftone to a degree which
might be above his ftrength to fupport j fo that he
feared his laft minutes fhould be too hard for him. This
was the ground of all the caution and apprehenfion
with which he was obferved to live j but as to life it-
felf, he had that juft indifference for it which became a
philofopher and a Chriftian. HowTever, his fight be¬
gan to grow dim not above four hours before he died ;
and when death came upon him, he had not been above
three hours in bed before it made an end of him, with
fo little pain that the flame appeared to go out merely
for want of oil to maintain it.
Mr Boyle was never married ; but Mr Evelyn was
affured, that he courted the beautiful and ingenious
BOY
daughter of Cary earl of Monmouth, and that to this Eoyle,
paflion was owing his “ Seraphic Love.” In the me- —
morandum of Mr Boyle’s life fet down by Biftiop Bur¬
net, it'is remarked that he abftained from marriage, at
firft out of policy, afterwards more philofophically } and
we find by a letter of Dr John Wallis to him, dated at
Oxford, July 17th, 1669, that he had an overture made
him with refpeft to the Lady Mary Haftings, filler to
the earl of Huntingdon : But it does not appear from
any of his papers, that he had ever entertained the leaft
thoughts of that kind 5 nay, there is a letter of his, wrote
when he was young, to the Lady Barrymore his niece,
who had informed him of a report that he was adlually
married, which almoft Ihows that he never did. The
letter is written with great politenefs, and in the true
fpirit of gallantry 5 and is a clear proof, that though
Mr Boyle did not choofe to marry, yet it w7as no milan-
thropic cynical humour which reftrained him from it.
It is impoflible to entertain the reader better than by
prefenting him with that part of it which concerns the
point in queftion. “ It is high time for me to haften
the payment of the thanks I owe your ladylhip for the
joy you are pleafed to wilh me, and of which that wiih
poflibly gives me more than the occafion of it would.
You have certainly reafon, madam, to firfpendyour be¬
lief of a marriage, celebrated by no prieft but Fame,
and made unknown to the fuppofed bridegroom. I
may poflrbly ere long give you a fit of the fpleen upon
this theme *, but at prelent it were incongruous to blend
fuch pure raillery, as I ever prate of matrimony and a-
mours with, among things I am fo ferious in as thofe
this fcribble prefents you. I lhall therefore only tell
you, that the little gentleman and I are ftill at the old
defiance. You have carried away too many of the per-
feftions of your fex to leave enough in this country for
reducing fo ftubborn a heart as mine j whole conqueft
were a talk of fo much difficulty, and fo little worth it,
that the latter property is always likely to deter any
that hath beauty and merit enough to overcome the
former. But though this untamed heart be thus infen-
fible to the thing itfelf called love ; it is yet very accef-
fible to things very near of kin to that paffion •, and
efteem, friendthip, refpedl, and even admiration, are
things that their proper objects fail not proportionably
to exadl of me, and confequently are qualities which
in their higheft degrees are really and conftantly paid
my lady Barrymore by her moft obliged humble fer-
vant, and affedlionate uncle, Robert Boyle.”
We lhall conclude this account of Mr Boyle with
the mention of his pofthumous works, which are as fol¬
low. 1. “ The general Hiftory of the air defigned and
begun. 2. “ General heads for the natural hiftory of
a country, great or fmall j drawn out for the ufe of tra¬
vellers and navigators.” 3. “ A paper of the honour¬
able Robert Boyle’s, depofited with the fecretaries of
the Royal Society, Odlober 14th, 1680, and opened
fince his death j being an account of his making the
phofphorus, September 30th, 1680.” Printed in the
Philofophical Tranfadlions. 4. “ An account of a way
of examining waters, as to frelhnefs or faltnefs.” 5. “ A
free difcourfe againft cuftomary fwearing, and a dif-
fuafive from curling,” 1695, Svo. 6. “ Medicinal ex¬
periments, or a colledlion of choice remedies, chiefly
Ample and eafily prepared, ufeful in families, and fit for
the fervice of the country people. The third and laft
volume,
r 360 i
BOY
[ 36
Boyle, volume, publifhed from the author’s original manu-
■V"*-' fcript j whereunto is added feveral ufeful notes explica¬
tory of the fame,” 1698, i2mo. Beautiful editions of
all his works have been printed at London, in 5 vo¬
lumes folio, and 6 volumes 410.
Boyle, Charles^ earl of Orrery in Ireland, and
baron of Mallon in the county of Somerfet, was the
fecond fon of Roger the fecond earl of Orrery, and
was born in Auguft 1679. He wras educated at
■Chrift-church in Oxford, and foon diltinguilhed him-
felf by his learning and abilities. Like the firlt earl of
Orrery, he was an author, a loldier, and a ftatefman.
He tranflated the life of Lyfander from the Greek of
Plutarch ; and publiihed a new edition of the epiftles
of Phalaris, which engaged him in a literary difpute,
in which he defended the genuinenefs of thefe epillles
againft Dr Bentley. He was three times member for
the town of Huntingdon j but his elder brother, Lio¬
nel earl of Orrery dying on the 23d of Augult I7°3
without iffue, he fucceeded to that title $ and, entering
into the queen’s fervice, had a regiment given him,
when he behaved with fuch bravery, that in 1709 he
was railed to the rank of major-general, and fworn one
of her majefty’s privy council. At the famous battle
of the wood, he gave the ftrongeft proofs of his intre¬
pid courage, remaining at the head of his regiment in
the warmed part of the aftion, till the viftory was
complete, which, as it was one of the mod glorious, fo
it was the dearell bought, of any of that war. His
lordlhip had the honour of being appointed the queen’s
envoy to the dates of Brabant and Handers j and having
honourably difcharged the truft, was railed to the
dignity of a Britilh peer, by the title of Lord Boyle,
baron of Mafton in Somerfetlhire. He enjoyed feve¬
ral other additional honours in the reign of King
George I. j but having the misfortune to fall under the
fufpicion of the government, his lordlhip was commit¬
ted to the towTer : he was, however, at length, admitted
to bail ; and nothing being found that could be efteem-
ed a fufficient ground for a profecution, he was dif¬
charged. His lordlhip died after a flight indifpofition, on
the 2ill of Auguft 1731. To his tutor, Mr Atterbury,
he probably owed a good part of that fine relilh he had
for the writings of the ancients. He made thefe his
conftant ftudy, and expreffed a high contempt, fays
Budgell, for the greater part of our modern wits and
authors. He was delighted with the company of two
forts of perfons; either fuch as were really geniufes of
the firft rank, who had fine underftandings, ftrong
judgments, and true taftes ; or fuch as had a few foi¬
bles, and an eye of ridicule in them, which ferved to
make him laugh. He would rally thefe in fo agreeable,
and yet in fo tender a manner, that, though it diverted
himfelf and others, it wTas never offenfive to the perfon
rallied. The inftrument which was invented by him,
and bears his name, reprefenting the folar fyftem ac¬
cording to the fentiments of the new aftronomers, is an
undeniable proof of his mechanic genius. His lordlhip
had alfo a turn for medicine j which led him not only
to buy and read whatever was publilhed on that fub-
jedl, but alfo to employ his friends to fend him ac¬
counts of herbs and drugs in foreign countries.
Boyle, John, earl of Cork and Orrery, a noble¬
man diftinguilhed by his learning and genius, was the
only fon of Charles earl of Orrery, and was born on the
Vol. IV. Part I.
■ ]
2d of January 1707.
BOY
He was educated at Chrift church
college in Oxford $ but, as he himfclf declares, early
difappointments, indifterent health, and many untoward
accidents, rendered him fond of retirement, and of im-1.
proving his talents for polite literature and poetry 5 of
W'hich laft art he gave feveral excellent fpecimens. He
alfo wrote a Tranflation of Pliny the Younger’s letter,
with various notes, for the fervice of his eldeft fon the
Lord Boyle, in two volumes, 410. This w’as firft publifh¬
ed in 1751. The year following, he publilhed the Life
of Dean Swift, in feveral letters, addreffed to his fe¬
cond fon Hamilton Boyle ; and afterwards printed
Memoirs of Robert Cary earl of Monmouth, a manu-
fcript prefented to him by a relation, with explanatory
notes. He died in 1762.
Botle’s Lectures, a ceurfe of eight fermons or lec¬
tures preached annually, fet on foot by the honour¬
able Robert Boyle, Efqj by a codicil annexed to his
will in 1691 } whofe defign, as exprefled by the infti-
tutor, is, to prove the truth of the Chriftian religion
againft infidels, without defcending to any controver-
fies among Chriftians; and to anfwer new difficulties,
fcruples, &c. For the fupport of this lefture he af-
figned the rent of his houfe in Crooked-lane to fome
learned divine wuthin the bills of mortality, to be ele£l-
ed for a term not exceeding three years, by the late
Archbiffiop Tennifon and others. But the fund pro¬
ving precarious, the falary was ill paid ; to remedy
which inconveniences, the faid archbifhop procured a
yearly ftipend of 50I. for ever, to be paid quarterly,
charged on a farm in the pariffi of Brill in the coun¬
ty of Bucks. To this appointment we are indebted
for many elaborate defences both of natural and reveal¬
ed religion.
BOYNE, a river in Ireland, which rifes in Queen’s
county in the province of Leinfter, and runs north-eaft
by Trim and Cavan, falling at laft into the Iriffi chan¬
nel a little below Drogheda. It is memorable for a
battle fought on its banks between James II. and King
William III. in which the former was defeated.
BOYSE, Boys, or Bois, John, one of the tranfla-
tors of the Bible in the reign of James I. wTas fon of
William Bois, re&or of Weft Stowe, near St Ed-
munfbury, Suffolk, and born at Nettleftead in Suffolk
on the 3d of January 1560. He was taught the firfl:
rudiments of learning by his father} and his capacity
was fuch, that at the age of fivefyears he read the Bible
in Hebrew. He w’ent afterwards to Hadley fchool^
and at 14 was admitted of St John’s college, Cam¬
bridge, where he diftinguilhed himfelf by his Ikill in
Greek. Happening to have the fmall-pox when he
was eledled fellow, he, to preferve his feniority, caufed
himfelf to be carried in blankets to be admitted. He
applied himfelf for fome time to the ftudy of medicine j
but, fancying himfelf affefted with every difeafe he
read of, he quitted that fcience. He was ten years
chief Greek le£lurer in his college, and read every day.
He voluntarily read a Greek ledlure for fome years at
four in the morning, in his own chamber, which was
frequented by many of the fellows. On the death of
his father, he fucceeded him in the reftory of Weft
Stowe. At the age of 36, he married the daughter
of Mr Holt, re&or of Boxworth, in Cambridgelhire $
whom he fucceeded in that living, Oftober J3. 159^
On his quitting the univerfity, the college gave him
Z z tooL
Boyle’s
Ledtures
11
Bo) fe.
BOY
lOol. His young wife, who was bequeathed to bin*
with the living, which was an advowfon, proving a
bad CKconomilt, and he himfelf being wholly addifted
to his iludies, he foon became fo much involved in
debt, that he was obliged to fell his choice colle&ion
of books, confiding of almoft every Greek author then
extant. When a new tranflation of the Bible was by
King James I. dire&ed to be made, Mr Bois was
ele&ed one of the Cambridge tranflators. He per¬
formed not only his own, but alfo the part afilgned to
another, with great reputation j though with no pro¬
fit, for he had no alknvance but his commons. He
was alfo one of the fix who met at Stationers Hall to
revile the whole ; which talk they went through in nine
months, having each from the company of ftationers,
during that time 30s. a-week. He afterwards affix¬
ed Sir Henry Saville in publilhing the works of St
Chryioftom. In 1613', Dr Lancelot Andrews, bilhop
of Ely, bellowed on him, unalked, a prebend in his
church. He died on the 14th of January 1643, in
the 84th year of his age. He left a great many ma-
rmfcripts behind him, particularly a Commentary on
almoft all the books of the New Teftament.—When
he was a young ftudent at Cambridge, he received from
the learned Dr Whitaker three rules for avoiding thofe
diftempers which ufually attend a fedentary life, to
which he adhered with equal conftancy acd fuccefs.
The firft was, To ftudy always Handing; the fecond,
Never to ftudy m a window $ and the third, Never to
go to bed with his feet cold.
Boyse, Jofeph, a late eminent diflenting minifter
In Dublin, much refpe<fted not only for learning and
abilities, but his extenfive humanity and undiflembled
piety. During his minifterial charge at Dublin, he
publilhed many fermons which compofe feveral folio
volumes, a few poems, and other tra&s; but what chiefly
diftinguilhed him as a writer, was the controverfy he
carried on with Dr King, archbilhop of Dublin, and
author of the Origin of Evil, concerning the office of a
Icriptural bilhop. This controverted point was mana¬
ged on both fides with great force of argument and
calmnefs of temper. The bilhop afterted, that the epif-
copal right of jurifdi&ion had its foundation in the
New Teftament : Mr Boyfe, confident with his prin¬
ciples, denied that any ecclefiaftical fuperiority ap¬
peared there, with the greateft candour and good man¬
ners. He was father to
Boyse, Samuel, the poet, a man remarkable for
the finenefs of his genius, the lownefs of his manners,
and the wretchednefs of his life. He was born in 1708,
and received the rudiments of his education in a pri¬
vate fchool in Dublin. ^Wben he was but 18 years old,
his father, who probably intended him for the miniftry,
fent him to the univerfity of Glafgow, that he might
finiffi his education there. He had not been a year at
the univerfity, when he fell in love with the daughter of
a tradefman in that city, and was imprudent enough to
interrupt his education by marrying her before he had
entered into his 20th year. The natural extravagance
of his temper foon expofed him to want ; and as he had
now the additional charge of a wife, his reduced cir-
cumftances obliged him to quit the univerfity, and go
over with his wife (who alfo carried a fifter with her)
to Dublin, where they relied on the old gentleman for
fupport. Young Boyfe was of all men the furtheft re-
[ 362 ]
BOY
moved from a gentleman.; he had no graces of perfon,
and fewer ftiB of converfation. Never were three people '
of more libertine characters than young Boyfe, his wife,
and fifter-in-law; yet the two ladies wore fuch a mafk
oi decency before the old gentleman, that his fondnefs
was never abated. _ The eftate his father pofiefled in
Yorklkire wns fold to difeharge his debts; and when
the oid man lay in his laft ficknefs, he was entirely
fupported by prefents from his congregation, and bu¬
ried at their expence. We have no further account of
Mr Boyfe, till we find him foon after his father’s death
at Edinburgh. At this place his poetical genius raifed
him many friends, and fome patrons of very great emi¬
nence. He publilhed a volume of poems in 1731, to
which are fubjoined The Tablature of'Cebest and Si Let*
ter upon Liberty, inferted in the Dublin Journal 1726;
and by thefe he obtained a very great reputation. They
are addrefled to the countefs of Eglinton. This ami¬
able lady was jhe patronefs of all men of wit, and
greatly diftinguiffied Mr Boyfe while he refided in that
country. Upon the death of the vifeountefs Stormont,
Mr Boyfe wrote an elegy, which was very much ap¬
plauded by her ladylhip’s relations. This elegy he en¬
titled The Tears of the Mufes, as the deceafed lady was
a woman of the moft refined tafte in the fciences, and
a great admirer of poetry. The lord Stormont was fo
much pleafed with this mark of efteem paid to the me¬
mory of his lady, that he ordered a very handfome pre-
fent to be given to Mr Boyfe by his attorney at Edin¬
burgh. The notice which lady Eglinton and the lord
Stormont took of our poet, recommended him likewife
to the patronage to the duchefs of Gordon ; who was
fo folicitous to raife him above neceffity, that ffie em¬
ployed her intereft in procuring the promife of a place
for him. She gave him a letter, which he W’as next day
to deliver to one of the commiffioners of the cuftoms at
Edinburgh. It happened that he was then fome miles
diftant from the city; and, the morning on which he
was to have rode to town with her grace’s letter of re¬
commendation proved to be rainy. This fiender cir-
cumftance was enough to difeourage Boyfe, who never
looked beyond the prefent moment: he declined going
to town on account of the rainy weather; and while he
let flip the opportunity, the place was beftowed upon
another, which the commiffioner declared he kept for
fome time vacant in expe&ation of feeing a perfon re¬
commended by the duchefs of Gordon. Boyfe at laft
having defeated all the kind intentions of his patrons
towards him, fell into contempt and poverty, which
obliged him to quit Edinburgh. He communicated hi$
defign of going to London to the duchefs of Gordon ;
who, having ftill a very high opinion of his poetical
abilities, gave him a letter of recommendation to Mr
Pope, and obtained another for him to Sir Peter King
the lord chancellor of England. Lord Stormont recom¬
mended him to the folicitor-general his brother, and
many other perfons of the firft faffiion. Upon receiving
thefe letters, he, with great caution, quitted Edinburgh,
regretted by none but his creditors. Upon his arrival in
London, he went to Twickenham, in order to deliver
the duchefs of Gordon’s letter to Mr Pope ; but that
gentleman not being at home, Mr Boyfe never gave
himfelf the trouble to repeat his vifit. He wrote poems ;
but thofe, though excellent in their kind, rvere loft to
the world, by being introduced with no advantage.
He
BOY
Boyie. He had fo ftrong a propenfity to grovelling, that his ac-
quaintance were generally offuch a caft as could be of
no fervice to him j and thofe in higher life he addrelfed
by letters, not having fufRcient confidence or politenefs
to converfe familiarly with them. Thus unfit to fup-
port himfelf in the world, he was expofed to a variety of
diftrefifes, from which he could invent no means of ex¬
tricating himfelf but by writing mendicant letters. It
will appear amazing, that this man, of fo abje£l: a
fpirit, was voluptuous and luxurious 5 he had no tafte
for any thing elegant, and yet was to the laft degree
expenfive. Can it be believed, that often when he
had received but a guinea in confequence of a fup-
plicating letter, he would go into a tavern, order a
fupper to be prepared, drink of the richeft wines, and
fpend all the money that had juft been given him in
charity, without having any one to participate the re¬
gale with him, and while his wife and child were ftar-
ving at home ?
It was about the year 1740, that Mr Boyfe, reduced
to the laft extremity of human w'retchednefs, had not a
ftiirt^ a coat, or any kind of apparel, to put on j the
fheets in which he lay w'ere carried to the pawn-bro¬
ker’s, and he was obliged to be confined to his bed
with no other covering than a blanket. He had little
Tupport but what he got by writing letters to his
friends in the moft abjefi ftyle •, but was perhaps alha-
orned to let this inftance of his diftrefs be known, which
probably was the occafion of his remaining fix weeks
in that fituation. During this time he had fome em¬
ployment in writing verfes for the Magazines j and
whoever had feen him in his ftudy, muft have thought
the objeift fingular enough : he fat up in bed with the
blanket wrapt about him, through which he had cut a
hole large enough to admit his arm, and, placing the
paper upon his knee, fcribbled in the beft manner he
could the verfes he wTas obliged to make : whatever he
got by thofe, or any other of his begging letters, was
but juft fufficient for the prefervation of life. And per¬
haps he wmuld have remained much longer in this
diftrefsful ftate, had not a compaffionate gentleman,
upon hearing this circumftance related, ordered his
clothes to be taken out of pawn, and enabled him to
appear again abroad.
About the year 1745, Boyfe’s wife died. He
was then at Reading, and pretended much concern
when he heard of her death. His bufinefs at Reading
was to compile a Review of the moft material tranfac-
tions at home and abroad during the laft war : in which
he has included a fhort account of the late rebellion.
Upon his return from Reading, his behaviour was more
decent than it had ever been before ; and there wrere
fome hopes that a reformation, though late, would be
wrought upon him. He wras employed by a bookfeller
to tranflate Fenelon on the Exigence of God; during
which time he married a fecond wife, a woman in low
circumftances, but well enough adapted to his tafte.
He began now to live with more regard to his charac¬
ter, and fupported a better appearance than ufual 3 but
while his circumftances were mending, and his irregular
appetites lofing ground, his health vifibly declined. He
had the fatisfa£lion, while in this lingering illnefs, to
obferve a poem of his, entitled The Deity, recommend¬
ed by two eminent writers, the ingenious Mr Fielding,
BRA
and the reverend Mr James Harvey author of The Me¬
ditations.
Mr Boyfe's mind was often religioufly difpofcd 3 he
frequently talked upon that fubjedl, and probably fuf-
fered a great deal from the remorfe of his confidence.
1 he early impreflions of his good education were never
entirely obliterated 3 and his whole life rvas a continued
ftruggle between his will and reafon, as he was always
violating his duty to the one, while he fell under the
fubjedion of the other. It was in confiequence of this
war in his mind, that he wrote a beautiful poem called
The Recantation. In May 1749, he died in obfeure
lodgings near Shoe-lane ; but in fientiments, there is
the greateft reafon to believe, very difi'erent from thole
in which he had fpent the greateft part of his life. An
old acquaintance of his endeavoured to colled money
to defray the expences of his funeral, fo that the fcan-
dal of being buried by the parifti might be avoided 3
but in vain : the remains of this Ion of the mufes were,
with very little ceremony, hurried awTay by the parifti-
officers.
Never was a life fpent wuth lefs grace than that of
Mr Boyfe, and never were fuch diftinguiftred abilities
given to lefs purpofe. His genius was not confined to
poetry only : he had a tafte for painting, mufic, and
heraldry 3 with the latter of which he was very w'ell ac¬
quainted. His poetical pieces, if colleded, would make
fix moderate volumes. Many of them are fcattered in
The Gentleman's Maga%ine, marked with the letter Y,
and Alceus. Two volumes were publifhed in London.
An ode of his in the manner of Spenfer, entitled Tht
Olive, was addreffedto Sir Robert Walpole, which pro¬
cured him a prefent of ten guineas. He tranftated a
poem from the High Dutch of Van Haren, in praife
of peace, upon the conclufion of that made at Aix la-
Chapelle; but the poem which procured him the great¬
eft; reputation was that upon the attributes of the Deity.
He was employed by Mr Ogle to tranflate fome of
Chaucer’s tales into modern Englilh, which he per¬
formed with great fpirit, and received at the rate of
three pence a line for his trouble, Mr Ogle publilhed
a complete edition of that old poet’s Canterbury Tales
modernized3 and Mr Boyfe’s name is put to fuch tales
as were done by him. In 1743, Boyfe publilhed,
without his name, an ode on the battle of Dettingen,
entitled Albion's Triumph.
BOZOLA, a town of Italy, in the duchy of
Mantua, capital of a territory of the lame name, and
fubjed to the houfe of Auftria. E. Long. 10. 25. N.
Lat. 45. 9.
B QUADRO, Quadrato, or Durale, in mufic,
called by the French b quarre, from its figure [j. This
is what we call B natural or Jharp, in diftindion to B
mol or fat. See Flat and Sharp.
If the flat be placed before a note in the thorough
bafs, it intimates, that its third is to be minor 3 and if
placed with any cypher over a note in U»e bafs, as 6,
or \) 5, &c. it denotes, that the fifth or fixth thereto
are to be flat. But if the quadro \\ be placed over any
note, or with a cypher, in the thorough bafs, if has the
contrary effedj for thereby the note or interval there¬
to is raifed to its natural order,
BRABANCIONES, in middle age writers, a kind
of Netherland foldiery, infamous for rapine, being lit-
Z z 2 tie
[ 363 1
Boyfe
BRA [ 364 ] BRA
Brabant tie better than commifTioned banditti, who hired them-
_ . felves to fight for any that could pay them bell. The
Eracciohni ^ J 1 * «
1 word is varioufiy written by the hiftorians of thofe
days; all given them from the country of Brabant,
M’hich was the chief nurfery of thofe troops. They
are alfo frequently confounded with the Routiersy Ro-
turiers, Ri/plaril, R liter aril, Corteraux, &c.
BRABANT, a large province of the Netherlands,
with the title of a duchy. It is bounded on the north
by the province of Holland and the duchy of Guelder-
land 5 on the call, by the fame duchy and the bilhop-
ric of Liege j on the fouth, by the province of Namur
and Hainault j and on the weft, by Zealand. It is di¬
vided into Dutch Brabant and Auitrian Brabant ; wa¬
tered by feveral rivers, of which the Scbeld, the Rup-
pel, and the Dommel, are the chief. The foil is very
fertile ; and it contains 26 fortified towns, of which
Bruflels is the capital.
BRABEJUM, the African Almond. See Bo¬
tany Index.
BRABEUTES, or Brabeuta, in Antiquity, an of¬
ficer among the Greeks, who prefided at the public
games, and decided controverfies that happened among
the antagonifts in the gymniftical exercifes. The num¬
ber of brabeutae was not fixed j fometimes there was
only one, but more commonly they amounted to nine
or ten.
BRACCIANO, a town of St Peter’s patrimony,
about 12 miles north of Rome, fituated on the weft fide
of a lake to which it gives name. E. Long. 13.
N. Lat. 42.
BRACCIOLINI, Francis, an Italian poet, a na¬
tive of Poftoia, and the friend of Pope Urban VIII.
was born about the year 1566. Removing to Florence,
he was admitted into the academy there, and devoted
himfelf to literature. At Rome he entered into the
fervice of Cardinal Maffeo Barberini, with whom he
afterwards went to France. After the death of Cle¬
ment VIII. he returned to his own country, and for
lome years profecuted his ftudies in retirement.
When his patron Barberini was elefted pope, under
the name of Urban VIII. Bracciolini repaired to
Rome, where he was w7ell received, and made fecre-
tary to the pope’s brother, Cardinal Antonio. He had
alfo the honour conferred on him of taking a furname
from the arms of the Barberini family, which were
Bees ; and thenceforth he wTas known by the name of
Bracciolini dell' Api. He refided in Rome during the
whole of that pontificate, frequenting the moft illuftri-
ous academies, and liftened to with general applaufe,
but, at the fame time, cenfured for his fordid avarice.
He returned at length to his native city, where he died
in the year 1645.
Bracciolini was a copious writer. There is fcarcely
any fpecies of poetry, epic, dramatic, paftoral, lyric,
and burlefque, which he did not attempt. He is prin¬
cipally noted for his mock-heroic poem, entitled Scher-
no degh Dei, which is a ridicule of the heathen mytho¬
logy, and which difputes priority of date writh Taflbni’s
Secchia Rapita. In merit, indeed, its inferiority is
acknowledged, yet it obtained confiderable applaufe.
Of his ferious heroic poems, the moft celebrated is the
Croce Racquijlata,' which by fome is placed next to
the great works of Ariofto and Taflb, but not without
a large interval. He celebrated the elevation of his
patron Urban VIII. in a poem of twenty-three books, Brace
which (hewTS writh what facility he could write ver- il .
fes. His dramatic paftoral entitled L?Amorofo Sdegno, ^rac
is accounted one of the beft produclions of the age
in w'hich it was written 5 and fome of his trage¬
dies met with much applaufe, particularly his Evan-
dro.
BRACE is commonly taken for a couple or pair,
and applied by huntfmen to feveral beafts of game, as
a brace of bucks, foxes, hares, &c.
Brace, or Brajfe, is alfo a foreign meafure, anfwer-
ing to our fathom. See Fathom.
Brace, in ArchiteBure, a piece of timber framed in
with bevil joints, the ufe of which is to keep the build¬
ing from fwerving either way. When the brace is fra¬
med into the kinglelfes or principal rafters, it is by
fome called a Jlrut.
Brace, in writing or printing, a crooked line enclo-
fing a palfage, as in a triplet.
Braces, in the fea-language, are ropes belonging
to all the yards of a (hip, except the mizen, two to
each yard, reeved through blocks that are faftened
to pennants, feized to the yard-arms. Their ufe is ei¬
ther to fquare or traverfe the yards. Hence to brace
the yard, is to bring it to either fide. All braces come
aftwTard on ; as, the main brace comes to the poop, the
main-top-fail brace comes to the mizen-top and thence
to the main-lhrouds m, the fore and fore-top-fail braces
come dow'n by the main and main-top-fail ftays, and fo
of the reft. But the mizen-bowline ferves to brace to
the yard, and the crofs-jack braces are brought for¬
wards to the main-lhrouds, when the ftrip fails clofe by
a wind.
Braces of a Coach, thick ftraps of leather on which
it hangs.
BRACELET, an ornament worn on the wrift,
much ufed among the ancients : it was made of dif¬
ferent materials, and in different fafhions, according to
the age and quality of the wearer. The word is French,
bracelet; which Menage derives further from bracele-
tum, a diminutive of bracile, a wyord occurring in wri¬
ters of the Juftinian age} all formed from the Latin
brachium, arm. It amounts to the fame wdth what
was called by the ancients, armilla, brachwle, occabus ;
in the middle age, boga, bauga, armifpatha.
Bracelets are much worn by the favages of Africa,
w'ho are fo exceflively fond of them, as to give the
richeft commodities, and even their fathers, wives, and
children, in exchange for thofe made of no richer ma¬
terials than fhells, glafs-beads, and the like.
They form alfo, in modern civilized countries, a very
common part of the ornaments of the ladies.
BRACHIiEUS, the name of a mufcle. See Ana¬
tomy, Table of the Mufcles.
CVtfco-BRACHIALIS. See Anatomy Index.
BRACHIUM, or Arm. See Anatomy Index.
BRACHMINS, or Brachmans, a branch of the
ancient Gymnofophifts, or philofophers of India, re¬
markable for the feverity of their lives and manners.
See the article Gymnosophists.
Some fay they derive their name from the patriarch
Abraham, whom they call in their language Brachma,
or Brama. Others deduce it from the name of their
god Brachma ; which fome again take to be the lame
with Abraham; whence Poftel calls them Abrachmanes.
F. Thomaffia
BRA [ 36s ] BRA
Brachygra- F. ThomafTxn derives the word from the Hebrew
to Jly or efcape ; becaufe the Brachmans retire into the
Brackets coun1:ry and live in deferts. The fame author gives us
t ^ ■ another derivation, viz. from the Hebrew barach {bene-
dicere, or are), to blefs or pray ; in regard this is their
principal occupation.—The Greeks afcribe to them the
doftrine of the immortality of the foul, and certain no¬
tions concerning the nature of the Supreme Being and
future rewards and punifhments. To this fpecie« of
knowledge the Brachmans added an infinite number of
religious obfervances, which were adopted by Pytha¬
goras in his fchool; fuch as falling, prayer, filence, and
contemplation. They were looked upon as the friends
of the gods, becaufe they affe6led to pay them fo much
regard ; and as the proteftors of mankind, becaufe they
paid them no regard at all. No bounds were therefore
let to the refpe£t and gratitude that were drown them :
princes themfelves did not fcruple to confult thefe re~
clufes upon any critical conjuncture, from a fuppofition,
no doubt, that they were infpired ; fince it was impof-
fible to imagine that they had the advantages of expe¬
rience. We can fcarcely, however, deny, that there
might be among them fome men of real virtue, whofe
minds relifhed the pure and ingenious delights of
Itudy and fcience ; and who, by nobly railing their
thoughts to the contemplation of the Firll Being, mull
have had more powerful incitements to render them¬
felves worthy of his care, and none to jultify them in'
deceiving and tyrannizing over their fellow-creatures.
There appear Hill fome remains of the ancient brach¬
mans in the call, under the denomination of Bramins.
See Bramins.
BRACHYGRAPHY, the art of Ihort-hand-wri-
ting. See Short FIand.
BRACHYLOGY, (from and Asyoj “ ex-
preflion”), in Rhetoric, the expreffing any thing in the
moll concife manner. This, fo far as confident with
perfpicuity, is a virtue and beauty of llyle j but if ob-
fcurity be the confequence, which is often the cafe, it
becomes a blemilh and inexcufable defeCt.—‘Quintilian
gives^n inllance of brachylogy from Sallull: Mithri-
date* corpora ingenti perinde armatus ; “ Mithridates,
as it were, armed with the hugenefs of his llature.”
BRACHYPTERA, a term ufed by Willoughby,
to denote thofe hawks which have their wings fo Ihort
as not to reach to the end of the tail. Of this kind are
the gofs-hawk, fparrow-hawk, &c.
BRACHYPYRENIA, in the hiltory of Mils, a
genus of feptariae, with a-Ihort roundilh nucleus. See
Septari/e.
BRACHYTELOSTYLA, in Natural Hi/lory, the
name by which Dr Hill calls thofe cryllals which are
compofed of a Ihort hexangular column terminated at
each end by an hexangular pyramid. See Crystal.
BRACKET, among carpenters, &c. a kind of
wooden flay, ferving to fupport Ihelves and the like.
Brackets, in a Ihip, the fmall knees, ferviog to
fupport the galleries, and commonly carved. Alfo the
timbers that fupport the gratings in the head are called
brackets.
Brackets, in Gunnery, are the cheeks of the car¬
riage of a mortar : they are made of llrong planks of
wood, of almoll a femicircular figure, and bound round
with thick iron plates; they are fixed to the beds by
four bolts, which are called bed-bolts^ they rife up on
each fide of the mortar, and ferve to keep her at any Bracldau
elevation by means of fome llrong iron bolts, called BraJfor(j
bracket-bolts, which go through thefe cheeks or brae- '«
kets.
BRACKLAU, a llrong town in Poland, capital of
a palatinate of the fame name. The houfes are built
of wmod. It was taken by the Turks in 1671, but
retaken three years afterwards. It is feated on the
river Bog, in E. Long. 29. 20. N. Lat. 48.
BRACKLAW, a palatinate of that name, which
is the ealtern part of Podolia it is alfo called Lower
Podolia, and is of greater extent than Upper Podolia,
but is more defolate, on account of the neighbourhood
of the Tartars.
BRACKLEY, a borough-town in Northampton-
Ihire, in England, feated on the edge of the county,
next Buckinghamlhire, on a branch of the river Oufe.
It is an ancient and large corporation-town, containing
two parilh-churches j is governed by a mayor and al¬
dermen ; and fends two members to parliament. It had
formerly a college, which is turned into a free fchool.
W. Long. 1. 15. N. Lat. 52. o.
BRACTEA, in Natural Hijlory, denotes a fpangle,
or thin flake of any fubllance.
Bractea, in Botany, a thin leaf or plate of any
folium Jlorale, ranged by Linnaeus among the fulcra of
plants. Thefe floral leaves differ in lhape and colour,
from the other folia of the plant; are generally fituated
on the pedunculus, and often fo near the corolla as to
be eafily miftaken for the calyx ; than which, however,
the brablece wte. generally more permanent. Examples
of the floral leaves are feen in the tilia, fumaria bul-
bofa, lavendula, and horminum.
BRACKTEARIA, in Natural Hijlory, a genus of
talcs, compofed of fmall plates in form of fpangles,
each plate either being very thin, or fiflile into very
thin ones.
Of this genus there are a great many fpecies, called
from their different colours, mica aurea, or gold-glim"
mer 5 and mica argentea, filver-glimmer, or cats-filver,
&c.
BRACKTON, Henry, lord chief juftice of Eng¬
land in the reign of Henry III. was probably a native
of Devonihire. He was educated at Oxford, where he
took the degree of dodlor of laws, and was made one
of the itinerant judges about the year 1244. Ten
years after he became chief juftice, and had the earl of
Derby’s houfe in London afligned him for his town
refidence, during the minority of that nobleman. He
is faid to have filled this important office with Angular
reputation during 20 years. When he died is not
known j probably it was in the reign of Edward I.
He wrote De legibus et confuetudinibus Anglice, which
is^one of the moft ancient, and alfo moft methodical
hooks on our laws. His method is copied from Jufti-
nian. This work was printed at London in 1569, fo¬
lio ; and in 1640, 410. The firft is very incorrefl.
BRAD, a town of Sclavonia, feated on the north
fide of the river Save, in E. Long. 18. 40. N. Lat.
45. 20.
BRADFIELD, a town of Effex in England, in
E. Long. o. 30. N. Lat. 51. 14.
BRADFORD, a town of Wiltffiire in England,
feated in W. Long. 2. 40. N. Lat. 51. 20.
Bradford, John, a divine, and martyr to the re¬
formation,
BRA f 366 ] BRA
Bradford formation, was born in the former part of the reign of
11. Henry VIII. at Manchefter in Lancafhire. Being a
‘ ■ remarkable penman and accountant, he became fecre-
tary to Sir John Harrington, who was feveral times em¬
ployed by King Henry, and his fucceflbr Edward VI.
as paymafter to the troops abroad. Bradford at this
time was a gay man, and to fupport his extravagance
made free with the king’s money; but being at laft
unable to fupport the refle&ion of his guilt, he deter¬
mined to make reftitution, and actually repaid the
money. Quitting his employment of fecretary, about
the year 1547, he took chambers in the inner temple,
and for fome time ftudied the law j but finding in him-
felf an inclination to preach the gofpel, in the follow¬
ing year he removed to Catharine-hall in Cambridge,
where he applied with fuch uncommon afliduity to the
ftudy of divinity, that in a much (horter time than ufual
he was admitted to the degree of mailer of arts, and
foon after made fellow of Pembroke-hall. Bifhop Rid¬
ley, who, in 1550, was tranflated to the fee of Lon¬
don, charmed with Bradford’s application and zeal,
now fent for him to the metropolis, ordained and ap¬
pointed him his chaplain. In 1553, he was alfo made
chaplain to Edward VI. during which time he became
one of the moll popular preachers in the kingdom.
Such a reformer was too dangerous to be fuffered in
the fucceeding reign. Mary was hardly in poffeflion
of the crown, before Bradford’s perfecutions began.
He was firft confined in the tower for fedition, where
he continued a year and a half j during which time
he wrote feveral epiftles that -were difperfed in various
parts of the kingdom. He was afterwards removed to
other prifons, and at laft brought to his trial before
that infernal court of inquifition in which Gardiner fat
as chief inquifitor, where he defended his principles to
the laft, in contempt of their utmoft power. They
condemned him to the flames *, and he was accordingly
burnt alive in Smithfield, on July 1. 1555* His works
ar;, 1. Seventy-two letters, written to various people,
whilft the author was in prifon •, printed in Bilhop Co-
verdale’s colle6lion. 2. Ten letters, printed in Fox’s
adls and monuments. 3. Complaint of verity, 1559,
8vo. 4. Three examinations before the commiflioners,
and his private talk wuth the priefts, with the original
of his life, 1561, oflavo. 5. Two notable fermons
1574, o6tavo, 1631. 6. Godly meditations and prayers
J614, 2410. 7. Treatife of repentance, 1622. With
feveral tranflations and other pieces.
BRADFORTH, a town in the weft of Yorkfture,
feated on a branch of the river Are, in W. Long. 1. 35.
N. Lat. 53. 40.
BRADLEY, Dr James, a famous Englifh aftro-
nomer, was the third fon of William and Jane Brad¬
ley, and was born at Sherborne in Dorfetfhire in the
year 1692.
He was educated for the univerfity at North Leach
by Mr Egles and Mr Brice, who kept a boarding-fchool
•there ; and from North Leach he was fent to Oxford.
His friends intended him for the church, and his ftu-
dies were regulated with that view ; and as foon as he
was of fufficient age to receive holy orders, the biftiop
of Hereford, who had conceived a great efteem for
him, gave him the living of Bridftow, and foon after
he was indufted to that of Welfrie in Pembrokeftiire.
JBut notwithftanding thefe advantages, from which he
might promife himfelf ftill father advancement in the Xradley.
church, he at length refigned his livings, that he might -y—“■
be wholly at liberty to purfue his favourite ftudy the
mathematics, and particularly aftronomy. He was
nephew to Mr Pound, a gentleman who is well known
in the learned world by many excellent obfervations,
and who would have enriched it with more, if the jour¬
nals of his voyages had not been burnt at Pulo Con-
dore, when the place was let on fire, and the Englifh
who were fettled there cruelly maflacred, Mr Pound
himfelf very narrowly efcaping with his life. With
this gentleman, Mr Bradley palled all the time that he
could fpare from the duties of his funftion j and per¬
haps he fometimes trefpaffed upon them : he was then
fufficiently acquainted with the mathematics to im¬
prove by Mr Pound’s converfation ; yet it does not
appear that, in this ftudy, he had any preceptor but his
genius, or any afliftant but his labour.
It may be eafily imagined, that the example and
converfation of Mr Pound did not render Bradley more
fond of his profeflion than he was before he continued,
however, as yet to fulfil the duties of it, though at this
time he had made fuch obfervations as laid the founda¬
tion of thofe difcoveries which afterwards diftinguifh-
ed him as one of the greateft aftronomers of his age.
Though thefe obfervations were made as it were by
Health, they gained him at firft the notice, and then
the friendfhip, of the lord chancellor Macclesfield, Mr
Newton, afterwards Sir Ifaac, Mr Halley, and many
other members of the Royal Society, into which he was
foon elefted a member. About the fame time, the
chair of Savilian profelfor of aftronomy became vacant
by the death of the celebrated Dr Keil j and Mr Brad¬
ley was eledled to fucceed him on the 31ft of October
1721, being then juft 29 years old j and his colleague
was Mr Halley, who was profeflbr of geometry on the
fame foundation. Bradley, upon his being elefted in¬
to this profefforlhip, gave up both his livings, and with
great joy quitted a fituation in which his duty was di¬
rectly oppofite to his inclination. From this time, he
applied himfelf wholly to the ftudy of his favourite
fcience ; and in the year 1727 he publiftred his theory
of the aberration of the fixed ftars, which is allowed to
be one of the moft ufeful and ingenious difcoveries of
modern aftronomy. Three years after this difcovery, by
which Mr Bradley acquired very great reputation, he
was appointed lefturer in aftronomy and phyfics, at the
mufeum of Oxford.
He purfued his ftudies with equal application and
delight j and in the courfe of his obfervations, which
wTere innumerable, he difcovered that the inclination of
the earth’s axis upon the plane of the ecliptic was not
always the fame, but that it varied backwards and for¬
wards fome feconds, and that the period of thefe vari¬
ations was nine years. This period feemed altogether
unaccountable, as it could not be fuppofed to have any
thing in common with the revolution of the earth,
which is performed in one year. Mr Bradley, how¬
ever, difcovered the caufe of this phenomenon in the
Newtonian fyftem of attraction. He publiftied this
difcovery in 1737, fo that in the fpace of about ten
years he communicated to the world two of the fineft
difcoveries-in modern aftronomy, which will for ever
make a memorable epoch* in the hiftory of that
fcience.
Mr
bra t 3
.Bradjfy. Mr Bradley always preferved tlie efteemand friend-
" lldp of Mr Halley j who, being worn out by age and
infirmities, thought he could do nothing farther for
the fervice of aftronomy, than procure for Mr Bradley
the place of regius profeffor of aftronomy at Green¬
wich, which he had poffelTed himlelf many years with
the greateft reputation. With this view, he wrote ma¬
ny letters, which have been finee found among Mr
Bradley’s papers, defiring his permiflion to apply for a
grant of the reverfion of it to him, and even offering
to refign in his favour, if it fliould be thought necef-
fary : but before Mr Halley could bring this kind pro-
jedl to bear, he died. Mr Bradley, however, obtained
the place afterwards, by the favour and intereft of
Lord Macclesfield, who was afterwards prefident of the
Royal Society. As loon as the appointment of Mr
Bradley to this place was known, the univerfity of Ox¬
ford lent Kim a diploma creating hint doflor of divi¬
nity. The appointment of aftronomer at Greenwich
placed Mr Bradley in his proper element, and he pur¬
ified his obfervations with unwearied diligence. How¬
ever numerous the colleclion of aftronomical inffru-
ments at the obfervatory at Greenwich, it was impof-
fible that fuch an obferver as Dr Bradley ftiould not
defire to increafe them, as well to anl'wer thofe parti¬
cular views, as in general to make obfervations with
greater exaftnefs. In the year 1748, therefore, he
took the opportunity of the annual viiit made by the
Royal Society to the obfervatory, in order to examine
the inftruments and receive the profeffor’s obfervations
for the year, to reprefent fo ftrongly the neceffity of
repairing the old inftruments, and purchafing new, that
the fociety thought proper to reprelent it to his maje-
fty, and his majefty gave them loool. for that pur-
pofe. This fum was laid out under the diredftion of
Dr Bradley, who, with the afliftance of the late cele¬
brated Mr Graham and Mr Bird, furnilhed the obfer-
yatory with as complete a colleftion of aftronomical
inftruments, as the moft Ikilful and diligent obferver
could defire. Dr Bradley, furnilhed with fuch aflift¬
ance, purfued his obfervations with new afliduity, an
incredible number of which were found after his death,
and put into the hands of the Royal Society.
It has been already obferved, that when Dr Brad¬
ley was ele&ed to the profeffor’s chair at Oxford, he
gave up his two livings, which were at fuch a diftance,
that he could not poftibly fulfil the duties of them him-
felf; but it happened that after he was fettled at Green¬
wich the living of that parifli became vacant, which
is very confiderable, and which was offered to him, as
he was upon the fpot to perform the duty, and had
the claim of uncommon merit to the reward. This
living, however, Dr Bradley, very greatly to his ho¬
nour, refufed, fearing the duties of the aftronomer would
too much interfere with thofe of the divine. His ma¬
jefty, however, hearing of the refufal, was fo pleafed
with it, that he granted him a penfion of 250I. a-year
in confideration of his great abilities and knowledge in
aftronomy and other branches of the mathematics,
which had procured fo much advantage to the com¬
merce and navigation of Great Britain, as is particu¬
larly mentioned in the grant which is dated the 15th
of February 1752. Dr Bradley, about the fame time,
was admitted into the council of the Royal Society. In
the year 1748, he was admitted a member of the royal
67 ] BRA
academy of feiences and belles lettres of Berlin, upon Bradley
the death of M. Crevier, firrt phyftcian to his Catholic II
majefty j in the year 2752, a member of the imperial, ra ^ iaw\
academy at Peterlburg j and in 1757, of that inftitu-
ted at Bologna.
Dr Bradley was ftill indefatigable in his obfervations,
and whatever honour he received became an incitement
to obtain new diftin&ion $ his corporeal abilities, how¬
ever, at length declined, though his intellectual fuf-
fered no abatement. In the year 1760, he became
extremely weak and infirm j and towards the end of
June 1762, he was attacked with a total fuppreflion
of urine, caufed by an inflammation of the reins, which
on the 12th of July following put an end to his life,
in the 70th year of his age. He was buried at Mit-
chin-Hampton, in Gloucefterlhire, in the fame grave
with his mother and his wife. In the year 1744, he
married Sufannah Peach, the daughter of a gentleman
of that name in Gloucefterlhire, by whom he had only
one daughter.
As to his character, he was remarkable for a placid
and gentle modefty, very uncommon in perfons of an
aCtive temper and robuit conftitution. It was ftill more
remarkable, that, with this untroubled equanimity of
temper, he was compaflionate and liberal in the highefl:
degree. Although he was a good fpeaker, and pof-
fefled the rare but happy art of exprefting his ideas
with the utmoft precifton and perfpicuity, yet no man
was a greater lover of filence, for he never fpoke but
when he thought it abfolutely neceffary. He did in¬
deed think it neceffary to fpeak when he had a fair
opportunity to communicate any ufeful knowledge in
his own way $ and he encouraged thofe that attended
his leCtures to alk him queftions, by the exaCtnefs with
which he anfwered, and the care he took to adapt him-
felf to every capacity. Pie was not more inclined to
write than to fpeak, for he has publilhed very little $
he had a natural diffidence, which made him always
afraid that his works ftiouid injure his character j and
therefore foppreffed many, which probably were well
worthy of the public attention. He was even known,
as it were, in fpite of himfelf j and, in fpite of himfelf,
he was known much, and confequently much efteemed.
He was acquainted with many of the firft perfons in
this kingdom, perfons eminent as well for their rank as
their abilities 5 he was honoured by all men of learning
in general ; and there was not an aftronomer of any
eminence in the world with whom he had not a lite¬
rary correfpondence. Upon the whole, it may be faid
of Dr Bradley, that no man cultivated great talents
with more fuccefs, or had a better claim to be ranked
among the greateft aftronomers of his age.
BR ADNINCH, a town of Devonfhire, once a con¬
fiderable place, but fome time ago totally deftroyed by
fire. W. Long. 3. 35. N. Lat. 50. 45.
BRADS, among artificers, a kind of nails ufed in
building, which have no fpreading heads as other nails
have. They are diftinguiihed by ironmongers by
fix names •, as joiner's brads, flooring-brads, batten-
brads, bill-brads, or quarter heads, &c. Joiners-brads
are for hard wainfeot \ batten-brads are for foft wain-
fcot; bill-brads are ufed when a floor is laid in hafte,
or for ihallow joifts fubjeCt to warp. See Nail.
BRADSHAW, Henry, a BenediCtine monk, was
born at Chefter, about the middle of the 15th century.
Difcovering
BRA [ 363 ] BRA
Bradwar. Difcovering an early propenfity to religion and litera-
dm, ture> was receiveci while a boy into the monaftery
> , of St Wei berg in that city $ and having there imbibed
the rudiments of his education, he was afterwards fent
to Gloucefter college, in the fuburbs of Oxford, where
for a time he ftudied theology with the novices of his
order, and then returned to his convent at Chefter ;
•here, in the latter part of his life, he applied himfelf
chiefly to the ftudy of hiftory, and wrote feveral books.
He died in the year 1513, the fifth of Henry VIII.
His poetry is not inferior to that of any of his cotem¬
poraries. His works are, 1. De aritiquitate et mag-
jnficentia urbis Cejlna. 2. Chronicon. 3. The life of
the glorious virgin of St Werberg. Printed Lond.
1521, 4to, in verfe. The life of St Werberg makes
only part of this work } for it contains alfo a defcrip-
tion of the kingdom of Mercia, life of St Etheldred,
the life of St Sexburg, the foundation and hiftory of
Chefter, and the chronicles of fome kings. Poflibly
this work may include the two firft. Bilhop Tanner
fays, that he wrote a chronicle in Englilh verfe, ex-
trafted from Bede, Malmftiury, Geraldus, and others.
Probably this is the chronicle above mentioned.
BRADWARDIN, Thomas, archbiftiop of Can¬
terbury, was born at Hartfield in Sulfex, about the
clofe of the 13th century. He was educated at Merton
College, Oxford, where he took the degree of doftor
of divinity j and acquired the reputation of a profound
fcholar, a Ikilful mathematician, and confummate di¬
vine. Authors are not agreed as to his firft prefer¬
ments. Pitt fays he was profeflbr of divinity at Oxford.
They agree, however, in afferting, that from being
chancellor of the diocefe of London, he became a cour¬
tier and confeflbr to Edward III. whom he conftantly
attended during his war with France, aflifting that vic¬
torious prince with his advice, animating the troops,
and fervently praying for their fuccefs. After his re¬
turn from the war, he was made prebendary of Lincoln,
and afterwards archbiftiop of Canterbury. He died at
Lambeth in the year 1349, forty days after his confe-
cration : and wras buried in St Anfelm’s chapel, near
the fouth wall. His works are, 1. De caafa Dei,
printed at London, 1618, publiftied by J. H. Savil.
2. De geometrici Jpeculotivu, &c. Paris, X495> J5I2»
1530. 3. De arithmetica praSiica, Paris, I5°25 I5*2,
4. Deproportionibus, Paris, 1495. Venice, 1505, folio.
5. De quadratura circuit, Paris, I495i folio-
BRADY, Robert, born in Norfolk in 1643, was
mafter of Caius college, Cambridge, regius profeffbr
there, and twice reprefentative of that univerfity in par¬
liament. In 1685, he was made keeper of the records
in the towrer, and was phyfician iirordinary to James II.
He wTrote, An introduftion to the Old Englifti hiftory;
A hiftory of England, from the time of the Romans
to the end of the reign of Richard II. and, A treatife
on Englifti boroughs. He died in 1700.
Brady, Nicholas, an excellent divine and poet,
born at Bandon, in the county of Cork, Oflober 28th
1659. He ftudied at Weftminfter-fchool, and after¬
wards at Oxford and Dublin college. He wras a zea¬
lous promoter of the Revolution ; and, in 1690, when
the troubles broke out in Ireland, by his intereft with
M‘Carty, King James’s general, he thrice prevented
the burning of the town of Bandon. Having quitted
•feveral preferments in Ireland, he fettled in London,
where he was fucceflively promoted to feveral livings; Bradypus
and at the time of his death was re£Ior of Clapham, r M
minifter of Richmond, and chaplain to the duke of Or-, ' ,
mond’s troop of horfe-guards. He wrote part of the
new verfion of the Pfalms, now fung in many churches
in England and Ireland 5 the ALneids of Virgil, in
4 vols j and 3 vols of fermons. He died May 20th
i726.
BRADYPUS, or Sloth, a genus of quadrupeds,
belonging to the order of bruta. See Mammalia In¬
dex.
BRAE-mar, a mountainous territory of Scotland,
in the ftiire of Aberdeen, where the laft earl of Mar
began to raife a rebellion in 1715. It is 27 miles north-
weft of Aberdeen.
Biue- Murray, a mountainous and woody traft of
land, lying in the ftiires of Elgin and Nairn in Scot¬
land.
BRAG, an ingenious and pleafant game at cards,
where as many may partake as the cards will fupply $
the eldeft hand dealing three to each perfon at one time,
and turning up the laft card all round. 1 his done,
each gamefter puts down three flakes, one for each
card.—The firft flake is won by the beft card turned
up in the dealing round j beginning from the ace, king,
queen, knave, and fo downwards. When cards of the
fame value are turned up to tw o or more of the game-
fters, the eldeft; hand gains •, but it is to be obferved,
that the ace of diamonds wins, to whatever hand it be
turned up.—The fecond flake is won by what is called
the brag, which confifts in one of the gamefters chal¬
lenging the reft to produce cards equal to his: Now it
is to be obferved, that a pair of aces is the beft brag,
a pair of kings the next, and fo on j and a pair of any
fort wins the ftake from the moft valuable Angle card.
In this part confifts the great diverfion of the game ;
for, by the artful management of the looks, geftures,
and voice, it frequently happens, that a pair of fives,
treys, or even duces, out-brags a much higher pair, and
even fome pairs royal, to the no fmall merriment of the
company. The knave of clubs is here a principal fa¬
vourite, making a pair with any other card in hand,
and with any other two cards a pair royal.—The third
ftake is won by the perfon who firft makes up the cards
in his hand one and thirty ; each dignified card going
for ten, and drawing from the pack, as ufual in this
game.
BRAGA, the capital of the province of Entre-min-
ho-duro, in Portugal, fituated on the river Cavado, ia
W. Long. 8. 40. N. Lat. 41. 20.
BRAGANZA, a city of Portugal, and capital of
a duchy of the fame name. It is feated on an eminence,
by a brook called Farvenca ; and is divided into two
parts, the old city and the town. The former is upon
an eminence, and fortified with a double wall. That
part next the towrn has five baftions, but no ditch ; the
citadel is on the oppofite fide joined to the wall. 1 he
towrn is in a plain, and defended by a fort with four
baftions. It is feated near the river Sabor, on the fron¬
tiers of Galicia, in W. Long. 6. 15. N. Lat. 41. 27.
BRAGGOT, a kind of drink made of malt, honey,
and fpices, much ufed in Wales.
BRAHE, Tycho, a celebrated aftronomer, de-
feended of an illuftrious family originally cf Sweden
but fettled at Denmark, was bornDecember 14. 1546,
at
BRA [ 369 ] BRA
at Knudftorp in the county of Schoheh. He was
taught Latin when feven years old, and dudied five
years under private tutors. His father dying, his un¬
cle fent him, in April 1559, to ftudy philofophy and
rhetoric at Copenhagen. The great eclipfe of the fun
on the 21ft of Auguft 1560, happening at the precife
time the aftronomers had foretold, he began to look
upon aftronomy as fomething divine ; and purchafing
the tables of Stadius, gained fome notion of the theory
of the planets. In 1562, he uTas fent by his uncle to
Leipfic to ftudy law j but aftronomy wholly engroffed
his thoughts, and in purchafing books on that fcience
he employed all his pocket-money. Having procured
a fmall celeftial globe, he was wont to wait till his tu¬
tor was gone to bed, in order to examine the conftel-
lations and learn their names ; and w'hen the fky u'as
clear, he fpent wdiole nights in viewing the ftars. In
1565, a difference arifing between Brahe and a Da-
nifti nobleman, they fought, and the fotmer had part
of his nofe cut off; which defied he fo artfully lup-
plied wdth one made of gold and filver, that it was not
perceivable. It was about this time that he began to
apply to chemiftry, propofing nothing lefs than to ob¬
tain the philofopher’s ftone. In 1571, he returned to
Denmark ; and was favoured by his mother’s brother,
Steno Belle, a lover of learning, with a convenient
place at his caftle of Herritzvad near Knudftorp, for
making his obfervations, and building a laboratory.
His marrying a country girl, beneath his rank, occa-
fioned fuch a violent quarrel between him and his rela¬
tions, that the king was obliged to interpofe to recon¬
cile them. In 1574, by his majefty’s command, he
read ledures upon the theory of the comets at Copen¬
hagen. The year following he began his travels
through Germany, and proceeded as far as Venice :
he then refolved to remove his family, and fettle at
Bafil ; but Frederic II. king of Denmark being in¬
formed of his defign, and unwilling to lofe a man that
was capable of being fuch an ornament to his country,
promifed to enable him to purfue his ftudies, to be¬
llow upon him for life the ifiand of Huen in the Sound,
to ered an obfervatory and laboratory there, and to
defray all the expences neceffary for carrying on his
defigns. Tycho Brahe readily embraced this propo-
fal ; and accordingly the firft ftone of the obfervatory
was laid Auguft 8. 1576. The king alfo gave him a
penfion of 2000 crowms out of his treafury, a fee in
Norway, and a canonry of Rolhild, which brought
him in 1000 more. James VI. of Scotland, after¬
wards raifed to the crown of England, going to Den¬
mark in order to marry the princefs Anne, paid a vi-
fit to our author in his retirement at Uraniaburg, made
him feveral prefents, and with his own hand wrote a
copy of verfes in his praife j but, foon after the death
of King Frederic, he was deprived of his penfion, fee,
and canonry ; upon which, finding himfelf incapable
of bearing the expences of his obfervatory, he went to
Copenhagen, whither he brought fome of his inftru-
ments, and continued his aftronomical obfervations in
that city, till Valkendorf, chamberlain to the houfe-
hold of Chriftian IV. commanded him by the king’s
order to difcontinue them. He then removed his fa¬
mily to Roftock, and afterwards to Holftein, in order
to folicit Henry Ranzou to introduce him to the em¬
peror ; and that gentleman complying with his requeft,
Vo L. IV. Part I.
he was received by the emperor at Prague with the Brahma,
utmoft civility and refpeft. That prince gave him a Braitlaibin.
magnificent houfe, till he could procure one for him ’—“■“"V'***"''1
more fit for aftronomical obfervations j affigned him a
penfion of 3000 crowns ; and promifed upon the firft
opportunity, a fee for him and his defcendants : but
he did not long enjoy this happy fituation ; for, upon
the 24th of Oilober 1601, he died of a retention of
urine, in the 55^ year of his age, and was interredin
a very magnificent manner in the principal church at
Prague, where a noble monument was erefted to him.
—His fkill in aftronomy is univerfally known, and he
is famed for being the inventor of a new fyftem, which
he endeavoured, though without fuccefs, to eftablifti
upon the ruins of that of Copernicus. He was very
credulous with regard to judicial aftrology and pre-
fages. If he met an old woman when he went out of
doors, or a hare upon the road on a journey, he ufed
to turn back immediately, being perluaded that it was
a bad omen. When he lived at Uraniaburg, he had
at his houfe a madman, whom he placed at his feet at
table, and fed himfelf. As he imagined that every
thing fpoken by mad perfons prefaged fomething, he
carefully obferved all that this man faid ; and becaufe
it fometimes proved true, he imagined it might always
be depended on. A mere tritle put him in a paflion 5
and againft perfons of the firft rank, with whom it was
his duty to keep on good terms, he openly difcovered
his refentment. He was very apt to rally others, but
highly provoked if the fame liberty was taken wdth
himfelf. His principal works are, 1, Progymnajrnata
aftronomice. 2. De mundi cetherei recentioriLus phano-
menu. 3. Epi/lolarum ajlronomicarum liler.
BRAHMA. See Br^ma.
BRAIDALB1N, a diihift of Perthfhire in Scot¬
land, ftretching 32 miles from eaft to weft, and 13
where broadeft from ibuth to north. It is a mountainous
country, lying among the Grampian hills, fuppofed to
be the country anciently known by the name oi Alba-
nil; whence the Highlanders to this day call them-
felves Albinich. It is bounded on the weft by Locha-
bei, Lorn, and Knapdale j on the north and eaft, by
part of Lochaber and part of Athol ; and on the fouth
by Strathern and Monteith. It produces plenty of
game and black cattle ; is inhabited by Highlanders
faid to be the moft ferocious in all Scotland ; and gives
the title of earl to a branch of the Campbell family,
w'hich is poffefled of a noble and magnificent feat in
this divifion. Much flax is cultivated here. Some
years ago, when premiums were given for the greateft
crops, from 70 to 120 hogfheads of linfeed were an¬
nually fown, each peck yielding two ftones of dreffed
flax ; and when the yarn fold higheft, 2000I. wmrth
has been fold out of the country. Oats and potatoes
are the other crops. Oats yield from four to fix fold
at the moft, oftener lefs ; bear from eight to ten, at
an average fix. The corn raifed feldom fuflices the
number of inhabitants, fo they are often obliged to
have recourfe. to importation. From their potatoes
lome have diftilled a very ftrong fpirit, which has been
found cheaper than what is diftilled from any grain.
Starch is alfo made from them j and, in fome places,
bread. Corcur, or the lichen omphaloides, is an arti¬
cle of commerce ; great quantities have been fcraped
from the rocks, and exported for the ufe of the dyers,
3 A at
Brail
Bramber
BRA [ 37
at the price of ts. or i6d, per Hone. A good many
Iheep are reared here, and much wool is Cent out of
1, the country. There are few horfes raifed in this coun¬
try : fuch as feed on the tops of the higher hills are
often affii&ed with a diitemper that commonly proves
fatal, if a remedy is not applied within 24 hours. It
attacks them in the months of July and Auguft, ufual-
ly after a fail of rain, or before the dew rifes in the
morning. An univerfal fwelling fpreads over the bo¬
dy ; the remedy is exercife, chafing, or any other me¬
thod that promotes urine and perfpiration. The com¬
mon people attribute this evil to a certain animal that
fcatters its poifon over the grafs 5 but, more probably,
it arifes from fome noxious vegetable, hitherto unob-
ferved. Before the year 1745, Lord Braidalbin was
obliged to keep a conftant guard for the proteddion of
his vaiTals cattle, or to retain fpies among the thievilh
clans, having too much fpiric to fubmit to pay an in¬
famous tax, called biackmecJ, to the plundering chief-
tans, as the price ol their fafety.
BRAIL, or Brails, in a (hip, are fmall ropes
made ufe of to furl the fails acrofs : they belong only
to the two courfes and the mizen-fail; they are reeved
through the blocks, feized on each fide the ties, and
come down before the fail, being at the very Ikirt
thereof fattened to the cringles ; their ufe is, when the
fail is furled acrofs, to hale up its bunt, that it may
the more eafily be taken up or let fall. Hale up the
brails, or brail up the fail; that is, Hale up the fail,
in order to be furled or bound clofe to the yard.
BRAILOW, a town of Poland, in the province of
Podolia, feated on the river Bog, in E. Long. 29. o.
N. Lat. 43. 50.
BRAIN, in Anatomy, is that large, foft, whitilh
mafs, enclofed in the cranium or Ikull) wherein all the
organs of fenfe terminate, and the foul is fuppofed
principally to refide. See Anatomy Index.
Brain le Comte, a town of the Auftrian Nether¬
lands, in the province of Hainault. E. Long. 4. li.
N. Lat. 50. 35.
BRAINTREE, a large town of Ettex in England,
tttuated in E. Long. 0. 30. N. Lat. 51. 50.
BRAKE, denotes female fern, or the place where
It grows.—-Alfo a fharp bit or fnaffle for horfes ; and
a baker’s kneading-trough.-—Alfo an inttrument with
teeth to bruife flax or hemp. See Fxax-Drejjtng.
BRAKEL, a town of Germany, in the circle of
Weftphalia, and in the bithopric of Paderborn, feated
on the rivulet Brught, in E. Long. 9. 8. N. Lat. 51.
46.
ERAMA, or Bruma, a pagan deity of the Eaft
Indies. He is the firft perfon of a kind of trinity in
their theology \ is the great progenitor of mankind $
and has created as many worlds as there ,are confider-
able parts in his body. See the articles Brachmans,
Bramins, and Indostan.
Brama, in Ichthyology,, the trivial name of a fpe-
cies of cyprinus. See Cyprinus.
BRAMANT, a town of Savoy, in the valley of
Maurich, feated on the river Arck, in E. Long. 4. ic.
N. Lat. 43. o.
BRAMBER, a town of Suffex in England, for¬
merly of fome account, but has neither market nor
fair; however, it fends two members to parliament.
W. Long. o. 15. N. Lat. 50. jo.
o 1 BRA
BRAMBLE, in Botany, the Englilh name of the Bramble
Rubtjs. See Botany Index. j]
BnAMSLS-Net, otherwife called hallter, is a net to
catch birds in of feveral lizes: the great mafhes mutt
be four inches fquare $ thofe of the ieaft fize are three
inches fquare ; and thofe of the biggett, five. In the
depth they fliould not be above three or four inches:
but as for the length, they may be enlarged at plea-
fure 5 the fliorteft being 18 feet long.
Bramble, or Bra mb ling, in Ornithology, the trivial
name of a fpecies of Erin gill a.
BRAMER, Leonard, hiflory-painter, was born
at Delft in 1596 j but learned the art of painting in
the fchool of Rembrandt, and imitated the manner of
lus matter in fmall. In the 18th year of his age he
went to Rome for his improvement j but although he
continued in Italy for fome years, and acquired fome-
what in his ftyle rather more graceful than Rembrandt,
yet he could never diveft himlelf of the Flemifh gout. Piiiingtc£t
He had a fine tafte of defign j his expreflion is gene- Difl.
rally good, and m fome of his compofitkms truly no¬
ble. His pencil is delicate, and his colouring very
peculiar in the tints, being allb remarkably thin in
many parts, lb as barely to cover the pannel; yet, by
great {kill in the management of the chiat o-fcuro, his
colouring is bright, bold, and full ol luftie j particu¬
larly in the vafes, which he was fond of introducing
in every fubje£l that could admit them, as he knew
how to give them a rich and fine relievo. He had ac-
cuftomed himfelf to paint with a very thin body of co¬
lour, efpecially in the browns and lhadowy parts, in
order to give his piflures a greater tranfparence. At
Venice, Naples, Florence, Mantua, and other cities
of Italy, as w^ell as at Rome, he left many proofs of
his extraordinary merit, which rendered his name de-
fervedly famous j and his works are rarely to be met
with out of Italy, where he painted moft ; but when¬
ever they are to be purchafed they are bought at con-
fiderable prices, if they are entire and undamaged.
One of the moft capital pictures of Bramer is the Rai~
Jing of Laz-arus, in which there is a charming oppofi-
tion of light and fhadow j and another is the Denial
of St Peter: They are both painted in his beft man¬
ner } they are bright, tranfparent, and finely penciled,
and are ftill preferved at Rome. Likewife at the pa¬
lace of Ryfwick, there are feveral valuable paintings
by this matter 5 in tvhich the invention and execution
are highly commendable. But none of his works can
be more admired than a fmali pifture on copper repre-
fenting the ftory of Pyramus and Thifbe.
BRAMHALL, Dr John, archbiihop of Armagh,
tvas born of an ancient family at Pontefrafl in York-
fhire, about the year 1593. He was invited over tt>
Ireland by the lord deputy Wentworth j and foon af¬
ter obtained the arch-deaconry of Meath, the beft in
that kingdom. In 1634, he was made bifliop of Lon¬
donderry, which fee he improved very much but the
greateft fervice he did to the church of Ireland, was
by getting, with the deputy’s afllftance, feveral adfs
paflfed for abolittiing fee-farms, recovering impropria¬
tions, &cc. by which, and by other means, he regain¬
ed to the church in the fpace of four years 30,000!. or
40,000]. a-year. In the convocation he prevailed up¬
on the church of Ireland to unite in the fame faith
with the church of England, by adopting the 39 arti¬
cles
> *
BRA [3
Btatmns, c!es of that church j and would willingly have intro-
duced the Engliih canons, but could only prevail on
their accepting fuch as they deemed proper. Articles
of treafon were exhibited againft him in the Irilh par¬
liament $ and at the treaty of Uxbridge in 1644, t^e
Engliih parliament made it a preliminary article, that
Bilhop Bramhall, with Archbilhop Laud, and others,
fhould be excepted from the general pardon. He
went abroad ; but on the reftoration wras appointed
archbilhop of Armagh, primate and metropolitan of
all Ireland, and was chofen fpeaker of the houfe of
lords. He died in 1663 •, and was the author of feve-
ral wmrks, which are collefted in one vol. folio.
BRAMINS, the name of the priefts among the
idolatrous Indians; the fucceffors of the ancient Brach-
mans. See the title Brachmans.
Their name is formed from Brama, their particular
deity. They are found in Siam, Malabar, China, Co-
S*eJ, i roman^e^i and moil other eallern nations anywife ci-
K vilized ; but their chief feat is in Indoftan *, or the
Mogul’s country. They have a language peculiar to
themfelves, which they call Shanfchrit; in which they
have feveral ancient books, written, as is alleged, by
their great prophet Brahma ; as the Shq/Iram, which
is their bible ; and Porane, a hillory which they efteem
facred, and pretend to have been di&ated by God him-
felf.
There are feveral orders of Bramins. Thofe w'ho
mix in fociety are for the moft part very corrupt in
their morals : they believe that the water of the Gan¬
ges will wafh away all their crimes; and, as they are
not fubjedl to any civil jurifdi&ion, live without either
reftraint or virtue, excepting that character of com-
pa-ffion and charity which is fo commonly found in the
mild climate of India. The others, who live abltradt-
ed from the world, are either weak-minded men or en-
thufiafts ; and abandon themfelves to lazinefs, fuperfti-
tion, and the dreams of metaphyfics. We find in their
difputes the very fame ideas that occur in the writings
of our moft celebrated metaphyficians; fuch as, fub-
ftance, accident, priority, pofteriority, immutability,
indivifibility, &c.
Their religion, which was anciently of the allegori¬
cal and moral kind, hath degenerated into a heap of
extravagant and obfcene fuperftitions, owing to their
having realized thofe fiftions which were intended mere¬
ly as fo many fymbols and emblems. Were it poflible
to obtain a fight of their facred books, the only re¬
mains there are of the Indian antiquities, rve might in
fome meafure be enabled to remove the veil that enve¬
lopes thofe numerous myfteries; but the following
ftory will (how how little reafon there is to hope that
we fhall ever be intruded with fuch
a communica¬
tion.
Indie],
JRaynal's The emperor Mahmoud Akbar had an inclination
Hifl. of tie tQ jnakg himfelf acquainted with the principles of all
the religious fe£ls throughout his extenfive provinces.
Having difcarded the fuperftitious notions with which
he had been prepofleffed by his education in the Ma¬
hometan faith, he refolved to judge for himfelf. It
was eafy for him to be acquainted with the nature of
.thofe fyrtems that are formed upon the plan of making
profelytes ; but he found himfelf difappointed in his
defign when he came to treat with the Indians, who
71 ] BRA
will not admit any perfon whatever to the participa- Bramins.
tion of their myfteries. Neither the authority nor """"■v*
promifes of Akbar could prevail with the Bramins to
difclofe the tenets of their religion ; he was therefore
obliged to have recourfe to artifice. The ftratagem
he made ufe of wras to caufe a boy, of the name of
Feizi, to be committed to the care of thefe priefts, as
a poor orphan of the facerdotal line, who alone could
be initiated into the facred rites of their theology.
Feizi, having received the proper inftrudlions for the
part he was to aft, was conveyed privately to Benares,
the feat of knowledge in Indoftan ; he was received
into the houle of a learned Bramin, who educated him
with the fame care as if he had been his own fon. Af¬
ter the youth had fpent ten years in ftudy, Abkar was
defirous of recalling him : but he was ftruck with the
charms of the daughter of his preceptor. The women
of the facerdotal tribe are looked upon as the greateft:
beauties in Indoftan. The old Bramin laid no re¬
ftraint upon that growing paflion of the two lovers ;
he was fond of Feizi, who had gained his affeftion by
his addrefs and docility ; and oftered him his daughter
in marriage. The young man, divided between love
and gratitude, refolved to conceal the fraud no long¬
er ; and falling at the feet of the Bramin, difcovered
the impofture and alked pardon for his offence. The
prieft, without reproaching him in the leaft, feized a
poignard, which hung at his girdle, and was going to
plunge it in his breaft, if Feizi had not prevented him
by taking hold of his arm. The young man ufed eve¬
ry means to pacify him, and declared himfelf ready to
do any thing to expiate his treachery. The Bramin,
burfting into tears, promifed to pardon him on condi¬
tion that he fhould fwear never to tranflate the Bedas
or facred volumes, or difclofe to any perfon whatever
the fymbol of the Bramin creed. Feizi readily pro¬
mifed all that the Bramin required : how far he kept
his word is not known ; but the facred books of the
Indians have never been tranflated by him, or any one
elfe, to this day. As the Bramins are the only per-
fons who underftand the language of the facred books,
their comments on the text are the fame as thofe that
have ever been made on religious books ; all the max¬
ims which fancy, intereft, paftion, or falfe zeal can
fuggeft, are to be found in thefe volumes. See the
articles Shaftah and Vedam.
They own a fupreme God, who created Brama, and
gave him a power to create the world. They havealfo
their fubaltern deities, their pagods or temples, and
idols, whom they fan to defend from flies, dancing be¬
fore them. They alfo hold a feaft in honour of the
fun, confidered as the fource of light and heat, where¬
by all nature is fecundified.
Their pagods or temples confift of three parts. The
firft is a vaulted roof, fupported on ftone columns : it
lies open, and all perfons, without diftinftion, are al¬
lowed to enter into it. It is adorned with fymbolical
figures made of wood, as elephants, oxen, and horfes.
The fecond part is open in the day-time, and Ihut at
night. It is filled with grotefque and monftrous fi¬
gures, as men with many heads and arms. The third,
which is a kind of chancel, is kept always ftiut, with
a very ftrong gate. In this is placed the ftatue of the
deity to whom the paged is dedicated. A great num-
3 A z ber
Bran.
BRA [ 5
Brarnpour ber of lamps burn day and night before the idol. The
Bramins, before they go into the pagod, pull off their
i (hoes, and leave them at the door.
The Bramins of Siam and Coromandel maintain
that the earth will be deftroyed by fire ; and the for¬
mer aflert that another will arife out of its allies, in
which there ihall be no lea, nor any change of fea-
fons, but an eternal fpring ; and the latter maintain a
plurality of worlds, which are alternately deftroyed
and renewed.
Robert de Nobili, an Italian Jefuit, and one of the
Indian miffionaries, in the beginning of the 17th cen¬
tury, in order to fecure fuccefs to his million, aflumed
the title and appearance of a Bramin, and at length
perfuaded the credulous people that he was in reality
a member of that venerable order. He forged a deed
in the ancient Indian characters, Ihowing that the Bra¬
mins of Rome were older than thofe of India, and that
the Jefuits of Rome defcended in a direCt line from
the god Brama. He farther declared on oath, that
he derived his origin from this Indian deity. By this
impofture he profelyted twelve eminent Bramins, whofe
influence proved very favourable to his million. Af¬
ter his death, the Portuguefe Jefuits carried on the
impofture with very confiderable fuccefs. Thefe mif-
fions, however, w^ere fufpended and abandoned in con-
fequence of a papal mandate, iffued out in the year
1744, by Benedict XIV, w'ho declared his difapproba-
tion of the artifices that had been ufed in the conver-
lion of the Indians. See further under the article Ob¬
servatory.
BRAMPOUR, or Brampore, a city of Afia, in
the dominions of the Great Mogul, and capital of Can-
dilh. It formerly flood on as much ground as Lon¬
don ; but is now greatly decayed, and chiefly inhabit¬
ed by Banians. The ftreets are numerous, but nar¬
row, with lowr thatched houfes made of earth, though
a few are covered with varnilhed tiles. In rainy wea¬
ther many of the ftreets are overflow'ed. In the mar¬
ket-place is the ftatue of an elephant in red ftone, as
big as the life. On the other fide of the river they
have built a new towm, w’hich is in a better fituation.
A great trade is carried on in this town, and through¬
out all the province, where there is made a prodigious
quantity of cotton-cloths, as cotton is in greater plen¬
ty here than in any other place of the empire. E.
Long. 77. 25. N. Lat. 21. 10.
BRAMPTON, a town of Cumberland in England,
feated not far from the PiCls wall, and on the river Ir-
thin. It is a very ancient place, but at prefent is very
fmall. W. Long. 2. 40. N. Lat. 54. 50.
BRAN, the Ikins or hulks of corn, efpecially WTheat
ground, feparated from the flour by a fieve or boulter.
It contains, befides, a portion of the farinaceous mat¬
ter ; this is lefs glutinous than the finer flour, and is
fuppofed to have a detergent quality. Infufions of
bran are not unfrequently employed in this intention
externally, and fometimes likewife taken inwardly.
Among the ancients bran wtis ufed as an erotic, to
excite love. Bran boiled purges fcurf, dandreff, and
cleanfes the hand in lieu of foap. The dyers reckon
it among the nut-coloured drugs j and ul’e it for mak¬
ing what they call the four waters, with which they
prepare their feveral dyes. Bran is alfo ufed as a me¬
dicine for horfes. See Farriery Index.
ftegi.
72 ] BRA
BRANCH, in Botany, an arm of a tree, or a part Branch
which, fprouting out from the trunk, helps to form II
the head or crown thereof. Branches do not fpring Eranc^10'
out of the mere furface of the trunk, but are profound-
ly rooted therein, lb as not only to penetrate into the
cortical, but alfo the woody fubftance, and even the
pith. The conftituent parts therefore of a branch are
the fame as of the trunk, viz. Ikin, bark, wood, and
pith. See the article Plants.
Branches of a Bridle^ in the manege, are two pieces
of iron bended, which, in the interval between the one
and the other, bear the bit-mouth, the crofs-chains,
and the curb fo that on one end they anfwer to the
head-ftall, and on the other to the reins, in order to
keep the horfe’s head in fubjeflion. With regard to
their form and ftrufture, branches are either ftraight* in
form of a piftil, for young horles to form their mouth ;
or after the conftable of France’s falhion, proper for a
horfe that carries his head well. Some are in form of
a gigot or leg, which will prevent horfes from carry¬
ing too low : Some are in form of a bent knee, con¬
trived for horfes that arm themfelves againft the ope¬
ration of the bit $ and others after the French falhion,
which is hardly above \ of an inch at the fevile hole,
and kneed ij- inch at the jarret or ham.
It is to be obferved, I. That the farther the branch
is from the horfe’s neck, the more eJFe£l: it will have.
2. That ftiort branches, ccetens paribus, are ruder,
and their effetffs more fudden, than thofe of longer.
3. That the branch is to be proportioned to the length
of a horfe’s neck $ and one may fooner err in chooling
one too Ihort than too long.
Branches of Ogives, in ArchiteBure, are the arches
of Gothic vaults. Thefe arches, traverfing from one
angle to another diagonal-wife, form a crofs between
the other arches, which make the fides of the fquare,
of which the arches are diagonal.
BkANCH-Stand, with falconers, a term ufed to figni-
fy the making a hawk leap from tree to tree, till the
dog fprings the game.
BRANCHER, among fportfmen, a young haw’k,
newly taken out of the neft, that can hop from bough
to bough.
BRANCHIAE, or Gills, in the anatomy of filhes,
the parts correfponding to the lungs of land-animals.
All fifties except the'cetaceous ones, and the pteromy-
zum, which have lungs, are furnilhed with thefe or¬
gans of refpiration. See Anatomy Index.
BRANCHIDiE, in Grecian antiquity, priefts of
the temple of Apollo, which w7as at Didymus in Ionia,
a province of Lefler Afia, towards the Aigean fea, up¬
on the frontiers of Caria. They opened to Xerxes the
temple of Apollo, the riches whereof he took away.
After which, thinking it unfafe to ftay in Greece,
they fled to Sogdiana, on the other fide of the Cafpian
fea, upon the frontiers of Perfia, where they built a
city, called by their owm name : but they did not ef-
cape the punifhment of their crime ; for Alexander the
Great having conquered Darius king of Perfia, and
being informed of their treachery, put them all to the
fword, and razed their city, thus punilhing the im¬
piety of the fathers in their pofterity.
BRANCHIOSTEGI, in Ichthyology, a term ufed
to exprefs one of the general claffes of fifties; the cha-
ra&ers of which are, that the rays of the fins are of a
bony
BRA [ 373 ] BRA
Branchon bony fubftance, but thefe fiOi have no bones or officula
li at the branchiae, as the malacopterygious and acan-
'bur?.11" thopterygious fifhes all have.
> -• BRANCHON, a town of the Auftrian Netherlands,
in the province of Namur, feated on the river Me-
haigne. E. Long. 4'. 40. N. Lat. 50. 32.
BRAND Sunday, Dimanche des Brandons, in
French ecclefiaftical writers, denotes the firft Sunday
in Lent ; which is thus called on account of an ancient
practice in the Lyonnois, where the peafants, in the
night of this day, walked about their orchards, gar¬
dens, &c. with torches lighted, or fire-brands in their
hands j in wdiich plight they vifited every tree, and ad-
dreffing themfelves to them one after another, threat-*
ened, that if they did not bear fruit well the enfuing
feafon, they fhould be cut down to the ground and
burnt. This is evidently a reli£t of Paganifm j the
like of which wras praftifed by the ancient idolaters in
the month of February j hence called February's, a fe-
bruando.
BRANDEIS, a town of Bohemia, feated on the
river Elbe. E. Long. 14. 25. N. Lat. 50. 15.
BRANDENBURG, Marquifate of, a large coun¬
try of Germany, having Mecklenburgh and Pomera¬
nia on the north •, Poland, on the call j Silefia, with
the Lufatias, the ele&orate of Saxony, Anhalt, and
duchy of Magdeburg, on the fouth ; and part of the
fame duchy, and that of Lunenburg, on the weft. Its
greateft length is near 200 miles, and its greateft
breadth near 100. Its northern fituation makes it ve¬
ry cold for feven or eight months in winter. The foil
in general is far from being fruitful, a great part of it
confifting of fand : yet there are feveral fruitful fpots
in it; and the whole, under the laft and prefent reign,
has been greatly improved, and much better peopled.
In fome parts there is great plenty of potatoes and tur¬
nips 5 in others of buck-wheat, millet, and flax $ in
others of tobacco, rvoad, and other herbs for dyeing.
All forts of colour earth, together with alum, falt-
petre, amber, iron, ftone, and medicinal fprings, are
found in it. Abundance of cattle, efpecially (beep, are
bred here j and the woods not only fupply the inhabi¬
tants with fuel, but with timber, charcoal, tar, and
wood-allies, both for domeftic ufes and for exportation.
The culture of filk alfo is carried on in this country
•with great fuccefs. The principal rivers by which it
is watered are the Elbe, the Oder, the Prignitz, the
Havel, the Warte, and the Spree. Some of the ri¬
vers and lakes abound in fifti, and are united by canals
for the benefit of navigation. They reckon in the
whole Mark 120 towns, above 2500 villages, and a-
bout 800,000 inhabitants. The ftates here confift of
the nobility and towns, whofe aflembly-houfe is in the
Spandau-ftreet at Berlin, and who ftill enjoy fome
fmall remains of their ancient privileges. The here¬
ditary officers of the marquifate are a marfhal, chamber-
lain, cup-bearer, purveyor, few^er, treafurer, and ran¬
ger. The king of Pruffia, wffio is alfo elector of Bran¬
denburg, with his whole court, are Calvinifts ; but
the religion of moft of the inhabitants is Lutheranifm.
The churches of both perfuafions are well endowed,
and the laity jointly employed by the government.
The Roman Catholics are alfo tolerated here. In
fhort, every inhabitant enjoys full liberty of confcience.
A great variety of manufactures, moft of which were
introduced by the French refugees, are carried on in Branden-
the marquifate, efpecially at Berlin and Potfdam j burg,
where are alfo excellent painters, ftatuaries, and en-
gravers. By means of thefe manufactures, fabrics,
and arts, not only large fums are kept in the country,
but alfo imported from other parts, to which confider-
able quantities of the manufactures and natural pro*
duCtions are exported. For the education of youth
and the advancement of learning, befides Latin fchools
in feveral places, and gymnafia, there is an univerfity
at Frankfort on the Oder, and an academy of fciences
at Berlin.
The Brandenburg family is of great antiquity. Some
hiftorians fay it was founded by the Sclavonians, who
gave it the name of Branber, which fignifies the
“ Guards of the Forefts and the Germans called it
Branburgb. Henry I. furnamed the Fowler, fortified
this place in the year 923, to ferve as a rampart a-
gainft the Huns, a warlike nation, who were extreme¬
ly troublefome by their frequent incurfions. He be¬
llowed the government on Sifro, count of Ringelheim,
with the title of Margrave or Marquis, which fignifies
ProteClor of the Marches or Frontiers, in 923. It
defcended to Geron, margrave of Lufatia ; and in
fucceffion of time paffed into the families of Staden,
Afcania, Bellenlladt, and that of Bavaria, till the em¬
peror Sigifmund, with the confent of the ftates of the
empire, in 1416, gave perpetual inveftiture to Frede¬
rick VI. of Nuremberg 5 who alfo the following year
received from the emperor, at the diet of Conltance,
the inveftiture of the county of Brandenburg as Frede¬
rick I. ; having had previoufly conferred upon him the
dignity of eleClor and arch-chamberlain of the Holy
Roman empire.
Brandenburg remained long in fubjeClion to Poland;
and the inveftiture of Pruffia w'as granted by the Po-
lilh kings to each fucceeding margrave. Frederick-
William, having concluded a treaty with the king of
Poland, was acknowledged to be foVereign of Ducal
Pruffia by an aflembly of the Hates at Konigfberg
A. D. 1663. By the treaty of Vienna the emperor
confirmed this title ; and Frederick, the fon of Frede-
rick-William, was proclaimed king of Pruffia, Janua¬
ry 18. 1701. He wras fucceeded by his fon, who per¬
formed the greateft fervices to his country, and pre¬
pared the materials of the future grandeur of the late
fovereign, Frederick III. who began his reign on the
jtft of May 1740, at the age of 28. See Prussia.
Among the eleClors he pofleffes the feventh place.
As arch-chamberlain, he carries the fceptre before the
emperor at his coronation, and brings him wTater in a
filver bafon to waffi with. In the college of princes
of the empire he has five voices. His aflelfment, as
eleClor, is 60 horfe and 277 foot, or 1828 florins in
lieu of them. To the chamber of Wetzlar, his quota
is 81 I rix-dollars 58 kruitzers, each term. As to the
orders of the knights of the Black Eagle, and of Merit,
it is fufficient here to obferve, that the former wras in-
ftituted by Frederic I. at his coronation, and the other
by the prefent king. For the government of this coun¬
try and the adminiftration of juftice, there are feveral
fupreme colleges and tribunals *, particularly for the de¬
partments of war, foreign affairs, and the finances, there
are diftinft boards. Here is a fupreme ecclefiaftical
council and confiftory for the Lutherans j a fupreme
directory
BRA [ 374 ] BRA
Bramlen- dlre^ory of the Calvinift church j a fupreme medicinal
college ; a fupreme mine-office j a college or board of
trade, &c. Thofe of the French nation, fettled in this
country, are allowed particular courts of their own.
The amount of the yearly revenues of the Mark, ari-
fing from the domains, prote&ion money paid by the
Jews, tolls, land tax, mines, forefts, duties on ftamp-
paper, fait, and variety of other impofts and excifes, is
computed at about 2,500,000 crowns j but the money
is faid to be much inferior in goodnefs to that of Saxony
and the dominions of Hanover. During the late con¬
tinental war it was extremely debafed. Some eilimate
the whole number of the inhabitants of the royal and
eleftoral dominions at 5,000,000, and the revenues at
about 2,000,000 fterling. Upwards of 100,000 men
are kept on foot in time of peace, which are faid to
coft more than half of the royal revenue. Thefe troops
are under ftrift difcipline, very expert at their exercife,
always in readinefs to march, and always complete.
Each regiment has a particular canton or diftridl al¬
lotted it for its quarters and raifing recruits. The
infantry are clothed in blue, and the horfe and dra¬
goons in white j and both are required to hear fer-
mon twice a-day when in quarters or garrifons. In
time of peace they are allowed, for feveral months in
the year, to hire themfelves out, or to follow their
feufinefs either as burghers or peafants, in the canton
where they are quartered •, but they are not allowed to
marry. A confiderable part of thefe troops are ftation-
ed in the Mark, particularly at Berlin and Potfdam.
The corps of huffars alone amounts to about 10,000
men. The Mark of Brandenburg is divided, in gene¬
ral, into the ele&oral and new Marks. The former is
again fubdivided into the old Mark, the Pregnitz, the
middle Mark, and the Ucker Mark. The old Mark,
which lies on the weft fide of the Elbe, between that
river and Lunenburg, is about 50 miles in length, and
30 in breadth.
Brandenburg, a city of Germany, and capital of
the marquifate of that name, fituated on the river Ha¬
vel, in E. Long. 13. o. N. Lat. 52. 25. . It is divided
into the old and new town, and was anciently the fee
of a biftiop. The mountain in the neighbourhood
called Marienbergy is planted with vines. Here is a
finall colony of French Calvinifts, with a manufa&ure
of cloth, fuftian, and canvas; and a pretty good trade
is carried on by Havel. The fort here looks like a
fuburb, and contains a riding fchool, with the cathedral
church. The greateft part alfo of the members of the
chapter which ftill fubfifts, and is compofed of a Lu¬
theran provoft, dean, fenior, fubfenior, and three other
canons, refide in it. They are diftinguiffied by a crofs
of gold enamelled with violet, terminating in eight
points j and have a confiderable eftate. Near the town
is a large lake.
BRANDEUM, in ecclefiaftical writers, a linen
cloth or veil put over the tombs of the apoftles St Pe¬
ter and St Paul, and left there for fome time ; by
which it is fuppofed to acquire a degree of fan&ity, fo
as to be worlhipped as a relic ; and for that purpofe
frequently fent by the pope as a prefent to fome prince.
In this fenfe, Brandeum amounts to the fame with what
was otherwife called fanBuarium,fudariumy orariutn, and
velum. The ufe of brandea was introduced as a means
of diffufing and propagating the virtues and influences
of relies, without moving, or any way Impairing, the
fubftance of them $ the tranflation of relics in early il
days being forbidden. , -
BRANDING, in the face or hand, denotes a pu-
niffiment inflicted by law on various offences, by burn¬
ing with a hot-iron, after the offender hath been once
admitted to benefit of clergy, *
BRANDON, a town of Suffolk in England, feated
on a little river Oufe, over which it has a bridge, and
a ferry at a mile’s diftance : whence it is divided into
Brandon, and Brandon ferry j which laft has the moft
bufinefs, becaufe commodities are brought thither from
the ifle of Ely. This place gives the Britiftr title of
duke to the family of Hamilton in Scotland. E. Long.
O. 55. N. Lat. 52. 30.
BRANDRITH, denotes a trevet or other iron
ftand, wfliereon to fet a veffel over the fire.
Brandrith, among builders, denotes a fence or rail
about the mouth of a well,
BRANDT, Gerard, a learned divine of the re¬
formed religion, wras born at Amfterdam in 1626, and
was fucceflively minifter in feveral places of the Nether¬
lands. He w’rote fome works which are efteemed, par¬
ticularly the Hiftory of the reformation of the Nether¬
lands, 4 vols 4to; and The Life of Admiral Ruyter $
both written in the Flemiftr tongue. He died at Rot¬
terdam in 1685.
BRANDY, a fpirituous and inflammable liquor,
extrafted from wine and other liquors by diftillation.
See Distillation.
Wine-brandy, made in France, is efteemed me beft
in Europe. They make it wherever they make wine,
and for that purpofe ufe wine that is pricked rather than
good wine. The chief brandies for foreign trade, and
thofe accounted beft, are the brandies of Bourdeaux,
Rochelle, Cogniac, Charenton, the ifle of Rhe, Or¬
leans, the county of Blafois, Poidou, Touraine, Anjou,
Nantz, Burgundy, and Champaign.
BRANK, an inftrument ufed in fome parts of
Scotland, and in Staffordfhire, for correding fcolding
women. It is a fort of head-piece, which opens and en-
clofes the head of the impatient, while an iron, (harp
as a chiffel, enters the mouth, and fubdues the more
dreadful weapon within. Thus harneffed, the offender
is led in triumph through the ftreets. Dr Plott, in his
Hiftory of Staffordfhire, ha» favoured the wmrld with a
minute defcription and figure of the inftrument*, which * Page 380.
is there called a fcolding bridle ; and tells us, he looksTab' 32,
upon it “ as much to be preferred to the ducking-ftool,
which not only endangers the health of the party, but
alfo gives the tongue liberty betwixt every dip j to nei¬
ther of which this is at all liable.”
BRANLIN, in a fpecies of falmon, with
feveral tranfverfe black ftreaks, refembling the impref-
fion of fo many fingers.
BRANNODUNUM (Notitiae), with a garrifon
of the Equites Dalmatiae, a town of Britain, on the
Sinus Metaris: now Brancefter, in Norfolk, on the
Waffies.
BRANOGENIUM, or Branonium, a town of
the Coritani, a people in the heart of Britain : from
the diftances of the Itinerary, Camden fuppofes it to
be Worcefter.
BRANSKA, a town of Tranfilvania, fituated on the
river Matifli. E. Long. 23. 15. N. Lat. 46. o.
BRASIDAS,
BRA l 375 ] BRA
jB fa {la as BRASIDAS, a celebrated general of the Lacede-
11^ monians, about 424 years before the birth of Chriil,
r l l' 1 ’ , He defeated the Athenians by land and fea, took many
places, and rendered his country formidable to all the
neighbouring dates. He conquered the Athenians on
their attempting to furprife Amphipolis, but died of
the wounds he received in that battle. See Attica
and Lacedemon.
BRASIDA, an anniverfary folemnity at Sparta, in
memory of Brafidas, a Lacedemonian captain, famous
for his achievements at Methone, Pylos, and Amphi¬
polis. It was celebrated with facrifices and games,
wherein none were permitted to attend but free-born
Spartans. Whoever negledled to be prefent at the fo¬
lemnity was fined.
BRASIL, a large country of South America, be¬
ing the eaftermoft part of that continent, lying between
the equino£lial line and the tropic of capricorn. It
is about 1560 miles in length, and 1000 in breadth j
but, meafuring along the coaft, it is 2000 miles long,
and is bordered with mountains that open from time
to time, and form good harbours where veflels may lie
in fafety. It was accidentally difcovered by the Por-
tuguefe in x 500. Emmanuel king of Portugal had equip¬
ped a fquadron of 13 fail, carrying 1200 loldiers and
failors deftined for the Eaft Indies, under the condubl
of Peter Alvarez Cabral. This admiral, quitting Lif-
bon on the pth of March 15OO, ftruck out to fea to
avoid the coaft of Guinea, and (leered his courfe fouth-
ward, that he might the more eafily turn the Cape
of Good Hope, which projects a good way into the
ocean. On the 24th of April, he got fight of the con¬
tinent of South America, which he judged to be a
large ifland at fome diftance from the coaft of Africa.
Coafting along for fome time, he ventured to fend a
boat on (bore $ and was aftoniftied to obferve the inha¬
bitants entirely different from the Africans in features,
hair, and complexion. It wras found, however, im¬
practicable to feize upon any of the Indians, who retired
with great celerity to the mountains on the approach
of the Portuguefe •, yet, as the failors had difcovered
a good harbour, the admiral thought proper to come
to an anchor, and called the bay Puerto Seguro. Next
day he fent another boat on fliore, and had the good
fortune to lay hold on two of the natives, whom he
clothed and treated kindly, and then difmilfed, to make
a proper report to their countrymen. The ftratagem
had the defired efifeCf. The Indians, having heard the
relation of the prifoners, immediately croxvded to the
fhore, finging, dancing, and founding horns of different
kinds; which induced Cabral to land, and take folemn
pofieftion in the name of his Portuguefe majefty.
As foon as the court of Lifbon had ordered a furvey
to be taken of the harbours, bays, rivers, and coafts
of Brafil, and was convinced that the country afforded
neither gold nor filver, they held it in fuch contempt,
that they fent thither none but condemned criminals
and abandoned women. Two (hips were fent every
year from Portugal, to carry the refufe of the king¬
dom to this new world, and to bring home parrots and
woods for the dyers and cabinet-makers. Ginger w^as
afterwards added •, but foon after prohibited, left it
fhould interfere wdth the fale of the fame article from
India.
In 1548, the Jews, many of whom had taken re¬
fuge in Portugal, beginning to be perfecuted by the Brafil,
inquifition, were ftripped of their pofleflions, and ba- "V"
niftxed to Brafil. Here, however, they wTere not en¬
tirely forfaken. Many of them found kind relations
and faithful friends j others, who were known to be
men of probity and underftanding, obtained money in
advance from merchants of different nations with whom
they had formerly had tranfaClions. By the affiftance
of fome enterprifing men, they wmre enabled to culti¬
vate fugar canes, which they firft procured from the
ifland of Madeira. Sugar, which till then had been
ufed only in medicine, became an article of luxury.
Princes and great men were all eager to procure them-
felves this new fpecies of indulgence. This circumftance
proved favourable to Brafil, and enabled it to extend
its fugar plantations. The court of Lifbon, notwith-
ftanding its prejudices, began to be fenfible, that a co¬
lony might be beneficial to the mother country, with¬
out producing gold or filver j and this fettlement, W'hich
had been wdiolly left to the capricious management of
the colonifts, was now thought to deferve fome kind of
attention j and accordingly Thomas de Souza was fent
thither, in 1549, to regulate and fuperintend it.
This able governor began by reducing thefe men,
who had always lived in a ftate of anarchy, into pro¬
per fubordination, and bringing their fcattered planta¬
tions clofer together ; after which he applied himfelf
to acquire fome information refpe&ing the natives,
with wLom he knew he muft be inceffantly engaged
either in traffic or war. This it was no eafy matter to
accomplifti. Brafil was full of fmall nations, fome of
wdiich inhabited the forefts, and others lived in the
plains and along the rivers. Some had fettled habita¬
tions •, but the greater number of them led a roving
life, and moft of them had no intercourfe wfith each
other. It is not to be fuppofed that fuch a people
would be at all difpofed to fubmit to the yoke which
the Portuguefe w'anted to put upon them on their
arrival. At firft they only declined all intercourfe with
thefe ftrangers: but finding themfelves purfued in order
to be made flaves, and to be employed in the labours
of the field, they took the refolution to murder and
devour all the Europeans they could feize upon. The
friends and relations of the favages that w'ere taken
prifoners alfo ventured to make frequent attempts to
refcue them, and were fometimes fuccefsful: fo that
the Portuguefe were forced to attend to the double em¬
ployments of labour and war.
Souza did not bring a fufticient number of forces to
change the fituation of affairs. Indeed, by building
San Salvador, he gave a centre to the colony j but the
honour of fettling, extending, and making it really ufe-
ful to the mother-country, was referved fer the Jefuits
who attended him. Thefe men, who for their arts of
infinuation and addrefs have been equalled by none,
difperfed themfelves among the Indians. When any
of the miflionaries were murdered, they were immedi¬
ately replaced by others ; and feeming to be infpired
only with fentiments of peace and charity, the Indians,
in procefs of time, grew not only familiar but pafiion-
ately fond of them. As the miffionaries were too few
in number to tranfaft all the bufinefs themfelves, they
frequently deputed fome of the moft intelligent Indians
in their Head. Thefe men having diftributed hatchets,
knives, and looking-glafies, among the favages they
met
ERA [ 3
Brafil. niet with, reprefented the Portuguefe as a harmlefs,
humane, and good fort of people.
The profperity of the colony of Brafil, which was
vifible to all Europe, excited the envy of the French,
Spaniards, and Dutch fucceflively. The latter, indeed,
bid faired for the conquell of the whole. Their ad¬
miral Henry Lonk arrived, in the beginning of the
year 1630, with 46 men of war, on the coal! of Fer-
nambucca, one of the largeft and bed fortified captain-
Ihips of thefe parts. He reduced it after feveral obdi-
nate engagements, in which he was always vi&orious.
The troops he left behind fubdued the captaindrips of
Temaraca, Pareiba, and Rio Grande, in the years
1633, 1634, and 1635. Thefe, as well as Fernambuc-
ca, furnilhed annually a large quantity of fugar, a great
deal of wood for dyeing, and other commodities. The
Hollanders were fo elated with the acquidtion of this
wealth, which flowed to Amderdam indead of Lifbon,
that they determined to conquer all the Braflls, and
intruded Maurice of Naflau with the conduct of this
enterprize. That general reached the place of his def-
tination in the beginning of the year 1637. He found
the foldiers fo well difeiplined, the commanders fuch
experienced men, and fo much readinefs in all to en¬
gage, that he direftly took the field. He was fuccef-
dvely oppofed by Albuquerque, Banjola, Lewis Rocca
de Borgia, and the Brafilian Cameron, the idol of his
people, padionately fond of the Portuguefe, brave, ac¬
tive, cunning, and who wanted no qualification necelfa-
ry for a general, but to have learned the art of war un¬
der able commanders. Thefe feveral chiefs exerted their
utmod efforts to defend the poffeflions that were under
their protection ; but their endeavours proved ineffec¬
tual. The Dutch feized upon the captainfhips of Siara,
Seregippe, and the greater part of that of Bahia. Seven
of the 15 provinces which compofed the colony had
already fubmitted to them, and they flattered themfelves
that one or two campaigns would make them maders
of the red of their enemies poffeflxons in that part of
America $ when they wTere fuddenly checked by the
revolution happening on the banifhment of Philip IV.
and placing the duke of Braganza on the throne. Af¬
ter this, the Portuguefe recovering their fpirits, foon
drove the Dutch out of Brafil, and have continued
maders of it ever fince.
The country of Brafxl is divided into the following
provinces, viz. Paria, Maragnano, Siara, Rio Grande,
Pareiba, Tamarica, Fernambucca, Seregippe, Bahia,
Porto Seguro, Efperito Santo, Rio de Janeiro, Angra,
St Vincent, and Del Rey. See thefe articles.
The fird afpeCl of the country from the fea is rather
unfavourable, as it appears high, rough, and unequal ;
but, on a more narrow infpeftion, nothing can be more
delightful, the eminences being covered with woods,
and the valleys and favannahs wdth the mod refrediing
verdure. In fo vad a trad: of land, it cannot be imagi¬
ned that the climate wdll be found at all equal, or the
feafons uniform. The northern provinces are fubjeCl
to heavy rains and variable winds, like other countries
under the fame parallels. Tornadoes, dorms, and the
utmod fury of the elements, wreak their vengeance
here ”, while the foutherly regions are bleffed with all
the comforts which a fine fertile foil and temperate cli¬
mate can afford. In fome of the provinces, the heat of
the climate is thought to prove favourable to the gene-
C ] BRA
ration of a great variety of poifonous reptiles: fome of Brafil.'
which, as the hboy or roebuck fnake, are faid to ex- —"v——
tend to the length of 30 feet, and to be two or three
yards in circumference. The rattlefuake and other
reptiles of the fame kind, grow likewife to an enor¬
mous fize ; and the ferpent called ibibaboka is affirmed
to be 7 yards long, and Haif a yard in circumference, pof-
feffed too of a poifon indantaneoufly fatal to the human
race. Here alfo are fcorpions, ant-bears, tygers or ma-
dilloes, porcupines, janonveras, and an animal called
tapirajj'on, which is the produftion of a bull and an afs,
having a great refemblance to both. No country on
earth affords a greater number of beautiful birds, nor
variety of the mod exquifite fruits j but the chief com¬
modities are Brafd-wood, ebony, dyeing woods, amber¬
gris, rofin, balfams, indigo, fweetmeats, fugar, tobac¬
co, gold, diamonds, beautiful pebbles, crydal, emeralds,
jafper, and other precious dones 5 in all which the Por¬
tuguefe carry on fuch an amazing trade, as may judly
be reputed the fupport, and indeed the vital fountain,
of the mother country. The gold and diamond mines
are but a recent difeovery : they are fird opened in
the year 1681 j and have fince yielded above five mil¬
lions derling annually, of w;hich fum a fifth belongs to
the crown. So plentiful are diamonds in this country,
that the court of Portugal hath found it neceffary to
redrain their importation, to prevent too great a dimi¬
nution of their value. They are neither fo hard nor fo
clear as thofe of the Ead Indies, nor do they fparkle fo
much, but they are whiter. The Brafilian diamonds are
fold ten per cent, cheaper than the Oriental ones, fup-
pofing the weights to be equal. The larged diamond in
the w’orld was fent from Brafil to the king of Portugal.
It weighs 1680 carats, or 124 ounces j and has been va¬
lued at 56,787,500!. Some fkilful lapidaries, however,
are of opinion that this fuppofed diamond is only a to¬
paz ; in which cafe a very great abatement mud be
made in its value. The crown revenue arifing from this
colony amounts to two millions derling in gold, if we
may credit fome late writers, befides the duties and
cudoms on merchandife imported from that quarter.
This indeed is more than a fifth of the precious metal
produced by the mines j but, every other confequent
advantage confidered, it probably does not much ex¬
ceed the truth. The exceffive confluence of people to
the Brafil colonies, as well from other countries as from
Portugal, not only enlarges the imports of gold, but,
what is of infinitely more importance to Europe in ge¬
neral, the exportation of the manufaftures of this hemi-
fphere 5 of which the principal are the following. Great
Britain fends woollen manufa&ures ; fuch as fine broad
medley cloths, fine Spanifh cloths, fcarlet and black
cloths; ferges, duroys, druggets, fagathies, fhalloons,
camblets, and Norwich duffs ; black Colcheder baife j
fays, and perpetuanas called long ells; hats, dockings,
and gloves. Holland, Germany, and France, chiefly
export fine hollands, bone-lace, and fine thread : filk
manufactures, pepper, lead, block tin, and other ar¬
ticles, are alfo fent from different countries. Befides
the particulars already fpecified, England likewife
trades with Portugal, for the ufe of the Brafils, in cop¬
per and brafs, wrought and unwrought pewter, and all
kinds of hardware: all which articles have fo enlarged
the Portuguefe trade, that, indead of 1 2 fliips ufually
employed in the Brafil commerce, there are now never
fewer
BRA [377
Bralil-wood fewer than iqo fail of large veffels conflantly going and
returning to thofe colonies. To all this may be added
r . - the vaft Have-trade carried on rvith the coal! of Africa
for the ufe of the Brafil colonies : which, we may be¬
lieve, employs a great number of {hipping, from the
multitude of Haves that are annually tranfported. In¬
deed the commerce of Brafil alone is fufficient to raife
Portugal to a confiderable height of naval power, as it
maintains a conflant nurfery of feamen : yet a certain
infatuation in the policy of the country has prevented
that effeft, even amidfi all thefe extraordinary advan¬
tages. All the fliips in this trade, being under the di-
redlion of the government, have their appointed feafons
of going and returning, under convoy of a certain num¬
ber of men of war ; nor can a fingle (hip clear out or
go, except with the fleet, but by a fpeciad licenfe from
the king, which is feldom granted j though it is eafily
determined, that fuch reflriftions can prove no way be¬
neficial to the general commerce, though poflibly the
crown revenue may be better guarded thereby. The
fleets fail in the following order, and at the following
Hated periods: That to Rio de Janeiro fets fail in Ja¬
nuary ; the fleet to Bahia, or the bay of All Saints, in
February ; and the third fleet, to Fernambucca, in the
month of March.
Brasil-IVoocI, or Brazil-wood, an American wood
of a red colour, and very heavy. It is denominated va-
rioufly, according to the places from whence it is
brought: Thus we have brafil of Fernambucca, Japan,
Lamon, &c. For its defcription, &c. fee C^salpinia,
Botany Index.
BRASILETTO, the fame with Brafil-wood.
BRASLAW, a confiderable town of Poland, in Li¬
thuania, and palatinate of Wilna, with a caflle. It is
feated on a fmall lake, in E. Long. 17. 5. N. Lat. 55.
45-
BRASS, or, as the French call it, yellow copper, is
a fa61itious metal, compofed of copper and zinc. See
Chem 1 stay Index.
The firfl formation of brafs, as we are aflured by
fcripture, was prior to the flood, and difcovered even
» Gen. iv. in the feventh generation from Adam *. But the ufe of
it was not, as is generally believed, and the Arundelian
marbles aflert, previous to the knowledge of iron. They
were both firfl known in the fame generation, and firft
wrought by the fame difcoverer. And the knowledge
of them muft have been equally carried over the world
afterxvards, with the fpreading of the colonies of the
Noachidae. An acquaintance with the one or the other
was abfolutely neceflary to the exiftence of the colonifts;
the clearing away of the woods about their fettlements,
and the ere&ion of houfes for their habitation.
The ancient Britons, though acquainted from the
remoteft periods with the ufe of both thefe metals, re¬
mained long ignorant that they were to be obtained in
the iiland. Before this difcovery they imported all
their iron and brafs from the continent. And when
they had at length detefted the former in their own
hills, and had ceafed to introduce it, they continued to
receive the latter. Their want of the metal remained,
and no mines of it were opened in the ifland. In the
earlieft ages whofe manners have been delineated by
hiftory, wTe find the weapons of their warriors invari¬
ably framed of this factitious metal ; and the moft au¬
thentic of all the profane records of antiquity, the A-
Vol. IV. Part 1.
1 BRA
rundelian marbles, for that reafon, miftakenly date the Brafs.
firft difcovery of iron a couple of centuries below the v
Trojan war. Every military nation, as fuch, is natu¬
rally ftudious of brightnefs in its arms} and the Britons,
particularly, gloried in the neatnefs of theirs. For this
reafon the nations of the world Hill fabricated their arms
of brafs, even long after the Arundelian era for the dif¬
covery of iron ; and the Britons continued to import
it from the continent, though they had found iron to
be a native of the country, and could have fupplied
themfelves with a fufficient quantity of it.
Mr Whitaker f fuppofes, that when the Britons de- f Hijl. of
rived their iron and brafs from the continent, they pur- Mancbejler.
chafed the latter at an eafier expence than the former.
The Gauls had many large brafs works carried on in
the kingdom, but feem to have had but few iron forges,
within it. And this would naturally induce the Belgae
to be lefs diligent in their inquiry after the veins of
copper and calamine at home, than for the courfes of
iron ore ; though the one was equally difcoverable in
the ifland as the other, and lay equally within the Bel-
gic regions of it. Brafs being thus cheaper than iron,
they neceflarily formed with it fome domeftic as well
as military implements. Such were common among
the Gauls j and fuch were familiar to the Britons, ei¬
ther imported into the ifland, as fome aClually were, or
manufaftured within it, as others alfo afluredly were.
The Britons had certainly brafs founderies eredfed a-
mong them, and minted money, and fabricated w-eapons
of brafs.
In this condition of the works, the Romans entered
the ifland. And feeing fo great a demand among the
natives for this article, they would fpeedily inftrudf
them to difcover the materials of it among themfelves.
This muft unavoidably have refulted from the conqueft
of the Romans. The power of furprifing their new
fubjedls with fo unexpedled a difcovery would natu¬
rally ftimulate the pride of the Roman intelledl ; and
the defire of obliging themfelves with fo cheap a fupply
of that ufeful metal, ftationary as they were in that
kingdom, would alfo equally adluate the felfifhnefs of
the Roman brafs. The veins of copper and calamine
would be eafily found out by an experienced inquirer
after them } and the former metal is therefore diftin-
guifhed among the Welfh, only by the Roman appel¬
lation of cyprium, koppr or copper. And many foun-
deries of brafs appear to have been eftablillied in the
ifland. Some had been eredled before, one perhaps
within the confines of every kingdom, and probably in
the vicinity of every capital. One at leaft would be
neceflary, in order to fupply the armoury of the prin¬
cipality : and one perhaps was fufficient for moft: of
the Britiffi ftates. But feveral appear now to have
been fettled in every kingdom, and one perhaps near
every ftationary town. Two have been difcovered in
the fingle county of Effex, and within a narrow por¬
tion of it, at Fifield and Danbury. And a third was
placed upon Eafterly Moor in Yorkfhire, 12 miles to
the north-weft of York, and in the neighbourhood of
Ifurium or Aid borough'.
Corinthian Brass, famous in antiquity, is a mixture
of gold, filver, and copper. L. Mummius having fack-
ed and burnt the city of Corinth, 146 years before
Chrift, it is faid this metal was formed from the im-
menfe quantities of gold, filver, and copper, wherewith
3 B that
BRA
Brafs.
j tliat city abounded, thus melted and run together by
the violence of the conflagration.
Brass, in the glafs trade.—Thrice calcined brafs is
a preparation which ferves the glaffmen to give many
very beautiful colours to their metal. The manner of
preparing it is this : Place thin plates of brafs on tiles
on the leet of the furnace near the occhis ; let it ftand
to be calcined there for four days, and it will become a
black powder flicking together in lumps. Powder this,
lift it fine, and recalcine it four or five days more} it wall
not then ilicK together, but remain a loofe powder, of
a ruflfet colour. I his is to be calcined a third time in
the fame manner 5 but great care muft be taken in the
third calcination, that it be not overdone nor under¬
done : the way to be certain when it is right is, to try
it feveral times in glafs while melting. If it makes it,
when well purified, to fw7ell, boil, and rife, it is pro¬
perly calcined ; if not, it requires longer time. This
makes, according to the different proportions in which
it is ufed, a lea-green, an emerald-green, or a turcoife
colour.
Brafs, by long calcination alone, and without any
mixture, affords a fine blue or green colour for glafs}
but they have a method of calcining it alfo with pow¬
dered brimflone, fo as to make it afford a red, a vel-
low, or a chalcedony colour, according to the quantity
and other variations in the ufing it. The method of
making the calcination is this: Cut thin plates of brafs
into fmall pieces with (hears, and lay them flratum fu-
per flratum, with alternate beds of powdered fulphur,
in a crucible ; calcine this for 24 hours in a flrong fire:
then powder and lift the whole j and finally expofe this
powder upon tiles for 12 days to a reverberating fur¬
nace } at the end of this time powder it fine, and keep
it for ufe. The glafs-makers have alfo a method of
procuring a red powder from brafs, by a more Ample
calcination, which ferves them for many colours. The
method of preparing it is this : They put fmall and
thin plates of orafs into the arches of the glafs furnaces,
and leave them there till they are fufliciently calcined,
which the heat in that place, not being enough to melt
them, does in great perfettion. The calcined matter
powdered, is ef a dufky red, and requires no farther
preparation.
Brass-Co/oui', one prepared by the braziers and co¬
lour-men to imitate brafs. There are two forts of it \
the red brafs or bronze, and the yellow or gilt brafs:
the latter is made only of copper-filings, the fmallefl
and brightell that can be found j with the former they
mix feme red ochre, finely pulverized ; they are both
uled ivith varnifh.—In order to make a fine brafs that
xvill not take any rufl or verdigris, it muff be dried
with a chafing-diih of coals as foon as it is applied. 
I he fined brafs-colour is made with powder brafs im¬
ported from Germany, diluted into a varnifh, made and
ufed after the following manner : The varnifh is com-
poft d of one pound four ounces of fpirit of wine, two
ounces of gum-lac, and two ounces of fandarac $ thefe
two lad drugs are pulverized feparately, and afterwards
put to diilolve in fpirit of wine, taking care to fill the
bottle but half full. I he varnifh being made, you mix
fuch quantity as you pleafe of it with the pulverized
orafs, and apply it with a fmall brufh to what you
would brafs over. But you mud not mix too much at
once, becaufe the varnifh being very apt to dry, you
[ 378 ]
BRA
Praffica.
would not have time to employ it all foon enough j it BrafTaw
is therefore better to make the mixture at feveral times.
After this manner they brafs over figures of plader,
which look as w-ell as if they were of cad brafs.
BRAss-Leaf is made of copper, beaten out into very
thin plates, and afterwards rendered yellow7. The
German aitids, particularly thofe of Nuremberg and
Augfburg, are faid to poffefs the bed method of giving
to thefe thin plates of copper a fine yellow colour like
gold, by Amply expofing them to the fumes of zinc,
w ithout any real mixture of it with the metal. Thefe
plates are cut into little pieces, and then beaten out
fine like leaves of gold ; after which they are put into
books of coarfe paper, and fold at a low price for the
vulgar kinds of gilding. The parings or flireds of
thefe very thin yellow leaves being well ground on a
marble plate, are reduced to a powder fimilar to gold ;
which ferves to cover, by means of gum-water, or feme
other glutinous fluid, the furface of various mouldings
or pieces of curious workmanfhip, giving them the ap¬
pearance of real bronze, and even of fine gold, at a very
trifling expence, becaufe the gold colour of this me¬
tallic pow^der may be eafily raifed and improved by
dirring it on a wide earthen bafon over a flow fire.
BRASs-Lumps, a common name given by miners to
the globular pyrites. See Pyrites, Mineralogy
Index.
BRASSAW, or Cronstadt, a drong tow7n of
Tranfilvania in Burezland ; feated on the river Buxel,
in E. Long. 22. 35. N. Lat. 46. 30.
BRASSE. A fpecies of Perca. See Ichthyo¬
logy Index.
BRASSICA, cabbage, in Botany, for the claflifi-
cation of wdfleh lee Botany Index. But as many of
the fpecies of this genus ate of confiderable importance
as articles of food, we fliall here lay before our readers
a more particular account of their ufes and mode of
culture under the names known to praftical gardeners.
The fpecies called campejlris grow7s naturally on the
fea-fhore near Dover, has a perennial branching dalk,
and in this it differs from all the other fpecies. In
very fevere winters, w7hen the other forts are dedroyed,
this is a neceffary plant, for the moil fevere frods do
not injure it. The flow7er-dalks grow from the end
of the branches, and fpread out horizontally; but
thofe which arife from the centre of the plants grow
ere£l, and feldom put out branches. The cauliflower
has been much more improved in Britain than in
any other part of Europe. In France they rarely
have cauliflowers till Michaelmas, and Holland has
been often fupplied with them from Britain. In many
parts of Germany there were none of them cultivated
till w'ithin a few years pad, and mod parts of Europe
are fupplied with feeds from Britain. That which is
generally known by the title of rape or cole-feed is
much cultivated in the ifle of Ely, and fome other
parts of England, for its feed, from which rape-oil is
drawn ; and it hath alfo been cultivated of late years,
in other places, for feeding of cattle, to great advan¬
tage. The cole-feed, when cultivated for feeding of
cattle, fliould be fown about the middle of June.
7 he ground for this fhould be prepared for it in the
fame manner as for turnips. The quantity of feeds for
an acre of land is from fix to eight pounds j and as the
price of the feed is not great, fo it is better to allow
eight
BRA [ 379 j BRA
Brafllca. eight pounds *, for if the plants are too clofe in any part
they may be eafily thinned when the ground is hoed,
which muft be performed in the fame manner as is prac-
tifed for turnips, with this difference only, of leaving
theie much nearer together ; for as they have fibrous
roots and {lender ftalks, fo they do not require near fo
much room. Thefe plants Ihould have a fecond hoe¬
ing about five or fix weeks after the firft, which, if
well performed in dry weather, will entirely deftroy the
weeds, fo they will require no farther culture. Where
there is not an immediate want of food, thefe plants
had better be kept as a referve for hard weather, or
fpring feed, when there may be a fcarcity of other green
food. If the heads are cut off, and the llalks left in the
ground, they will {hoot again early in the fpring, and
produce a good fecond crop in April which may be
either, fed off, or permitted to run to feeds, as is the
praftice where this is cultivated for the feeds : but if the
firft is fed down, there ftiould be care taken that the
cattle do not deftroy their ftems, or pull them out of
the ground. As this plant is fo hardy as not to be de-
firoyed by froft, fo it is of great fervice in hard winters
for feeding of ewes $ for when the ground is fo hard
frozen as that turnips cannot be taken up, thefe plants
may be cut off for a conftant fupply. This will-afford
late food after the turnips are run to feed •, and if it is
afterwards permitted to ftand for feed, one acre will
produce as much as, at a moderate computation, will
fell for five pounds, clear of charges. Partridges, phea-
fants, turkeys, and moft other fowl, are very fond of
this plant $ fo that wherever it is cultivated, if there
are any birds in the neighbourhood, they will con-
ftantly lie among thefe plants. The feeds of this plant
are fown in gardens for winter and fpring falads, this
being one of the fmall falad herbs.
The common white, red, flat, and long-fided cab¬
bages, are chiefly cultivated for autumn and winter ufe.
The feeds of thefe forts muft be fown the beginning or
middle of April, in beds of good frefti earth ; and when
the young plants have about eight leaves, they fliould
be pricked out into ihady borders, about three or four
inches fquare, that they may acquire ftrength, and to
prevent their growing long {hanked. About the middle
of June you muft tranfplant them out, where they are
to remain. If they are planted for a full crop in a clear
fpot of ground, the diftance from row to row ftiould be
three feet and a half, and in the rows two feet and a
half afunder : if the feafon Ihould prove dry when they
are tranfplanted out, you muft water them every other
evening until they have taken frelh root; and after-
wards, as the plants advance in height, you fhould draw
the earth about the ftems with a hoe, which will keep
the earth moift about their roots, and greatly ftrengthen
the plants. Thefe cabbages will fome of them be fit
for ufe foon after Michaelmas, and will continue until
the end of February, if they are not deftroyed by bad
weather •, to prevent which, the gardeners near London
pull up their cabbages in November, and trench their
ground up in ridges, laying their cabbages againft their
ridges as clofe as poffible on one fide, burying their
ftems in the ground : in this manner they let them re¬
main till after Chriftmas, when they cut them for the
market $ and although the outer part of the cabbage
be decayed (as is often the cafe in very wet or hard
winters), yet, if the cabbages wTere large and hard Braftca.
wftien laid, the iufide will remain found. ^
The Ruffian cabbage was formerly in much greater
efteem than at prefent, it being now only to be found
in particular gentlemen’s gardens, who cultivate it for
their own ufe. This muft be fown late in the fpring
of the year, and managed as thofe before diredled, with
this difference only, that thefe muft be fooner planted
out, and muft have an open clear fpot of ground, and
require much lefs diftance every way, for it is but a very
fmall hard cabbage. This fort will not continue long
before they wall break and run up to feed.
The early and fugar loaf cabbages are commonly
fown for furnmer ufe, and are wffiat the gardeners about
London commonly call Michaelmas cabbages. T he fear
fon for lowing of thefe is about the end of July, or be¬
ginning of Auguft, in an open fpot of ground 5 and
when the plants have got eight leaves, you muft prick
them into beds at about three or four inches diftance
every w'ay, that the plants may grow' ftrong and ftiort
{hanked ; and toward the end of Oftober you fhould
plant them out : the diftance that thefe require is, three
feet row from row, and two feet and a half afunder in
the rows. The ground muft be kept clean from weeds-,
and the earth drawn up about your cabbage plants. In
May, if your plants w^ere of the early kind, they will
turn in their leaves for cabbaging j at which time, the
gardeners near London, in order to obtain them a little
fooner, tie in their leaves clofe wuth a {lender ofier-twig
to blanch their middle; by which means, they have
them at leaf! a fortnight fooner than they could have
if they were left untied.
The early cabbage being the firft, we ftiould choofe
to plant the fewTer of them, and a greater quantity of
the fugar-loaf kind, which comes after them , for the
early kind will not fupply the kitchen long, generally
cabbaging apace when they begin, and as foon grow
hard and burft open ; but the fugar-loaf kind is longer
before it comes, and is as flow in its cabbaging j and
being of a hollow kind, will continue for a good long
time. The fugar-loaf kind may be planted out in Fe¬
bruary, and will fucceed as w'ell as if planted earlier j
with this difference only, that they will be later before
they cabbage. You ftiould alfo referve fome plants of
the early kind in fome well-lheltered fpot of ground, to
fupply your plantation, in cafe of a deleft j for in mild
winters many of the plants are apt to run to feed,
efpecially w'hen their feeds are fown too early, and in
fevere winters they are often deftroyed.
The Savoy cabbages are propagated for winter ufe,
as being generally efteemed the>etter when pinched by
the froft : thefe muft be fowm £bout the end of April,
and treated after the manner as was direfted for the
common white cabbage *, with this difference that thefe
may be planted at a clofer diftance than thofe j two
feet and a half fquare wnll be fufficient. Thefe are al¬
ways much better when planted in an open fituation,
which is clear from trees and hedges j for in clofe
places they are very fubjeft to be eaten almoft up by
caterpillars and other vermin, efpecially if the autumn
prove dry.
The broccoli may alfo be treated in the fame man¬
ner, but need not be planted above one foot afunder in
the rows, and the rows two feet d’iftance ; thefe are ne-
3 B 2 ver
BRA [ 380 ] BRA
Eraflica. ver eaten till the froft hath rendered them tender j for this fort has been neglefted. There are fome perfons Braffica.
 v otherwife they are tough and bitter. who efteem this kind for foups, but it is too ftrong for
The feeds of the broccoli (of which there are feveral moft palates ; and is feldom good but in hard winters,
kinds, viz. the Roman or purple, the Neapolitan or which will render it tender and lefs ftrong. At the end
white, and the black broccoli, with fome others, but of June the plants ftiould be tranfplanted out where
the Roman is preferred to them all), fhould be fown they are to remain, allowing them two feet diftance
about the latter end of May, or beginning of June, and every way, obferving to water them until they have
when the plants are’-^grown to have eight leaves, tranf- taken root •, and as their ftems advance, the earth fhould
plant them into beds (as was direfted for the common be drawn up to them with a hoe, which will preferve
cabbage) 5 and toward the latter end of July they will a moifture about their roots, and prevent their ftems
be fit to plant out, which fhould be done into fome from drying and growing woody, fo that the plants
well-ftieltered fpot of ground, but not under the drip will grow more freely ; but it ftiould not be drawn very
of trees : the diftance thefe require is about a foot and high, for as it is the globular part of the ftalk which
a half in the rows, and two feet row from row. The is eaten, fo that fhould not be covered. In winter
foil in which they fhould be planted ought to be rather they will be fit for ufe, when they fhould be cut oft,
light than heavy.: if your plants fucceed well (as there and the ftalks pulled out of the ground and thrown
will be little reafon to doubt, unlefs the winter prove ex- away, being good for nothing after the ftems are cut
tremely hard), they will begin to fhow their fmall heads, off. As food for cattle, however, the cultivation of
which are fomewhat like a cauliflower, but of a purple this fpecies deferves particular attention. See Agri-
colour, about the end of December, and will continue culture Index.
eatable till the middle of April. The brown or black The curled colewort or Siberian broccoli is now
broccoli is by many perfons greatly efteemed, though more generally efteemed than the former, being ex¬
it doth not deferve a place in the kitchen-garden where tremely hardy, fo is never injured by cold, but is always
the Roman broccoli can be obtained, which is much fweeter in fevere winters than in mild feafons. This
fweeter, and will continue longer in feafon : indeed, the may be propagated by fowing of the feeds the begin-
brown fort is much hardier, fo that it will thrive in the ning of July } and when the plants are ftrong enough
coldeft fituations, where the Roman broccoli is fome- for tranfplanting, they fhould be planted in rows about
times deftroyed in very hard winters. The brown fort a foot and a half afunder, and ten inches diftance in the
fhould be fown in the middle of May, and managed as rows. Thefe will be fit for ufe after Chriftmas, and
hath been direfted for the common cabbage, and fhould continue good until April, fo that they are very ufe-
be planted at the fame diftance, which is about two ful in a family.
feet and a half afunder. This will grow very tall, fo The mufk cabbage. This may be propagated in the
ftrould have the earth drawn up to their ftems as they fame manner as the common cabbage, and fhould be
advance in height. This doth not form heads fo per- allowed the fame diftance : it will be fit for ufe in Oc-
fett as the Roman broccoli; the ftems and hearts of the tober, November, and December \ but, if the winter
plants are the parts which are eaten. The Roman broc- proves hard, thefe will be deftroyed much fooner than
coli (if wTell managed) will have large heads, which ap- the common fort.
pear in the centre of the plants like clufters of buds. The common colewort or Dorfetfhire kale, is now
Thefe heads fhould be cut before they run up to feed, almoft loft near London, where their markets are ufu-
with about four or five inches of the ftem ; the fkin of ally fupplied with cabbage plants inftead of them. The
the ftems fhould be ftripped off before they are boiled, beft method to cultivate this plant in the fields is, to
After the firft heads are cut off, there will be a great fow the feeds about the beginning of July, choofing.
number of fide-fhoots produced from the ftems, which a moift feafon, which will bring up the plants in about
will have fmall heads to them, but are full as well fla- ten days or a fortnight; the quantity of feed for an
voured as the large. The Naples broccoli hath white acre of land is nine pounds : when the plants have got
heads very like thofe of the cauliflower, and eats fo like five or fix leaves they fhould be hoed, as is praftifed
it as not to be diftinguifhed from it Befides this firft for turnips, cutting down all the weeds from amongft
crop of broccoli (which is ufually fown in the end of the plants, and alfo thinning the plants where they are
May), it will be proper to fow another crop the be- too thick-, but they fhould be kept thicker than tur-
ginning of July, which will come in to fupply the table nips, becaufe they are more in danger of being deftroy-
the latter end of March and the beginning of April ; ed by the fly : this work fhould be performed in dry
and being very young, will be extremely tender and weather, that the weeds may be killed. About fix
fweet. weeks after, the plants fhould have a fecond hoeing,
In order to fave good feeds of this kind of broccoli, which, if carefully performed in dry weather, will en-
you fhould referve a few of the largeft heads of the firft tirely deftroy the weeds, and make the ground clean,
crop, which fhould be let remain to run up to feed, and fo that they will require no farther culture : in the fpring
all the under fhoots fhould be conftantly ftripped off, they may be either drawn up and carried out to feed
leaving only the main ftem to flower and feed. If this the cattle, or they may be turned in to feed upon them
be duly obferved, and no other fort of cabbage permit- as they ftand j but the former method is to be prefer-
ted to feed near them, the feeds will be as good as thofe red, becaufe there will be little wafte ; whereas, when
procured from abroad, and the fort may bp preferved in the cattle are turned in amongft the plants, they will
perfection many years. tread down and deftroy more than they eat, efpecially
The turnip-rooted cabbage was formerly more cul- if they are not fenced off by hurdles,
tivated in Britain than at prefent ; for fince other forts The two laft forts of cabbages are varieties fit for a
have been introduced which are much better flavoured, botanic garden, but are plants of no ufe. They are
annual
BRA [ 381 ] BRA
Eraffic?.. annual plants, and perifh when they have perfected
their feeds.
The heft method to fave the feeds of all the forts of
cabbages is, about the end of November you (hould
make choice of fome of your belt cabbages, which you
fhould pull up, and carry to fome fhed or other cover¬
ed place, where you fhould hang them up for three or
four days by their ftalks, that the water may drain from
between their leaves ; then plant them in fome border
near a hedge or pale, quite down to the middle of the
cabbage, leaving only the upper part of the cabbage
above ground, obferving to raife the earth above it, fo
that it may Hand a little above the level of the ground j
efpecially if the ground is wet, they will require to be
raifed pretty much above the furface. If the winter
fhould prove very hard, you mull lay a little ftraw or
peafe haulm lightly upon them, to fecure them from
the froft, taking it off as often as the weather proves
mild, leaft by keeping them too clofe they fhould rot.
In the fpring of the year thefe cabbages will fhoot out
flrongly, and divide into a great number of fmall
branches: you muff therefore fupport their ftems, to
prevent their being broken off by the wund •, and if the
weather fhould be very hot and dry when they are in
flower, you fhould refrefh them with water once a-week
all over the branches, wrhich will greatly promote their
feeding, and preferve them from mildew'. When the
pods begin to change browm, you will do w'ell to cut
off the extreme part of every {hoot with the pods, which
will ftrengthen your feeds ; for it is generally obferved,
that thofe feeds which grow near the top of the fhoots,
are very fubjeft to run to feed before they cabbage ;
fo that by this there will be no lofs, but a great ad¬
vantage. When your feeds begin to ripen, you muff
be particularly careful that the birds do not deftroy it,
for they are very fond of thefe feeds. The beft method
to prevent this, is to get a quantity of birdlime, and
dawb over a parcel of flender twigs, which fhould be
faftened at each end to ftronger flicks, and placed
near the upper part of the feed in different places, fo
that the birds may alight upon them, by which means
they will be faftened thereto ; where you muft let
them remain, if they cannot get off themfelves : and
although there fhould not above two or three birds be
caught, yet it will futhciently terrify the reft, that they
will not come to that place again for a confiderable
time after.
When your feed is fully ripe, you muft cut it off;
and after drying, thrafh it out, and preferve it in bags
for ufe.
But in planting of cabbages for feed, it will be pro¬
per never to plant more than one fort in a place, or
near one another : for example, never plant red and
white cabbages near each other, nor Savoy with white
or red cabbages ; for they will, by the commixture of
their effluvia, produce a mixture of kinds : and it is
faid to be owing to this negledt, that the gardeners
rarely fave any good red cabbage feed in Britain, but
are obliged to procure frefh feeds from abroad ; as fup-
pofing the foil or climate of Britain alters them from
red to white, and of a mixed kind betwixt both ; where¬
as, if they fhould plant red cabbages by themfelves for
feeds, and not fuffer any other to be near them, they
might continue the kind as good in Britain as in any
other part of the world.
Cauliflowers have of late years been fo far improved Braffea,
in Britain, as to exceed in goodnefs and magnitude ■—.—y—«■
what are produced in moft parts of Europe, and by the
fkill of the gardener are continued for feveral months v
together ; but the moft common feafon for the great
crops is in May, June, and July. Having procured a
parcel of good feed, you muft fow it about the 21ft of
Auguft, upon an old cucumber or melon bed, fifting a
little earth over the feeds, about a quarter of an inch
thick; and if the weather ihould prove extremely hot and
dry, you fhould fhade the beds with mats, to prevent
the earth from drying too fall, and give it gentle wa¬
terings as you may fee occafion. In about a month’s
time after fowing, your plants will be fit to prick out:
you fhould therefore put fome frefh earth upon your
cucumber or melon beds; or where theie are not to be
had, fome beds fhould be made with a little new dung,
w'hich fhould be trodden down clofe, to prevent the
worms from getting through it j but it fhould not be
hot dung, rvhich would be hurtful to the plants at this
feafon, efpecially if it proves hot; into this bed you
fhould prick your young plants at about two inches
fquare, obferving to fhade and water them at firft plant¬
ing ; but do not water them too much after they are
growing, nor fuffer them to receive too much rain if
the feafon fhould prove wTet, which would be apt to
make them black {hanked, as the gardeners term it,
which is no lefs than a rottennefs in their ftems, and
is the deftrudlion of the plants fo affedled. In this
bed they fhould continue till about the 30th of Octo¬
ber, when they muft be removed into the place where
they are to remain during the winter feafon ; which,
for the firft fowung, is commonly under bell or hand
glaffes, to have early cauliflou'ers, and thefe fhould be
of an early kind : but in order to have a fucceffion du¬
ring the feafon, you fhould be provided with another
more late kind, which fhould be Town four or five days
after the other, and managed as was direfted for them.
In order to have very early cauliflowers, you fhould
make choice of a good rich fpot of ground that is w'ell
defended from the north, eaft, and weft W'inds, with
hedges, pales, or w'alls •, but the firft are to be prefer¬
red, if made wuth reeds, becaufe the W’inds will fall
dead in thefe, and not reverberate as by pales or walls.
This ground fhould be well trenched, burying therein a
good quantity of rotten dung j then level your ground,
and if it be naturally a wet foil, you fhould raife it up
in beds about twro feet and a half, or three feet broad,
and four inches above the level of the ground ; but if
your ground is moderately dry, you need not raife it at
all : then plant your plants, allow ing about two feet fix
inches diftance from glafs to glafs in the row's, always
putting two good plants under each glafs, which mav
be at about four inches from each other 5 and if you
defign them for a full crop, they may be three feet and
a half row from row: but if you intend to make ridges
for cucumbers between the rows of cauliflower plants
(as is generally praclifed by the gardeners near Lon¬
don), you muft then make your row’s about eight feet
afunder ; and the ground between the rows of cauli-
flow'ers maybe planted with cabbage plants, to be drawm
off for coleworts in the fpring. When you have plant¬
ed your plants, if the ground is very dry, you fhould
give them a little w’ater, and then fet your glaffes over
them, which may remain quite clofe down over them,
till
BRA
till they have taken root, which will
a week or ten days time, unlefs there fhould be a kind¬
ly fhower of rain j in which cafe you may fet off the
glaffes, that the plants may receive the benefit of it ;
and in about ten days after planting, you Ihould be
provided with a parcel of forked Hicks or bricks, with
which you ihould raife your glaffes about three or four
inches on the fide toward the fouth, that your plants
may have free air ; in this manner your glaffes ihould
remain over the plants night and day, unlefs in frofty
weather, when you ihould fet them down as clofe as
poilible •, or if the weather ihould prove very warm,
which many times happens in November, and fome-
times in December, in this cafe you ihould keep your
glaffes off in the day-time, and put them on only in
the night, left, by keeping the glaffes over them too
much, you Ihould draw them into flower at that fea-
fon; which is many times the cafe in mild winters, efpe-
cially if unikilfully managed. Toward the latter end
of February, if the weather proves mild, you ihould
prepare another good fpot of ground to remove fome
of the plants into, from under the glaffes, which ihould
be well dunged and trenched (as before) : then fet off
your glaffes; and, after making choice of one of the
moil promifing plants under each glafs, which fhould
remain, take away the other plant, by railing it up
with a trow'd, &c. fo as to preferve as much earth to
the root as poffible but take care not to difturb or
prejudice the roots of the plants which remain. Then
plant the plants which you have taken out at the di-
fiance before directed, viz. if for a full crop, three feet
and a half, row from row'; but if for ridges of cucum¬
bers between them, eight feet, and two feet four inches
dtftance in the rows: then, with a fmall hoe, draw the
earth up to the items of the plants which w'ere left un¬
der the glaffes, taking great care not to let the earth
fall into their hearts ; and fet your glaffes over them
again, raifing your props an inch or two higher than
before, to give them more air, obferving to take them
off whenever there may be fome gentle ihowers, which
will greatly refrefh the plants.
In a little time after, if you find your plants grow fo
fail as to fill the glaffes wTith their leaves, you ihould
then fiightly dig about the plants, and raife the ground
about them in a bed broad enough for the glaffes to
ftand, about four inches high, which will give your
plants a great deal of room, by raifing the glaffes fo
much higher when they are fet over them •, and by
this means they might be kept covered until April,
wdiich otherwife they could not, without prejudice to
the leaves of the plants; and this is a great advantage
to them, for many times w’e have returns of fevere frofts
at the latter end of March, which prove very hurtful to
thefe plants, if expofed thereto, efpecially after having
been nurfed up under glaffes.
After you have finiihed your beds, you may fet your
glaffes over your plants again, obferving to raife your
props pretty high, efpecially if the weather be mild,
that they may have free air to ftrengthen them ; and in
mild foft weather fet off your glaffes, as alfo in gentle
ihow'ers of rain ; and now' you muft begin to harden
them by degrees to endure the open air j however, it is
advifable to let your glaffes remain over them as long
as poffible, if the nights ihould be frofty, w'hich wall
greatly forward your plants 5 but you muft not let your
[ 3Sa ] BRA
be in about glaffes remain upon them in very hot funlhine, efpeci-
ally if their leaves prels againft the fides of the glaffes;'
for it hath often been oblerved in Inch cafes, that the
moifture wdiich hath rifen from the ground, together
with the perfpiration of the plants, which by the glaffes
remaining over them hath been detained upon the leaves
of the plants, when the fun hath ffione hot upon the
fides of the glaffes, have acquired fuch a powerful
heat from the beams thereof, as to feald all their larger
leaves, to the no fmall prejudice of the plants : nay,
fometimes large quantities of plants have been fo af-
fefted therewith, as never to be worth any thing after.
If your plants have fucceeded well, toward the end
of April fome of them wdll begin to fruit : you muft
therefore look over them carefully every other day, and
when you fee the flower plainly appear, you muft break
dowm foroe of the inner leaves over it to guard it from
the fun, which would make the flower yellow and
unfightly if expofed thereto ; and when you find your
flower at its full bignefs (which you may know by its
outfide parting as if it would run), you muft then
draw it ‘out of the ground, and not cut them off,
leaving the ftalk in the ground, as is by fome pradlifedj
and if they are defigned for prefent ufe, you may cut
them out of their leaves •, but if defigned to keep,
you (hould preferve their leaves about them, and put
them into a cool place 5 the belt time for pulling them
is in a morning, before the fun hath exhaled the moi¬
fture j for cauliflow'ers pulled in the heat of the day,
lofe that firmnefs which they naturally have, and be¬
come tough.
But to return to our fecond crop (the plants being
raifed and manured as w'as direfled for the early crop,
until the end of Oftober), you mutt then prepare fome
beds, either to be covered with glafs-frames, or arched
over with hoops, to be covered with mats, &c. Thefe
beds ftiould have fome dung laid at the bottom, about
fix inches or a foot thick, according to the lize of your
plants; for if they are fmall, the bed fliould be thicker
of dung to bring them forward, and fo vice verfa; this
dung fhould be beat down clofe with a fork, in order
to prevent the worms from finding their way through
it; then lay fome good freih earth about four or five
inches thick thereon, in which you Ihould plant your
plants about two inches and a half fquare, obferving to
ihade and water them until they have taken new root: but
you muft not keep your coverings clofe, for the warmth
of the dung will occafion a large damp in the bed,
which, if pent in, will greatly injure the plants. When
your plants have taken root, you muft give them as
much free open air as poffible, by keeping the glaffes
off in the day-time as much as the weather will permit;
and in the night, or at fuch times as the glaffes require
to be kept on, raife them up with props to let in freih
air, unlefs in frofty weather; at which time the glaffes
Ihould be covered with mats, ftraw, peafe-haulm, &c.
but this is not to be done but in vety hard frofts ; you
muft alfo obferve to guard them againft great rain,
which in winter time is very hurtful to them, but in
mild weather, if the glaffes are kept on, they ftiould be
propped to admit frdh air; and if the under leaves
grow yellow and decay, be fure to pick them off; for
if the weather Ihould prove very bad in winter, fo that
you ihould be obliged to keep them clofe covered for
two or three days together, as it iometimes happens,
theft'
Braffica.
BRA [ 383 ] BRA
Braflica. tliefe decayed leaves will render the inclofed air very
noxious ; and the plants perfpiring pretty much at that
time, are often deftroyed in vaft quantities.
In the beginning of February, if the weather be mild,
you muft begin to harden your plants by degrees, that
they may be prepared for traniplantation: the ground
where you intend to plant your cauliflowers out (which
Ihould be quite open from trees, &c. and rather moift
than dry), having been well dunged and dug, fliould
be Town with radiflies a week or fortnight before you
intend to plant out your cauliflowers ; the fowing of
radiihes is particularly mentioned, bccaufe if there are
not fome radifbes amongft them, and the month of May
Ihould prove hot and dry, as it fometimes happens, the
fly will feize your cauliflowers, and eat their leaves full
of holes, to their prejudice, and fometimes their deftruc-
tion; whereas, if there are radiflies upon the fpot, the
flies will take to them, and never meddle with the cau¬
liflowers fo long as they laft : indeed, the gardeners
near London mix fpinach with their radiflr-feed, and fo
have a double crop which is an advantage where
ground is dear, or where perfons are ftraitened for
room $ otherwife it is very well to have only one crop
amongfl: the cauliflowers, that the ground may be clear¬
ed in time.
Your ground being ready and the feafon good, about
the middle of February you may begin to plant out
your cauliflowers j the diftance wdiich is generally al¬
lowed by the gardeners near London (wdio plant other
crops between their cauliflowers to lucceed them, as
cucumbers for pickling, and winter cabbages (is every
other row four feet and a half apart, and the interme¬
diate rows two feet and a half, and twm feet twTo inches
diftance in the rows •, fo that in the later end of May
or beginning of June (when the radifhes and fpinach
are cleared off), they put in feeds of cucumbers for
pickling, in the middle of the wide rowrs, at three feet
and a half apart ^ and in the narrow rows plant cab¬
bages for wunter ufe, at two feet two inches diftance,
fo that thefe ftand each of them exactly in the middle
of the fquare between four cauliflow'er plants; and thefe
after the cauliflowers are gone off, wall have full room
to grow, and the crop be hereby continued in a fuccef-
fion through the whole feafon.
There are many people who are very fond of water¬
ing cauliflower plants in fummer ; but the gardeners
near London have almoft wholly laid afide this prac¬
tice, as finding a deal of trouble and charge to little
purpofe; for if the ground he fo very dry as not to pro¬
duce tolerable good cauliflowers without water, it fel-
dom happens that watering of them makes them much
better; and when once they have been watered, if it is
not conftantly continued, it had been much better for
them if they never had any; as alfo, if it be given them
in the middle of the day, it rather helps to Icald them:
fo that, upon the whole, if care be taken to keep the
earth drawn up to their ftems, and clear them from e-
very thing that grows near them, that they may have
free open air, you will find that they wall fucceed bet¬
ter without than with wrater, where any of thefe cau¬
tions are not ftri£Uy obferved.
But in order to have a third crop of cauliflowers, you
fliould make a flender hot-bed in February, in which
you ihould fow the feeds, covering them a quarter of
an inch thick with light mould, and covering the bed
with giafs-frames. When the plants are come up, and Er rffcav
have gotten four or five leaves, you ftiould prepare an-
other hot-bed to prick them into, which may be about ra °* ^.
two inches (quare ; and in the beginning of April bar- ^
den them by degrees, to fit them for tranfplanting,
which ftrould be done the middle of that month, at the
diftance direfted for the fecond crop, and muft be ma¬
naged accordingly: thefe (if the foil is moift where
they are planted, or the feaion cool and moift) will pro¬
duce good cauliriow^ers about a month after the fecond
crop is gone, whereby their feafon will be greatly pro¬
longed.
There is alfo a fourth crop of cauliflow’ers, wfliich is
raifed by fowing the feed about the 23d of May ; and
being tranfplanted, as hath been before direfted, will
produce good cauliflowers in a kindly feafon and good
foil after Michaelmas, and continue through Oftober
and November, and if the feafon permit often a great
part of December.
All the fpecies of cabbage are fuppofed to be hard
of digeftion, to afford little nourilhment, and to pro¬
duce flatulencies, though probably on no very good
foundation. They tend ftrongly to put refaction, and
run into this ftate fooner than almoft any other vege¬
table ; when putrefied, their fmell is likewile the moft
offenfive, greatly refembling that of putrefied animal
fubftances. A decodtion of them is faid to loofen the
belly. Of all thele plants cauliflower is reckoned the
eafieft of digeffion. The white is the moft fetid, and
the red moft emollient or laxative ; a decodlion of this
laft is recommended for foftening acrimonious hu¬
mours in fome diforders of the breaft, and in hoarfeneis.
The red cabbage is chiefly ufed for pickling. In fome
countries they bury the white cabbage when full grown
in the autumn, and thus preferve it all wdnter. The
Germans cut them to pieces, and, along with fome a-
romatic herbs and fait, prefs them clofe down in a tub
where they foon ferment, and are eaten under the name
of Sour-crout. See that article.
BRASSICAVIT, or Brachicavit, in the manege,
is a horfe wdiofe fore-legs are naturally bended arch¬
wife : being fo called by w^ay of diftinftion from an
arched horfe whofe legs are bowed by hard labour.
BRAULS, Indian cloths wdth blue and white ftripes.
They are otherwife called turbants, becaufe they ferve
to cover thofe ornaments of the head, particularly on
the coaft of Africa.
BRAUN A, a towm of Germany, in Bavaria, feated
on the river Inn. It has a ftrong fortrefs : notwith-
ftanding, it was taken by the Auftrians in 1743. E.
Long. 13. 3. N. Lat. 48. 10.
BRAUNSBURG, a town of Poland, in Regal
Pruffia, with a very commodious harbour, and belong¬
ing to the king of Pruflia. It is feated near the Bal¬
tic fea, in E. Long. 20. o. N. Lat. 54. 15.
BRAUNSFIELD, a town of Germany, in the cir¬
cle of the Upper Rhine, and country of Solmes, wdth
a handfome palace or caftle. E. Long. 8. 32. N. Lat.
50. 22.
BRAVO, one of the Cape de Verd iflands on the
coaft of Africa, remarkable for its excellent wines, and
inhabited by Portuguefe. The land is very high, and
confifts of mountains which look like pyramids. It a-
bounds in Indian corn, gourds, water melons, potatoes,
horfes, affes, and hogs. There is alfo plenty of. fifti on
the
4
BRA r 384 ] BRA
Bravo the coaft, and the ifland produces falt-petre. W. Long.
Jl 25- 35- N. Lat. 14. o.
y' Bravo, a town of Africa, on the coaft of Ajan, with
a pretty good harbour. It is an independent place,
and is about 80 miles diftant from Magadoxo. E. Long.
41. 35. N. Lat. 1. o.
BRAURONIA, in Grecian antiquity, a feftival in
honour of Diana, furnamed Brauronia, from its having
been obferved at Brauron, an Athenian borough. This
feftival was celebrated once in five years, being ma¬
naged by ten men, called in Greek '[ierof>oioi'\. The
victim offered in facrifice was a goat, and it was cuf-
tomary for certain men to fing one of Homer’s Iliads.
The moft remarkable perfons at this folemnity were
young virgins, habited in yellow gowns, and confe-
crated to Diana. It was unlawful for any of them to
be above ten or under five years of age.
BRAWN, the flefti of a boar fouced or pickled :
for which end the boar fhould be old', becaufe the older
he is, the more horny will the brawn be.—The me¬
thod of preparing brawn is as follows: The boar be¬
ing killed, it is the flitches only, without the legs, that
are made brawn \ the bones of which are to be taken
out, and then the flefh fprinkled with fait, and laid in a
tray, that the blood may drain off: Then it is to be
falted a little, and rolled up as hard as poffible. The
length of the collar of brawn fhould be as much as one
fide of the boar will bear, fo that when rolled up it will
be nine or ten inches diameter.
The collar being thus rolled up, is to be boiled in
a copper, or large kettle, till it is fo tender, that you
can run a ftraw through it ; then fet it by till it is
thorough cold, and put it into the following pickle.
To every gallon of water, put a handful or two of
fait, and as much wheat-bran : Boil them together,
then drain the bran as clear as you can from the li¬
quor ; and when the liquor is quite cold, put the
brawn into it.
BRAY, Sir Reginald, a celebrated architefl and
politician, was the fecond Ton of Sir Richard Bray, one
of the privy council to King Henry VI. Sir Reginald
w-as inftrumental in the advancement of King Henry
VII. to the throne of England-, and was greatly in
favour with that prince, wdro beftowed honours and
wealth upon him. His fkill in archite£!ure appears
from Henry VII.’s chapel at Weftminfter, and the
chapel of St George at Windfor, as he had a principal
concern and diredtion in the building of the former,
and the finifhing and bringing to perfe&ion the latter,
to which he was alfo a liberal benefaftor. In the
middle of the fouth aifle of the above chapel is a fpaci-
ous chapel built by him, and ftill called by his name.
He died in 1501 and was interred in the above cha¬
pel, probably under the ftone where lies Dr Waterland ;
for, on opening the vault for that gentleman, who died
in 1740, a leaden coffin of ancient form was found,
which, by other appearances, was judged to be that of
Sir Reginald, and was, by order of the dean, immedi¬
ately arched over.
Bray, Dr Thomas, an eminent, learned, and pious
divine, was born at Marton, in Shropfhire, in the year
1656, and educated at Oxford. He was at length pre-
fented to the vicarage of Over-Whitacre, in Warwick-
ftiire: and in 1690, to the redlory of Sheldon, where
he compofed his Catechetical Lechtres 1 which procured
him fuch reputation, that Dr Compton, bifhop of Lon- Bray-
don, pitched upon him as a proper perfon to model the >i
infant church of Maryland, and eftablifh it upon a fo- Brazen‘
lid foundation, and for that purpofe he was invefted
with the office of commiffary. Pie now engaged in fe-
veral noble undertakings. He procured fums to be
railed for purchafing fmall libraries for the ufe of the
poor minifters in the feveral parts of our plantations:
and the better to promote this defign, he publifhed two
books one entitled Bibliotheca parochialis, or a fcheme
of fuch theological and other heads as feem requifite
to be perufed or occafionally confulted by the clergy,
together With a catalogue of books which may be pro¬
fitably read on each of thofe points} the other, Apof-
tolical charity, its nature and excellency confidered.
He endeavoured to get a fund eftablifhed for the pro¬
pagation of the gofpel, efpecially among the unculti¬
vated Indians j and by his means a patent was obtained
for erefting the corporation called The fociety for the
propagation of the gofpel. He, by his induftry, pro¬
cured relief for priloners $ and formed the plan for the
fociety for the reformation of manners, charity-fchools,
&c. He wrote, 1. his Martyrology, or papal ufurpa-
tion in one volume folio; 2. DireBorium mifionarium ;
and other tvorks. This excellent man died in 1730,
aged 73.
Bray, a port town of Ireland, in the county of
Wicklow-, and province of Leinfter, feated on St
George’s channel, eight miles fouth of Dublin. W.
Long. 6. 16. N. Lat. 53. 8.
Brat fur Seine, a towm of France, in Champagne,
and in Senonois, on the confines of Brie. E. Long,
2. 15. N. Lat. 48. 35.
BRAYLE, among fportfmen, a piece of leather flit
to put upon the hawk’s w-ing, to tie it up.
BRAZED, in Heraldry, a term ferving to deferibe
three cheverons, one clafpmg another,
BRAZEN, fomething confifting of brafs, or formed
out of it. See Brass.
Brazen Age. See Age.
Brazen Difh, among miners, is the ftandard by
which the other difhes are gauged, and is kept in the
king’s hall.
Brazen Sea, in Jew-ifh antiquity, one of the facred
utenfils in the temple of Solomon. It was call in the
plain of Jordan, and removed from thence into the in¬
ner court of the temple ; wRere it was placed upon x 2
oxen, three of which looked towards each quarter of
the world. It w-as ten cubits from the one brim to
the other, five cubits in height, and 30 cubits in cir¬
cumference, and contained 3coo baths. The bnm of
it w-as perfectly round, and fo it continued in the two
upper cubits; but below- the brim, in the three lower
cubits, it was fquare. It was a handbreadth thick,
and the brim w-as wrought like the brim of a cup, with
flowers of lilies. About the body of this huge veffel
there were tw-o borders of engravings, being the heads
of oxen in demi-relief; out of which feme fuppofe the
water iffued, and that they w-ere made as cocks and
conveyances for that purpofe.—This brazen or molten
fea, was defigned for the priefts to wafh themfelves in
before they performed the fervice of the temple. The
fupply of water was through a pipe out of the well
Etam ; though fome are of opinion, that it was con-
ftantly fupplied w-ith water by the Gibeonites.
BRAZIER,
B R E [ 385 ] ERE
Brazier BRAZIER, an artificer who makes and deals in
Bread kmcU of brafs ware. This trade, as exercifed in
1 —Britain, may be reckoned a branch of the fmithery,
though they feldam keep forges, except for brazing or
foldering, and tinning the infides of their veflels, which
they work up chiefly out of copper and brafs prepared
rough to their hands. They confifl: of a working part,
and a {hop-keeping part, which latter many cairy on
to a great extent, dealing as well in all forts of iron
and fieel, as copper and brafs goods for houfehold fur¬
niture $ and lately have fallen much into felling wdiat
is called French plate, made of a fort of white metal,
filvered and polilhed to fuch a degree that the eye can¬
not foon diftinguifh it from real filver.
BRAZIL. See Brasil.
BRAZING, the foldering or joining turo pieces of
iron together by means of thin plates of brafs, melted
between the pieces that are to be joined. If the wTork
be very fine, as wdien twTo leaves of a broken faw are
to be brazed together, they cover it with pulverized
borax, melted wdth water, that it may incorporate
with the brafs powder* which is added to it : The
piece is then expofed to the fire wfithout touching the
coals, and heated till the brafs is feen to run.
Brazing is alfo the joining two pieces of iron toge¬
ther by beating them hot, the one upon the other,
which is ufed for large pieces by farriers, &c.
BRAZZA, a towm and ifland on the coaft of Dal¬
matia, in the gulf of Venice, oppofite to Spalatro, and
and fubjeft to Venice. E. Long. 28. o. N. Lat. 43.0.
BREACH, in a general fenfe, denotes a break or
rupture in fome part of a fence or enclofure, whether
owing to time or violence.—Inundations, or overflow¬
ings of lands, are frequently owing to breaches in the
dikes or fea banks. Dagenham breach is famous; it
was made in 1707, by a failure of the Thames wall in
a very high tide. The force wherewith it burfl: in up¬
on the neighbouring level tore up a large channel or
paffage for wrater 100 yards wide, and in fome places
20 feet deep, by which a multitude of fubterraneous
trees that had been buried many ages before were laid
bare.
Breach, in Fortification, a gape made in any part
of the works of a town by the cannon or mines of the
befiegers, in order to make an attack upon the place.
To make the attack more difficult, the befieged fow
the breach wdth crow feet, or flop it with chevaux de
frize.—rK pradlicable breach, is that where the men
may mount and make a lodgment, and ought to be 1 ^
or 20 fathoms wide. The befiegers make their way
to it, by covering themfelves with gabions, earth-
bags, &c.
Breach, in a legal fenfe, is where a perfon breaks
through the condition of a bond or covenant \ on an
aftion upon which, the breach muft be afligned : And
this affignment mufl: not be general, but particular, as,
in an a&ion of covenant for not repairing houfes, it
ought to be afligned particularly what is the w>ant of
reparation : and in fuch certain manner, that the de¬
fendant may take an iflue.
BREAD, a mafs of dough kneaded and baked in
an oven. See Baker, Baking, and Barm.
Mtcqucr s The grains of all vegetables are almoll entirely
CLem. Ditil COmpofed of fubftances very proper for the nourifhment
of animals ; and amongft grains thofe which contain a
Vot, IV. Part I.
farinaceous matter are the mofi: agreeable and moft nu¬
tritive.
Man who appears to be defigned by nature to eat
of all fubltances which are capable of nourifhing him,
and ftiil more of vegetables than animals, has, from
time immemorial, and in all parts of the earth, ufed
farinaceous grains as the principal bafis of bis food :
but as thefe grains cannot be without difficulty eaten
by men in their natural ftate, this aftive and intelli¬
gent animal has gradually found means not only to ex¬
tract the farinaceous part, that is, the only nutritive
part of thefe grains, but alio to prepare it fothat it be¬
comes a very agreeable and wholefomc aliment, fuch
as the bread we now generally eat.
Nothing appears fo eafy at firfl: fight as to grind
corn, to make a pafte with the flour and water, and
to bake this pafte in an oven. They who are accuf-
tomed to enjoy the advantages of the fineft human in¬
ventions, without refledling on the labour it has coft
to complete them, think all thefe operations common
and trivial. However, it appears very certain, that
for a long time men no otherwife prepared their corn
than by boiling and forming compact vifeous cakes,
not very agreeable to the tafte, and of difficult digef-
tion, before they were able to make bread of good
tafte and quality, as wre have now. It was neceffary
to invent and complete ingenious machines for grind¬
ing corn, and feparating the pure flour with little
trouble and labour ; and that inquiries or rather (ome
happy chance, which fome otderving perfon availed
himfelf of, flrould difeover, that flour, mixed with a
certain quantity of water, is fufceptible of a fermenta^.
tion which almoft entirely deftroys its vifeidity, height¬
ens its tafte, and renders it proper to make a light
bread, very agreeable to the tafte, and of eafy digeft
tion.
This efifential operation, on which the good quality
of bread depends, is entirely of the province of che-
miftry. It wmuld add to the honour of the ancient
cultivators of chemiftry, to attribute to them fo ufeful
and important a difeovery •, but, unhappily, it is too
probable that they had no ftiare in it. The ancient
chemifts were engaged in other purfuits than that
of bread and other common objefts. They hoped
to make gold ; and what is bread in comparifon with
gold ?
However that be, to the fortunate invention of rai¬
ling the pafte before baking we owe the perfe£lion of
the art of making bread. This operation confifts in
keeping fome pafte or dough, till by a peculiar fpiri-
tuous fermentation it fwells, rarefies, and acquires a
fmell and tafte quick, pungent, fpirituous, fomewhat
four, and rather difagreeable. This fermented dough
is well w'orked with fome frefh dough, which is by that
mixture and moderate heat difpofed to a fimilar but
lefs advanced fermentation than that above mentioned.
By this fermentation the dough is attenuated, and di¬
vided ; air is introduced into it, which being incapable
of difengaging itfelf from the tenacious and folid pafte,
forms in it fmall cavities, raifes and fwells it : hence
the fmall quantity of fermented pafte which difpofes
the reft to ferment, is called leaven, from the French
word lever, fignifying to raife.
When the dough is thus raifed, it is in a proper ftate
to be put into the oven j where, while it is baked, it
3 C dilates
B R E [ 386 ] B R E
■Bread, dilates itfelf fall more by the rarefa&ion of the air,
and of the fpirituous fybftance it contains, and it forms
a bread full of eyes or cavities; confequently light, and
entirely different from the heavy, compadl, vifeous,
and indigefted maifes, made by baking unfermented
dough.
The invention of beer, or wine of grains, furnifhes
a new matter ufeful in the making of bread. This
matter is the froth which forms upon the furface of
thefe liquors during fermentation. When it is mixed
with dough, it raifes it better and more quickly than
ordinary leaven. It is called yeajl or barm. By means
of this, the fined lighted bread is made. It often
happens, that bread made with leaven dough has a
fourifh and not agreeable tade ; which may proceed
from too great a quantity of leaven, or from leaven in
which the fermentation has advanced too far. This in¬
convenience does not happen to bread made with
yead ; becaufe the fermentation of this fubdance is not
too far advanced, or becaufe more attention is given to
that finer bread.
It may be aiked, Why, fince dough is capable of
fermenting fpontaneoudy and fingly, as we fee from
the leaven, a fubdance is added to difpofe it to fer¬
ment ? The true reafon is, That all the parts of a fer¬
menting fubdance do not ferment at the fame time, nor
to the fame degree ; fo that fome parts of this fubdance
have finilhed their fermentation, while others have not
yet begun. The fermentable liquors which contain
much iugar, as hydromel, and mud of wines, give
proofs of this truth ; for, after thefe liquors have be¬
come very vinous, they have dill very diftin&ly a fac-
charine tade : but all faccharine matter is dill fufeep-
tible of fermentation ; and, in fa<d, if vinous hydro¬
mel, or mud, or even new beer, be didilled, fo that
all their ardent fpirit diall be feparated, and the reb-
duums diluted with water, we fhall fee a fecond fer¬
mentation take place, and a new quantity of ardent
fpirit formed.
The fame thing precifely happens to dough, and dill
more fenfibly, from its vifeofity and want of fluidity ;
lo that if it be left to ferment alone, and without the
help of leaven, as the fermentation proceeds very flowly
and fucceffively, the parts which ferment firft will have
become four and vapid before all the red be fufficiently
attenuated and changed, by which the bread will ac¬
quire a difagreeable tade.
A mixture of a fmall quantity of leaven with dough
effeftually prevents this inconvenience ; becaufe the
effeft of this leaven, and of all fermenting fubdances,
is to difpofe to a fimilar fermentation all matters capa¬
ble of it, with -which it is mixed ; or rather, by means
of leaven, the fermentation of all the parts of fuch fub¬
dances is effe&ed more nearly at the fame time.
Bread well raifed and baked differs from unferment¬
ed bread, not only in being lefs compaft, lighter, and
of a more agreeable tafte, but alfo in being more eafily
mifcible with water, writh which it does not form a
vifeous mafs, which circumdance is of great import¬
ance in digedion.
Cullen on tie It is obfervable, that without bread, or fomewhat
Mat. Med. of this form, no nation feems to live. Thus the Lap¬
landers, having no corn of their own, make a fort of
bread of their dried fiflies, and of the inner rind of the
pine, which feems to be ufed, not fo much for their
nouridiment as for fupplying a dry food. For this Bread,
mankind feem to have an univerfal appetite, rejefling '—y-"-"
bland, flippery, and mucilaginous foods. This is not
commonly accounted for, but feems to depend on very
Ample principles. The preparation of our food de¬
pends on the mixture of the animal fluids in every ftage.
Among others the faliva is neceffary, which requires
dry food as a neceffary Aimulus to draw it forth, as
bland, flippery, fluid aliments are too inert, and make
too fliort flay in the mouth, to produce this effefl, or
to caufe a fufficient degree of manducation to emulge
that liquor. For this reafon we commonly ufe dry
bread along with animal food, which otherwife would
be too quickly fwallowed. For blending the oil and
water of our food nothing is fo fit as bread, aflified by
a previous manducation. For which purpofe, bread is
of like necedity in the domach, as it is proper that a
fubdance of folid confidence fliould be long retained
there. Now the animal fluids mud be mixed with our
aliments, in order to change the acefcency it under¬
goes. But liquid foods would not attain this end,
whereas the folid bimulates and emulges the glands of
the domach. The bread then appears to be exceed-
ingly proper, being bulky without too much folidity,
and firm without difficulty of folution.
Among the ancients we meet with various denomi-5^/.
nations of bread; as, 1. Panis Jtligeneus, called alfo Chambers'*
mundus, athleticus, ifutigia, coliphius, and robys, an-
fwering to our white bread ; being made of the pured
flour of the bed wheat, and only ufed by . the richer
fort. 2. Partis fecundus or fecundarius, called alfo fmi-
laceus or frni/agineus, the next in purity ; being made
of fine flour, only all the bran not fifted out. 3. Au-
topyrus, called alfo fyncomijlus and confufaneus^ made
of the whole fubftance of the wheat, without either re¬
trenching the finer flour or coarfer bran ; anfwering to
our houfehold bread. 4. Cacalaceus, apparently the
fame with what was otherwife denominated fordidus,
as being given to dogs; furfuraceus, furfuretts, or
furfurativus, becaufe made in great part of bran ; and,
in the middle age, bijjus, on account of its brownnefs j
fometimes alfo leibo. There were other forts of bread,
denominated from the manner in which they were
made, or the ufes they were applied to ; as, 1. The
militarise which was prepared by the foldiers and offi¬
cers in camp with their own hands; for which purpofe
fome had hand-mills, others pounded the corn in a
mortar, and baked it on the coals. 2. Clibanites, that
baked in an oven, by way of contradiflinftion from
that baked on the hearth or under the embers. 3. That
called fubcineritius, or fub cinere coEhts ; fometimes alfo
reverfatuSe becaufe it was to be turned in the baking.
4. Nauticus, anfwering to our fea-bifeuit, and denomi¬
nated accordingly bis codfus, becaufe baked feveral
times over to make it keep the longer. Other kinds
of bread were denominated from their qualities and ac¬
cidents ; as, x. The panis Jiccus, that which had been
long baked ; fuch as were the bis coblus, naval and
buccellated bread. 2. Madidus, a fort made of rye or
bear, fometimes alfo made of fine flour, wherewith
they fmeared their faces, by way of a cofmetic, to
render them fmooth. 3. Acidus, or four bread, which
was acidulated with vinegar. 4. A%ymus, that un¬
leavened or unfermented.
The French have alfo a great variety of breads; as
queen’s
B R E [ 387 ] B R E
Bread, queen’s bread, alamode bread, bread de Segovie, de
—'V—Gentillay, quality-bread, &c. all prepared in peculiar
manners by the bakers of Paris. The bread de Go-
neffe excels all others, on account of the waters at Go-
nelTe, a town three leagues from Paris. It is light,
and full of eyes, which are the marks of its goodnefs.
Pain de menage, is that which each family bakes for
kfelf. Spice-bread, pain d'epice, denotes bread baked
and iced over with the fcum taken off fugar in refin¬
ing houfes it is fometimes alfo made with honey and
ether forts of feafoning, and anfwers to what the an¬
cients call pams mellitus.
Among us, bread is chiefly divided into white,
wheaten, and houfehold } differing only in degrees of
purity. In the firft, all the bran is feparated j in the
lecond, only the coarfer 5 in the third, none at all :
fo that fine bread is made only of flour 5 wheaten bread
of flour and a mixture of the finer bran 5 and houfe¬
hold, of the whole fubftance of the grain, without ta¬
king out either the coarfe bran or fine flour. We alfo
meet with fymnel bread, manchet or roll bread, and
French bread : which are only fo many denominations
of the fineft and whiteft bread, made of the pureft
flour 5 except that in ill-roll bread there is an addition
of milk j and in French bread, of eggs and butter alfo.
In Lancafhire, and feveral of the northern counties of
England, they have feveral forts of oaten bread j as,
t. The bannock, which is an oat-cake, kneaded only
with wrater, and baked on the embers. 2. Clap-bread,
which is made into thin hard cakes. 3. Bitchinefs
bread, which is made of thin batter, and made into
thin foft oat-cakes. 4. Riddle-cakes, which are thick and
four, have but little leaven, and are kneaded ftiff. And,
5. Jannock, which is oaten bread made up into loaves.
Add to thefe, peafe-bread, much ufed in many-parts of
Scotland \ being bread confifting either wholly of the
flour of peafe, or of this and oat-meal mixed : the
dough, fometimes leavened, fometimes made only wdth
w’ater, is formed either into bannocks or cakes, and ba¬
ked over the embers •, or into what they call baps, i. e.
a kind of flattifli rolls, and baked in the oven. In the
flatute of aflize of bread and ale, 51 Hen. III. men¬
tion is made of waftel-bread, cocket-bread, and bread
of treet ; which anfwer to the three kinds of bread now
in ufe, called white, wheaten, and household bread.
In religious houfes, they heretofore diftinguilhed bread
by the names efquires bread, panis annigero'rurn ;
monks bread, panis conventualis; boys bread, pants
puerorum; and fervants bread, panis famulorum, call¬
ed alfo panis fervienta/is. A like dillribution obtain¬
ed in the houfeholds of nobles and princes; where,
however, we find fome other denominations; as mef-
fengers bread, panis nuncius, that given to meflengers
as a reward of their labour; court-bread, pants curialis,
that allowed by the lord for the maintenance of his
houfehold j eleemofynary bread, that diftributed to
the poor by way of alms.
It is for the interefl; of the community that the food
of the poor ihould be as various as poflible, that, in
time of dearth and fcarcity of the ordinary kinds, they
may not be without ready and cheap refources. To
the difcovery of fuch refources feveral benevolent phi-
lofophers having fuecefsfully turned their inquiries, we
lhall lay before the reader the refult of their experi- *^eac**
ments. l""~v"
Bread of Potatoes*. Potatoes, previoufly de-* From
prived of their {kin, cut into thin flices, and put be- Examcn
tween paper, will dry in a heat fomewhat lefs than 35° de^Pommu
of Reaumur’s thermometer; and, when thus dried,de fTerre,
they wn’ll preferve their w;hite colour. By this procefs See, par M.
they lofe about two-thirds of their weight, and they Parmentier,
may then be reduced to a fine powder. A little of bn'
this pow'der thrown upon the fire fends out a fmoke,{°j (jgg
accompanied with a fmell refembling burnt bread. As valides
this fmell is perceived from all farinaceous vegetables Paris,
when treated in the fame manner, M. Parmentier
thinks it may be confidered as the charadteriflic of the
prefence of an amylaceous f matter. This fmell does t See the
not, however, he obferves, arife from the amylaceousnote
or fibrous part feparately, but from both taken toge¬
ther. The powder of potatoes, obtained in the man¬
ner deferibed above, has the fmell and tafle of wheat;
and, like it, is devoured by rats and mice ; but, even
when moil: finely powdered, it has not the feel or
brightnefs of the flour of wheat ; although, on a che¬
mical analyfis, it yields the fame produdls. It is alfo
nutritious, and keeps well for a long time.
Finding fo great a fimilarity between the meal of
wheat and wdrat may be called the meal of potatoes,
M. Parmentier next endeavoured to make bread of
them when mixed in different proportions. His trials
were made with one-fourth, one-third, one-half, and
two-thirds, of the potato-meal, the remainder being
flour from wheat. Thefe proportions, with the addi¬
tion of a little fait and yeafl, yielded bread wdiich was
well tailed, but w'hich had fermented little, was brown,
and covered with hard brown crufts. Bread made
from the meal of potatoes alone, with the addition of
fait and yeaft, was eatable, but very heavy, unfer-
mented, and exceedingly brown. This bread, from
the meal of potatoes alone, w'as apt to crumble into
powder. To give it more adhelion, he mixed with
the meal a decodlion of bran, or a mixture of honey
and wfater ; either of which made it lighter and more
fermented : it obtained alfo a cruft of a golden colour,
became well tailed, and fufficiently adhefive. M.
Parmentier obtained bread alfo, well fermented, and
of a good colour and tafte, from a mixture of raw po¬
tato-pulp with meal of wheat, or potato-meal, with the
addition of yeaft: and fait.
Potatoes, when ufed for making bread, are not rea¬
dily difpofed to ferment ; without wFich, bread is very
infipid, and not eafily digefted. But M. Parmentier
found, from a variety of experiments, that good bread
might be made from equal quantities of flour and po¬
tato-meal. He concludes, therefore, with recom¬
mending the mixture of potatoes, in times of fcarcity,
with the flour of wheat, inftead of employing rye, bar¬
ley, or oats, as has frequently been done.
When grain is altogether wanting, he recommends
the ufe of bread made from a mixture of the amylace¬
ous pow’der of potatoes and of their pulp, this mixture
being fermented with leaven or with honey. The meal
of this root, when diluted with hot water, acquires a
tenacious and gluey confiftence. However fair the
meal of potatoes may be, it always gives a gray colour
to the bread made by mixing it with the flour of
3 C 2 wheat:
Bread
Bread.
* From
Memoire
fur les ne-
getuux qui
pourroicnt
fuppleer en
timps de di-
fette a ceux
que l'on em¬
ploye com-
munement a
la nourri-
ture des
bommes,
&.(. par M
Parmen-
tier.
B R E
wheat : but a mixture of the pulp o t
the Hour of wheat does not produce brown-coloured
bread.
M. Parmentier made bread, very much like that of
wheat, by a mixture of the following four fubfbnces,
viz. four ounces of amylaceous powder of potatoes, one
dram of mucilage extracted from barley, one dram of
the bran ol rye, and a dram and a half of glutinous
matter dried and powdered.
2. Bread from different Vegetables not commonly in
Ufe *. Although horie-chefnut has not hitherto been
employed, yet it is certain that wholefome bread, with¬
out any bitternefs, may be obtained from it. M. Par¬
mentier adviles, that the fruit, after the fkin is taken
off, and the juice prefled from it, be made into a paife.
1 his mafs mufl: be diluted in water, and then ftrained
through a fieve. A milky-coloiued liquor is thus fe-
parated, which, on Handing, depofits a fine powder.
1 his, being dried, is without either fmell or tafte, and
very fit for aliment ; the mafs from which it is procu¬
red retaining the bitternefs of the fruit.
The roots of the bryona, when treated in the fame
manner, yielded a fimilar white powrder. By the fame
treatment alio, fine, w'hite, infipid, inodorous powders
may be procured from the roots of the iris, gladiolus,
ranunculus, fumaria, arum, dracunculus, mandragora,
colchicum, filipendula, and heileborus ; plants which
grow Ipontaneoufly, and in great abundance.
Of acorns bread has frequently been made ; and to
this day, in fome countries, they are in common ufe.
The method of preparation which M. Parmentier re¬
commends is, that they be deprived of their cover by
boiling, then dried and powdered, and afterwards ba¬
ked in the fame manner as the flour of wheat. When
fully ripe, and made into a pafte, they were deprived
of their aftringency by merely prefling their juice from
them. The mafs remaining after the preflure, when
dried, was eafily reduced to a fine powder by no means
difagreeable.
The gramen caninum arvenfe, in its appearance, ap¬
proaches to corn 5 and fome naturalifts have confider-
[ 388 r B R E
f potatoes with ed it as the original ipecies from which all our grain
is produced. Its roots are fweet-tafted, and have long
been employed in making ptifans. In the preparation
of them for bread, it is only neceflary that the roots
fhould be cleanfed, cut frnall, dried, and pounded. This
powder, M. Parmentier obferves, does not diflblve in
cold water or fpirits ; but it does in boiling water,
which it renders thick and cloudy, and, upon cooling,
the wdrole mafs obtains a gelatinous confiftence. Upon
a chemical analyfis, it yields an acid empyreumatic oil,
which poffefles a lingular odour, refembling that which
is perceived on burning the plant. The fpongy re-
fiduum, calcined in the air, gives a fixed alkali. Thefe
properties inconteftably prove, that it contains an
amylaceous (a) matter fimilar to that of grain, which
appears to be the nutritive part of vegetables. This
amylaceous matter, formed into a jelly, and diffufed
in W’ater, keeps for a long time wdthout fuffering any
change ; it then turns acid, and at length putrefies.
The amylaceous matter of acrid and poifonous plants,
although innocent and nutritive, cannot be converted
into bread without the addition of fome mucilaginous
fubftance. In times of great fcarcity, common bran
will anfwer the purpofe ; but when potatoes are to be
had, the addition of a proper proportion of thefe is to
be preferred.
M. Parmentier gives an account of the bread which
he obtained from the amylaceous powders of the dif¬
ferent vegetables mentioned above, with the addition
of potatoes and a fmall quantity of common leaven of
grain. This bread appeared in general to be well fer¬
mented ; it was of a good white colour, and free from
any difagreeable odour : but to the tafte, it was fome-
what infipid j wdrich, however, he imagines, might
have been corredled by the addition of a proper quan¬
tity of fait.
As the refources againft fcarcity here pointed out
can be procured only at particular feafons, the author
propofes a method for preferving the matter thus ob¬
tained. For this purpofe, he advifes, that bread pre¬
pared in the manner mentioned above Ihould be care¬
fully
(a) M, Leccari of the Bolognian academy has difeovered in the flour of wdreat two diftindl fubftances. The
one he terms an animal or glutinous matter j the other, an amylaceous matter or vegetable pajle,
jl he gluten^ has been fuppofed to be the nutritive part of corn, from its not difiblving unlefs in vegetable
. t ids ; tiom its afluming a fpongy form in boiling water ; from its luppofed analogy to the animal lymph ; and,
i.iitlv, bom the fimilitude which the products it affords, on a chemical analyfis, bear to thofe obtained from
animal fubftances. M. Parmentier, however, from various experiments, was led to conclude, with the cele¬
brated Model of 1 eterlhurg, that the gluten or animal matter of Beccari exifts in the bran, and is not the nu-
umve part of the wheat. Having made experiments with four different kinds of flour, it appeared that the
quantity of animal matter w\is always proportioned to the coarfenefs of the flour. Hence, were this gluten the
nutritive part, the coarfeft bread, or that which contained moft bran, would afford the greateft quantity of nou-
nftiment. The contrary of this, however, is now known to be fatf.
I he amylaceous' part,. or, as^ fome have termed it, \.\\c fecula, of wdieat and other vegetables, is a peculiar
gum, not ioluble in fpirit of wine, vinegar, or cold v7ater. It contains more acid, and lefs wTater, than the or-
<1 in ary gums. It is found in many of thefe plants that make the nourifhment of men and other animals. Hence
M. Parmentier concludes it to be the nutritive matter.
1 hough we are not to confider the glutinous matter as the nutritious part of vegetables, yet it is a very ne-
ce ary ! jnt’ 'j ^lat which preferves the cohefion of the pafte in fermenting bread : it is that which
forms the vilcid pellicle, and flops the air in fermentation 5 gives the favoury tafte to bread •, occafions it to be
light, to ferment, and which forms the fmall cells feen in it. It is found efpecially near the cortical part of
gram ; and this accounts for its being found in the greateft quantity in coarfe brown meal. It is this gluten
which renders wheat a fupenor aliment to the other grains and roots.
B R E f
Bread, fully dried, reduced to powder, and then kept in a
clofe calk. By this means, he is of opinion that it
may be preferved for a very long time, and will al¬
ways be ready to make an agreeable and wholefome
panada by the addition of a little butter and fait.
M. Parmentier, in order to difcover the degree of
power wherewith this alimentary powder nourilhed,
made himfelf the fubjedf of experiment ■, and found,
that three ounces of it for dinner, and as much for
flipper, made into panada with water, wras a fufficient
quantity of aliment for a day. From his difcharge
by ftool while he ufed it, he had reafon to believe that
it is almoft totally alimentary. He concludes with
recommending it not only as ufeful in times of fear-
city, but as a proper fubftitute for fea-bifeuit, and as
a Ipecies of food well adapted for armies and hofpi-
tals.
3. Cheap method of making wholefome Bread, when
* From a wheat-dour is dear, by mixing turnip with it*.
Mufeutn ^ t^e t^rne ^ tried this method, bread was very
Rufthum et dear, infomuch thar the poor people, in the country
CWwWs/* where I live, can hardly afford themfelves half a meal
a-day. This put me upon confidering whether fome
cheaper method might not be found than making it
of wheat-meal. Turnips wrere at that time very plen¬
tiful. I had a number of them pulled, walked clean,
pared, and boiled \ when they were become foft enough
to maih, I had the greateft part of the water preffed
out of them, and afterwards had them mixed with an
equal quantity in weight of coarfe wheat-meal; the
dough was then made in the ufual manner, with yeaft
or barm, fait, water, &c. It rofe very well in the trough j
and after being well kneaded, was formed into loaves,
and put into the oven to be baked. I had at the fame
time fome other bread made with common meal in the
ordinary way. I baked my turnip bread rather longer
than the other. When they were drawn from the
oven, I caufed a loaf of each fort to be cut ; and found,
on examination, the turnip bread was fweeter than the
other, to the full as light and as white, but# had a lit¬
tle tafte (though nowife difagreeable) of the turnip.
Twelve hours afterwards I tailed my turnip-bread again,
when I found the tafte of the turnip in it fcarce per¬
ceivable, and the fmell quite gone off. On examining
it when it had been baked 24 hours, had I not known
that there were turnips in its compofition, I Ihould
not have imagined it : it had, it is true, a peculiar
fweetilh tafte, but by no means difagreeable ; on the
contrary, I rather preferred it to the bread made of
wheat-meal alone. After it had been baked 48 hours,
it underwent another examination, when it appeared
to me to be rather fuperior to the other \ it ate frelher
and moifter, and had not at all abated in its good qua¬
lities : to be Ihort, it was ftill very good after a week ;
and, as far as I could lee, kept as well as the bread
made of common wheat meal.
“ In my trials of this bread by the tafte, I was
not fatisfied with eating it by itfelf 5 I had fome of it
fpread with butter •, I tailed it with cheefe ; I ate of
it toafted and buttered, and finally in boiled milk and
in foup : in all thefe forms it was very palatable and
good.
Bread, in Medicine. Befides the alimentary, bread
,* has alfo medical, qualities.—Decodlions, creams, and
jellies of bread, are dire&ed in fome difpenfaries. Bread
Bread,
389 ] B R E
carefully toafted, and infufed or lightly boiled in wa«
ter, imparts a deep colour, and a fufficiently agreeable v
reftringent tafte. This liquor, taken as common drink,
has done good fervice in a weak lax ftate of the ftomach
and inteftines j and in b’lious vomiting and purging,
or the cholera morbus 5 examples are related in the E-
dinburgh effays of feveral cafes of this kind cured by it,
without the me of any other medicine In Weftphalia
there is a very coarfe bread eaten, which ftill retains
the opprobrious name given it by a French traveller of
Bonpournickel, “ good for his horfe Nicke!.'n It is the
fame with what the Romans called panis furfuraceus,
or panis inipurus, from its not being cleanfed from the
hulk ; and panis ater, from the blacknefs of its colour:
though we learn from Pliny, that the Romans for 3C0
years knew no other bread. The Germans * make * Hcjfman,
twm lorts of w aters by diftillation from this bread 5 the Qbfcr.Cbem*
one with, the other without, the addition of a fpirituous
liquor : to both which great virtues are aferibed. That
without any thing fpirituous, is made out of the juice
of craw-fifh, may-dew, role-water, nutmegs, and faf-
fron, diftilled from a large quantity of this bread. This
is elteemed a great reftorative, and given in hedtic ha¬
bits. The other is diftilled from this bread and Rhe-
nifti wine, with nutmegs and cinnamon. This is given
in all the diforders ol the ftomach, vomiting, lofs of
appetite, and other complaints of the fame kind : and
befides thefe, there is a fpirit diftilled from it by the
retort in the dry wmy, which, when feparated from
its fetid oil, is efteemed a pow-erful fudorific, and
very valuable medicine in removing impurities of the
blood.
Bread is alfo medicinal, applied externally, as is vul¬
garly knowm*. Mr Boyle affures us he drew a men- * Boyle’s
ftruum from bread ftronger than aquafortis, and wrhich PbiLWorii
w7ould a£l even upon glafs itfelf f. abridged.
Bread Tree. See Artocarpus, BorANy Index. vo1 m'
Bees-Bread. See Bee. f'/S/voI.
CaJJada Bread. See Jatropha, Botany Index. i. p 34, 49.
Earth Bread J. “ In the lordlhip of Mofcaw in J From the
the Upper Lufatia, a fort of white earth is found, of German E-
which the poor, urged by the calamities of the wars^^™^5
which raged in thofe parts, make bread. It is taken1764’
out of a hill where they formerly worked at faltpetre.
When the fun has fomewhat warmed this earth, it cracks,
and fmall white globules proceed from it as meal ; it
does not ferment alone, but only wdien mixed with
meal. Mr Sarlitz, a Saxon gentleman, was pleafed
to inform us, that he has feen perfons who in a great
meafure lived upon it for fome time. He affures us that
he procured bread to be made of this earth alone, and
of different mixtures of earth and meal ; and that he
even kept fome of this bread by him upwards of fix
years: he further fays, a Spaniard told him, that this
earth is alio found near Geronne in Catalonia.”
Eucharif or Sacramental Bread, in the Proteftant
churches, is common leavened bread, in conformity to
the ancient pradlice. In the Romifti mafs, azymous or
unleavened bread is uJed, particularly in the Galilean
church, where a fort is provided for this purpoie called
pain a chanter, made of the pureft wheaten flour pref¬
fed between two iron plates graven like wafer-moulds,
being firft rubbed with white wax to prevent the pafte
from flicking. The Greeks obferve divers ceremonies
in their making the eucharift bread. It is neceffary
the
Bread
B R E ' [ 390 ] B R E
Bread, tire perfon who bakes it have not lain with his wife
v the day before •, or, if it be a woman, that die have not
converled with her hufband. The Abydinians have an
apartment in their churches for this fervice, being a
kind of facriity. F. Sirmond, in his difquifition on a-
zymous bread, (hows from the council of Toledo, that
anciently there were as many ceremonies ufed in the
Latin church in the preparation of their unleavened
bread as are dill retained in the eaftern churches. He
cites the example of Queen Radegonda, who diftributed
with her own hands in the church, the bread which
{he herfelf had made. It appears alfo from the dif-
pute of Cardinal Humbert again ft the Greeks, that in
the Latin church no bread w7as ufed for the eucharift,
but what was taken out of the facrifty, and had been
made by the deacons, fubdeacons, and even priefts,
who rehearfed feveral pfalms during the procefs.
Ecclefiaftical writers enumerate other fpecies of bread
allotted for purpofes of religion ; as, 1. Calendarius,
that anciently offered to the prieft at the kalends.
2. Prebendarius, the fame with capitularis, that diftri-
buted daily to each prebendary or canon. 3. BenediBus,
that ufually given to catechumens before baptifm, in
lieu of the euchariftic bread, which they w'ere incapable
of partaking of. The panis benediffus, wTas called alfo
panagium and eulogium, being a fort of bread bleffed
and confecrated by the prieft, whereby to prepare the
catechumens for the reception of the body of Chrift.
The fame was ufed afterwards, not only by catechu¬
mens, but by believers themfelves, as a token of their
mutual communion and friendflrip. Its origin is dated
from the 7th century, at the council at Nantz. In the
Gallican church we ftill find panis benediffus, pain benity
ufed for that offered for benediction, and afterwards
diftributed to pious perfons who attend divine fervice
in chapels. 4. Confecrated bread is a piece of wax,
pafte, or even earth, over w;hich feveral ceremonies have
been performed with benedictions, &c. to be fent in an
Agnus Dei, or relic-box, and prefented for veneration.
5. Unleavened bread, panis axynius. The Jews eat
no other bread during their paffover ; and exa£t fearch
was made in every houfe, to fee that no leavened bread
was left. The ufage was introduced in memory of their
hafty departure from Egypt, when they had not leifure
to bake leavened. 6. Shew-bread was that offered to
God every Sabbath-day, being placed on the golden
table in the holy of holies.
Horfe-BnEAD is made of wheat, oats, and beans 5 to
wThich fometimes are added anifeed, gentian, liquorice,
faenugreek, eggs, and ale j and fometimes rye and
white wine are ufed.
For race-horfes three forts of bread are ufually given
with fuccefs, for the fecond, third, and fourth nights
feeding: they are all made of beans and wheat worked
with barm the difference confifting chiefly in the pro¬
portion of the two former. In the ftrft kind, three times
the quantity of beans is ufed to one of wheat ; in the
fecond, equal quantities of both ", in the third, three
times the quantity of wheat to one of beans.
Sago-BREAD. See Sago.
* See Af- A([i%e * of Bread. The price and weight of bread is
par.ult. regUlated by the magiftrates according to the price of
wheat. We have divers tables of the weights of the
loaves both of wheat, wheaten, and houfehold bread, at
fj:ery price of wheat. If bread want one ounce in 36,
the baker formerly was to fuffer the pillory: now, to
forfeit 5s. for every ounce wanting 5 and for every de¬
left lefs than an ounce, 2s. 6d j fuch bread being
complained of and w eighed before a magiftrate within
24 hours after it is baked or expofed to fale within the
bills of mortality, or within three days in any other
place. It is to be obferved, bread lofes weight by keep¬
ing : in fome experiments recited by Bartholine, the
diminution was near one-fourth in fix months. The
fame author allures us, that in Norway they make
bread which keeps 30 or 40 years ; and that they are
there fonder of their old hard bread, than elfewbere of
new' or foft •, fince the older it is, the more agreeable
it grow’s. For their great feafts, particular care is ta¬
ken to have the oldeft bread 5 fo that, at the chriftening
of a child, they have ufually bread which had been ba¬
ked perhaps at the chriftening of his grandfather. It
is made of barley and oat-meal baked between two hol¬
low ftones.
BREAD-Room, in a {hip, that deftined to hold the
bread or bifket.
The boards of the bread-room (hould be jointed and
caulked, and even lined with tin-plates or mats. It is
alfo proper to warm it well with charcoal for feveral
days before the bilket is put into it ; fince nothing is
more injurious to the bread than moifture.
BREADTH, in Geometry, one of the three di-
menfions of bodies, which multiplied into their length
conftitutes a furface.
BREAK, in a general fenfe, fignifies to divide a
thing into feveral parts with violence.
In the art of war, to break ground, is to open the
trenches before a place.
Among fportfmen, to break a borfe in trotting, is to
make him light upon the hand in trotting, in order to
make him fit for a gallop. To break a horfe for hunt¬
ing, is to fupple him, to make him take the habit of
running.
BREAKERS, a name given by failors to thofe bil¬
lows that break violently over rocks lying under the
furface of the fea. They are diftinguifhed both by
their appearance and found, as they cover that part of
the fea with a perpetual foam, and produce a hoarfe
and terrible roaring, very different from what the
waves ufually have in a deeper bottom. When a ftiip
is unhappily driven among breakers, it is hardly pofli-
ble to fave her, as every billow that heaves her up¬
wards ferves to dafti her down with additional force
wrhen it breaks over the rocks or hands beneath it.
BREAKING, in a mercantile ftyle, denotes the
becoming bankrupt. See Bankrui’T.
Brea king-Bulk, in the fea-language, is the fame
with unlading part of the cargo.
BREAKSPEAR, Nicholas. See Adrian IV.
BREAM. See Cyprinus, Ichthyology/«^y.
To Bream, to burn off the filth, fuch as grals, ooze,
ftiells, or fea-w'eed, from a {hip’s bottom, that has ga¬
thered to it in a voyage, or by lying long in a harbour.
This operation is performed by holding kindled furze,
faggots, or fuch materials, to the bottom, fo that the
flame incorporating with the pitch, fulphur. Sec. that
had formerly covered it, immediately loofens and
throws off whatever filth may have adhered to the
planks. After this, the bottom is covered anew with
a compofition of fulphur, tallow, &c. which not only
makes
Bream.
B R E
[ 39i ]
B R E
Bread.
® Barthol.
A£i. Med.
p. 171. Cajl,
Lex. Med.
p. 728.
f Cabrol.
Obferv 7.
Blaf. Com.
ad Kejiing.
P- l33-
makes it fmootn and flippery, fo as to divide the fluid
more readily, but alfo poifons and deftroys thofe worms
which eat through the planks in the courfe of a voy¬
age. Breaming may be performed either when the
(hip lies aground after the tide has ebbed from her, or
by docking, or by careening.
BREAST, in Anatomy, denotes the fore-parts of
the thorax. See Anatomy Index.
Smiting the brealf is one of the expreffions of peni¬
tence, In the Romifh church, the prieft beats his
breaft in rehearfing the general confeffion at the begin¬
ning of the mafs.
Breasts, or Mammce, in Anatomy. See Anatomy
Index.
The breafts are ufually two ; though wre alfo meet
with inftances of trimamice or women with three
breads *, and even fome wdth four, all yielding milk
alike f.
Breast.Hoohs, in Ship-Building, are thick pieces of
timber incurvated into the form of knees, and ufed to
ftrengthen the fore-part of the fliip, wdiere they are
placed at different heights diredlly acrofs the Item, fo
as to unite it with the bow's on each fide. The breaft-
hooks are ftrongly connefted to the ftem and hawfe-
pieces by tree-nails, and by bolts driven from without
through the planks and hawfe-pleces, and the whole
thicknefs of the breaft-hooks, upon wdiofe infide thofe
bolts are forelocked or clinched upon rings. They are
ufually about one-third thicker, and twice as long, as
the knees of the decks they fupport.
BkEAsr-Plate, in antiquity, a piece of armour worn
to defend the breaft, originally believed to be made of
hides, or hemp, twilled into fmall cords, but afterwards
made of brafs, iron, or other metals, wdiich were fome,-
times fo exquifitely hardened, as to be proof againft
the greateft force.
Breast-Plate, in Jewilh antiquity, one part of the
prieftly veftments anciently worn by the high-priefts.
It w^as a folded piece of the fame rich embroidered
fluff of w’hich the ephod was made ; and it was fet with
twelve precious flones, on each of which was engraven
the name of one of the tribes. They were fet in four rows,
three in each rowr; and were divided from each other
by little golden fquares or partitions in which they
were fet. The names of thefe Hones, and that of the
tribes engraven on them, as alfo their difpofition on
the breaft-plate, are as follows :
Sardine
Reuben
Emerald
Judah.
Lip-are.
Gad.
Beryl
Zebulun.
Topaz
Simeon.
Sapphire.
Dan.
Agate
Asher.
Onyx.
Joseph.
Carbuncle
Levi.
Diamond.
Naphtali.
Amethyji
IsSAOHAR
| JAptr
(Benjamin.
This breafl-plate wras faftened at the four corners j
thofe on the top to each fhouller by a golden hook or
ring at the end of a wreathed chain ; and thofe belowq
to tbe girdle of the ephod, by two firings or ribbons,
which had likewife two rings and hooks.
This ornament wras never to be fevered from the
prieftly garment ! and it was called the memorial, to
put the high-prieft in mind how dear thofe tribes ought
Brechin.
to be to him, whofe names he wore on his breaft. It Breaft
is alfo called the breajlplate oj judgment, becaufe it had
the divine oracle of Urim and Thutnmim annexed to it. 
See Urim and Thummim. '
BREAST-Plate, in the manege, the ftrap of leather
that runs from one fide of the laddie to the other, over
the horfe’s breaft, in order to keep the faddle tight, and
hinder it from Aiding backwards.
BkEAST-Work, in fortification, the fame with Para¬
pet.
BREATH, the air infpired and expelled again in
the a£lion of refpiration.
I he ancients were very watchful over the laft breath
of dying perfons, which the neareft relations, as the
mother, father, brother, or the like, received in their
mouths.
BREATHING, the fame with Resp IRATION.
BRECPI1N, a town of Scotland, in the county of
Angus, fituated in W. Long. 2. 18. N. Lat. 56. 40.
It confifts of one large handfome llreet, and twm fmal-
ler 5 and is on the fide of a fmall hill, and wafhed by
the river Southefk, over which there is a ftone-bridge
of two large arches. At the foot of the town is a long
row of houfes independent of it, built on ground held
in- feu from the family of Northefk. It is a royal
borough, and, with four others, fends a member to
parliament. In refpedt to trade, it has only a frnall
fliare of the linen manufadluve. It lies at no great di-
ftance from the harbour of Montrofe ; and the tide
flows within twro miles of the town j to which a canal
might be made, which perhaps might create a trade,
but would be of certain fervice in conveying dowm the
corn of the country for exportation.
Brechin was a rich and ancient biflropric founded by Penanfa
David I. about the year 1150. At the Reformation,
its revenues, in money and in kind, amounted to yool. ^codan^
a-year *, but, after that event, were reduced to 150I.
chiefly by the alienation of lands and tythes by Alex¬
ander Campbell, the firft Proteftant bilhop, to his
chieftain the earl of Argyll.—The Culdees had a con¬
vent here. Their abbot Leod was witnefs to the grant
made by King David to his new abbey of Dunferm¬
line. In after times, they gave way to the Mathurines
or Red Friars. The ruins of their houfe, according to
Maitland, are ftill to be feen in the College Wynd. 
Here was likewife an hofpital called Mai/on de Dieu,
founded in 1 256, by William de Brechin, for the re-
pofe of the fouls of the Kings William and Alexander j
of John earl of Chefter, and of Huntingdon his bro¬
ther 5 of Henry his father, and Juliana his mother.
Albinus bifhop of Brechin, in the reign of Alexan¬
der II. was witnefs to the grant. By the walls which
are yet Handing, behind the weft end of the chief
ftreet, it appears to have been an elegant little build-
ingq
The cathedral is a Gothic pile, fupported by 12 pil¬
lars; is in length 166 feet, in breadth 61 : part is ruin¬
ous, and part ferves as the parifh-church. The weft end
of one of the aifles is entire: its door is Gothic, and the
arch confifts of many mouldings; tbe window of it neat
tracery. The fteeple is a handfome tower, 120 feet
high ; the four lower windows in form of long narrow
openings ; the belfry windows adorned with that fpe-
cies of opening called the quatrefoil: the top-battle-
xnented, out of which rifes a handfome fpire.—-At a
B R E [39
Bcechin, fmaU diflance from the aide ftands one of thofe fingulay
Brecknock. roun(j towers whole ui'e has fo long baffled the conjee-
tures of antiquaries. 1’hefe towers appear to have been
peculiar to North-Britain and Ireland : in the lalt they
are frequent ; in the former, only two at this time ex-
ill. That at Brechin Hood originally detached from
other buildings. It is at prefent joined near the bottom
by a low additional aide to the church, which takes in
about a dxth of its circumference, From this aide there
is an entrance into it of modern date, approachable by
a few Heps, for the ufe of the ringers j two handfome
bells are placed in it, which are got at by means of fix
ladders placed on wooden femicircular floors, each red¬
ing on the circular abutments withinfide of the tower.
The height from the ground to the roof is 80 feet •, the
inner diameter, within a few feet of the bottom, is 8
feet; the thiclcnefs of the wall at that part, 7 feet 2
inches j fo that the whole diameter is 15 feet 2 inches ;
the circumference very near 48 feet •, the inner diame¬
ter at top is 8 feet 7 inches 5 the thicknefs of the walls
4 feet 6 inches ; the circumference, 38 feet 8 inches:
which proportion gives the building an inexprefflble
elegance : the top is roofed with an octagonal fpire
23 feet high, which makes the whole 103, In this fpire
are four windows placed alternate on the fides, reding
on the top of the tower ; near the top of the tower are
four others facing the four cardinal points : near the
bottom are two arches, one within another, in relief*,
on the top of the outmod is a crucifixion : between the
mouldings of the outmod and inner are two figures ; one
of the Virgin Mary j the other of St John, the cup,
and lamb. On each corner of the bottom of this arch
is a figure of certain beads} one pofflbly the Caledo¬
nian bear j and the other, with a long fnout, the boar.
The done-work within the inner arch has a fmall Hit or
peep-hole, but without the appearance of there having
been a door within any modern period : yet there might
have been one originally ; for the filling up confids of
larger dones than the red of this curious rotund. The
whole is built with mod elegant mafonry, which
Mr Gough obferved to be compofed of 60 courfes—
This tower hath often been obferved to vibrate with a
high wind.
The cattle of Brechin was built on an eminence, a lit¬
tle fouth of the town *, it underwent a long fiege in the
year 1303; was gallantly defended againd the Englilh
under Edward III.; and, notwithdanding all the efforts
of that potent prince, the brave governor Sir Thomas
Maule, ancedor of the family of Panmure, held out
this fmall fortrefs for 20 days, till he was {lain by a
V done cad from an engine on the 20th of Augud, when
the place was indantly furrendered. The family of
Panmure have now a noble houfe on the fite of the
old cadle.-—Brechin is alfo remarkable for* a battle
fought near it, in confequence of the rebellion railed in
1452, on account of the murder of the earl of Douglas
in Stirling cadle. The viftory fell to the royalids un¬
der the earl of Huntly. The maleeontents were head¬
ed by the earl of Crawford, who, retiring to his cadle
of Finhaven, in the frenzy of difgrace declared, that
he would willingly pals feven years in hell, to obtain
the glory that fell to the fhare of his antagonid.
BRECKNOCK, or Brecon, a town of Brecknock-
Ihire in Wales, and capital of the county. It is called
by the Welch Aber Hondey^ and is feated at the con-
s ] B R E
fluence of the rivers Hondey and Ulk, over which there Erecl
js a handfome done bridge. It is an ancient place,
containing three churches, one of which is collegiate,, ^lc
and is feated at the weft end of the town. The houfes *
are well built. Here was formerly a dately cadle, and a
drong wall, through which there were three gates, that
are all demolilhed. It fends one member to parliament.
It is well inhabited, which is in fome meafure owing to
its being the town where the affizes are kept j and
there is here a confiderable woollen-manufa£!ory. The
markets are well fupplied with cattle, corn, and provi-
fions, W. Long. 3. IJ. N. Lat. 52, O.
BRECKNOCKSHIRE, a county of Wales, bound¬
ed by Radnordiire, on the north 5 Cardiganfhire and
Caermavthenfflire, on the wed; Herefordffiire and Mon-
mouthlhire, on the ead ) and by Glamorganfflire and
Monmouthfhire, on the fouth. It is 35 miles in length,
30 in breadth, and about 100 in circumference. It
is furrounded with hills, which renders the air in
the valleys pretty temperate. The foil on the hills
is very dony, but the dreams defeending from thence
into the valleys render them fruitful both in corn and
grafs. The chief commodities here are com, cattle,
filh, and otter’s fur, befides manufaHures of cloth and
dockings. The principal rivers are the Ulk, the Wye,
and the Yrvon. The chief towns are Brecknock, Bead,
and Hay.
Two miles to the ead of Brecknock is a large lake,
called Brecknock Meer, and by the Welch Lhyn Saved*
dan ; it is two miles in length, and nearly the lame in
breadth. It contains plenty of otters, tench, perch,
and eels. The county fends one member to parliament.
It is in the diocefe of Landaff, and contains 61 parilhes,
and is divided into fix hundreds,
BREDA, a town in Holland, the capital of Dutch
Brabant. It is a large, populous, well built city, re¬
gularly fortified after the modern way, and is one of
the drongell places on the Dutch frontiers. It is feat¬
ed on the river Meek, in a mailhy country, which may
be overflowed and rendered inacceffible to an army.
It is 4000 paces in circumference, and contains up¬
wards of 2000 houfes. The town is of a triangular fi¬
gure, and the ramparts are all planted round with elms.
At every angle there is a gate built with brick. The
great church is a noble drufture, remarkable for its
fine fpire, which is 362 feet high. The maufoleum of
Augelbert II. count of Naffau, is a curious piece, a-
domed with feveral ftatues and inferiptions fuitable to
the occafion. In J577 the garrifon delivered this city
to the States-general j but it was retaken in 1581 by
Cloude de Barlaimount, affided by the baron de Erefin,
who was priloner therein. In 1590, Prince Maurice
took it again from the Spaniards.
In 1625 it was inveded by Spinola j when it endu¬
red a fiege too remarkable not to deferve a particular
detail.
The citadel, which formed the refidence of the prin¬
ces of that family, was furrounded by a ditch of pro¬
digious depth filled with water, and a drong wall de¬
fended by three great badions) and the arfenal was
celebrated for its extent, and the vad quantities of arms
and military dores it contained, Spinola, perfe<ttly
acquainted with the drength of the place, thought, he.
ihouid expofe his whole army to imminent dednnffion,
fhould he attempt an affault before he had regularly
carried
B R E [ 393 ] B R E
Tifeda. carried on his approaches. He even refolved upon re-
ducing the city by famine, as the method attended
with lead danger to his army j and accordingly be¬
gan with drawing trenches round, for the fpace of
four miles, erecting forts and redoubts at certain di-
flances.
On the other hand, the garrifon, confiding of feven
thoufand infantry, and feveral troops of horfe, compofed
of Englidi, French, and Dutch foldiers, took the mod
vigorous meafures for their own defence. The Englifh
were under the command of Colonel Morgan, who had
frequently didinguidred his valour in the lervice of the
States : the French were directed by Colonel de Hau-
terive j and the Dutch troops were fubjeft to the im¬
mediate orders of Colonel Lohre, though the whole re¬
ceived their indru&ions from Judin de Naffau, the
governor. The fird advantage was gained by Bag-
lioni, who feized a large convoy of provifions and dores
coming up the river, converting the boats into a bridge.
This lofs difpirited the befieged, and reduced them to
a dated allowance of bread 5 and what added to their
misfortunes, though they w7ere ignorant of it, was the
death of Prince Maurice, from whom they were in
hopes of receiving relief.
Meanwhile Spinola profecuted the fiege with the
utmod diligence and vigour. On his pufhing his
trenches near the badions, the befieged began a terrible
fire to retard his approaches, and kept it up with fuch
vehemence and obllinacy, that Spinola was in hopes
they mud foon furrender for want of ammunition. But
here he formed a falfe judgment of the prudence of
Judin de Naffau, who finding he could not accomplidi
his purpofe by his firing, refolved to try the effeft of
wTater. With this view, he dopped up the courfe of
the river Marck ; and having formed a large bafon of
water, opened the duices, fwept away men, horfes, and
houfes, in an inundation, and overdowed the whole
country. The chief force of the torrent fell upon
Spinola’s quarters, and he exerted his utmod ability to
remove the confequences. He dug large pit;,, and cut
out ditches and canals to receive the water ; but thefe
being filled, and the whole ground covered over, fo as
to appear one uniform mafs of water, ferved only to
entrap his cavalry. The inundation was augmented
by the rains which happened to fall; a mortality among
the foldiers and horfes enfued ; and of his whole army,
Spinola had fcarce twelve thoufand men fit for fervice
by the month of December. With thefe inconfiderable
remains, lines of vad extent were to be defended, the
works were to be advanced, the fallies from the garri¬
fon repulfed, and provifions to be conveyed into the
camp, while Spinola, the foul of a£tion, was confined
to a fick-bed.
In the garrifon, an epidemical difeafe and fcarcity
likewife prevailed; but the excellent regulations made,
and dridlly obferved, enabled the towm to hold out
three or four months beyond the time expefted. The
magidrates bought the corn for the bakers ; obliging
them to fell the bread to the inhabitants and garrifon
at a price affixed, and returning the overplus of their
pay to the loldiers. A variety of other prudent regu¬
lations were edablidred by the magidrates and gover¬
nor, fuch as we do not find equalled by any indances
recorded in hidory upon a fimilar occafion, and all e-
vincing the deadinefs, fagacity, courage, and ability, of
Vol. IV. Part I.
Judin de Naffau. A kind of rivalfhip appeared be- Breda.
twTeen him and Spinola, which diould bed fulfil their ‘“■““v'—
feveral duties. The Spanidi general caufed himfelf to
be carried about the works in a litter; he infpe&ed
and dire&ed every thing; and difplayed the a&ivity of
full health at the time his life was in imminent danger
from an acute malady. He ordered feveral breaches
in the lines to be repaired. Thefe the Hollanders had
made by fap, wdth a view of introducing fuccours to
the befieged. He drove piles into all the ditches and
canals though which their boats could pafs. He
made drains, to clear off the waters of the river Marck ;
and fucceeded in a great meafure by dint of perfevc-
rance, vigilance, and condubh He was now reinforced
with a body of eight thoufand foot, and one thoufand
five hundred horfe; many of the fick were perfectly
recovered by his extreme care ; and his army was
again become formidable, amounting to twenty-five
thoufand infantry, and eight thoufand cavalry. Nor
W'as Prince Henry idle, who now fucceeded to the
titles and dominions of his brother Maurice, and was
elefted governor of Holland, Zealand, Guelderland,
Utrecht, and Overyffel. Fie preffed France for affift-
ance, and W’as joined by a body of cavalry under the
condiuft of the count de Rouffi and the marquis de
Rambures. With this reinforcement; and a body of
German infantry, he attacked the enemy’s lines, and
after an obfiinate conflidl was repulfed. He advanced
a fecond time ; but Spinola, who entertained a high
opinion of his valour and conduft, did not choofe to
wait for him in his lines; he marched out with the
greater part of his army, feized upon a convenient
poll, and obliged the prince a fecond time to retire to¬
wards Boifleduc. Henry, finding no profpeft of being
able to relieve the garrifon, fent a permiffion to the go¬
vernor to furrender on the bed: conditions he could ob¬
tain. This plan, which was figned with no name, fell
into the hands of the befiegers, and Spinola fent it
open, by a trumpet, to Juftin de Naffau, offering him
an honourable capitulation ; but that intrepid gover¬
nor, fufpefting the letter was forged, becaufe it was
anonymous, replied civilly, that a permiffion was not
an order to furrender ; and that he fiiould better fol¬
low the prince of Orange’s intention, and fhow' his re-
fpeft for Spinola, by continuing to defend the city to
the laft extremity.
By this time the garrifon wras diminifhed by difeafe,
fatigue, want, and hardfhip, to half the original num¬
ber ; but Juftin put on fuch a countenance, as con¬
cealed his fituation from Spinola. Fie frequently {'al¬
lied out upon Baglioni’s quarters, where the Italians
w’ere periflring with cold and hunger, the wffiole fub-
fiftence of the befiegers depending on the contributions
raifed in the neighbouring territories. This inconve¬
nience produced a mutiny in the camp, that could not
be appealed without applying violent remedies, and ex¬
ecuting within fight of the whole army the chief ring¬
leaders. One of the mutineers blew up Spinola’s chief
magazine, valued at two hundred thoufand livres.
Urged more by neceffity than compaffion for the be¬
fieged, Spinola fent a meffage to the governor, exhort¬
ing him not to force him to extremities, which might
be attended with fatal confequence to a brave garri¬
fon ; but Juftin, with equal art and diffimulation, an-
iwered, that Spinola was certainly ill ferved by his
3 D %iesS
B R E [ 394 ] B R E
ipies, as he appeared wholly unacquainted with the date
of affairs in Breda, which wras fully provided for a
fiege of feveral months, and defended by foldiers who
preferred death to the neceffity of furrendering. At
that time the befieged were not informed of the death
of the prince of Orange. They flattered themfelves
with the hopes of fpeedy fuccour, and wrere entirely
ignorant of Prince Henry’s late difappointment. When
they wrote to the army an account of their miferable
condition, Henry returned an anfwer, written with his
own hand, and figned with his name, apprifing them of
the death of Maurice, the unfuccefsful attempts made
to raife the fiege and throw in fuccours, the great in¬
feriority of his troops in point of numbers, and the
death of King James, whereby he was difappointed of
a ftrong reinforcement j concluding, that he left the
city entirely to the difcretion of the governor and
other principal officers. Juftin was thunderftruck with
the contents of this letter. He had hitherto concealed
the total want of provifion and ammunition from the
enemy, and his owrn garrifon, except a few officers and
other perfons in whom he repofed confidence. The
colonels Hauterive and Morgan wTould liften to no pro-
pofitions, faying, that the honour of their feveral coun¬
tries was concerned, and that they were refponfible
for the conduct of the Englilh and French forces.
They therefore required an exprefs order from the
prince of Orange to furrender, notwithftanding they
pined under the united preffure of fatigue, fcarcity,
and difeafe. Juftin acquainted the prince with their
refolution, and he fent back an order to furrender,
threatening with capital punifhment whoever ftiould
difobey ; but he requefted that the garrifon wxmld firft
acquaint him by a certain number of fires, lighted up
in different parts of the city, how many days they fhould
be able to hold out. Upon receipt of this order, eleven
fires w’ere kindled •, but as the prince had fent a dupli¬
cate of the order by another meffenger, and this fell
into the hands of the enemy, Spinola was now acquaint¬
ed with the defperate circumftances of the befieged.
By this acquifition he likewife difcovered the myftery
of the eleven fires : a council of war was affembled to
deliberate whether they ftiould ftay the eleven days, and
then oblige the garrifon to furrender at difcretion, or
immediately offer conditions worthy of fo brave a gar¬
rifon. The Spanifh officers were of the former opi¬
nion •, the count de Berg and Spinola fupported the
latter. At laft the marquis, determined to purfue the
dictates of his noble generofity, fent fuch terms as
could not be refufed. The count de Berg conduced
the negociation. Two feparate capitulations were
drawn up, one for the garrifon and the other for the
city, and both the moft honourable and advantageous
that could be devifed. They were accepted, and the
garrifon marched out on the 6th of June, after having
fuftained a fiege for ten months, wffiereby they were
diminilhed two thirds $ nor was the lofs inferior on
the part of the inhabitants. Spinola drew up his
army to falute them, and, furrounded by his field offi¬
cers, paid particular compliments to the governor, the
colonels Morgan, Hauterive, and Lohre. He diftri-
buted money among the foldiers, ordered the fick and
wounded to be treated with the utmoft tendernefs, con¬
veyed the reft in the manner moft commodious for
them to Gertruydenburgb, and difplayed all the fenti-
ments of a hero in the regard paid to the valour and Breda
merits of his enemies. I!
Breda wras retaken by the prince of Orange, for the --reec1ies-.
United Provinces, in 1637. There was a congrefs 1 *
held there, and peace concluded, in 1667, between
the Dutch and the Englilh. E. Long. 4. 45. N. Lat.
S'-SS-
Breda, jfobn Van, painter of biftory, landfcape,
and converlations, was born at Antwerp in 1683, the
fon of Alexander Van Breda, an artift who was much
efteemed for landfcapes, views of particular fcenes in
Italy, fairs, and markets, wuth a variety of animals and
figures. He was inftrufted by his father : and having
the advantage of a good example and a good dire£!or,
added to his own great application, he continued his
ftudies with his father till he was 18 years of age. A-
mong the variety of capital paintings which were at
that time in the poffeffion of John de Wit at Antwerp,
Breda fixed upon thofe of Velvet Breughel, wffiich he
copied wuth extraordinary fuccefs, and he was alfo em¬
ployed for nine years in copying the pictures of feveral
other great mailers j wdiich he performed with fuch in¬
credible exa£fnefs as fcarcely to leave it in the power of
any judicious perfon to diftinguifh the originals from the
copies. Having at length eftabliftred his reputation in
Holland, he went to London with Rylbrack the fculp-
tor, and there gradually role into fuch efteem, that he
was vifited by perfons of the higheft rank, and parti¬
cularly patronized by the unfortunate earl of Derwent-
water, w’ho was beheaded for rebellion in 17x5. He
found fo much encouragement in London, that he was
employed by the court and the nobility, and could
fcarce execute the large demands for his performances.
After a refidence of fome years in England, he return¬
ed to Antwerp loaded with riches, the honourable te-
ftimonies of Englilh liberality, as well as of his own
merit-, and in the year 1746, when Louis XV. ar¬
rived in that city, he fo far honoured this mailer as to
purchafe four of his piftures: One reprefented Chrift
at the fea of Tiberias; another, Chiift performing
miracles } and the other two were landfcapes, with a
number of figures, fo exquifitely drawn and finilhed
that it would be difficult to diftinguilh them from
thofe of Velvet Breughel. He certainly approached
nearer to thofe great mailers whofe manner he imita¬
ted, namely, Breughel and Wouvermans, than any
other artift of his time. His landfcapes are in the
ftyle and tafte of the former j and his converfations,
hiftorical figures, fairs, Ikirmilhes, or battles, are in
the manner of the latter. His colouring is good -, his
touch neat ; his Ikies and diftances natural and beauti- jr)?#.
ful; and his tafte of defign agreeable. He had as
much fire in his compofition, and perhaps more ge¬
nius, than Breughel, in thofe fubje£ls which he paint¬
ed in the ftyle of that mailer 5 his figures are general¬
ly well placed, his grounds Ikilfully broken every
fmall figure hath its particular chara&er, and occupies
its proper place and, in Ihort, he is a painter of fuch
a rank, that the value and eftimation of his works mull:
always increafe. He died in I75°*
BREECH of a great gun, or cannon, the end next
the touch-hole.
BREECHES, a garment worn by males, reaching
from the girdle to the knees, and ferving to cover the
hips, thighs, &c.
The
ERE [ 395 ] B R E
BteecHngs, The ancient Romans had nothing in their drefs an-
■ J ^ fwering to our breeches and dockings j inftead of which,
under their lower tunics and waiftcoats they fometimes
bound their thighs and legs round with filken fcarves
or fafc’.se, called tibialia and femoralia. Breeches ap¬
pear to be a habit peculiar to the barbarous nations,
efpecially thofe inhabiting the colder countries of the
north ; whence Tacitus calls them barbarum tegmen.
We find mention made of them among the ancient
Getae, Sarmatae, Gauls, Germans, and Britons; they
alfo obtained among the Medes and Perfians, as being
a people of Scythian origin ; they alfo afterwards got
footing in Italy, fome pretend, as early as the time of
Auguftus ; but without much foundation, that empe¬
ror’s breeches, mentioned by Suetonius, being appa¬
rently only fwaths tied over his thighs. However this
be, breeches were at laft received into Italy, and grew
lb highly into falhion, that it was thought neceffary,
under Honorius and Arcadius, to reftrain them by
law, and expel the bracarii or breeches-makers out of
the city ; it being thought unworthy of a nation that
conmanded the world, to wear the apparel of barba¬
rians.
BREECHINGS, in the fea-language, the ropes
with which the great guns are lalhed or faftened to the
Ihip’s fide. They are thus called, becaufe made to pafs
round the breech of the gun.
BREEDING, in a general fenfe, the producing,
nourifhing, and educating, all manner of young ani¬
mals.
Breeding, in a moral fenfe, denotes a perfon’s de¬
portment or behaviour in the external offices and deco¬
rums of focial life. In this fenfe we fay well-bred, ill-
bred, a man of breeding, &c. Good-breeding is hard
to define •, none can underftand the fpeculation but thofe
who have the practice. Good-breeding amounts to
much the fame with what is otherwife called politenefs,
among the ancient Romans urbanity. Good-breeding
is near to virtue, and will of itfelf lead a man a great
part of the way towards the fame. It teaches him to
rejoice in a£ts of civility, to feek out objefls of com-
paffion, and to be pleafed with every occafion of doing
them good offices. Lord Shaftefbury compares the
wHl-bred man with the real philofopher : both charac¬
ters aim at what is excellent, afpire to a juft tafte, and
carry in view the model of wffiat is beautiful and beco¬
ming. The conduft and manners of the one are formed
according to the moft perfeft eafe, and good entertain¬
ment of company j of the other, according to the ftrift-
eft intereft of mankind : the one according to his rank
and quality in his private ftation •, the other according
to his rank and dignity in nature. Horace feems to
have united both charaflers,
dfuid verum atque decens euro et rogo, et omnis in hocfum.
See the article Good-Manners.
Breeding of Horfes. See Equus.
Breeding of Fifh. The neceffary qualities of a pond,
to make it ferve xvell for breeding fiffi, are very differ¬
ent from thofe which are to make it ferve for the feed¬
ing of them, infomuch that fome particular ponds ferve
only for one of thefe purpofes, and others for the o-
tber ; and fcarce ever the fame pond is found to an-
fwer for them both. In general, it is much more rare
to find a good breeding pond than a good feeding one.
The beft indications for a good breeding pond are thefe; Breenber^
that there be a good quantity of ruffies and grafs about
its fides, with gravelly ftioals, fuch as horfe-ponds ufu- Ere ar‘ ,
ally have : when a pond has this property, and takes to v " *
the breeding of fifh, it is amazing what a progrefs will
be made in a little time. The (pawn of fifir is prodi¬
gious in quantity ; and where it fucceeds, one is able
to produce many millions: thus, in one of thefe breed¬
ing ponds, two or three melters, and as many fpawners,
will, in a very little time, ftock the whole country.
When thefe ponds are not meant entirely for breeding,
but the owmer would have the fiffi to grow' to fome fize
in them, the method is to thin the numbers, becaufe
they would otherwife ftarve one another, and to put in
other fifti that wall prey upon the young, and thin them
in the quickeft manner. Eels and perch are the moft
ufeful on this account; becaufe they prey not only up¬
on the fpawn itfelf, but upon the young fry from the
firft hatching to the time they are of confiderable fize.
Some fiffi are obferved to breed indifferently in all kinds
of waters, and that in confiderable plenty ; of this na¬
ture are the roach, pike, and perch.
BREENBERG, Bartholomew, an excellent
painter, was born in 1620. He is beft known by the
name of Bartolomeo, an appellation beftowed upon him,
for dirtimftion fake, by the fociety of Flemiffi painters
at Rome called Bentvoge/s. He was born at Utrecht ;
but in the early part of his life went to Rome. His
ftudies in the art of painting were attended with fuch
fuccefs, that his pidtures were held in the higheft efti-
mation. He greatly excelled in landfcapes, and thefe
he enriched with hiftorical fubjedls. The figures and
animals which he introduced were very fpirited, and
drawn in a mafterly manner ; efpecially when they
were not larger than the fize in which he ufually paint¬
ed them. He died in 1660, aged 40 years. He alfo
etched from his own defigns a fet of 24 Views and
Landfcapes, ornamented with Ruins.
BREEZE, a ffiifting wind that blows from fea
or land for fome certain hours in the day or night ;
common in Africa and fome parts of the Eaft and Weft
Indies.
Breezes differ from etefice or trade-winds, as the for¬
mer are diurnal, or have their periods each day ; and
the latter are anniverfary, and blow at a diftance from
land. The fea-breezes rule by day, and the land-breezes
by night ; fo that, dividing their empire, they remain
conftant as the feafons of the year, or courfe of the fun,
on w’hich they feem to depend : not but that they ap¬
pear fooner or later, ftronger or weaker, in fome places
than in others; and vary the alternative according to
the feveral latitudes, fituations, and foils, &c. of the
countries where they are found. See the article
Wind.
BREEZE-Fly. See Tabanus, Entomology Index.
BREGENTZ, or, Bergentz, a town of Tyrol in
Germany, fituated at the eaft end of the lake of Con-
fiance, in E. Long. 9. 40. N. Lat. 47. 36.
BREGMA, in Anatomy, the fame with finciput.
See Anatomy Index.
BREHAR, one of the Scilly iflands, lying almoft
dire&ly weft of the land’s end in Cornwall, about the
diftance of 30 miles. It lies between the ifies of Mi-
carol, Guel, Trefcaw, and Samfon. It is the rougheft
and moft mountainous of them all, and not many years
3 D 2 ' fince,
B R E [ 396 1 B R E
Brehons (Ince, there were only two families in it, but now there
g II are 13. There are a few poor houfes called the town
of Brebar ; and there are feveral barrows edged with
ifone, in which they buried confiderable perfons in an¬
cient times •, befides many monuments of the Druids.
Some are of opinion, that this with the reft made but
one bland, which is the reafon why fo many antiquities
are now found in moft of them.
BREHONS, the provincial judges among the an¬
cient Irifli, by whom juftice was adminiftered, and con-
.troverfies decided. Thefe fages were a diftimft tribe or
family, to whom competent lands were allowed in in¬
heritance. In criminal cafes the brehon had the eleventh
part of all the fines j which could not but be confider¬
able at a time when murders, rapes, robberies, and the
like offences, were only fubjeft to pecuniary commuta¬
tions.
BuEHON-Laws, or Leges Brehonicce, denote the ge¬
neral maxims or rules of law obferved by the brehons,
and having the force of laws throughout all the pro¬
vinces of Ireland. Several fragments of the leges bre-
bonicte are ftill extant in public and private libraries.
The moft complete colle&ion is that belonging to the
duke of Chandos j containing 22^ ftieets clofe written,
full of abbreviated words, and not very legible. By
the ftatute of Kilkenny, made under Edward III. it is
ena&ed that no Englilh fubjeft ftiall fubmit to a trial
by the brehon larv, on the penalty of high treafon. Not-
withftanding which, many were ftill under a neceflity
of being concluded by the Irifti laws and cuftoms, till
the whole kingdom was fettled on an Englifti bottom
by King James I.
BREMEGARTON, a handfome and pretty confi¬
derable town of Swifferland, in the territory of Fyen-
Aempter, between the cantons of Zurich and Bern.
The inhabitants deal chiefly in paper; and their reli¬
gion is the Rom an-catholic. It is divided into the
upper and lower town', and is very advantageoufly
feated on the river Rufs. E. Long. 8. 25. N. Lat.
47. 20.
BREMEN, a large, populous, and very ftrongtown
of Germany, capital of a duchy of the fame name, with
an archbifhop’s fee, fecularized in favour of the Swedes,
but now’ belongs to the ele&or of Hanover. The river
Wefer runs through the middle, and divides it into the
old and new town. In September 1739, while the inha¬
bitants were afleep, the magazine of powder rvas fet on
fire by lightning, and all the houfes were (haken, as if
there had been a violent earthquake, which threw them
into a terrible confternation. The town is divided into
four quarters, each of which has a burgomafter ; and
in the middle there is a large market-place, with the
ftatue of Rolando. Bremen drives a very large trade
for iron, flax, hemp, and linen, with France, England,
Spain, and Portugal, and in return takes back other
provifions, with which it fupplies Weftphalia and the
countries about Hanover. It alfo gets a great deal by
its fifheries ; the trade for blubber with the fouth of
Germany is very confiderable. E. Long. 8. 45. N.
Lat. 53. 40.
Bremen, a duchy of Germany, in the province of
Lower Saxony, lying between the rivers Wefer and the
Elbe of which the former feparates it from the duchy
of Oldenburgh, and the other from that of Holftein.
The air is cold j but the country is fertile, and w?ell
peopled. It formerly belonged to the Swedes, but was Bremen-
afterwards fold to the king of Great Britain, as elec- Veerd
tor of Hanover, in 1716. In the winter it is fubjeft „ H
to inundations. In 1617, on Chriftmas-day, feveral rerc^U00 ;
thoufand cattle were drowned, befides feveral hundred
of men; and the country was fo covered with water,
that it has coft immenfe fums to repair the dykes. Bre¬
men is the capital town.
BRKMF.N-Vecrd, a town of Germany, in the circle of
Lower Saxony, and duchy of Bremen. It is an open
town, feated on the river Ooft, and wras formerly the
place of refidence of the archbifhop. E. Long. 8. 35.
N. Lat. 53. 58.
BRENNAGE, Brennagium, in middle age wri¬
ters, a kind of tribute paid in lieu of bran, or bran
itfelf, which the tenants were obliged to furnilh for
the fupport of the lord’s hounds. The word is alfo
written brennage, brenagium, and brenaigc, bernagiumt
brenaticum, and brennaticum.
BRENNUS, a celebrated captain among the Gauls,
w ho, about 388 years before the Chriftian aera, entered
Italy with a powerful army \ made great conquefts
there *, defeated the Romans ; and lacked Rome. The
capitol alone wras defended j and Camillus coming to its
relief, drove the Gauls not only out of Rome, but out
of all Italy. See (Hi/lory of) Rome.
BRENT, a town of Devonftiire, with a market on
Saturdays, and two fairs, on May 13th and Oftober
10th, for horned cattle. It is but a fmall place, and
lies on the road from Exeter to Plymouth, being 26
mtles fouth-w7eft from the former, and 198 weft by
fouth of London. W. Long. 5. 7. N. Lat. 50. 30.
BuENT-Goofe, a fpecies of goofe with a black neck,
and a wdiite collar round ; ufually confounded wdth the
barnacle, through in reality a diftinft fpecies. See
Anas, Ornithology Index.
BRENTFORD, a town of Middlefex, on the great
London road to the weft. It is divided into old and
new7 Brentford, in which laft are the church and mar-
ket-houfe, and where the county eleftions are held. It
is a long place, well (locked with public houfes, and is
feated on the river Thames, in W. Long. o. 10. N.
Lat. 51. 26.
BRENTWOOD or Burntwood, a town of Effex
in England 5 it (lands on a rifing ground in the road
from London to Colchefter, and has feveral good inns.
E. Long. o. 25. N. Lat. 51. 38.
BREREWOOD, Edward, a very learned Englifti
mathematician and antiquary, w7as the fon of Robert
Brerew'ood a tradefman, w7ho was thrice mayor of Chef-
ter •, and born in that city in the year 1565. He was
educated in grammar learning at the free fchool in Chef-
ter 5 and afterwards admitted, in 1581, of Brazen nofe-
college in Oxford. In the year 1596, he became the
firft profeffor of aftronomy in Grelham-college in Lon¬
don 5 w7here he led the fame private and retired courfe
of life that he had before done in Oxford. He died
there of a fever, upon the 4th of November 1613, much
lamented. He was a great fearcher into antiquity and
curious knowdedge j but is remarkable for having never
publiftied any thing during his lifetime. After his
death came out the following w7orks. 1. De ponderibus
et pretiis veterurn nummorum. 2. Inquiries touching
the diverfities of languages and religion through the
chief parts of the w7orld. 3. Element a logic# in gra~
tiatn
B R E [ 307 1 B R E
Brefcia tTant JlucUofce juventutis in Acad, Oxon. 4. Tra&atus yearly fairs. The city was taken by the king of Pruffia
^ il^ qiada/n loqici. 5. 6. Two treatii’es on the Sabbath.
' . 7. Trad a tus duo, quorum primus ejl de meteons, fecun-
dus de ocu/o. 8. Commentarii in ethic a Arijloteiis. Mr
Wood tells us, that the original manufcript of this,
written with his own hand, is in the fmalleft and neateft
charafters that his eyes ever beheld ; and that it was fi-
niihed by him on the 27th of O&ober 1586. 9. Patri¬
archal government of the ancient church.
BRESCIA, a ftrong and handfome town of Italy,
with a bidrop’s fee and a good citadel. It is the capi¬
tal of Brelciano in the territory of Venice, and is feated
in an agreeable plain on the river Garza, in E. Long.
10. 5. N. Lat. 45. 31.
BRESC1ANO, a province of Italy in the territory
of Venice; bounded on the north, by the Grifons and
the biihopric of Trent; on the eaft, by the lake Garda,
the Veronefe, and the duchy of Mantua ; on the fouth,
by the duchy of Mantua and the Cremonefe ; and on
the weft, by the Cremafco, the Bergomafco, and the
Valtelina. It is watered by feveral fmall rivers, which
render it very fertile ; and is full of towns and villages,
of which Brefcia is the capital.
BRESELLO, a fmall town of Italy in the duchy
of Modena, feated on the river Po, in E. Long. 10. 25.
N. Lat. 44. 55.
BRESCICATE, in commerce, a kind of baize, of
which there is fome trade carried on with the negroes,
between the river Gambia and Sierra Leona. The beft
forts for that purpofe are the blue and the red.
BRESLAU, a fmall duchy of Lower Silefia, in
Germany, lying between thofe ofWolaw, Olfle, Brieg,
Schwednitz, and Lignitz. It is everywhere level and
• flat : is an excellent corn country, yielding alfo good
pafture ; abounding alfo with herds of cattle and flocks
of ftreep ; but deftitute of wood, except in one diftrift
or circle ; and the roads in general are very bad. It is
an immediate principality, that is, one of which both
the property and jurifdi&ion belong to the king, form¬
ing a part of one of the three bailiwics into which all
the immediate principalities are divided,
Breslau, the chief town of the duchy of that name,
and of all Silefia, is fituated at the conflux of the Ci¬
der and Ohlau, in E. Long. 17. 5. N. Lat. 5 I. 4. In¬
cluding the fuburbs, it is of great extent; having many
large regular fquares, broad ftreets, ftately public and
private edifices ; but the fortifications are of no great
importance. Here are in particular a great many
churches and convents belonging to the Catholics ; of
the former are feveral alfo belonging to the Lutherans,
one to the Calvinifts, and another to the Greeks. The
Jews have likewife two fynagogues, the bifhop a ftately
palace, and the Lutherans two gymnafiums. The Po-
piih univerfity is a noble ftruchrre, nor is the exchange
deftitute of magnificence. This city is the feat of all the
high colleges ; and» the third in rank, next to Berlin
and Konigfberg, in all the Pruftran dominions. The
magiftracy of it is Lutheran, and its trade and manu-
fadlures are very confiderable. Several of the monafte-
ries and nunneries are very magnificent ; and there are
alfo fome good public libraries in it, with two armou¬
ries, a college of phyficians, and a mint. Breflau is
very populous, and much frequented by Hungarian,
Bohemian, Polifh, and other merchants, having feveral
in 1741, and retaken by the Auftrians in 1757; but
the king of Pruflia took it back again the fame year,
and gained a fignal victory over the Auftrians at Leu-
then, a village not far from the capital.
BRESSE, a province of France, bounded on the
north by Burgundy and the Tranche Compte ; on the
eaft, by Savoy ; on the fouth, by Viennois; on the weft,
by the principality of Dombes and the Somme. It is
40 miles from north to fouth, and 23 from eaft to weft.
It is fertile in corn and hemp, has fine paftures, and
feveral lakes with plenty of fiih. It is divided into the
higher and lower ; the firft is on the fide of Bourges,
and the fecond towards StTrivier and the river Sonne.
The French got poffeflion of it in 1601. The princi¬
pal places are Bourgen, Brefle, Montluel, Pont de
Vaux, and Coligny.
BRESS1CI, in Geography. See Breste.
BREST, a maritime town of France, in the depart¬
ment of Finifterre, feated on the declivity of a hill on the
fide of its port, which is the largeft in the kingdom, and
will hold 500 ftrips at a time. There is an arfenal with
fea-ftores, which was placed there on account of its near-
nefs to the woods, mines of iron, and other things pro¬
per for the building of ftrips. It was entirely confirmed
by fire in 1744, which was an irreparable lofs to France.
The entrance into the port is guarded by a ftrong caftle
feated on a rock, which cannot be attempted on the
fea fide, becaufe it is craggy, and is defended on the
land fide by a large ditch and other fortifications. The.
ftreets of Breft are very narrow, ill contrived, few in
number, and have all a defeent. A great quay fur-
rounds this fide of the port, which is above a mile in
length, and 200 paces broad ; and there are magazines
on the quay full of all foreign merchandifes. On the
other fide of the port the fine church of Notre Dame
is fituated ; and in a fuburb, which is as big as half
the city, there is a ftrong tower oppofite to the caftle,
at the entrance of the port ; there is alfo a great quay
on this fide, bordered with large magazines, partly
within the rock, which has been cut away to enlarge
the place. Thefe are extended almoft as far as the
bottom of the harbour, where there are two docks very
commodious for the building of large ftrips : the {hops
and houfes of the workmen are all around them : the
ropewalks are feparated from the city by one of thefe
docks. The entrance into the harbour is called the^#/-
let, and is a paftage extremely difficult on account of
the funk rocks on both fides of the ffiore ; but there
are experienced pilots who carry {hips in very fafely.
The Engliffi attempted to take pofleffion of this har¬
bour in 1604, but were difappointed. W. Long-. 4,
26. N. Lat. 48. 23.
Brest, or Brea]}, in ArchiteElure, a term fometimes
ufed for the member of a column, more ufually called
torus. See Torus.
BRF.sr-Summers, in timber buildings, are pieces in the
outward fide thereof, into which the girders are framed:
this, in the ground-floor, is called a cell; and, in the
garret-floor, a beam.—As to their fize, it is the fame
with that of girders. See Girders.
BRESTE, the palatinate of, is one of the provinces ■
of Cujava, in Poland. It lies between the palatinates of
Ploefko, Rava, and Lencici Wiadiflaw. It is divi¬
ded:
Brefte
II
Brethren.
B R E t 398 ] ■ B R
ded into^four chatelanies, and Brefte is the capital of ter end of the fifteenth century.
E
the whole.
_ Breste, or Brefflci, the capital of the palatinate of
Breftici, and of Polefia in Poland, feated on the river
Bog, 80 miles eaft of Warfavv, and fubjeft to Poland.
It is a fortified town, and has a caftle built upon a rock.
Here is a famous fynagogue, reforted to by the Jews
from all the countries in Europe. E. Long. 24. o. N.
Lat. 41. 35.
BRE T, a name the people on the coafts of Lincoln-
ftiire give to the common turbot, a fifti extremely plen¬
tiful wdth them, and taken in vaft abundance. The
way of catching them is in a net trailed on the ground
by two horfes; the one going up to the middle of his
body in water, the other on ftiore.
BRE FESSE, in Heraldry, denotes a line embattled
on both fides.
BRETHREN AND SISTERS OF THE FREE SPIRIT,
in Ecclefiajhcal Hijlory, an appellation affumed by a
new feft which fprung up towards the clofe of the
thirteenth century, and gained many adherents in Italy,
France, and Germany. They took their denomina¬
tion from the words of St Paul, Rom. chap. viii. ver.
2, ,14. and maintained, that the true children of God
were inverted with the privilege of a full and perfeft
freedom from the jurifdiftion of the law. They were
enthufiarts to a degree of diftraftion, both in their
principles and praftice. They refembled the Begbards,
by which name they were fometimes called, in their
alpeft, apparel, and manner of living. Some of their
profefled principles refembled thofe of the Pantheifts;
for they held, that all things flowed by emanation from
God ; that rational fouls were portions of the Deity,
and that the univerfe was God ; and that, by the power
of contemplation, they were united to the Deity, and
acquired hereby a glorious and fublime liberty, both
from the finful lufts and the common inftindls of na¬
ture : and hence they conclude, that the perfon, who
was thus abforbed in the abyfs of the Deity, became
a part of the Godhead, and was the fon of God, in
the fame fenfe and manner that Chrift was, and that
he was freed from the obligation of all laws human
and divine. They treated with contempt all Chriftian
ordinances, and all external a£ls of religion, as un-
fuitable to the ftate of perfeftion at which they were
arrived. Some of them wTere honeft but deluded en-
thufiafts ; and they endured the torments infli&ed up¬
on them by the inquifitors with aftoniftiing calmnefs
and triumph. Others proceeded to the moft extrava¬
gant licentioufnefs of conduct. They held their fecret
aflemblies ftark naked, and lay in the fame beds with
their fpiritual fillers, and indifcriminately with other
women, without the lead fcruple or hefitation : mode-
ity and decency being, according to their creed, marks
of inward corruption. And fome of them proceeded
ftill farther, and maintained, that the divine man, or
believer, could not fin, let his condudl be ever fo hor¬
rible or atrocious. Many edidls were publifhed a-
gainft them ; but notwithftanding the feverities they
fuffered, they continued till about the middle of the
fifteenth century. They were called by feveral other
names, fuch as Schweftriones, Picards, Adamites, and
Turlupins.
Brkthren and Clerks of the Common Life, a denomi¬
nation aflumed by a religious fraternity towards the lat-
_ They lived under the Brethren,
rule of St Auguftin, and were eminently ufeful in pro- >l)n-
moting the caufe of religion and learning. Their fo- ¥ J
ciety was firft formed, in the preceding century, by Ge¬
rard de Groote, a native of Deventer; but did not
flourilh till about the period above mentioned, when it
obtained the approbation of the council of Conftance,
and became very refpeflable in Holland, the Low'er
Germany, and the adjacent provinces. It was divided
into two dalles \ the lettered brethren or clerks, and the
illiterate : they lived in feparate habitations, but main¬
tained the clofeft fraternal union. The former ap¬
plied to the ftudy of polite literature, and the educa¬
tion of youth} vvhilft the latter were employed in
manual labour, and the mechanic arts. They were
frequently called Beghards and Lollards, by way of re¬
proach.
White Brethren, fratres albali, were the followers
of a leader about the beginning of the fifteenth centu¬
ry, who was arrayed in a white garment ; and as they
were alfo clothed in white linen, they were diftinguilh-
ed by this title. Their leader w'as a prieft from the
Alps, who carried about a crofs, like a ftandard, and
whofe apparent ianftity and devotion drew' together a
number of followers. This deluded enthufiaft pratti-
fed many afls of mortification and penance, endeavour¬
ed to perfuade the European nations to renew the holy
war, and pretended that he wras favoured with divine
vifions. Boniface IX. ordered him to be apprehend¬
ed and committed to the flames, upon which his fol-
low'ers difperfed.
BRETON, or Cape-Britain, an ifland near the
eaftern continent of North America, lying between 45
and 47 degrees of north latitude. It is feparated from
Nova Scotia by a narrow ftrait called Canjo, and is
about 100 miles in length, and 50 in breadth. It is
furrounded with little fharp-pointed rocks, feparated
from each other by the weaves, above wdiich fome of
their tops are vifible. All its harbours are open to the
eaft, turning towards the fouth. On the other parts of
the coaft there are but a few anchoring places for fmall
veflels, in creeks, or between iflets. Except in the
hilly parts, the furface of the country has but little fo-
lidity, being everywdrere covered with a light mofs, and
with water. The dampnefs of the foil is exhaled in
fogs, without rendering the air umvholefome. In other
refpefts, the climate is very cold \ owing either to the
prodigious quantity of lakes, which cover above half
the ifland, and remain frozen a long time *, or to the
number of forefts, that totally intercept the rays of the
fun ; the effeft of which is befides decreafed by perpe¬
tual clouds.
Though fome filhermen had long reforted to this
ifland every fummer, not more than 20 or 30 had ever
fixed there. The French, who took pofleflion of it in
Auguft 1713, were properly the firft inhabitants. They
changed its name into that of Ife Royale, and fixed
upon Fort Dauphin for their principal fettlement.
This harbour was tw’o leagues in circumference. The
ftiips came to the very ftiore, and w'ere fheltered from
winds. Forefts affording oak fufficient to fortify and
build a large city, wrere near at hand ; the ground ap¬
peared lefs barren than in other parts, and the filhery
was more plentiful. This harbour might have been
rendered impregnable at a trifling expence but the
difficulty
B R E
Breton.
difficulty of approaching it (a circumftance that had at
firff: made a ftronger impreffion than the advantages re-
fulting from it) occafioned it to be abandoned, after
great labour had been bellowed upon the undertaking.
They then turned their views to Louilbourg, the accefs
to which was eafier ; and convenience was thus prefer¬
red to fecurity : the fortification of Louifbourg, how¬
ever, was not begun till 1720.
In the year 1714, fome fiffiermen, who till then had
lived in Newfoundland, fettled in this ifland. It was
expe£ted that their number would foon have been in-
creafed by the Acadians, who were at liberty, from the
treaties that had been granted them, to remove with
all their effefts, and even to difpofe of their eftatesj but
thefe hopes were difappointed.* The Acadians chofe
rather to retain their poffeffions under the dominion of
Britain, than to give them up for any precarious ad¬
vantage they might derive from their attachment to
France. Their place was fupplied by fome dillrefled
adventurers from Europe, who came over from time to
time to Cape Breton, and the number of inhabitants
gradually increafed to 4000. They were fettled at
Louifbourg, Fort Dauphin, Port Touloufe, Nerucka,
and on all the coafts where they found a proper beach
for drying the cod. I he inhabitants never applied
themfelves to agriculture, the foil being unfit for it.
They often fowed corn, but it feldom came to matu¬
rity •, and when it did thrive fo much as to be worth
reaping, it had degenerated fo confiderably, that it was
not fit for feed for the next harveft. They have only
continued to plant a few pot-herbs that are tolerably
well tailed, but muff: be renewed every year from
abroad. The poornefs and fcarcity of paflures has like-
tvife prevented the increafe of cattle. In a w-ord, the
foil of Cape Breton feemed calculated to invite none
but fifhermen and foldiers.
Though the ifland was entirely covered with forefls
before it was inhabited, its wood has fcarce ever been
an objeft of trade. A great quantity, however, of foft
wood -was found there fit for firing, and fome that might
be ufed for timber: but the oak has always been fcarce,
and the fir never yielded much refin. The peltry trade
was a very inconfiderable objedl. It confifted only in
the fkins of a few lynxes, elks, mufk-rats, wild cats,
bears, otters, and foxes both of a red and filver-grey
colour. Some of thefe were procured from a colony of
Mickmac Indians wflio had fettled on the ifland with
the French, and never could raife more than 60 men
able to bear arms. The reft came from St John’s, or
the neighbouring continent. Greater advantages might
poffibly have been derived from the coal-mines which
abound in the ifland. I hey lie in a horizontal direc¬
tion : and being no more than fix or eight feet below
the furface, may be wmrked without digging deep, or
draining off the waters. Notwithftanding the prodigi¬
ous demand for this coal from New England, from the
year 1745 to I749> thefe mines would probably have
been forfaken, had not the ftnps which were fent out
to. the French iflands wanted ballaft. In one of thefe
mines a fire has been kindled, which could never yet be
extinguilhed.
The people of Cape Breton did not fend all their fifti
to Europe. They fent part of it to the French fouthern
iflands, on board 20 or 25 ftiips from 70 to 140 tons
burden. Befides the cod, which made at leaft half
[ 399 1
B R E
their cargo, they exported to the other colonies tim- Breton,
ber, planks, thin oak-boards, failed falmon and mac-1 11 1 w*"
kerel, train-oil, and iea-coal. All thefe were paid for
in fugar and coffee, but chiefly in rum and molaffes.
T he ifland could not coniume all thefe commodities.
Canada took off but a fmall part of the overplus ; it
was chiefly bought by the people of New England, who
gave in exchange fruits, vegetables, wood, brick, and
cattle. . This trade of exchange was allowed ; but a
fmuggling trade was added to it, carried on in flour,
and fait fifli. ’
1 his ifland, the key of Canada, was attacked by the
Englifli in. 1745 i and the event is of fo Angular a na¬
ture, that it deferves a particular detail. The plan of
this firit invafion was laid at Bofton, and New England
bore the expence of it. A merchant named Pepperel,
who had excited, encouraged, and dire&ed the enter-
pnle, was intrufted with the command of an army of
6000 men, which had been levied for this expedition.
T hough thefe forces, convoyed by a fquadron from
Jamaica, brought the firft news to Cape Breton of the
danger that threatened it; though the advantage of .a
furprife would have fecured the landing without oppo-
fition : though they had but 600 regular troops to en¬
counter, and 800 inhabitants haftily armed ; the fuc-
cefs of the undertaking was ftill precarious. What
great exploits, indeed, could be expe&ed from a militia
fuddenly affembled, who had never feen a fiege or faced
an enemy, and were to aft under the direftion of fea-
officers only. Thefe unexperienced troops flood in
need of the afliftance of fome fortunate incident,
which they were indeed favoured w’ith in a fingular
manner.
The conftruftion and repairs of the fortifications had
always been left to the care of the garrifon of Louif¬
bourg. The foldiers were eager of being employed in
thefe works, which they confidered as conducive to
their fafety, and as the means of procuring them a com¬
fortable fubfiftence. When they found that thofe who
were to have paid them, appropriated to themfelves the
profit of their labours, they demanded juftice. It was
denied them, and they were determined to affert their
right. As thefe depredations had been {hared be¬
tween the chief perfons of the colony and the fubal-
tern officers, the foldiers could obtain no redrefs.
Their indignation againft thefe rapacious extortioners
rofe to fuch a height, that they defpifed all authority.
They had lived in an open rebellion for fix months,
when the Britifh appeared before the place.
This was the time to conciliate the minds of both
parties, and to unite in the common caufe. The fol-
diers made the firft advances; but their commanders
miftrufted a generofity of which they themfelves were
incapable. It was firmly believed that the foldiers
were only defirous of fallying out, that they might
have an opportunity of deferting ; and their own offi¬
cers kept them in a manner prifoners, till a defence fo
ill managed had reduced them to the necefiity of capi¬
tulating. The whole ifland ftiared the fate of Louif¬
bourg, its only bulwark.
This valuable poffeffion, reftored to France by the
treaty of Aix-la-Chapelle, was again attacked by the
Britifh in 1758. On the 2d of June, a fleet of 23 fhips-
of the line and 18 frigates, carrying i6,oco well difei-
plined troops, anchored in Gabarus bay, within half a
league
B R E [ 400 ] B R E
JSreton. league of Louifbourg. As it was evident it would be to
—“v " no purpofe to land at a great diftance, becauie it would
be impoflible to bring up the artillery and other necef-
faries for a conliderable fiege, it had been attempted
to render the landing impraclicable near the town.
In the prudent precautions that had been taken, the
befiegers faw the dangers and difficulties they had to
expert ; but, far from being deterred by them, they
had recourie to itratagem, and while by extending
their line they threatened and commanded the whole
coaft, they landed by force of arms at the creek of
Cormorant.
This place was naturally weak. The French had for¬
tified it with a good parapet planted with cannon. Be¬
hind this rampart they had polled 2000 excellent lol-
diers and fome Indians. In front they had made fuch
a clofe hedge with branches of trees, that would have
been very difficult to penetrate, even if it had not been
defended. This kind of pallifade, which concealed all
the preparations for defence, appeared at a diftance to
be nothing more than a verdant plain.
This would have preferved the colony, had the aflail-
ants been fuffered to complete their landing, and to ad¬
vance with the confidence that they had but few ob-
ftacles to furmount. ^ Had this been the cafe, over¬
powered at once by the fire of the artillery and the
fmall arms, they would infallibly have perilhed on the
Ihore or in the hurry of embarking •, efpecially as the
fea was juft then very rough. This unexpefted lofs
might have interrupted the whole projedl.
But all the prudent precautions that had been taken
were rendered abortive by the impetuofity of the French.
The Englilh had fcarce begun to move towards the
fhore, when their enemies haftened to difcover the fnare
- they had laid for them. By the brilk and hafty fire
that was aimed at their boats, and ftill more by the pre¬
mature removal of the boughs that malked the forces,
which it was fo much the intereft of the French to con¬
ceal, they guefled at the danger they were going to
rulh into. They immediately turned back, and faw no
other place to effedl their landing but a rock, which
had been always deemed inacceffible. General Wolfe,
though much taken up in reimbarking his troops, and
fending off the boats, gave the fignal to Major Scot to
repair thither. That officer immediately removed to the
Ipot with his men. His own boat coming up firft, and
finking at the very inftant he was ftepping out, he
climbed up the rock alone. He was.in hopes of meet¬
ing with 100 of his men who had been fent thither fome
hours before. He found only ten. With thefe few,
however, he gained the fummit of the rock. Ten In¬
dians and 60 Frenchmen killed two of his men, and
mortally wounded three. In fpite of his weaknefs, he
flood his ground under cover of a thicket, till his brave
countrymen, regardlefs of the boifterous waves and the
fire of the cannon, came up to him, and put him in full
poffeffion of that important poft, the only one that could
fecure their landing. The French, as foon as they faw
that the enemy had got a firm footing on land, betook
themfelves to the only remaining refuge, and ihut them-
felves up in Louifbourg. The fortifications were in a
bad condition, becaufe the fea fand, which they had
been obliged to ufe, is by no means fit for works of
tnafonry. The revetments of the feveral curtains were
entirely crumbled away. There was only one cafemate
and a fmall magazine that were bomb-proof. The gar-
rifon wffiich was to defend the place confifted only of
2900 men.
Notwithftanding all thefe difadvantages, the befieged
were determined to make an obftinate refiftance. It is
fcarce credible that the French were confirmed in their
refolution by the courage of a woman. Madame de
Drucourt was continually upon the ramparts, with her
purfe in her hand ; and firing herfelf three guns every
day, feemed to difpute with the governor her hufband
the glory of his office. The befieged were not difmayed
at the ill fuccefs of their feveral fallies, or the mafterly
operations concerted by Admiral BofcawTen and General
Amherft. It w7as but at the eve of an affault, which
it was impoffible to fuftain, that they talked of furren¬
dering, They made an honourable capitulation ; and
the conqueror ftiowed more refpeft for his enemy and
for hirnfelf, than to fully his glory by any aft of bar¬
barity or avarice.—The poffeffion was confirmed to
Great Britain by the peace 1763 j fince which the
fortifications have been blown up, and the town of
Louifbourg difmantled.
BRETTIGAW, a territory or valley of the Gri-
fons, lying between the Rhine and the county of Ty¬
rol, and along the river Lanquct. The fortrefs of
Caftels is the principal town.
BREVE, in Law, is any rvrit direfted to the chan¬
cellor, judges, ftreriffs, or other officers, whereby a per-
fon is fummoned, or attached, to anfwer in the king’s
court, &.c.
Breve Perquirere, the purchafing of a writ or li-
cenfe for trial in the king’s courts 5 whence comes the
prefent ufe of paying 6s. 8d. fine to the king in fuit,
for money due on bond, where the debt is 40I. and of
1 os. where it is 100I. &c.
Breve de Re£io, is a writ of right or licenfe for a
perfon ejefted, to fue for the poffeffion of the eftate
detained from him.
Breve, in Mujic, a note or charafter of time, in the
form of a diamond or fquare, without any tail, and
equivalent to two meafures or minims.
BREVET, in the French cuftoms, denotes the grant
of fome favour or donation from the king ; in which
fenfe it partly anfwers to our warrant, and partly to
letters-patent.
Brevet, more particularly denotes the commiffion
of a fubaltern officer, being only written on parchment,
and without feal. A brevet officer is one whofe rank
in the army is above his pay : for inftance, a brevet
major ferves only as a captain, and receives pay as
fuch.
BREUGHEL, Peter, an eminent painter,common¬
ly called Old Breughel, to diftinguifti him from his fon,
was born at a village of the fame name near Breda, in
the year 1565 ; and -was the firft pupil of Peter Cock,
whofe daughter he married. It was cuftomary with
him to drefs like a country-man, in order to be more
eafily admitted into the company of country-people,
and be allowed to join in their frolics, by which means
he became perfeftly acquainted with their manners and
geftures, of which he made excellent ufe in his piftures.
He travelled to France and Italy, and for a long time
ftudied landfcapes on the mountains of Tyrol. His
humorous turn of mind difplayed itfelf in all his pic¬
tures, wffiich generally confifted of country-dances,
marriages*
Erettigaw
Breughel.
. ^ ^ ^ ‘ i vf
*- v/F >
iMM
■j'r v •
)1IU1II ,,, ^ _ _ B8
;> 1 n*?
:.jf ' *, . . • , •'' V. : '
,
■
'. • ■.' ! f, .pW^Mkki
^ ' »■ ' vf- ’ ^ - >;<i‘ f,/ ' V ‘V > ^ ’•*'1' ' i , V* ' ” ".'.■'-/"‘t r.J' • 'v ' it1 > " )r«-U3 1 *
\ut ^ 1 w> ^ Mp/l ^ rt7i> >:
■
V • '■ '■ i? ' i ' ■ 'V' Jv' ' ■ V’ I # ■ , 1 4 ■ ;.■ .'i'-v . /'' '
' '■1 ! ‘ ( r i rt '’ ,s M ''' / ■- MI iiP
" B
M;: '. (fl-l
m
A'Affi'Xh
• - ■-
■> . .3.
: *&m&
i - VS i t'-' ' f‘ , “\y > U
, ' , ’ s<• p \ -. wwi
f‘l s-1 a ..♦, , -f'M:'il®*'-.»4f J
B * SjBTSvl Fp F. iih^ *>v:'' si ' ■->>'
I. • ^ , 8-i |! - *?> ’£ ■/■ y v .- .* •: y.-\
■■ 4 ■yfyy" "
■ 1 B j-' 'k$i>il . tsii W | 's'Bv.
b f ^ , m-i$ ', 1 t U g$ "‘J f$ s $* mwM$m
-V,'.. .>•. v,.’- •Bv. V > :^,;f?.-:v %. :V.i ' ^
I , - ^ n§ ^
j-vJ'vB-"'"(s',
1 ^ JM* I ^
/,‘Br l>A^r .-;
1 ' ' iW.'^
