irv 'j'.
AS
u
EDINBURGH, 20th AugusM803.
The folloxving Works are Published Periodically
BY
ARCHIBALD CONSTABLE & CO. EDINBURGH,
AND
CONSTABLE, HUNTER, PARK, & HUNTER,
10, LUDGATE STREET, LONDON.
I. The EDINBURGH REVIEW, or CRITICAL JOUR-
NAL, from its commencement, October 1802, to July 1809,
Twenty-eight Numbers. 11. 2s. ; or done up in 14 Vol. boards,
11. 9s. Published Quarterly.
II. The FARMER’S MAGAZINE, a periodical work, publish¬
ed quarterly, exclusively devoted to Agriculture and Rural Affairs,
for the Years 1800, 1801, 1802, 1808, 1804, 1805, 1806, 1807,
1808, 36 Numbers, (and Supplement to 1803). 4/. 3s.} or in 9
Volumes in boards, 4/. 7s. 6d.
The establishment of a Board for promoting agriculture and
internal improvement brought husbandry into fashion, and directed
public attention to an art which, before that period, had been un¬
dervalued and neglected. From this change of public sentiment, the
Proprietors of the Farmer’s Magazine were encouraged to bring
forward a periodical work which both contained interesting discus¬
sions upon agricultural subjects, and furnished select and important
information respecting the state of markets, produce of crops, rate of
rents, and value of labour, in almost every district of the island. The
design, at least the latter part of it, was new, therefore was not car¬
ried into execution till the assistance of numerous respectable agri¬
culturists, both in Scotland and in England, was sought for and ob¬
tained ; and to the active and steady exertions of these friends, may
be attributed the uncommon and unprecedented success of the work
since its commencement—a success far beyond that of any agricul¬
tural publication hitherto attempted in this, or in any other country.
In the volumes of the Farmer’s Magazine already published, may
be found regular essays or dissertations upon every agricultural sub¬
ject which can be mentioned, together with an immense number of
hints or observations, all calculated for the improvement of agricul¬
ture, and the benefit of those connected with it. What is of great
importance to husbandmen, information is given in a plain and'prac-
tical manner, neither clouded by theory, nor enveloped in technical
terms. That eminent writer on husbandry, the Rev. Mr Harte, in
his Treatise on Agriculture, says, “ The plain practical author pays
his little contingent toRie republic of knowledge with a bill of un¬
stamped real bullion ; whilst the vaip-glorious man of science throws
down an heap of glittering counters, which are gold to the eye, but
lead to the touchstone. ”
III. The EDINBURGH MEDICAL and SURGICAL
JOURNAL, for 1805, 1806, 1807, 1808, exhibiting a concise
view of the latest and most important discoveries in Medicine, Sur¬
gery, and Pharmacy, (published quarterly), 16 Numbers, 2/. 8s. ;
or any single Number, 3s. Also Nos. 17. 18. and 19. 3s. each.
*** The object of the Edinburgh Medical and Surgical Jour¬
nal is the improvement of Medicine in all its branches, by the com¬
bined efforts of the Editors, and of their numerous and respectable
correspondents. It affords to the profession at large an opportunity
of recording, and of disseminating, very quickly and very widely,
the knowledge of the remarkable facts which may occur in their prac¬
tice, and of the theoretical opinions which may be the result of their
observations ; while the Editors endeavour, by a critical but candid
analysis of the recent publications in the various departments of me¬
dicine, to make works of merit quickly known to their numerous read¬
ers, and to extract and condense whatever is most valuable in rare or
expensive publications.
After the experience of four years, the Editors have the satisfac¬
tion of finding the patronage with which they have been encouraged,
progressively increasing. The Fourth Volume is enriched by com¬
munications from Doctors Alley, Bostock, Cheyne, Chisholm, Clarke,
Corkindale, Dickson, Duncan, sen. and jun., Kellie, Paterson, Ruttei,
Tavarez, Thackeray, Vetch, Wilson, and Wright; and Messrs Ai-
noldi, Barlow, A. Burns, Cullen, Ellis, Fuller, Gibb, Hill, Jenkinson,
Lawrence, Machel, Maunoir, Noble, Quarrier, Soden, and Wood.
IV. The SCOTS MAGAZINE, from its commencement in
the year 1739 to 1808 inclusive, 70 Volumes, new and neatly
bound } also odd Numbers and Volumes to complete sets.
The Scots Magazine was begun in January 1739, a few years after
the first publication of the Gentleman’s Magazine, and has ever since
contmued to be the standard work of the kind in Scotland. Few pe¬
riodical publications have been held in higher estimation ; and the pre¬
sent Editors have the satisfaction to reflect, that no pains have been
spared by them to support and to raise its character, and that their
efforts have been rewarded by the approbation of the Public. They
have not rested satisfied with those voluntary communications, which
have been liberally communicated to them, from persons often of the
first distinction in Scotish literature. They have, besides, exerted
themselves to the utmost in collecting from all quarters, whatever
could contribute to the information and amusement of the Public.
The Biography of eminent persons deceased, has always formed
an interesting department of periodical works. This the Editors have
not overlooked ; but have studied, to the utmost of their power, to
let no eminent man depart, without some such tribute to his me¬
mory.
Antiquities are a subject replete with amusement, often with infor-
ihation, and peculiarly suited to the taste of the present age. Scot¬
land, too, is rich in them; and the connexions and opportunities of
the Editors have enabled them, and they trust will enable them, to
present their readers with a constant succession of curious articles in
this department.
Although, from the number of their communications, the Editors
would find little difficulty in filling all their pages with original mat¬
ter ; yet this method, however easy for themselves, wrould, in many
cases, be little to the advantage of their readers. It has appeared
more eligible to insert only such as possessed superior merit in point
of subject or manner ; and, instead of the others, to introduce inte¬
resting extracts from rare or valuable works, which are not accessible
to the generality of readers ; and, particularly, translations from au¬
thors in foreign languages, which have not appeared in an English
dress. From connexions which they have recently established, "they
hope to be able greatly to enlarge their command of foreign works
for this latter purpose.
A few pages are appropriated to Poetry. The Scots Magazine has
been the means of introducing to public notice several of the most po¬
pular Scotish poets, by whose communications it is still enriched.
In regard to Intelligence, both foreign and domestic, no periodical
work has maintained a higher reputation than the Scots Magazine.
During the long period through which it has been continued, it has
always held the first rank as a work of reference. The present Edi¬
tors hav'e omitted nothing which could tend to support this reputa¬
tion. A larger portion of their pages has been appropriated to this
object than in any other magazine now published ; and maps and
plans are introduced, wherever they seem likely to be useful, in il¬
lustrating military operations, or important political events.
To every number is prefixed a view and. description of some re¬
markable Scotish edifice, either such as is interesting from its anti¬
quity, or an object of curiosity from its recent erection; and is pub¬
lished regularly on the first day of every month.
D. WiLLISON, riUNTER, EDINBURGH.J
Works Published by
ARCHIBALD CONSTABLE & CO. Edinburgh,
AND
CONSTABLE, HUNTER, PARK, & HUNTER, London.
I. An INQUIRY into the PRACTICAL MERITS of the
SYSTEM for die GOVERNMENT of INDIA, under the Su¬
perintendance of the BOARD of CONTROUL. By the Earl
of Lauderdale. 8vo. 7s. 6d. boards.
II. A SERIES OF DISCOURSES ON THE PRINCIPLES
OF RELIGIOUS BELIEF, as connected with Human Happi¬
ness and Improvement. By the Rev. R. Morehead, A. M. of
Baliol College, Oxford, Junior Minister of the Episcopal Chapel,
Cowgate, Edinburgh. Second Edition. 9s. boards.
*** “ It is the singular and unaffected benevolence of manner—
the tone of genuine goodness and conciliating candour* so unlilce the
contemptuous arrogance of vulgar theologians, that forms the chief
charm of the volume before us ; and induces us to point it out to the
attention of the public, as eminently calculated to fix the principles of
the young and careless, and to improve the charity and mend the hearts
of readers of every description. ”—Edinburgh Review, No. xxvii.
^ III. OBSERVATIONS on FUNGUS HASMATODES, or
SOFT CANCER, in several of the most important Organs of the
Human Body •, containing also a Comparative View of the Struc¬
ture of Fungus Hsematodes and Cancer, with Cases and Dissec¬
tions. By James Wardrop, F. R. S. E. Fellow of the Royal Col¬
lege of Surgeons, and one of the Surgeons of the Public Dispen¬
sary of Edinburgh. Illustrated by Eleven Plates. 12s. boards.
^ few copies of this work have been printed in Royal 8vo,
with proof impressions of the plates coloured. 1/. Is. boards.
IV. ESSAYS on the MORBID ANATOMY of the HU¬
MAN EYE, of which the various morbid appearances are illus¬
trated by Coloured Engravings, by Meadows, Medland, Maddocks,
Heath, &c. after Drawings by Mr Syme. In One Volume
Royal 8vo. 1/. Is. boards.
V. A DISSERTATION on the NUMBERS of MANKIND,
in Antient and Modern times. By Robert Wallace, D. D.
late one of the Ministers of Edinburgh. Second Edition, revised
and corrected by George Wallace, Esq. Advocate. Octavo.
9s. boards.
*** The first edition of the above work was published in the year
1753, and is often referred to by Mr Mai thus.
VI. NEW THEORY OF THE FORMATION OF VEINS ;
with its application to the Art of working Mines. By Abraham
Gotti,eb Werner, Counsellor of the Mines of Saxony, Professor
of Mineralogy, and of the Art of Working Mines at Freyberg,
&c. Translated from the German. To which is added, an Ap¬
pendix, containing Notes illustrative of the subject. By Charles
Anderson, M. D. Fellow of the Royal College of Surgeons,
Member of the Chirurgical Society, of the Wernerian Natural
History Society, &c. One Volume 8vo, 9s. boards.
VII. The VILLA GARDEN DIRECTORY, or MONTH-
-LY INDEX of WORK to be done in Town and Villa Gardens,
Parterres, &c. ; with Hints on the Treatment of Plants and
Mowers kept in the Green-Room, the Lobby, and the Drawing
Room. By Walter Nicol, Designer of Gardens, &c. and
Author of “The Forcing, Fruit, and Kitchen-Gardener, ” “ The
Practical Planter, ” &c. Foolscap 8vo. 7s. 6d.
'*** It is believed there is no book of gardening on the plan of this
work. It is intended as an assistant to gentlemen whose business ne¬
cessarily confines them to the chamber and to the counting-room,
who seek health and recreation at their villas, and to those who take
upon themselves the management of their own gardens and parterres.
^ VIII. A LETTER addressed to JOHN CARTWRIGHT,
Esq. Chairman of the Committee at the Crown and Anchor, on
the subject of Parliamentary Reform. By the Earl of Selkirk.
The Second Edition. Is.
IX. AN ALPHABETICAL LIST of the NAMES of MI¬
NERALS at present most familiar in the English, French, and
German languages, with Tables of Analyses. In one vol. 8vo.
5s. in boards.
X. THE PLOUGH-WRIGHT’S ASSISTANT; being a
New Practical Treatise on the Plough, and on various other
important Implements made use of in Agriculture. By Andrew
Gray, Author of “ The Experienced Mid-Wright. ” Royal Oc¬
tavo, yr ice Ibr. hoards. Containing Engravings of the Old Scots
Plough—the Plough with a Convex twisted Mould-board—the
Plough with a Concave twisted Mould-board—the Chain Plough
—the Double or Two-Furrow Plough—of Harrows in general—
the Break Harrow—the Common Harrow—a Machine whereby
Land may be Harrowed in a Wet Season—the Roller—the Drain
or Mole Plough—Plan, or Bird’s-eye View of a Drill Machine—
Plan, or Bird’s-eye View of a Drill Machine with Indented Cylin¬
ders—the Cultivator, or Horse-hoe—a sowing Machine—of
Wheels in general—of Cart-wheels-—of Carts or Carriages in ge¬
neral—of Placing the Bushes into the Wheel—of the Method of
finding the Dish of a'Wheel—of the Axle-bed—of Contracting
the Wheels before—of Wheel-carriages used in Husbandry-
Plan, Elevation, and Section of a Thrashing Machine.
XL The EXPERIENCED MILL-WRIGHT ; or a Treatise
on the Construction of some of the most useful Machines, with
the latest Improvements ; to which is prefixed, a short account of
the general Principles of Mechanics, and of the Mechanical Powers.
By Andrew Gray, Mill-Wright. Second Edition, 4to. with
44 Engravings. 21. 2s. half-bound.
XII. ELEMENTS of MECHANICAL PHILOSOPHY, be¬
ing the substance of a Course of Lectures on that Science. By
John Robison, LL. D. Professor of Natural Philosophy in the
University of Edinburgh. Volume first, large 8vo. with 22 cop¬
perplates. \l. is. boards.
XIII. A TRACT on MONASTIC ANTIQUITIES, with
some account of a Recent Search for the Remains of the Kings
Interred in, the Abbey of Dunfermline. By John Graham
Dal yell, Esq. With Specimens of the Chartidary of Dunferm¬
line fnely engraved. 8vo. 9s. boards.
XIV. The PASTORAL or LYRIC MUSE of SCOTLAND,
a Poem, descriptive of the united influence of our national Poetry
and Music, in softening the Passions, and civilizing the Manners
of our feudal Ancestors on the Borders. By FIector Macneill,
Esq. 4to. 7s. 6d. boards.
XV. MEMOIRS of CAPTAIN GEORGE CARLETON,
an English Officer, who served in the Wars against France and
Spain, containing an account of the Earl of Peterborough, and
other General Officers, Admirals, &c. Octavo. 12s. boards.
*** While the eyes of die public are turned with hope and expect¬
ance towards the regeneration of the Spanish kingdom, all informa¬
tion respecting the character of the people and state of the country,
particularly in a military point of view, must be highly acceptable.
The Memoirs of Carleton were written during that memorable war,
in which the Catalonian Insurgents, supported by an auxiliary Bri¬
tish Force, drove the French from Madrid, and forced them to re¬
cross the Pyrenees; when it was, as now, the common cry, in the
streets of the Spanish capital, “ Paz con la Inglaterra, y con todo el
mundo la guerra. ”
It is the work of an eyewitness and actor in the scenes he re¬
cords; and was esteemed by the late Dr Johnson to contain the most
authentic account of the campaigns of the gallant Earl of Peter¬
borough.
WORKS PUBLISHED BY ARCHIBALD CONSTABLE & CO.
XVI. The BATTLE of FLODDEN-FIELD, a Poem of
the Sixteenth Century ; with the various Readings of the differ¬
ent Copies, Historical Notes, a Glossary, and an Appendix, con¬
taining Ancient Poems and Historical Matter, relative to the E-
vent. By Henry Weber, Esq. Embellished with Three En¬
gravings. 8vo. Handsomely printed. 15s. boards. A very few
in Royal Paper, \l. 7s. 6d. boards.
* * The antient Poem of Flodden-Field having become extremely fcarce, is now,
for the firft time, pnblifhed in an authentic form, the text being eftablifhed by the
collation of the different manuferipts and printed copies. Copious notes are fubjoin-
ed, as alfd an Appendix, containing numerous antient poems relating to the battle
and its confequences, together with the minute accounts of the mod creditable Englifn
hiftorians. The engravings of the two ftandards carried by the Earls of Huntly and
Marifchall, and the fword and dagger of King James IV., are added as appropriate
embellilhments. The whole, it is hoped, will be found an interefting commentary
to ah event, which has latterly become fo univerfally popular, by the publication of
Mr Scott’s Marmion.
XVII. The POOR MAN’S SABBATH, with other POEMS.
By John Struthers. Third Edition. Foolscap 8vo. 5s. bds.
XVIII. A TREATISE on SCROFULA. By James Rus¬
sell, Fellow of the Royal College of Surgeons, Professor of Cli¬
nical Surgery in the University of Edinburgh. 8vo. 5s. sewed.
XIX. HISTORY OF THE UNIVERSITY of EDIN¬
BURGH, from 1580 to 164-6. By Thomas Crawford, A. M.
Professor of Mathematics in the College of Edinburgh in the
year 164-6. To which is prefixed, the Charter granted to the
College by King James, anno 1582. 8vo. 7s. 6d. sewed.
*** Of this interefling tradt only One Hundred Copies have been printed for fale.
XX. RESUI^T of an INQUIRY into the Nature and Causes
of the Blight, the Rust, and the Mildew, v/hich have particu¬
larly affected the Crops of Wheat on the Borders of England and
Scotland; with some Observations on the Culture of Spring
Wheat. By Sir John Sinclair, Bart. M.P. &c. 8vo. 4-s. sewed.
XXL MEMOIRS of ROBERT CARY, Earl of Monmouth,
written by himself. Published from an original MS. in the cus¬
tody of the Earl of Corke and Orrery ; to which is added, Frag-
menta Regalia, being a History of Queen Elizabeth’s Favour¬
ites, by Sir Robert Naunton ; with explanatory Annotations.
Handsomely printed in Octavo. 10s. 6d. boards. A few Co¬
pies on Royal Paper, price \l. 5s. boards.
*.* The Memoirs of Cary were firft publiihed from the original Manufcript by
the*Earl of Corke and Orrery. They contain an interefting account of fome im¬
portant tranfadlions in Elizabeth’s reign, and throw particular light upon the perfonal
character of the Queen. To the prefent edition have been added additional explana¬
tory Notes, particularly referring to Border Matters; and, as a fuitable,companion to
theie Memoirs, the Fragmenta Rtgalia of Sir Robert Naunton has alfo been reprinted.
XXII. The WHOLE WORKS of Henry Mackenzie, Esq.
revised and corrected by the Author ; with the addition of various
Pieces never before published. Most beautifully printed in Eight
Vol. Post 8vo, with a Portrait of the Author. 3/. 3s. boards.
*** This Edition, hefides being publifhed under the careful infpeftion and review
of the Author, contains feveral hitherto unpubiiPned works, particularly a Tragedy
and a Comedy, in v/hich it is believed the Public will be intererted. Among the al¬
ready publifhed pieces, is included a Pamphlet publilhid in the year 1790, the Hif-
tory of the Proceedings of the Parliament 1784, that Parliament in which Mr Pitt
laid the foundation of all thofc meafures to which the country has imputed the ppuer
which Great Britain exercifed, under his aufpices, of refilling the tyrannous encroach¬
ment of Buonaparte, fo fatal to the red of Europe. It adds a double intered to this
publication, when we are informed, in a note by the Author, that- it was anxioufly-
revifed and corredted hy the hand of Mr Pi'.t himfelt.
XXIIL The ADVENTURES of ROBERT DRURY, dur¬
ing fifteen years captivity in the Island of Madagascar ; containing
a Description of that Island ; an account of its Produce, Manu¬
factures, and Commerce ; with an account of the Manners and
Customs, Wars, Religion, and Civil Policy of the Inhabitants ;
to which is added, a Vocabulary of the Madagascar. Language.
Written by himself, and now carefully revised and corrected from
the original copy. With two Engravings. 8vo. 8s. boards.
%* “ Among the numerous relations of voyages and travels, which combine fo much
inftru&ion with delight, the adventures of Robert Drury will be found one of the rooft
interefting and amufing; for the wprk is rvot that of one who paffed rapidly through
the feenes which he deferibes, but tire experience of a long feries <.f years'Ipent in cap¬
tivity. Indeed, the author was become fo naturalized, that he found much difficulty
in regaining his native language. The narration of the numerous deftructiyc wars,
and the furpriftng incidents and viciffitudes of fortune which his unfortunate condi¬
tion induced, together with the deferiptions of the cuftoms, the religion, and the pro-
dudtions of the country, cannot fail highly to gratify every reader. The whole is de¬
livered in an artlefs dyle, which enhances the intereft we feel for the author, as we
are more immediately introduced to his duration of hfe, and more habituated, to his
own modes of thinking. ”
XXIV. A SERMON preached in the Episcopal Chapel, Cow-
gate, Edinburgh, November 16, 1806, the day after the Funeral
of Sir WILLIAM FORBES, of Pitsligo, Bart. By Archibald
Alison, LL. B. F. R. S. Lond. and Edin., Prebendary of Sarum,
See. &c. &c. and Senior Minister of that Chapel. 4-to, 2s. 6d.
and 8vo, Is. sewed.
XXV. ACCOUNT of the LIFE and WRITINGS of j AMES
BRUCE of Kinnaird, Esq. F. R. S. Author of Travels to^dis-
cover the Source of the Nile, in the Years 1/68, 1769, 1/70,
1771, 1772, and 1773. By A. Murray, F. A. S. E. and Secretary
for Foreign Correspondence. Handsomely printed in Royal 4-to,
with 22 beautiful Engravings by Heath. 2/. 12s. 6d. boards.
*„* This w-ork, being publilhed in Quarto, forms a mod appropriate Supplement
to the Firft Edition of Bruce’s Travels; for, belides the Life, it contains much im¬
portant Correfpondence between the Traveller and many of the firfl Literary Charac¬
ters in Europe, as w-ell as illuftrations and teftimonies in favour of the Authenticity
of his Travels to Difcover the Source of the Nile.
XXVI. QUEEN HOO-HALL, a Legendary Romance, inter¬
spersed with several original and beautiful Ballads ; and ANCI¬
ENT TIMES, a Drama ; both illustrative of the Domestic Man¬
ners and Amusements of the Fifteenth Century. _ By the late Jo¬
seph Strutt, author of “ Rural Sports and Pastimes of the Peo¬
ple of England, ” &c. In Four neatly printed Volumes, small
bvo. Price 18s. in boards.
* * « We have perufed, with great pleafure, the interefting pages of this work,
which contains a lively and well detailed pi&ure of antient cuftoms, related with all
the fimplkity of native genius. "—Monthly Mufeum, July 1808.
Works in the Press, and preparing for Publication.
I. The GENEALOGY of the EARLS of SUTHERLAND,
from the origin of that illustrious House to the year 1630, with
the History of the Northern Parts of Scotland during that Period.
By Sir Robert Gordon of Uordonstoun, Baronet, continued to
the year 1651 by Gilbert Gordon of Sallagh. Published from
the original manuscript in the possession of the Marchioness of
Stafford. Handsomely printed in folio.
*** The Public is here prefented not only with an accurate genealogical hifbry of
the antient Houfe of Sutherland, but alfo with a minute detail of the principal tranf-
aftions which occurred during a period of nearly 600 years, particularly in the coun¬
ties of Sutherland and Caithnefs, and the Highlands of Scotland in general. The hif-
tory of thefe parts, it is prefumed, will receive more elucidation from this work than
from any which the public is at prefent poffefied of. The whole has been carefully
tranferibed by the kind permiffion of the Marchionefs of .Stafford, from the original
nianufeript preferred at Durrobin Caftle. An Appendix will be added, containing
an inventory of writs of the Earldom, and the work will be illustrated by foveral en¬
gravings.
II. The WORKS of GAWIN DOUGLAS, Bishop of Dun-
keld, with Historical and Critical Dissertations on his Life and
"Writings, Notes and a Glossary. By the Right lion. Sylvester
(Douglas) Lord Glenbervie. 4 vol. 8vo. Elegantly printed.
*** The whole works of Gawin Douglas, confiding of his Iranflation of Virgil’s
JEneid, the Palace of Honour,dind King Hart, are now, for the firfl time, collected
into one edition. Two Diffcrtations, the one on the Family of Douglas, the other
on the Poet’s Life and Writings, will be prefixed, and copious notes added. The
text of Ruddiman’s edition of the TEneid has been collated with the following- five
manuferipts; viz. two in the library of the Uniycrfity of Edinburgh, one in that of
the Faculty of Advocates, a fourth in the pofTtffion of the Marquis of Bath at Long-
leet, and the fifth at Lambeth Palace. The excellent Gloflary of Ruddiman is made
the bafis of that in the prelint work, but confiderably enlarged, and extended to the
other poems.
III. The DRAMATIC WORKS of John Ford ; with an
Introduction and explanatory Notes. By Henry Weber, Esq.
In Two Vol. 8vo.
WORKS IN THE PRESS, AND PREPARING FOR PUBLICATION.
IV. The PEERAGE of SCOTLAND; containing an 4 His¬
torical and Genealogical Account of the Nobility of that King¬
dom, from their Origin to the present Generation.’ Collected from
the Public Records, and Antient Chartularies of this Nation, the
Charters, and other Writings of the Nobility, and the Works of
our best Historians. By Sir Robert Douglas of Glenbervie,
Bart. Continued to the present time by J. P. Wood, Esq. Hand¬
somely printed in 2 vol. Folio, with the'Arms of each Family beau¬
tifully engraven.
XII. METRICAL ROMANCES of the Thirteenth, Four¬
teenth, and Fifteenth Centuries. Published from Antient Manu¬
scripts, and illustrated by an Introduction, Notes, and a Glossary.
By Henry Weber, Esq. In Three Volumes crown octavo.
‘ Of all manner of minf rales, . '
Andjefours that tellen tales,
Both of •weeping and of game,
And of all that longeth unto fame. ' CflAUCER.
V* The prefent publication is intended to comprehend the mod valuable of thofe
Romances, which have not yet been fubmitted to the public.' The Life of Alexander
attributed by Warton to Adam Davie, and ftrongly recommended by him for nubli-
* * \ e r- • 1 ™ n . anwuuLcu uy vvaiion to Aaam uavie, and Urongly recommended bv him for nnM;
■Pi ft t A fe(r Cop'es,are Pr" d °n, arg,e Paper’ forrrmT two fl'p(,'T Volumes, with ! cation, will form the firft article;*and will be followed by Richard cZrdeLion which"
^ii ti imprdlions of the Plates; and as the number printed is very limited, Noblemen j befidcs its very confiderable poetical merit, mud excite a^drong national intered* and
and Gentlemen who wifh to fecitre Copies, are refpettfully requeded to leave their by others, feladed either for the beauty of the tale, or feme circumdances rendering
names, either with Archibald Constable & Co. Edinburah. or with Consta- them curious: amnno-wbicb ^    -n L r , . &
names, eithei with A.rchibald Constable & Co. Edinburgh, or with Consta
ble, Hunter, Park, & Hunter, io, Ludgate-Strcet, Loncjon, where Specimens
of the woi k may now be feen.
V. LEI 1ERS cf the late ANNA SEWARD, writfejn be¬
tween the Tears t/SI and 180,, 5 vcl. post bv'O, with Portraits
and other Plates.
VI. A SYSTEM of SURGERY. By J. Russell, F. R. S. E.
Fellow of the Royal College of Surgeons, one of the Surgeons
to the Royal Infiimary, and Professor of Clinical Surgery in the
University of Edinburgh. 4 vol. 8vo.
VIL ILLUSTRATIONS of the HU ETONIAN THEORY.
By John Playfair, Professor of Natural Philosophy in the Uni¬
versity of Edinburgh, F. R. S. London, and Secretary to the Royal
Society, Edinburgh. Second Edition, with Additions. 1 vol.
4to, with Engravings.
Y III. CALEDONIA, or an Account, Historical and Topo-
graphical, or North Britain, from the most antient to the present
times. By George Chalmers, Esq. F. R. S. Vol. II. 4to.
V Thc fi| d volume of the above work, publilhed lad year, contains the Antient
Hi dory of North Britain. The fecond volume, which will appear in the courfe of
1809, will detail, after an Introdudory Chapter of 26 Sections, the local Hidory of its
ieveral Shires, in a-correlattve fequence; beginning with Roxburgh, the mod fouthern
dire, and proceeding fuccdlively, to Berwick, Haddington, E'dinburgh, Linlithgow
Peebles, Selkirk, Dumfries, Kirkcudbright, Wigton, and perhaps Ayrlhire: And the
local Hidory of each dire will be given in eight didimd feftions; —1 Of its Name • 2
Of its Situation and Extent; 3. Of its Natural Objefts; 4. of its Antiquities- e’ Of
its Edablidment as a Shire; 6 Of its Civil Hidory; 7. Of its Agriculture, Manu-
faOures, ! rade; 8. Of its Ecclftafical Hidory ; the Account of each Shire concluding
with a Supplemental State, which contains, in a Tabular form, the Names of the fevc-
ral Parides, and the number of their Miniders 5 their Extent and Population in
I75J> I79T» and 1801; with the Miniders’Stipends in 1755 and 1708 and their
Patrons; forming, what Scotland does not now podefs, a fort of Liber Regis
This mod intereding work will be completed by the publication of two other vo¬
lumes. Ehe third vfrill contain the local hidory and defeription of the remaining
counties, on the plan dated above. The fourth volume will confid of a Topograph!
cal Dictionary, containing whatever is intcrefting relative to all places and oMods of
any importance m this part of the United Kingdom. This volume will be preceded
by an Historical View of the different Languages fpoken in Scotland
them curiousj among which a few Comical Romances will be found. To the Intro-
duftion, the Editor, at the requed-of feveral genifemen mod anxious for the publi¬
cation, has fubjoined a fummary account of thc German early Poetry and Romance-
a fubjoft of high intered, but as yet entirely unknown to this nation, and but little
cultivated on the Continent, ff the prefent publication Ihould meet with the encou¬
ragement which the importance of this fpecies of compofition in the Hidory of Eng-
hih Poetry deferves, a continuation, compriling thofe excluded from this feleftiorl
on account of its limited extent, will he publifhed. *
XHE A TREATISE on the DISEASES and MANAGE-
MEN I of SHEEP, with introductory Remarks on their Anato¬
mical Structure ; and an Appendix, containing Documents, exhi¬
biting the Value of the Merino Breed, and their Progress in Scot¬
land. By Sir George Stewart Mackenzie of°CouJ, Bart
1 vol. 8vo.
XUv. SHIPWRECKS and DISASTEPBS at SEA, according
to the most Authentic Accounts, Ancient and Modern. 3 vol. 8vo!
IX. The ENGLISH AbSOP, a Collection of Fables, Antient
and Modern, in Verse, translated, imitated, and original. By Sir
Brooke Boothby, Bart. 2 vol. beautifully printed. Post 8vo.
X- I he HISTORY of SCOTLAND, by Robert Lindsay
of Pitscottie. Edited from Antient and Authentic Manuscripts,
by John Graham Dalyell, Esq. 1 vol. 8vo, handsomely print-
etl, with a 1 brtrait of Iving James V. from an original Picture. '
XT. The GARDENER’S KALENDAR, or MONTHLY
DIRECTORY of Operations in every Branch of HORTICUL-
In 1 vo1- 8vo* BY Walter Nicol, Author of ‘ The
Villa Garden Directory, ’ ‘ The Forcing, Fruit, or Kitchen Gar¬
dener,'’—« The Practical Planter, ’ &c.
V The Kalendar will be preceded by a DifTertation on the Situations proper for
Gardens and Orchards ; on Soils, and how to improve them ; on Manures and their
application ; and on the Rotation of Crops [t will exhibit the neweft and mofl
approved methods of cultivating all kinds of culinary Vegetables, Fruits, Shrubs, and 1
FUwers.the Management of Hot-boufcs of every defeription. Hot-walls, Flued Fits,
ann Hflr-hens ? thf* r* r . r.
*T^5 k<^ e^‘tec^ ^7 Walter Scott, Esq.
with a Life of the Author, Notes Critical and Illustrative, &c. &c.
Nineteen Volumes Octavo, handsomely printed, with a few co¬
pies on Royal Paper.
CJ* The Prefent edition of this incomparable Englilh Claffic is offlred to the pub¬
ic on a plan different from that adopted by former editors. In the Life of the Au-
• u t0 C°lIate an<1 combine thc various information which has been
!ohn\ny Mr1Shte.rulan’. Lord 0rrfJD Dr Delany, Mr Pilkington, Dean Swift, Dr
J nfon, and others, into one aiffintf: and comprehenffve narrative ; which it is
Xadh m3f ?r7 nf'th.er 3 libf' or apol°Sy for Swift, nor a colloftion from the
pleadings of thofe who have written either; but a plain, impartial, and conneaed
biographical narrative By the favour of diffinguiihed friends in Ireland, the Editor
hopes to obtain confide rah le light upon fome paiTages in the Dean’s life, which have
™rf°hPeT eXedch'S bl0Sraphei's- In preparing the text and notes, no labour or
cxpenle has been fpared to procure original information. The Tale of a Tub for
example, is iliuftrated with the marginal notes of the learned Bentley, tranferibed
IT "|an“fcrlpt jottings on his own copy. Although neither long nor numerous,
they offer fome curious elucidations of the author, and afford a lingular infhnce of
the equanimity with which the fatire even of Swift was borne by the venerable fcho-
ar againft whom it was io unadvifedly levelled. Some preliminary critical obferva-
tions are offered on the various literary productions of the Dean of St PatrickV and
niece**h Vp a'?atll’’'s Uj1 anc<:dotes accompany his political treatifes. All ’thofe
pi ces which, though hitherto admitted into Swift’s works, are pofitively afeertained
l&zzzz r sr
Spr urjrPoVi'gL™"' “'"P'eK 'h,'' th0fe °f Ia" rcars' The wo* will
NY I. RESEARCHES into the ORIGIN and AFFTNTTV nf
tfTfr' TP™? I-ANGUAGE^B^Sf
Vobme Qifa’rto. ' e‘ary fpr ^°reign One
*** Tbe'immediate objea of this w’ork is, to illu(Irate the earfo ftot--
uT»" oL’X GrtfSf' ^i,,Cipl“- ’ TI’'C,liEht *“3:
form .o ,he wholo of claflic philology ; exhibit, J ,fZficTc( thf precet'H?
which the mind invents and improves articulate fueerh • and u . , piocels by
of the origin of the mod antioft European natio^^^^
conrfe of invefligation depend, not on conieHure hut ’ „ , a,Ce.r^lned 1IJ th=
every European language with thofe to which it is’-refneftivelv ip1^”^11 3
the operative Gardener, and ,o the fciehUBc ^ j ^ n"^" - TraXVfto'y/r
D. willison, printer, Edinburgh.] . ' t ’ / ® I773> publiflied lad year (i808.)
year (1808.]
PROJECTILES.
be =r —. Moreover, the times in which the fame ve- ^ ^? ^mie number* ■It 1S a nui»ber or units, of time,
401
2a
locity rvill be extinguiflied by different forces, afting
uniformly, - re inverfely as the forces, and gravity would
extinguifh the velocity i in the time —fin thefe mea-
§
fures) to—, . Therefore we have the following
2a
proportion —(rrR) : ^ : 2 c, and 2 c is equal
to E, the time in which the velocity i will be extin-
guiihed by the uniform a&ion of the rcfiftance compe¬
tent to this velocity.
The velocity ! would in this cafe be extinguilhed af¬
ter a motion uniformly retarded, in which the fpace de-
fcribed is one half of what would be uniformly defcribed
during the fame time with the conftant velocity i.
Therefore the fpace thus defcribed by a motion which
begins with the velocity I, and is uniformly retarded by
the refinance competent to this velocity, is equal to the
height through which this body muff fall in vacuo in or¬
der to acquire its terminal velocity in air.
All thefe circumftances may be conceived in a man¬
ner which, to fome readers, will be more familiar and
palpable. The terminal velocity is that where the re-
fiftance of the air balances and is equal to the weight of
the body. The refiftance of the air to any particular
body is as the fquare of the velocity ; therefore let R be
the whole refiftance to the body moving with the velo-~
city i, and r the refillanceto its motion wdth the termi¬
nal velocity u; we muff have r=rRx«*, and this muff
be = W the weight. Therefore, to obtain the terminal
velocity, divide the weight by the refiffance to the velo¬
city l, and the quotient is the fquare of the terminal
W
velocity, or ——: And this is a very expeditious me¬
thod of determining it, if R be previoufly known.
Then the common theorems give a, the fall neceffary
for producing this velocity in vgcuo , and the time
of the fall and eu—ia, <=: the fpace uniformly
g J
defcribed with the velocity u during the time of the fall,
or its equal, the time of the extinftion by the uniform
aftion of the refiffance r ; and, fince r extinguilhes it in
the time e, R, which is times fmaller, wall extinguilh
it in the time «V, and R will extinguifh the velocity i,
which is u times lefs than u, in the time u e, that is, in
the time 2a; and the body, moving uniformly during
the time 2 ay — E, with the velocity x, will defcribe
the fpace 2a ; and, if the body begin to move with the
velocity i, and be uniformly oppofed by the refiftance
R, it will be brought to reft wdien it has defcribed the
fpace. a ; and the fpace in which the refiftance to the
velocity, i wall extinguifti that velocity by its urfiform
action, is equal to the height tlwough wThich that body
muft. fall/» •x/tfcz/o in order to acquire its terminal velo¬
city in air. And thus every thing is regulated by the
tirne E in which the velocity I is extinguifhed by the
uniform adtion of the correfponding refiftance, or by 2 a,
which is the fpace uniformly defcribed during this time,
with the velocity i. And E and 2 a muft be expreffed
Vol. XVII, Part II.
or of length.
Having ascertained thefe leading circumftances for an The coin¬
unit of velocity, weight, and bulk, we proceed to de-Panfon
duce the fimilar circumftances for any other magnitude j rrijt*e^ene*
and, to avoid unneceffary complications, we (hail always^1'
ljppo:e the bodies to be fpneres, differing only in dia¬
meter and dcnlity.
^1‘irft, then, let the velocity be increafed in the ratio
of i to v.
The reffftance will now be
~ r.
E
2a
and
The extinguififing time will be 7 ^ 
v ' ' v
e v—2 a; fo that the rule is general, that the fpace
along which any velocity will be extinguiftied by' the
uniform action of the correfponding refiftance, is equal
to the height neceffary for communicating the terminal
velocity to that body by gravity. For e<o is twice the
fpace through which the body moves while the velocity
v is extinguifned by the uniform refiftance.
In the 2d place, let the diameter increafe in the pro¬
portion of i to d. The aggregate of the refiftance
changes in the proportion of the furface fimilarly refift-
ed, that is, in the proportion of I to But the quan¬
tity of matter, or number of particles among which this
refiftance is to be diftributed, changes in the propor¬
tion of i to ffh Therefore the retarding power of
the refiftance changes in the proportion ©f i to~. When
d
the diameter was i, the refiftance to a velocity i was
I j
—. It muft now be — ^The time in which this
dimimihed refiftance will extinguifti the velocity i
muft increafe in the proportion of the diminution of
force, and muft now be Eff, or 2 ad, and the fpace
uniformly defcribed during this time with the initial ve¬
locity i muft be 2a d; and this mull ftill be twice the
height neceffiry for communicating the terminal veloci¬
ty w to this body. We muft ftill have p~• anH
2 ad’ a
therefore in2-2^ a d, and 2g a s/2gh/J~d.
But 2 g a. Therefore the terminal velocity in
foi this body is ~h'd; and the height neceffary for
communicating it is ad. Therefore the terminal velo¬
city vanes in the fubduplicate ratio of the diameter of
the ball, and the fall neceffary for producing it varies in
the fimple ratio of the diameter. The extinguifhing
time for the velocity v muff: now be
v
If, in the 3d place, the denfity of the ball be increafed
in the proportion of 1 to tn, the number of particles
among which the refiftance is to be diftributed is in¬
creafed in the fame proportion, and therefore the retard¬
ing force of the refiftance is equally diminiftied ; and if
the denfity of the.air is increafod in the proportion of 1
to n, the retarding force of the refiftance increafes in the
fame proportion : hence we eafily deduce thefe generai
expreflions.
The terminal velocity __ __ gm
n * n*
The producing fall in vacuo = a d —.
- n°
3E
The
402
PROJECTILES.
The retarding power of refiftance to any velocity rr
r\ =
2a d l1
The extinguifhing time for any velocity v
Y. d m
. 36
Units necef-
fary by
which the
quantities
may be
meafured.
37
Sir Ifaac
Newton’s
endeavours
in this way,
And thus we fee that the chief eircumflances are re¬
gulated by the terminal velocity, or are conveniently re¬
ferred to it.
To render the deduff ions from thefe premifes perfpi-
cuous, and for communicating diftinft notions or ideas,
it will be proper to affume fome convenient units, by
which all thefe quantities may be meafured ; and, as
this fubjeft is chiefly ihterefting in the cafe of military
projeftiles, we fhall adapt our units to this purpofe.
Therefore, let a fecond be the unit of time, a foot the
unit of fpace and velocity, an inch the unit of diameter
of a ball or fhell, and a pound avoirdupois the unit of
preffure, whether of weight or of refiftance ; therefore g
is 32 feet.
The great difficulty is to procure an abfolute meafure
of r, or u, or a; any one of thefe wall determine the
others.
Sir Ifaac Newton has attempted to determine r by
theory, and employs a great part of the fecond book of
the Principia in demonftrating, that the refiftance to a
fphere moving with any velocity is to the force which
would generate or deftroy its whole motion in the time
that it would uniformly move over of its diameter
with this velocity as the denfity of the air is to the den-
fity of the fphere. This is equivalent to demonftrating
that the refiftance of the air to a fphsre moving through
it with any velocity, is equal to half the weight of a co¬
lumn of air having a great circle of the fphere for its
bafe, and for its altitude the height from which a body
rauft fall in vacuo to acquire this velocity. This appears
from Newton’s demonftration j for, let the fpecific gra¬
vity of the air be to that of the ball as 1 to m ; then,
becaufe the times in which the fame velocity will be ex-
tinguilhed by the uniform aftion of different forces are
inverfely as the forces, the refiftance to this velocity
would extinguifh it in the time of defcribing ^-md, d
being the diameter of the ball. Now 1 is to m as the
•weight of the difplaced air to the weight of the ball, or
as ^ of the diameter of the ball to the length of a co¬
lumn of air of equal weight. Call this length a ; a is
therefore equal to -} md. Suppofe the ball to fall
irom the height a in the time t, and acquire the velo¬
city u. If it moved uniformly with this velocity during
this time, it would defcribe a fpace = 2a, ox ^ md.
Now its weight would extinguifh this velocity, or de¬
ftroy this motion, in the fame time, that is, in the time
cf defcribing 4 md; but the refiftance of the air would
do this in the time of defcribing 4 m d; that is, in twice
the time. The refiftance therefore is equal to half the
weight of the ball, or to half the weight of the column
of air whofe height is the height producing the velocity.
But the refiftances to different velocities are as the
fquares. of the velocities, and therefore, as their produ¬
cing heights •, and, in general, the refiftance of the air
to a fphere moving with any velocity, is equal to the
half weight of a column of air of equal feftion, and
whofe altitude is the height producing the velocity.
I he refult of this inveftigation has been acquiefced in by
all Sir Ifaac Newton’s commentators. Many faults
have indeed been found with his reafoning, and even 3S
with his principles; and it muft be acknowledged that J1'5 refult
although this inveftigation is by far the moft ingenious•j^’ bu[.t
of any in the Principia, and fets -his acutenefs and ad-
drefs in the moft confpicuous light, his reafoning is liable 0us.
to ferious objeftions, which his moft ingenious commen¬
tators have not completely removed. However, the
conclufion has been acquiefced in, as we have already
ftated, but as if derived from other principles, or by
more logical reafoning. We cannot, however, fay that
the reafonings or aflumptions of thefe mathematicians
are much better than Newton’s : and we muft add, that
all the caufes of deviation from the duplicate ratio of the
velocities, and the caufes of increafed refiftance, whicli
the later authors have valued themfelves for difcovering
and introducing into their inveftigations, were pointed
out by Sir Ifaac Newton, but purpofely omitted by him,
in order to facilitate the difcuffion in re difficiliitna. (See
SchoL prop. 37. book ii.).
It is known that the weight of a cubic foot of water
is 624 pounds, and that the medium denfity of the air
'S'T5‘ water 5 therefore, let a be the height produ¬
cing the velocity (in feet), and d the diameter of the
ball ( in inches), and tt the periphery of a circle whofe
. . 6 21
diameter is 1 j the refiftance of the air wall be —A
840
x 5 x 7^ x pounds> Ter>’nearly’ =
v* vz dz
pounds-
We may take an example. A ball of caff iron weigh¬
ing 12 pounds, is 4! inches in diameter. Suppofe this
ball to move at the rate of 25-A feet in a fecond (the
reafon of this choice will appear afterwards). The
height wffiich will produce this velocity in a falling body
is 94 feet. The area of its great circle is 0.11044 feet,
or ToWon °f one foot. Suppofe water to be 840 times
heavier than air, the weight of the air incumbent on
this great circle, and 94 feet high, is 0.081151 pounds:
half of this is 0.0405755 or or nearly ^ of
a pound. This fhould be the refiftance of the air to
this motion of the ball.
In all matters of phyfical difcuffion, it is prudent to v 32.
confront every theoretical conclufion with experiment.ofexperxl
This is particularly neceffary in the prefent inftance, be-ment.
caufe the theory on which this propofition is founded is
extremely uncertain. Newton fpeaks of it with the
moft cautious diffidence, dnd fecures the juftnefs of the
conclufions by the conditions which he affumes in his
inveftigation. He defcribes with the greateft precifion
the ftate of the fluid in which the body muft move, fo
as that the demonftrations may be ftridf, and leaves it to
others to pronounce whether this is the real conftitu-
tion of our atmofphere. It muft be granted that it is
not; and that many other fuppofitions have been intro¬
duced by his commentators and followers, in order to
fuit his inveftigation (for rve muft affert that little or
nothing has been added to it) to the circumftances of
the cafe.
Newton himfelf, therefore, attempted to compare his Nekton’s
proportions with experiment. Some were made byexperi-
dropping balls from the dome of St Paul’s cathedral 5 ments.
and all thefe ftiowed as great a coincidence with his
theory as they did with each other ; but the irregulari¬
ties
P R O J £
tics were too great to allow hina to fay with precifion
'vhat was the refiftance. It appeared to follow the pro¬
portion of the fquares of the velocities with fufficient ex-
adtnefs J and though he could not fay that the refiftance
was equal to the weight of the column of air having the
height neceffary for communicating the velocity, it was
always equal to a determinate part of it; and might be
ftated rr n a, n being a number to be fixed by nume¬
rous experiments.
One great fource of uncertainty in his experiments
feems to have efcaped his obfervation : the air in that
dome is almoft always in a ftate of motion. In the fum-
mer feafon there is a very fenfible current of air down¬
wards, and frequently in winter it is upwards: and this
current bears a very great proportion to the velocity of
the defcents. Sir Ifaac takes no notice of this.
He made another fet of experiments with pendulums j
and has pointed out feme very curious and unexpected
circumftances of their motions in a refilling medium.
.There is hardly any part of his noble work in which his
addrefs, his patience, and his aftoniftiing penetration,
appear in greater luftre. It requires the utmoft intenfe-
nefs of thought to follow him in thefe difquifitions; and
we cannot enter on the fubjefl at prefent : fome notice
will be taken of thefe experiments in the article RESIST*
JNCE of Fluids. Their refults were much more uni¬
form, and confirmed his general theory ; and, as we
have faid above, it has been acquiefced in by the firft
4I mathematicians of Europe.
Inutility of But the deductions from this theory were fo inconfift-
the theory ent with the obferved motions of military projeCtileSj
in praftice. when the velocities are prodigious, that no application
could be made which could be of any fervice for deter¬
mining the path and motion of cannon Ihot and bombs ;
and although Mr John Bernoulli gave, in i^iS, a molt
elegant determination of the trajectory and motion of a
various b°(iy projected in a fluid which refills in the duplicate
mathemati- r^t^° t^e velodties (a problem which even Newton
cian>, Sec. did not attempt), it has remained a dead letter. Mr
Benjamin Robins, equally eminent for phyfical fcience
and mathematical genius, was the firft who fufpeCted
the true caufe of the imperfeCtion of the ufually received
theories ; and in 1737 he publilhed a fmall trad, in
which he fliowed clearly, that even the Newtonian theo¬
ry of refiftance mult caufe a Cannon ball, difeharged
with a full allotment of powder, to deviate farther from
the parabola, in which it wmuld move in vacuo, than
the parabola deviates from a ftraight line. But he farther
afierted, on the authority of good reafoning, that in fuch
great velocities the refiftance mult be much greater than
this theory afiigns; becaufe, befides the refiftance arifing
from the inertia of the air which is put in motion by the
ball, there mult be a refiftance arifing from a condenfa-
tion of the air on the anterior furface of the ball, and a
farefaCtion behind it: and there mult be a third refilt-
ance, arifing from the ftatical prelfure of the air on its
anterior part, when the motion is fo fwift that there is a
vacuum behind. Even thefe caufes of difagreement with
the theory had been foreleen and mentioned by Newton
(fee the Scholium to prop. 37. book ii. Princip.); but
the lubjeCt feems to have been little attended to. The
eminent mathematicians had few opportunities of making
experiments ; and the profefltonal men, who were in the
service of princes, and had their countenance and aid in
403
42
The at¬
tempts of
Various
C T I L E S.
this matter, were generally too deficient in mathemati¬
cal knowdedge to make a proper ufe of their opportuni¬
ties. The numerous and fplendid volumes which thele
gentlemen have been enabled to publifh by the patro¬
nage of fovereigns are little more than prolix extenfions
of the fimple theory of Galileo. Some of them, how7-
eyer, fuch as St Remy, Antonini, and Le Blond, have
given moft valuable collections of experiments, ready
for the ufe of the profound mathematician. 43
Twro or three years after this firft publication, Mr9bfervd"
Robins hit upon that ingenious method of meafuring ^0:?s.
the great velocities of military projeCliles, which has '
handed down his name to pofterity with great honour, and reiift-
And having afeertained thele velocities, he difcoveredar.ce,
the prodigious refiftance of the air, by obferving the
diminution of velocity which it occafioned. This made
him anxious to examine w!hat was the real refiftance to
any velocity whatever, in order to afeertain what wras
the law of its variation ; and he was equally fortunate
in this attempt. His method of meafuring the refift¬
ance has been fully deferibed in the article Gunnery,
N° 9, &c.
It appears (Robins’s Math. Works, vol. i. page 205.)
that a fphere of 4E inches in diameter, moving at the
rate of 25^- feet in a fecond, fultained a refiltance of
0»°49I4 pounds, or °f a pound. This is a
greater refiftance than that of the Newtonian theory,
which gave m the proportion of 1000 to
1211, or very nearly in the proportion of five to fix in
fmall numbers. And wre may adopt as a rule in all mo¬
derate velocities, that the refiftance to a fphere is equal
to ,^5- of the xveight of a column of air having the
great circle of the fphere for its bafe, and for its alti¬
tude the height through which a heavy body mult fall
in vacuo to acquire the velocity of projection.
This experiment is peculiarly valuable, becaufe the
ball is precifely the fize of a 12 pound fliot of call iron;
and its accuracy may be depended on. There is but
one fource of error. The whirling motion mult have
occafioned fome whirl in the air, wThich would continue
till the ball again pafied through the fame point of its
revolution. The refiftance obferved is therefore pro¬
bably fomewhat lefs than the true refiftance to the velo¬
city of 25-j- feet, becaufe it was exerted in a relative ve¬
locity which w7as lefs than this, and is, in faCt, the re¬
fiftance competent to this relative and fmaller velocity.
—Accordingly, Mr Smeaton, a moft fagacious natu- and on\fr
ralift, places great confidence in the obfervations of aRoufear.d
Mr Roufe of Leicefterfliire, wTho meafured the refiftance Bond a.'
by the effeCt of the wind on a plane properly expofed
to it. . He does not tell us in w’hat wray the velocity of
the wind was afeertained ; but our deference for his
great penetration and experience difpofes us to believe
that this point Xvas well determined. The refiftance ob¬
ferved by Mr Roufe exceeds that refulting from Mr , 45
Robins’s experiments nearly in the proportion of 7 to 10. T^e>, d'fFer
Chevalier de Borda made experiments fimilar to thofe mefi con-
of Mr Robins, and his refults exceed thofe of Ro- clulions. ~
bins in the proportion of 5 to 6. Thefe differences
are fo confiderable/ that we are at a lofs wdiat meafure
to abide .by. It is much to be regretted, that in a fub-
ject fo interefting both to the philofopher and the
man of the wmrld, experiments have not been multipli¬
ed. Nothing would tend fo much to perfeft the fcience
3 E 2 of
404
PROJECTILES.
of gunnery j and indeed till this be done, all the labours
of mathematicians are of no avail. Their inveftigationg
mutt remain an unintelligible cipher, till this key be
Supplied. It is to be hoped that Dr Charles Hutton
of Woolwich, \<’ho has fo ably extended Mr Robins’s
Examination of the Initial Velocities of Military Pro-
jettiles, will be encouraged to proceed to this part of
the fubjeft. We thould with to fee, in the firft place,
a numerous fet of experiments for afcertaining the re¬
finances in moderate velocities } and, in order to avoid
all error from the retilxance and inertia of the machine,
which is neceflarily blended with the retitlance of the
ball, in Mr Robins’s form of the experiment, and is fepa-
sated with great uncertainty and ritk of error, we
would recommend a form of experiment fomewhat dif-
, ferent.
A new form Let ax*s anc^ arra which carries the ball be con-
of experi. nedded with wheelwork, by which it can be put in mo¬
ment re- ticn, and gradually accelerated. Let the ball be fo
commend- conneQe(j with a bent fpring, that this fhall gradually
comprefs it as the reflftance increafes, and leave a mark of
the degree of compreflion ; and let all this part of the
apparatus be fcreened from the air except the ball. The
velocity will be determined precifely by the revolutions
of the arm, and the refiftance by the compreffion of the
fpring. The belt method would be to let this part of
the apparatus be made to fide along the revolving arm,
fo that the ball can be made to delcribe larger and lar¬
ger circles. An intelligent mechanician will eafily con¬
trive an apparatus of this kind, held at any diitance
from the axis by a cord, which pailes over a pulley in
the axis itfelf, and is then brought along a perforation
in the axis, and comes out at its extremity, where it is
fitted with a fwivel, to prevent it from fnapping by be¬
ing twilled. Now let the machine be put in motion.
The centrifugal force of the ball and apparatus will
caure it to fly out as far as it is allowed by the cord ;
and if the whole is put in motion by connedling it with
fotne mill, the velocity may be moll accurately afcer-
tained. It may alfo be fitted with a bell and hammer
like Gravefande’s machine for meafuring centrifugal,
forces. Now by gradually veering oflf more cord, the
dilfance from the centre, and confequently the velocity
and refiftance inc; eafe, till the hammer is difengaged and
llrikes the bell.
Another great advantage of this form of the experi¬
ment is, that the refiftance to very great velocities may
be thus examined, which was impoflible in Mr Robins’s
way. This is the great defideratum, that we may learn
in what proportion of the velocities the refiftances in-
creafe.
In the fame manner, an apparatus, confifting of Dr
Lynd’s Anemometer, defcribed in the article Pneuma¬
tics, N° 311, &c. might be whirled round with pro¬
digious rapidity, and the fluid on it might be made
clammy, which would leave a mark at its greateft ele¬
vation, and thus difcover the refiftance of the air to ra¬
pid notions.
Nay, we are of opinion that the refiftance to very
rapid motions may be meafured dire&ly in the conduit
pipe of fome of the great cylinder bellows employed in
blaft furnaces: the velocity of the air in this pipe is
afcertained by the capacity of the cylinder and the
ftrokes of the pifton. VVc think it our duty to point out
to fuch as have the opportunities of trying them methods
w'hich promife accurate refults for afcertaining this molt
defirable point.
We are the more puzzled what meafure to abide by, , 47
becaufe Mr Robins himfelf, in his Practical Propofi-
tions, does not make ufe of the refult of his own expe-experi-
riments, but takes a much lower meafure. We muftments as
content ourfelves, however, with this experimental mea-J^1 rn0^:
fine, becaufe it is as yet the only one of which any ac-t ‘ bf c!e~
1 • J r J J pended on*
count can be given, or well-founded opinion formed.
Therefore, in order to apply our formulae, wre mult 48
reduce this experiment, which was made on a ball of APPJled to
4 s inches diameter, moving wuth the velocity of 25-]- ^ormu~
feet per fecond, to what would be the refiftance to a
ball of one inch, having the velocity 1 foot. This will
evidently give us R——being diminilhed in
4T X 25*2
the duplicate ratio of the diameter and velocity. This
gives us R—0,00000381973 pounds, or .3‘^I973_ 0£
ICOOOOO
a pound. The logarithm is 4,38204. The refiftance
here determined is the fame whatever fubltance the ball
be of; but the retardation occafioned by it will depend
on the proportion of the refiftance to the vis infda of
the ball; that is, to its quantity of motion. This in
fimilar velocities and diameters is as the denfity of the
ball. The balls uled in military fervice are of call; iron
or of lead, whofe Ipecific gravities are 7,207 and 11,37
nearly, water being 1. There is confiderable variety
in caft iron, and this denfity is about the medium,
Thefe data will give us
For Iron. For Lead.
W, or weight of a ball 1 inch in
diameter - - lbs. 0.13648 0.21333
Log. of W - - 9.13309 9-333IO
E" - 1116" 6 1761".6
Log- of E - 3.04790 3.24591
u. or terminal velocity - 180.02 a-z
Log- 27653 2.37553
a, or producing height S5^-3 880.8
Thefe numbers are of frequent ufe in all queftions on
this fubjedf.
Mr Robins gives an expeditious rule for readily find¬
ing a, which he calls F (fee the article Gunnery), by
which it is made 900 feet for a caft iron ball of an inch
diameter. Rut no theory of refiftance which he pro-
fefles to ufe will make this height necelfary for produ¬
cing the terminal velocity. His F therefore is an em-
pirical quantity, analogous indeed to the producing
height, but accommodated to his theory of the trajec¬
tory of cannon-fhot, which he promifed to publifti, but
did not live to execute. We need not be very anxious
about this ; for all our quantities change in the fame
proportion with R, and need only a corre£ticn by a
multiplier or divifor, when R ftiall be accurately efta-
bliftied.
We may illuftrate the ufe of thefe formulae by an ex¬
ample or two.
1. Then, to find the refiftance to a 24 pound ball 49
moving with the velocity of 1670 feet in a fecond,^xa‘T‘P!f^
which is nearly the velocity communicated by i61bs.° 1 eu u*k-'
of powder. The diameter is 5,603 inches.
PROJECTILES.
Log. R
Log. d*
Log. 1670*
+ 4.58204
+ M9674
+6.44548
2.52426
40
L°g- 3344lbs•='*
But it is found, by unequivocal experiments on the
retardation of fuch a motion, that it is 504 lbs. This
is owing to the caufes often mentioned, the additional
refinance to great velocities, arifing from the condenfa-
tion of the air, and from its preiTure into the vacuum left
by the ball.
2. Required the terminal velocity of this ball ?
Log. R - - +4.58204
Log, d*
Log. reuft. to veloc. 1
Log. W
Diff. of a and b, — log a*
Log. 447.4 ~u
+ 1.49674
6.07878 zz a
1.38021 —b
5-3°143
2.65071
5°
Table of
teiminal
velocity
according
to Newton
As the terminal velocity ?/, and its producing height
<7, enter into all computations of military projectiles,
we have inferted the following Table for the ufual fizes
to Newti n cannon^bot5 computed both by the Newtonian the-
and Robins. 017 refidance, and by the refiftances obferved in Ro¬
bins’s experiments.
2
3
4
6
9
12
18
24
32
Newton.
Robin'
Term. Vel
289.9
324-9
348.2
3 6 43
390.8
418.1
438.6
469-3
492-4
C12.6
54°-5
Perm. Ve’.
2626.4
329^-5
3788.2
4I7°-3
4472.7
5463-5
6010.6
6883.3
7576-3
8024.8
9I29-9
263.4
295.2
316.4
33i-9
355-i
379-9
398-5
426.5
447.4
465.8
49M
2168.6
2723-5
3127.9
3442.6
394°-7
4511.2
4962.9
5683-5
6255.7
6780.4
7538-3
D’am.
Inch.
I.94
2- 45
2.80
3.08
3- 52
4.04
4- 45
5- °9
5.61
6.21
6- 75
Mr Mul- hdr Muller, in his writings on this fubjeft, gives a
ler’s theory much fmaller meafure of refiftance, and confequently a
altogether much greater terminal velocity : but his theory is a
enoneous. miftake from beginning to end (See his Supplement to
his Treatife of Artillery art. 150, &c.) In art. 148.be
aftumes an algebraic expreffion for a principle of mecha¬
nical argument } and from its confequence draws erro¬
neous conclufions. He makes the refidance of a cylin¬
der one-third lefs than Newton fuppofes it ; and his rea-
fbn is falfe. New'ton’s meafure is demondrated bv his
commentators Le Seur and Jaquier to be even a little
too fmall, upon his own principles, (Not. 277 Prop. 36.
B. II.) Mr Muller then, without any feeming reafon,
introduces a new principle, wdrich he makes the chief
/import of his theory, in oppofition to the theories of
o her mathematicians. The principle is falfe, and even
abfurd, as we /hall have occafion to fhow by and by.
In confequence, however, of this principle, he is ena¬
bled to compare the refults with many experiments, and
the agreement is very flattering. But we (hall foon fee
that little dependence can be had on fuch comparifons.
We notice thefe things here, becaufe Mr Muller being
head ot the artillery Ichool in Britain, his publications
have become a fort of text-books. We are miferably
deficient in works on this fubjeft, and mult have re-
courle to the foreign writers.
We now proceed to confider thefe motions through The mo-
their whole courfe : and we /hall firft confider thenJas tions con-
aftefted by the refidance only 5 then we /hall confider ddered
the perpendicular afcents and defcents of heavy bodies t!irough
through the air; and, laftly, their motion in a curvili-°Ie
neal traje&ory, when projefted obliquely. This muft
be done by the help of the abftrufer parts of fluxionary
mathematics. To make it more perfpicuous, we /hall,
by way oi introduction, confider the /imply relilted rec¬
tilineal motions geometrically, in the manner of Sir
Ifaac Newton. As we advance, w e fhall quit this track,
and profecute it algebraically, having by this time ac¬
quired di/lindt ideas of the algebraic quantities. ^
\7e muft keep in mind the fundamental theorems of Pre'iminary-
varied motions. ©bferva-
1. i he momentary variation of the velocity is pro-tl0nS‘
portional to the force and the moment of time jointly,
and may therefore be renrefented by ^±zv—ft, w'here v
is the momentary increment or decrement of the velo.
cby *’,/the accelerating or retarding force, and} the
moment or increment of the time t.
2. The momentary variation of the fquare of the ve¬
locity is as the force, and as the increment or decrement
of the fpace jointly 5 and may be reprefented by v j,
~fs The firft propofition is familiarly known. The
fecond is the 39th of Newton’s Principia, B. I. It is 54
demonftrated in the article Optics, and is the moft ex-The mo-
tenfively ufeful propofition in mechanics. asaf-
Thefe things being premifed, let the ftraight line^fl^
AC (fig. 5.) reprefent the initial velocity V, and letonly.
CO, perpendicular to AC, be the time in which this Fig. 5,
velocity would be extingui/hed by the uniform a61ion
0/ the refiftance. Draw through the point A an equi¬
lateral hyperbola AeB, having OF, OCD for its af-
fymptotes; then let the time of the reflfted motion be
reprefented by the line CB, C being the firft inftant of
the motion. If there be drawn perpendicular ordinates
* e-> gfi LB, &c. to the hyperbola, they will be pro¬
portional to the velocities of the body at the inftants
D, &c. and the hyperbolic areas AC x. e, ACgfy
ACDB, &c. will be proportional to the fpaces defcrib-
ed during the times Cx, CCB, &c.
For, fuppofe the time divided into an indefinite num¬
ber of fmall and equal moments, C <r, D + &c. draw
the ordinates ac, b d, and the perpendiculars bfi.ax*
Then, by the nature of the hyperbola, AC : a c~0 c \
OC ; and AC—ac\ a c—Oc—OC : OC, that is, Act,,
: acrzC c : OC, and A * : C c—a c : OC, — AC- a c :
AC-OC; in like manner, B^ : D </=BD- b D : BD-
OD. Now Dz/zrCc, becau/e the moments of time
w-ere taken equal, and the reftangles AC-CO, BD-DO
are equal, by the nature of the hyperbola 5 therefore
A a 53 (Z—AC ' a c : BD • b d: but as the points c, d
continually approach, and ultimately coincide with C,
D, the ultimate ratio of AC • or to BD-£</ is that of
AC* to BD* 5 therefore the momentary decrements of
AC
40 6
PROJECTILES.
AC and Bt) are as ACS and BD\ Now, becaufe the
refiftance is meafured by the momentary diminution of
velocity, thefe diminutions are as the fquares of the ve¬
locities ; therefore the ordinates of the hyperbola and
the velocities diminifh by the lame law; and the initial
velocity was reprefented by AC : therefore the veloci¬
ties at all the other infants x,g, I), are properly repre¬
fented by the correfponding ordinates. Hence,
1. Since the abfciflTae of the hyperbola are as the
times, and the ordinates are as the Velocities, the areas
will be as the fpaces defcribed, and AC k*? is to A.cgf
as the fpace defcribed in the time C ^ to the fpace
defcribed in the time C^ (ill Theorem on varied mo^
tions).
2. The re^langle ACOF is to the area ACDB as
the fpace formerly expreffed by 2 or E to the fpace
defcribed in the relifting medium during the time CD :
for AC being the velocity V, and OC the extinVuilhing
time e, this reftangle is ~e\, or E, or 2tf, of our for¬
mer difquilitions •, and becaufe all the redlangles, fuch
as ACOF, BDOG, &c. are equal, this correfponds
with our former obfervation, that the fpace uniformly
defcribed with any velocity during the time in which it
’would be uniformly extinguiflied by the correfponding
refiftance is a conftant quantity, viz. that in which we
always had e r= E, or 2 a.
3. Draw the tangent Ay j then, by the hyperbola
C k—CO : now C» is the time in which the reliftance to
the velocity AC would extinguilh it; for the tangent
coinciding with the elemental arc A a of the curve, the
firfl: impulfe of the uniform aftion of the reliftance is
the fame with the firft impulfe of its varied adlion. By
this the velocity AC is reduced to a c. If this opera¬
ted uniformly like gravity, the velocities would diminilh
Uniformly, and the fpace defcribed would be reprefent¬
ed by the triangle AC*.
This triangle, therefore, reprefents the height through
which a heavy body muft fall in vacuo, in order to ac¬
quire the terminal velocity.
4. The motion of a body relifted in the duplicate ra¬
tio of the velocity will continue without end, and a
fpace will be defcribed which is greater than any af-
fignable fpace, and the velocity will grow lefs than any
that can be afligned •, for the hyperbola approaches
Continually to the. aflymptote, but never coincides with
it. There is no velocity BD fo fmall, but a fmaller
ZP will be found beyond it; and the hyperbolic fpace
may be continued till it exceeds any furface that can be
afligned.
5. The initial velocity AC is to the final velocity
BD as the fum of the extinguifhing time and the time
of the retarded motion, is to the extinguilhing time
alone: for AC : BDrzOD (or OC + CD) : OC j or
V : =r e : £ •‘B /*■
6. The extinguilhing time is to the time of the re¬
tarded motion as the final velocity is to the velocity
loft during the retarded motion : for the redtangles
AFOC, BDOG are equal; and therefore AVGF and
BVCD are equal, and VC : VA = VG : VB j there-
V—v v
fore t — e , and e~t .
v V—v
7. Any velocity is reduced in the proportion of m
to n in the time e jror iet AC : BDz=.m\n->
n 7 7
i
then DO : CO=m : //, and DC : CO~in-*-h : //, and
m-~n tn—n rr„ _
DL— CO, or t — e . iheretore any velo-
nn
city is reduced to one half in the time in rvliich the ini¬
tial reliftance would have extinguilhed it by its uniform
adtion. 55
Thus may the chief circumftances of this motion be An^tne^
determined by means of the hyperbola, the ordinates
and abfciflie exhibiting the relations of the times anding this
velocities, and the areas exhibiting the relations of both motion,
to the fpaces defcribed. But we may render the con¬
ception of thefe circumftances infinitely more eafy and
Ample, by exprefling them all by lines, inftead of this
combination of lines and furfaces. We lhall accom-
plifti this pUrpofe by conftrudting another curve LKP,
having the line MIA, parallel to OD for its abfcifla,
and of fuch a nature, that if the ordinates to the hyper¬
bola AC, /£-, BD, &c. be produced till they cut
this curve in L,/>, #, K, &c. and the abfciffa in L, g,
/z, 5, &c. the ordinates g />, Jin, J K, &c. may be pro¬
portional to the hyperbolic areas e A. C x, f A. Cgi
§ A c K. Let us examine what kind of curve this will
be.
Make 0C:0.*i~0k : then Hamilton’s Co*
hies, IV. 14. Cor.), the areas AC k e,e xgf are equal :
therefore drawing p s, n t perpendicular to OM, we
lhall have (by the aflumed nature of the curve Lp K),
M j- = j / j and if the abfciffa OD be divided into any
number of fmall parts in geometrical progreflion (rec¬
koning the commencement of them all from O), the
axis V i of this curve will be divided by its ordinates
into the fame number of equal parts 5 and this curve
will have its ordinates LM, ps, nt, &c. in geometri¬
cal progreflion, and its abfeiflae in arithmetrical progref¬
lion.
Alfo, let KN, MV touch the curve in K and L, and
let OC be fuppofed to be to Oc, as OD to Od, and
therefore Cc to Dz/ as OC to OD ; and let thefe lines
Cc, Dr/ be indefinitely fmall 5 then (by the nature of
the curve) L 0 is equal to K r : for the areas a AC rq
Z>BDr/ are in this cafe equal. Alfo hoh Xo kr, as LM
to KI, becaufe cC : r/D~CO : DO :
Therefore IN : IK r K :
IK : ML — rk 01
ML: MV —0 / : 0 L
and IN : MN = r K : 0 L.
That is, the fubtangent IN, or MV, is of the fame mag¬
nitude, or is a conftant quantity in every part of the
curve.
Laftly, the fubtangent IN, correfponding to the
point K of the curve, is to the ordinate K £ as the
redtangle BDOG or ACOF to the parabolic area
BDCA.
For let fg Jin be air ordinate very near to BD ^ K j
and let Jin cut the curve in n, and the ordinate KI irt
q ; then we have
K? : y*=:KI : IN, or
D^ : y « —DO : IN ;
but BD : AC=CO: DOj
therefore BD . D ^ : AC , q n — CO : IN.
Therefore the fum of all the rectangles BD.Djf is to
the fum of all the reClangles AC. qn, as CO to IN j
but
but the fum of the re&angles ED . D ^ is the fpace
ACDB j and, becaufe AC is given, the fum of the re£t-
angles AC.qn is the reftangle of AC and the fum of
all the lines qti ; that is, the reftangle of AC and RL :
therefore the fpace ACDB : AC . RLrrCO : IN, and
ACDB x IN=AC . CO • RL j and therefore IN : RL
=AC . CO : ACDB.
Hence it follows that QL exprefles the area BVA, and
in general, that the part of the line parallel to OM,
which lies between the tangent KN and the curve L/>K,
expreffes the correfponding area of the hyperbola which
lies without the reflangle BDOG.
And now, by the help of this curve, we have an eafy
way of convincing and computing the motion of a body
through the air. For the fubtai»gent of our curve now
reprefents twice the height through which the ball mull
fall in vacuo, in order to acquire the terminal velocity ;
and therefore ferves for a fcale on which to meafure all
the other reprcfentatives of the motion.
The whole ^ut ^ remains to make another obfervation on the
reduced to curve L /> K, which will fave us all the trouble of
a Ample graphical operations, and reduce the whole to a very
anthmeti- fimple arithmetical computation, It is of fuch a na-
—ture, that when MI is conlidered as the abfcilTa, and is
divided into a number of equal parts, and ordinates are
drawn from the points of divifion, the ordinates are a
feries of lines in geometrical progreffion, or are conti¬
nual proportionals. Whatever is the ratio between the
firlt and fecond ordinate, there is the fame between the
fecond and third, between the third and fourth, and fo
on 5 therefore the number of parts into which the ab-
Iciffa is divided is the number of thefe equal ratios
which is contained in the ratio of the iirll ordinate to
the lalt : For this reafon, this curve has got the name
of the logijiic or logarithmic curve ; and it is of immenfe
ufe in the modern mathematics, giving us the folution
of many problems in the molt Ample and expeditious
manner, on which the genius of the ancient mathema¬
ticians had been exercifed in vain. Few of our readers
are ignorant, that the numbers called logaritk?ns are of
equal utility in arithmetical operations, enabling us
not only to folve common arithmetical problems with
altonifhing difpatch, but alfo to folve others which are
quite inacceflible in any other way. Logarithms are no¬
thing more than the numerical meafures of the abfciffa
of this curve, correfponding to ordinates, which are
meafured on the fame or any other fcale by the natural
numbers ; that is, if ML ^ be divided into equal parts,
and from the points of divilion lines be drawn parallel to
MI, cutting the curve L /> K, and from the points of
interfeftion ordinates be drawn to MI, thefe will divide
MI into portions, which are in the fame proportion to
the ordinates that the logarithms bear to their natural
numbers.
In conftru&ing this curve we were limited to no par¬
ticular length of the line LR, which reprefented the
fpace ACDB ; and all that we had to take care of was,
that when OC, Ok, Og were taken in geometrical pro-
greflion, M r, M £ fhould be in arithmetical progreflion.
The abfciffae having ordinates equal tops, tit, &c. might
have been twice as long, as is fliown in the dotted curve
which is drawn through L. All the lines which ferve to
meafure the hyperbolic fpaces would then have been
doubled. But NI would alfo have been doubled, and
PROJECTILES.
our proportions would have Rill held good j becaufe this
fabtangent is the fcale of meafurement of our figure, as
L or 2 a is the fcale of meafurement for the motions.
Since then we have tables of logarithms calculated
for every number, we may make ufe of them infiead
of this geometrical figure, which Rill requires confi-
derable tiouble to fuit it to every cafe. There are two
fets of logarithmic tables in common ufe. One is call¬
ed a table of hyperbolic or natural logarithms. It is
luited to fuch a curve as is drawn in the figure, where
the fubtangent is equal to that ordinate r v which cor-
refponds to the fide O of the fquare Oinferted be¬
tween the hyperbola and its aflymptotes. This fquare
is the unit of furface, by which the hyperbolic areas
are expreffed ; its fide is the unit of length, by which
the lines belonging to the hyperbola are exprelfed j r t/
— L or the unit ot numbers to which the logarithms
are fmted, and then IN is alfo i. Now the fquare
(ttOa. being unity, the area BA CD will be fome number j
5T O being alfo unity, OD is fome number : Call it *.
Then, by the nature of the hyperbola, OB : O tt =z
*■6 : DB : That is, x : i = i : —, f0 that DB is —.
x x ,
Now calling ~D d x, the area BD db, which is the
fluxion (ultimately) of the hyperbolic area, is —. Now
. ■v
in the curve Ly^K, MI has the fame ratio to NI that
BA CD has to OaOjt : I herefore, if there be a fcale of
which NI is the unit, the number on this fcale cor¬
refponding to MI has the fame ratio to i which the
number meafuring BACD has to I j and I r,'which
correfponds to BD db, is the fluxion (ultimately) of
MI: I herefore, if MI be called the logarithm of x,
x .
v~is properly reprefented by the fluxion of ML In
fliort, the line MI is divided precifely as the line of
numbers on a Gunter’s fcale, which is therefore a
fine of logarithms ; and the numbers called logarithms
are jjufl the lengths of the different parts of this line
meafured on a fcale of equal parts. Therefore, when
we meet with fuch an expreflion as — viz. the fluxion
x
of a quantity divided by the quantity itfelf, wTe confider
it as the fluxion of the logarithm of that quantity, be¬
caufe it is really fo wThen the quantity is a number j and
it is therefore flri&ly true that the fluent of - is the hy-
x J
perbolic logarithm of x.
Certain reafons of convenience have given life to ano¬
ther fet of logarithms ; thefe are fluted to a lo^iftic
curve whofe fubtangent is only rVoVorr of the ordmate
t v, which is equal to the fide of the hyperbolic fquarey
and wdrich is affumed for the unit of number. We fliall
fuit our applications of the preceding invefligation to
both thefe, and fhall firfl ufe the common logarithms
whofe fubtangent is 0,43429.
The whole fubjeft will be befl illuflrated by taking 57
an example of the different queflions w'hich may be pro- Muftrated
pofed. by exam-
407
Recolleft that the reflangle ACOF is — 2a, or —, or
S'
E.
pies.
4oS
PROJECTILES.
E, for a ball of cad-iron one inch diameter, and if it
, * u*d
has the diameter d, it is , or lad, or Ed.
S
I. It mav be required to determine what will be the
fpace defcribed in a given time / by a ball fetting out
with a given velocity V, and what will be its velocity v
at the end of that time.
Here we have NI : MT—ACOF : BDCA •, now
NI is the fubtangent of the logiftic curve } MI is the
difference between the logarithms of OD and OC ; that
is, the difference between the logarithms of e-j-S and e;
ACOF is lad, or FjL, 0r Ed.
S
Therefore by common logarithms 0,43429 : log.
eJpt—log. e—iad : S,rr fpace defcribed,
e
or 0,43429 • —
and S.
log.
lad
°543429
Xlog.
lad: S,
eJrl
e-\-t
by hyperbolic logarithms 'a—iad X l°g-
Let the ball be a 12 pounder, and the initial velocity
be 1600 feet, and the time 20 feconds. We muft firft
find e, which is 2 ^ ^
V
Therefore, log. la - -
^ (4> 5)
log. V. (i6oo)
Log. of $",03,=e
And e-f-t is 23"o3, of which the log. is
from w’hich take the log. of e
+ 3-°323^
+ 0.6S321
— 3.20415
0.48145
1.36229
0.48145
remains the log. of
This muft be confidered as a common number by
which we are to multiply .
0.43429
Therefore add the logarithms oi lad -}- 3.68557
. e -J-/
log. -i- - + 9-9449°
log. 0.43429
9.63778
3.99269
Log. S, 9833 feet
For the final velocity,
OD : OC=AC : BD, or e-p : e=V : v.
23",03 : 3",03m 600 : 2104,—^.
The ball has therefore gone 3278 yards, and its ve¬
locity is reduced from 1600 to 210.
It may be agreeable to the reader to fee the gradual
progrefs of the ball during fome feconds of its motion.
T. S. Diff. V. Biff.
*383
2456
3336
4080
4725
6" 5294
1073
880
744
645
569
1203
964
804
690
604
537
397
239
160
114
86
67
The firft column is the time of the motion, the fecond
is the fpace deferred, the third is the differences of the
3
fpaces, fhowing the motion during each fucceflive fe¬
cond ; the fourth column is the velocity at the end of
the time t; and the laft column is the differences of ve¬
locity, fhowing its diminution in each fucceflive fecond.
We fee that at the diftance of 1000 yards the velocity
is reduced to one half, and at the diftance of lefs than a
mile it is reduced to one-third.
II. It may be required to determine the diftance at
which the initial velocity V is reduced to any other
quantity v. This quetlion is folved in the very fame
manner, by fubftituting the logarithms of V and v for
thofe of e-j-t and e; for AC : BD—OD : OC, and
. AC OD . V , e+t
therefore log. 3^3= log- or log- ~ = log- -7-'
Thus it is required to determine the diftance in which
the velocity 1780 of a 24 pound ball (which is the me¬
dium velocity of fuch a ball difeharged with 16 pounds
of powder) will be reduced to 1500.
Here d is 5.68, and therefore the loga¬
rithm of 1 a d is
V
Log. —zr 0.07433, of which the log is
Log. 0.43429
+3.78671
+ 8.87x16
—9.63778
3.02009
of a fe-
Log. 1047,3 feet, or 349 yards
This redudlion will be produced in about -g-
cond.
III. Another queftion may be to determine the time
which a ball, beginning to move with a certain veloci¬
ty, employs in pafling over a given fpace, and the dimi¬
nution of velocity wdiich it fuftains from the refiftance of
the air.
We may proceed thus :
log. ——zr/. Then to log.
lad\ 8=0,43429
0.88084 e-\-t
add log. e, and we obtain log. e+/, and from
Then to find v, fay
which if we take e wTe have t.
e-\-t: e=y • v.
We fliall conclude thefe examples by applying this App]jcat;on
laft rule to Mr Robins’s experiment on a roulket bullet 0f an expe-
of of an inch in diameter, which had its velocity re- riment of
duced from 1670 to 1425 by pafling through 100 feet Mr R°biri-S*
of air. This we do in order to difeover the refiftance WS S
which it fuftained, and compare it with the refiftance to Works,
a velocity of 1 foot per fecond. vol. i. p.
We muft firft afeertain the firft term of our analogy. I3S'
The ball w^as of lead, and therefore 2 a muft be multi¬
plied by d and by m, which exprefles the ratio of the
denfity of lead to that of caft-iron. d is 0.75, and m is
11.37
-= 1.577. Therefore log. la 3.03236
7.21
9.87506
0.19782
Log. ladtn 3.10524
and ladtnz=. 1274.2.
£ f
Now 1274.2 : ioorro.43429 : 0.03408zzlog.
'l. f! d 7H • •
But e——-——=0.763, and its logarithm = 9.88352,
which, added to 0.03408, gives 9.91666, which is the
log. of e+/, =0.825, from which take e, and there
remains
59
Recapitu¬
lation.]
62
PROJECTILES.
remains l=, o".o6l, or of a fecond, for the time
IOOO
of paffage. Now, to find the remaining velocity, fay
82c: .763=1670 : 1544,
But m Mr Robins’s experiment the remaining veloci¬
ty^ was only 1425, the ball having loft 245 5 whereas by
this compulation it ftiould have loft only 126. It ap¬
pears, therefore, that the refiftance is double of what it
would have been if the refiftance increafed in the dupli¬
cate proportion of the velocity. Mr Robins fays it is
nearly triple. But he fuppofes the refiftance to flow mo¬
tions much fmaller than his own experiment, fo often
mentioned, fully warrants.
The time e, in which the refiftance of the air would
extinguifli the velocity is o" 763. Gravity, or the
weight of the bullet, would have done it in l^7° or c 2/' •
32 ’ ’
therefore the refiftance is ~ ^ - times, or nearly 68 times
its weight, by this theory, or 5.97 pounds. If we cal¬
culate from Mr Robins’s experiment, we muft fay log.
—; O.43429 =r 100 : *> V, which will be 630.23, and
and •^J^-Sives 'dS for the
proportion of the refiftance to the weight, and makes
the refiftance 12.07 pounds, fully double of the other.
It is to be obferved, that with this velocity, which
greatly exceeds that with which the air can rufti into
a void, there muft be a ftatical preffiire of the atmo-
fphere equal to 6± pounds. This will make up the dif¬
ference, and allows us to conclude that the refiftance
arifing folely from the motion communicated to the air
follows very nearly the duplicate proportion of the velo¬
city.
# The next experiment, with a velocity of 1690 feet
gives a refiftance equal to 157 times the weight of the’
hullet, and this bears a much greater proportion to the
former than 16902 does to 1670% which fhows, that al¬
though thefe experiments clearly demonftrate a prodigi¬
ous augmentation of refiftance, yet they are by no means
fufceptible of the precifion which is neceffary for difco-
vering the law of this augmentation, or for a good foun¬
dation of pra&ical rules; apd it is ftill greatly to be
wiflied that a more accurate mode of inveftigation could
be difcovered.
Thus we have explained, in great detail, the princi¬
ples and the procefs of calculation for the Ample cafe
of the motion of proje&iles through the air. The learn¬
ed reader will think that we have been unreafonably
prolix, and that the whole might have been comprifed
m lefs room, by taking the algebraic method. We ac¬
knowledge that it might have been done even in a few
lines. But we have obferved, and our obfervation has
been confirmed by perfons well verfed in fuch fubjedls,
that in all cafes where the fluxionary procefs introduces
the fluxion of a logarithm, there is a great want of di-
ftinfl ideas to accompany the hand and eye. The folu-
tion comes out by a fort of magic or legerdemain,
cannot tell either .how or why. We therefore thought
it our duty to furnilh the reader wdth diftinft conceptions
of the things and quantities treated of. For this reafon
after fhowing, in Sir Ilaac Newton’s manner, how the*
fpaces defcribed in the retarded motion of a proieaile
Vol. XVII. Part II. V J c
409
followed the proportion of the hyperbolic areas, we
(hewed the nature of another curve, where lines could
be found which increafe in the very fame manner as the
path of the proje&ile increafes ; fo that a point deferr¬
ing^ the abfeifla MI of this curve moves precifely as the
proje&ile does.. Then, difeovering that this line is the
fame with the line of logarithms on a Gunter’s fcale, w^e
(hewed how the logarithm of a number really reprefents
the path or fpace defcribed by the proje&ile.
Havmg thus, we hope, enabled the reader to conceive
diftm&ly the quantities employed, w^e (hall leave the
geometrical method, and profecute the reft of the fub-
jedt in a more compendious manner.
We are, in the next place, to confider the perpendi-Of thf per-
cu ar afeents and defeents of heavy projedliles, where pendicular
the refiftance of the air is combined with the adlion ofafcents of
gravity : and we (hall begin with the defeents. ^ “7 pro“
Let a,, as before, be the terminal velocity, and g theJCL *tS*
accelerating power of gravity : When the body moves
with the velocity «, the refiftance is equal to g ; and in
every other velocity v, we muft have u* : v*=g .
g
—, =rf for the refiftance to that velocity. In the
defeent the body is urged by gravity g, and oppofed
by the refiftance ~~~ : therefore the remaining acce¬
lerating force, which we (hall call / is p- -g 0r
u1 ’
g lr g y* g(u* 
U* ’ U1 ’
Now the fundamental theorem for varied motions is
/' ’ . • w u7"
s — u v, and s = —, — — x
f S
-, and s =
u% X* <u <u
— X/-  
g X uz— v*
-j- C. Now the fluent of
= — hyperb. log. ofyV—^. For the flux'on of
u' — v* is ^y====, and this divided by the
quantity — of which it is the fluxion, gives
precifely ^, which is therefore the fluxion of
its hyperbolic logarithm. Therefore S —
Wf—^ +(-'- Where L means the hyperbolic lo¬
garithm of the quantity annexed to it, and a may be
ufed to exprefs its common logarithm. (See article
Fluxions.)
. The conftant quantity C for completing the fluent
is determined from this confideration, that the fpace
defcribed is 0, when the velocity is 0: therefore C 
— X IV = and C — X L ^ and the
^ (3
complete fluent S = — X L — L
X
=— X I
s
J-
g
X A/
7 v.' i/r r ~ ° Q'43429g « —'u
or (putting M mr 0.43429, the modulus or fubtangent
of the common logiftic curve) =--U— x a v ————
Mg * u~ V* '
3 F This
4io
PROJECTILES.
This equation eftabllilies the relation between the
fpace fallen through, and the velocity acquired by the
fall. We obtain by it = L —T“T-, aTld
i. Let the height 7i be fought which will produce the
velocity 323,62, the terminal velocity of the ball being
689,44. Here 2a, or
n J 321>62
is 14850, and     =r
680,34
u2 . .
: L.   -, or, which is ftill more conveni-
-, that is, equal to
, M X 2^ S _ ^ 7^*
ent for us,  —  
the logarithm of a certain number: therefore having
found the natural number correfponding to the fradlion
M X conplcier it as a logarithm, and take out the
number correfponding to it 1 call this n. Then, fince
n is equal to —-—
have
n u
■ n v2
and nu2 — u2 — u v2, or 72 = a* X « — v, and v2
72* X n — 1
To expedite all the computations on this fubjeft, it
will be convenient to have multipliers ready computed
for M X2g, and its half,
viz. 27,794, whofe log. is - 1.44396
and 13,897 - - - 1.14293
But v may be found much more expeditloufly by
, . , ^
obferving that */ ——
is the fecant of an arch
of a circle whofe radius is a, and whofe fine is v, or
whofe radius is unity and fine
: therefore, confi-
dering the above fra&ion as a logarithmic fecant, look
for it in the tables, and then take the fine of the arc of
which this is the fecant, and multiply it by u j the pro-
du£l is the velocity required.
We fhall take an example of a ball whofe terminal
velocity is 689^ feet, and afcertain its velocity after a
fall of 1848 feet. Here,
&*_:475200 an(j[ l0g. . =25.67688
u =26893- - - - '2.83844
£=32 - - - i‘S0SlS
8 = 1848 - - - 3.26670
Then log. 27,794 - - + 1-44396
log. S - - - + 3.26670
log. u1 _ . . — 5.67688
Log. of 0,10809 = log. n - 9-°3378
©,10809 is the logarithm of 1,2826 = 77, and n—1 =
0,2826, and U= 323>6% - ^ % and v —
323,6.
In like manner, 0,054045 (which is half of 0,10809)
will be found to be the logarithmic fecant of 28°, w7hofe
fine 0,46947 multiplied by 689^ gives 324 for the ve¬
locity.
The procefs of this folution fuggefts a very perfpicu-
ous manner of conceiving the law of defcent j and it
may be thus exprefled :
M is to the logarithm of the fecant of an arch whofe
fine is—, and radius 1, as 227 is to the height through
u
which the body muft fall in order to acquire the veloci¬
ty v. Thus, to take the fame example.
0,46947, which is the fine of 28°. The logarithmic
fecant of this arch is 0,05407. Now M or 0,43429 ;
0,05407 = 14850 : 1848, the height wanted.
2. Required the velocity acquired by the body by
falling 1848 feet. Say 14850 : 1848 = 0,43429 :
0,05407. Look for this number among the logarith¬
mic lecants. It will be found at 28°, of which the lo¬
garithmic fine is - - - 9.67161
Add to this the log. of 72 - - 2.83844
The fum . - - 2.51005
is the logarithm of 323,62, the velocity required.
We may obferve, from thefe lb]utions, that the ac¬
quired velocity continually approaches to, but never
equals, the terminal velocity. For it is always expref-
fed by the fine of an arch of which the terminal veloci-
ty is the radius. We cannot help taking notice here £rroneous
of a very ftrange affertion of Mr Muller, late profeflbr a tier non of
of mathematics and direclor of the royal academy at Muiler^
Woolwich. He maintains, in his Treatife on Gunnery,
his Treatife of Fluxions, and in many of his numerous
works* that a body cannot poffibly move through the
air with a greater velocity than this 5 and he makes this
a fundamental principle, on which he eftablilhes a theo¬
ry of motion in a refilling medium, which he afferts
with great confidence to be the only jull theory 5 fay¬
ing, that all the inveftigations of Bernoulli, Euler, Ro¬
bins, Simpfon, and others, are erroneous. We ufe this
ftrong exprefiion, becaufe, in his criticifms on the works
of thofe celebrated mathematicians, he lays afide good
manners, and taxes them not only with ignorance, but
with dilhonelty } faying, for inftance, that it required
no fmall dexterity in Robins to confirm by his experi¬
ments a theory founded on falfe principles 5 and that
Thomas Simpfon, in attempting to conceal his obliga¬
tions to him for fome valuable propofiticns, by chan¬
ging their form, had ignorantly fallen into grofs errors.
Nothing can be more palpably abfurd than this affer-
tion of Mr Muller. A blown bladder will have but a
fmall terminal velocity 5 and when moving with this ve¬
locity, or one very near it, there can be no doubt that
it w-ill be made to move much r.sifter by a fmart ftroke.
Were the affertion true, it would be impoffible for a
portion of air to be put into motion through the reft,
for its terminal velocity is nothing. Yet this author
makes this affertion a principle of argument, faying,
that it is impoffible that a ball can iffue from the mouth
of a cannon with a greater velocity than this; and that
Robins and others are grofsly miftaken, when they give
them velocities three or four times greater, and refin¬
ances which are 10 or 20 times greater than is pcfiible 5
and by thus compenfating his fmall velocities by ftill
fmaller refiftances, he confirms his theory by many ex¬
periments adduced in fupport of the others. No rea-
fon whatever can be given for the afferlion. New-ton,
or perhaps Huygens, was the firft wrho obferved that
there was a limit to the velocity which gravity could
communicate to a body j and this limit was found by
his commentators to be a term to which it was vaftly
convenient to refer all its other motions. It therefore
became
PROJECTILES.
became an object of attention *, and Mr Muller, through
inadvertency, or want of difcernment, has fallen into
this miftake, and with that arrogance and felf-conceit
which mark all his writings, has made this miftake a
fundamental principle, becaufe it led him to eftablifti a
novel fet of doctrines on this fubjeft. He was fretted
at the faperior knowledge and talents of Mr Simpfon,
his inferior in the academy, and was guilty of feveral
mean attempts to hurt his reputation. But they wer^e
62 unfuccefsful.
Motion of We might proceed to confider the motion of a body
a J.0*3/ ^r°’ Proje£ted downwards. While the velocity of projeftion
downwards t^an termina^ velocity, the motion is deter¬
mined by what we have already faid : for we mull com¬
pute the height neceflary for acquiring this velocity in
the air, and fuppofe the motion to have begun there.
But if the velocity of projection be greater, this method
fails. We pafs it over (though not in the leaft more
difficult than what has gone before), becaufe it is of
mere curiofity, and never occurs in any interefting cafe.
We may juft obferve, that fince the motion is fwifter
than the terminal velocity, the refiftance muft be great¬
er than the weight, and the motion will be retarded.
The very fame procefs will give us for the fpace defcrib-
and L
yu-Cv A fu4-v
—> or ™ V —
is always an abftracl
U -y' M " u—v
number, multiplying this time.
We may illuftrate this rule by the fame example. In
what time will the body acquire the velocity 323,62 ?
Here + v re 10x2,96, u—v — 36$>1* } therefore
/u-\-v
A V —!—~0,22I 22,
u
21
U-
/»542-
, and — (in feet and feconds) is
$
Now, for greater perfpicuity, convert the
u
equation
Mg
u—v
into a proportion 5 thus
edS=:—XL
V being the velocity of
«3
Relation
between
the time
of defeent
and fpace
deferibed,
fcc.
g V—u‘
projeclion, greater than u. Now as this fpace evident¬
ly increafes continually (becaufe the body always falls),
but does not become infinite in any finite time, the frac-
. V1—
tion —  does not become infinite ; that is, v* does
—u1 7
not become equal to : therefore although the veloci¬
ty V is continually diminiihed, it never becomes fo fmall
as u. Therefore a is a limit of diminution as well as of
augmentation.
We muft now afeertain the relation between the time
of the defeent and the fpace deferibed, or the velocity
acquired. For this purpofe we may ufe the other fun¬
damental propofition of varied motions f t~v, which, in
the prefent cafe, becomes — —
_T !u-\-v u
M : A v  —- : U and we have 0,43429 : 0,22122
= 21", 542 : 10",973, the time required.
This is by far the molt diftind! way of conceiving
the fubjeft j and we fhould always keep in mind that
the numbers or fymbols which we call logarithms are
really parts of the, line MI in the figure of the logiftic
curve, and that the motion of a point in this line is pre-
cifely fimilar to that of the body. The Marquis Po-
leni, in a differtation publilhed at Padua in 1725, has
with great ingenuity ccnftrudled logarithmics fuited to
all the cafes which can occur. Herman, in his Phoro-
nomia, has borrowed much of Poleni’s methods, but has
oofeured them by an affedlation of language geometri-.
cally precife, but involving the very obfeure notion of
abftrabt ratios.
t-=zv : therefore t
2T v
g u1—
u uv
1* ’ ~ £ x zP—
-, and t
This flu-
, u / u A-v u
yore t——xLv  ,
g u—v M^ u—v
ent needs no conftant quantity to complete it, or rather
Crco ; for t muft: be rro when V—O. This will evi¬
dently be the cafe : for then L s/ is Lv —=
u—v u
L 1, =0.
41
It is eafy to fee that V ^is the cotangent of
the \ complement of an arch, whofe radius is t, and
whofe fine is -: For let KC (fig. 6.) be —and
BErr'y; then KD—zz-f-'1’? ar|d DAzzzz—v. Join KB
and BA, and draw CG parallel to KB. Now’ GA is
the tangent of \ BA, complement of HB. Then,
by fimilarity of triangles, GA : AC — AB : BK, =
; v^DKcr^/zz—v : antl ^j^(=cotan.
. u x f'-'1- . > therefore look for — among the na-
g J zzJ—v!‘ u
Fig. 6.
Now (art. Fluxions) f-^L.=Ls/^±v. There- tUral r,neS’ °r f°r loS- J an,onS the
and take the logarithmic cotangent of the half comple¬
ment of the correfponding arch. This, confidered as a
common number, will be the fecond term of our pro¬
portion. This is a ffiorter procefs than the former.
By reverfing this proportion we get the velocity cor¬
refponding to a given time.
.To compare this defeent of 1848 feet in the airpalIof
with the fall, of the body zzz vacuo during the fame body°ii]
time, fay 21 ",542* : io//,973j=:i848 : 1926,6, whichairIcomPa”
makes a difference of 79 feet.
But how does this quantity X *
yEt
%nify a
time ? Obferve, that in whatever numbers, or by what¬
ever units of fpace and time, u and g are expreffed,
— expreffes the number of units of time in which the ve-
s . .
locity u is communicated or extinguished by gravity j
Cor. r. The time in which the body acquires the
velocity u by falling through the air, is to the time of
acquiring the fame velocity by falling in vacuo, as u.
!u-\-v
1 eft with
that of one
in vacuoi
L V
zz—«
to v : for it would acquire, this velocity in
3 F 2
vacua
412
65
Time of
the afcent
of a body
projected
perpendi¬
cularly.
P R O J E C
vacuo during the time and it acquires it in the air in
  S
■t . u-\-v
the time -L v —-—.
g u—v
2. The velocity which the body acquires by falling
through the air in the time -T, is to the ve-
g u—v
locity which it would acquire in vacuo during the
fame time, as v to //L
u—v
For the velocity
which it would acquire in vacuo during the time -
Ju+v
mull; be a L
u^v
2M^j- uz 4-V:
is  — ; we mall have a zr
and vzz
TILES.
v
Here — will be found the tangent of 30.48J, the lo¬
garithmic fecant of which is 0,06606. This, multi-
plied by gives 2259 feet for the height. It would
have rifen 2640 feet in a void.
Suppofe this body to fall down again. We can Velocity of
compare the velocity of projection with the velocity projection
with which it again reaches the ground. The alcent comPared
0 0 with that
with which
^ „ which it reaches
u the ground.
66
and defeent are equal: therefore
J-
-f-V*
multiplies the conltant faftor in the afcent, is equal to
(becaufe in any time
J:
— the velocity vo is acquired.)
&
In the next place, let a body, whofe terminal velo¬
city is u, be projeCled perpendicularly upwards, with
any velocity V. It is required to determine the height
to which it afeends, fo as to have any remaining velo¬
city v, and the time of its afcent j as alfo the height
and time in which its whole motion will be extin-
guifhed. #
We have now ——   for the expreflion of f;
for both gravity and refiftance aft now in the fame di¬
rection, and retard the motion of the afeending body :
a, r <§■("*+^s) ’ • , • a* vv
therefore — 5 sz=.— vv% and rrr x
-, the multiplier in the defeent. The firft is
u —Vs
the fecant of an arch whofe tangent is V j the other is
the fecant of an arch w'hofe fine is v. Thefe fecants
are equal, or the arches are the fame j therefore the ve¬
locity of projection is to the final returning velocity as
the tangent to the fine, or as the radius to the cofine of
the arch. Thus fuppofe the body projected with the
terminal velocity, or V=:w; then ?/:=—^=.. If V ~
689, ^=487.
We mult in the lalt place afeertain the relation of
the fpace and the time.
Tir gitf + V*') • • • U* V
Here ^—  1~—v, and / = X   , =r
ux •’ g * u'-l-v1’
and s=~~xf -|-C, — xL'v/“i+^ +
g •S u -\-v* g '
C (fee art. Fluxions). This mult be =0 at the be¬
ginning of the motion, that is, when v~Y, that is,
 XLVu2-{-V*C—o, orC=— XL ^u2^-vz and
g g
if /— . —
the complete fluent will be s ——XL v ux —
T VlF+v* )= —vT
g J u^ + v2’ M ^
Let h be the greatelt height to which the body will
if
rife. Then s — h when v ~ 0 ; and /i zr — X
  g
f is 4. v2 u* ,
L V — > = X a V - a ♦ We have
u* M j1- w
AmW* nur r 2Mgs
* >theicfore ^ v^+v1/ - ~ur~
Therefore let n be the number whofe common logarithm
-f Va
u uv .
■ “ X —,—; and t
g ux -\~vx
—« r
4- vx
4- C. Now
(art. Fluxions) f is an arch w?hofe tangent
u2 -\-v
— — and radius 1 ; therefore t—— — x arc. tan. —-4-C.
u g
This mult be zz 0 when vz
g
:V, or C-
g
X arc. tan.
and the complete flu*
—The quan-
u‘ ' u2-\-v2' n
—u2; and thus -we obtain the relation of s and ■u, as in
the cafe of defeents: but wre obtain it Itill eafier by ob-
ferving that u2 4-Vz is the fecant of an arch whofe
radius is «, and whofe tangent is V, and that tju2 -\-v2
is the fecant of another arch of the fame circle, whofe
tangent is v.
Let the fame ball be projected upwards with the ve¬
locity 411,05 feet per fecond. Required the whole
height to which it will rife ?
V « V
- = 0, and C=- X arc. tan. —
“ g g
u ( V
ent is / zz — x ( arc. tan. arc. tan.
g_ \ «
tities within the brackets exprefs a portion of the arch
of a circle whofe radius is unity ; and are therefore ab-
ftraft numbers, multiplying -, which we have Ihown to
^g
be the number of units of time in which a heavy body
falls in vacuo from the height <7, or in which it acquires
the velocity //.
We learn from this expreflion of the time, that how-T. ^
ever great the velocity of projeftion, and the height af^nUi-
to which this body will rife, may be, the time of its mited.
afcent is limited. It never can exceed the time of fal¬
ling from the height a in vacuo in a greater proportion
than that of a quadrantal arch to the radius, nearly the
proportion of 8 to 5. A 24 pound iron ball cannot
continue riling above 14 feconds, even if the refiftance
to quick motions did not increafe fafter than the fquare
of the velocity. It probably will attain its greateft
height in lefs than 12 feconds, let its velocity be ever
fo great. *»
In the preceding example of the whole afcent, v—o,
and
68
This time
compared
in bodies
proje&ed
in air and
in vacuo.
Fig. 6.
69
Neceffity
of further
experi¬
ments.
P R O J E
and the time -X arc. tan. —, or-arc. 30°. 48'.
g » g
Now 30°.48'=i848', and the radius 1 contains 3438 j
therefore the arch = =0, C376; and - = 21", C4.
3438 g
Therefore/r=2i'',54 X 0,5376,= 11",58, or nearly ii|
feconds. The body would have rifen to the fame height
in a void in io|; feconds.
Cor. 1. The time in which a body, ~projected in the
air wdth any velocity V, will attain its greateft height,
is to that in wdiich it would attain its greateft height m
vacuo, as the arch whofe tangent expreffes the velocity
is to the tangent 5 for the time of the afcent in the air
u . V
is — x arch; the time of the afcent in vacuo is —. Now
g g
, V u
- is = tan. and V= # x tan. and - = - x tan.
u . g g
It is evident, by infpe&ing fig. 6. that the arch AI
is to the tangent AG as the fedtor ICA to the tri¬
angle GCA j .therefore the time of attaining the great¬
eft height in the air is to that of attaining the greateft
height in vacuo (the velocities of proje&ion being the
fame), as the circular feftor to the correfponding tri¬
angle.
If therefore a body be proje&ed upwards with the
terminal velocity, the time of its afcent will be to the
time of acquiring this velocity in vacuo as the area of a
circle to the area of the circumfcribed fquare.
2. The height H to which a body wall rife in a void,
is to the height h to which it would rife through the
air wrhen projected with the fame velocity V as M*V* to
t/1 X * ——— : for the height to which it will rife in
• V3
vacuo is —, and the height to which it rifes in the air is
2g . 6
413
_{_ V2
therefore H
V*
«* /u1 -f V2 U* /«2_LV2
M7 V —T—-> =V ;M
=v*
u1 -f- V2
M X A ^ _ M-V2 : u1 X A —^ .
Therefore if the body be projected with its terminal
velocity, fo that V=a, the height to which it will rife
in the air is     of the height to which it will rife
43429
5
in vacuo.
or — in round numbers.
7
We have been thus particular in treating of the per¬
pendicular afcents and defcents of heavy bodies through
the air, in order that the reader may conceive diftinftly
the quantities which he is thus combining in his algebraic
operations, and may fee their conneftion in nature wdth
each other. We (hall alfo find that, in the prefent ftate
of our mathematical knowledge, this fimple ftate of the
cafe contains almoft all that wre can determine with any
confidence. On this account it were to be wiftied that
the profeflional gentlemen would make many experi¬
ments on thefe motions. There is no way that pro-
mifes fo much for aflifting us in forming accurate no-
C T I L E S.
tions of the air’s refiftance. Mr Robins’s method with
the pendulum is impracticable with great ftiot; and the
experiments which have been generally reforted to for
this purpofe, viz. the ranges of ihot and (hells on a ho¬
rizontal plane, are fo complicated in themfelves, that
the utmoft mathematical (kill is neceffary for making
any inferences from them; and they are fubjeCt to fuch
irregularities, that they may be brought to fupport al¬
moft any theory whatever on this fubjeCt. But the per¬
pendicular flights are affeCted by nothing but the initial
* velocity and the refiftance of the air ; and a confiderable
deviation from their intended direction does not caufe any
fenfible error in the confequences which wre may draw
from them for our purpofe.
But we muft now proceed to the general problem, of ob-
to determine the motion of a body projected in any di- lique pro-
reCtion, and with any velocity. Our readers wall be-je<^10n*
lieve beforehand that this muft be a difficult fubjeCt,
wdien they fee thfe fimpleft cafes of reCtilineal motion
abundantly abftrufe : it is indeed fo difficult, that Sir 7r
Ifaac Newton has not given a folution of it, and has This pro¬
thought himfelf well employed in making feveral appro- ^em not
ximations, in which the fertility of his genius appears ^non7
in great luftre. In the tenth and fubfequent propofi-
tions of the fecond book of the Principia, he (hows what
ftate of denfity in the air wall comport with the motion
of a body in any curve wffiatever : and then, by apply¬
ing this difeovery to feveral curves which have fome fi-
milarity to the path of a projeCtile, he finds one which
is not very different from what we may fuppofe to ob¬
tain in our atmofphere. But even this approximation
wTas involved in fuch intricate calculations, that it feemed
impoflible to make any ufe of it. In the fecond edition of
the Principia, publiffied in 1713, Newton correfts fome
miftakes which he had committed in the firft, and car¬
ries his approximations much farther, but (till does not
attempt a direCt inveftigation of the path which a body
will deferibe in our atmofphere. This is fomewhat fur-
prifing. In prop. 14. &c. he (hows how a body, actu¬
ated by a centripetal force, in a medium of a denfity
varying according to certain laws, will deferibe an ec¬
centric fpiral, of which he affigns the properties, and
the law of defeription. Had he fuppofed the denfity
conftant, and the difference between the greateft and
lead diftances from the centre of centripetal force ex¬
ceedingly fmall in comparifon with the diftances them¬
felves, his fpiral would have coincided with the path of
a projeCtile in the air of uniform denfity, and the fteps
of his inveftigation would have led him immediately to
the complete folution of the problem. For this is the
real ftate of the cafe. A heavy body is not aCted on by
equal and parallel gravity, but by a gravity inverfely
proportional to the fquare of the diftance from the
centre of the earth, and in lines tending to that centre
nearly ; and it was with the view of fimplifying the
inveftigation, that mathematicians have adopted the other
hypothefis.
Soon after the publication of this fecond edition ofojfp^
the Principia, the difpute about the invention of the among
fluxionary calculus became very violent, and the great and
promoters of that calculus upon the continent were in tore‘£n
the habit of propofing difficult problems to exercife the tidans^'
talents of the mathematician. Challenges of this kind
frequently pafled between the Britifli and foreigners.
Dir
4H
PROJECTILES.
Dr Keill of Oxford had keenly efpoufed the claim of
Sir Ifaac Newton to this invention, and had engaged in
a very acrimonious altercation with the celebrated John
Bernoulli of Bade. Bernoulli had publilhed in the Aftn
F.ruditorum Lipjice an inveftigation of the law of forces,
by which a body moving in a refilling medium might
defcribe any propofed curve, reducing the whole to the
llmplell geometry. This is perhaps the molt elegant
fpecimen -which he has given of his great talents. Dr
Keill propofed to him the particular problem of the
trajectory and motion of a body moving through the
air, as one of the molt difficult. Bernoulli very foon
folved the problem in a way much more general than it
bad been propofed, viz. without any limitation either of
the law of reliitance, the law of the centripetal force, or
the law of denfity, provided only that they were regular,
and capable of being expreiTed algebraically. Dr Brook
Taylor, the celebrated author of the Method of Incre¬
ments, folved it at the fame time, in the limited form
in which it was propofed. Other authors lince that
time have given other folutions. But they are all (as
indeed they mull be) the fame in fubftance wuth Ber¬
noulli’s. Indeed they are all (Bernoulli’s not excepted)
the fame with Newton’s firft approximations, modified
by the fieps introduced into the inveftigation of the
fpiral motions mentioned above ; and we Hill think it
molt ftrange that Sir Ifaac did not perceive that the
•variation of curvature, which he introduced in that in-
velfigation, made the wffiole difference between his ap¬
proximations and the complete foiulion. This wTe ffiall
point out as wTe go along. And \vt now proceed to the
Bernoulli’s problem itfelf, of which we ffiall give Bernoulli’s folu-
lolution. tion, reftriCted to the cafe of uniform denfity and a re-
fiftance proportional to the fquare of the velocity.
This folution is more fimple and perfpicuous than any
that has fince appeared.
Problem. To determine the trajeClory, and all the
circumftances of the motion of a body projected
■Jog- 7- through the air from A (fig. 7.) in the direftion
AB, and refilled in the duplicate ratio of the velocity.
Let the arch AM be put rr £, the time of defcribing
it /, the abfciffa APrr^, the ordinate PM =r y. Let
the velocity in the point M=w, and let MNzz-z, be
defcribed in the moment t; let r be the refill ance of
the air, g the force of gravity, meafured by the ve¬
locity winch it will generate in a fecond ; and let a be
the height through which a heavy body mull fall in va¬
cuo to acquire the velocity which would render the
refillance of the air equal to its gravity : fo that we have
r — becaufe, for any velocity u, and producing
tP
height h, we have g—~y.
in
Let M m touch the curve in M ; draw the ordinate
jftN m, and draw7 M 0, N « perpendicular to N/> and
M wl Then we have MNrrs, and Mo=«, alfo mo
is ultimately — y and M m is ultimately — MN or 53.
Laltly, let us fuppofe * to be a conlfant quantity, the
‘ttffion of elementary ordinates being fuppofed equidiftant.
gravity in The aflion of gravity during the time t mav be
a given meafured by m N, which is half the fpace which it
tune. „ 1
would caufe the body to defcribe uniformly in the time
t with the velocity which it generates in that time.
Let this be refolved into «N, by which it defle&s the body
into a curvilineal path, and tnn, by which it retards the
afeent and accelerates the defeent of the body along the
tangent. The refinance of the air afts folely in retard¬
ing the motion, both in afeending and defeending, and
has no defleftive tendency. The whole adlion of gra¬
vity then is to it5 accelerating or retarding tendency as
m N to m A, or (by fimilarity of triangles) as m M to
mo. Ot cz?L\ y — g \ and the whole retardation in
2;
pry
the afeent wall be r-|- The fame fluxionary fymbol
z
will exprefs the retardation during the defeent, becaufe
in the defeent the ordinates decreafe, and ^ is a negative
quantity.
The diminution of velocity is — v. This is propor¬
tional to the retarding force and to the time of its adlion
jointly, and therefore — v = r-j- f- X t; but the time
/is as the fpace 2; divided by the velocity v; therefore
rz+gy
x —, = —
*
— v — r X -
ind
vv
• • v* % •
rz—gy — —— gy. Becaufe 772N is the deflexion
by gravity, it is as the force ^ and the fquare of the time
t jointly (the momentary action being held as uniform).
We have therefore 772N, or —y—gtz. (Obferve that
772 N is in fa£t only the half of — y ; but g being twice
the fall of a heavy body in a fecond, we have — y itrift-
ly equal to p-P). But t*—^- : therefore — w— JUL
vz v'-
P •• •
and v*zz and — v* y = g z*. The fluxion of
—y
this equation is — vz y — Ivy v — 2gz z ; but, be¬
caufe 2; : y = mM : m 0, — mN : mn, —y: 25, we have
2; z—yy. Therefore 2gy y— 2g % —v'y—
2vy vy and — 2 v v y = vzy, — 2gy ij, and —~
• ty* 'll * -f-i •
vv — —i- —gy. But we have already —■ v v —
2y
•gy; therefore
y  v* z
and finally
V
2a y a y
ox ay =z z y, for the fluxionary equation of the
curve.
If we put this into the form of a proportion, we Relation
have 22 : 2 = y.y. Now7 this evidently eftabliflies a re- theTength
lation between the length of the curve and its variation of the
of curvature ; and between the curve itfelf and its evo- ' UIve
luta, which are the very circumftances introduced by
Newton curvature.
P R O J E
Newton into his invefligatxon of the fpiral motions. And
the equation-fL—iL ih evidently an equation conneft-
a y
ed with the logarithmic curve and the logarithmic fpiral.
But we muft endeavour to reduce it to a lower order of
fluxions, betore we can eftablith a relation between ss, x,
and y.
Let p exprefs the ratio of y to a?, that is, let /> be =:
?/ • • # #
4-, ox p x ~ y. It is evident that this expreffes the
x
inclination of the tangent at M to the horizon, and that
p is the tangent of this inclination, radius being unity.
Or it may be confldered merely as a number, multiply¬
ing a?, fo as to make \l~y. We now have rr />3 w3,
and fince :z2 ~ w3-f-we have z3 zr xl -{- ^3»3, rr
l +/>J X and % — xsji /j3.
Moreover, becaufe we have fuppofed the abfcifla x
to increafe uniformly, and therefore x to be conftant,
We have y — x p, andy — x p. Now let q exprefs the
ratio of p to jc, that is, make ~ ~ q, or q x — p,
x
This gives us « y rr p, and x2 q — x p, — y.
By thefe fubftitutions our former equation ay ~ % y
changes to a x2 q — x ^7 i -f pz \ x p, ox a y —p
kJx and, taking the fluent on both Tides, we have
a q —J p sji+/>2+C, C being the conftant quantity
required for completing the fluent according to the li¬
miting conditions of the cafe. Now x — -71, and 7. —
q . q
ap
f'TZr,
Therefore x
p s/1 +Pt\ + C " J ^v'x-f^J-l-C
Alfc, fince y — p x, — ~, we have y rr
q
f
app
p \!1 +/,:!| ~f* c
Alfo z — x sji -f-pl ~
ap J i-f^3
^n/i+^I+C
The values of #, y, z, give us
— C aP
-f
f
p i -r/'i + C
f
"p
__ f ap'p  ■£ pp
•f* b k.! 14- />3i + C’ ^ •f' p i
^ 1 + P2\ + ^^1
a J7+p\p _ f ps/i+p*
f
= f as/y-\-pYp  pJ1 4-
’Z' j, v/i4-/,2l 4-c’'_ ^P v/H^l4-C
The procefs therefore of defcribing the traje£lory is, xjl.
To find q in terms of p by the area of the curve whofe
abfciffa is p and the ordinate is sj\ -j-/>3*
C T I L E S. ' 4r5
2d, We get x by the area of another curve whofe.
abfciffa is p, and the ordinate is
3d, We get y by the area of a third curve whofe ab¬
fciffa is />, and the ordinate is
<1
The problem of the trajectory is therefore complete¬
ly folved, becaufe we have determined the ordinate, ab¬
fciffa, and arch of the curve for any given nofition of ^ ^
ns tangent. It now only remains to compute the mag-pUte
niLudes of thefe ordinates and abfciffse, or to draw them magnitude
by a geometiical conftruction. But in this confifts theot thf: ordt-
difficulty. The areas of thefe curves, which exprefs theIiaj:e ^.rid
lengths of x and y, can neither be computed nor exhi-*3 CU ‘
bited geometrically, by'any accurate method yet difeo-
vered, and we muft content ourfelves with approxima¬
tions. Thefe render the defeription of the trajeftory ex¬
ceedingly difficult and tedious, fo that little advantage
has as yet been derived from the knowledge we have got
of its properties. It will however greatly aftift our con¬
ception of the fubject to proceed forne length in this
conftru&ion ; for it muft be acknowledged that very
fewr diftindt notions accompany a mere algebraic opera¬
tion, efpecially if in any degree complicated, which we
confefs is the cafe in the prefent queifion.
Let B m NR (fig. 8.) be an equilateral hyperbola, ofIT
which B is the vertex, BA the femitranfverfe axis, ‘
which wre (hall affume for the unity of length. Let AV
be the femiconjugate axis — BA, — unity, and AS the
aflymptote, bifefting the right angle BAY. Let PN,
p n be two ordinates to the conjugate axis, exceedingly
near to each other. Join BP, AN, and draw' B/3, Nv
perpendicular to the affymptote, and BC parallel to AP.
It is wrell known that BP is equal to NP. Therefore
PN3 — BA1 + AP3. Now fince BA — i, if we make
AP —/) of our formulae, PN is >^/i -f-/;3, and P/> is =
/>, and the area BAPNB = f P sj 1 -\-pl \ '■ That is to
fay, the number^ p i-}-/>3 (for it is a number) has
the fame proportion to unity of number that the area
BAPNB has to BCVA, the unit of furface. This
area confifts of two parts, the triangle APN, and the
hyperbolic fe&or ABN. APN = \ AP x PN, —
teAZi, and the hyperbolic feflor ABNrrBNA,
which is equivalent to the hyperbolic logarithm of the
number reprefented by A sr when A /3 is unity. There¬
fore it is equal to i the logarithm of p -j_ VV-J../.) ’%
Hence we fee by the bye that p •s/1 -|-/)3 err
p V^i 4~/ji 4- 4 hyperbolic logarithm p -\-\/\ -{-/./•
Now let AMD be another curve, ftich that its ordi¬
nates V««, PD, &c. may be proportional to the areas
AB m V, ABNP, and may ha'vT the fame proportion
to AB, the unity of length, which thefe areas have to
ABCV, the unity of iiirface. Then VM : VC err"
Vm BA : YXBA, and PD : P^ ere PNBA : VCBA,
&c. Thefe ordinates will now re
prefent p
1+7*
with reference to a linear unit, as the areas to the
hyperbola reprefented it in reference to a Ihjjerficiai
unit.
Again,
4t6
PROJECTILES.
Fig. 7.
Fig. S.
Again, in every ordinate make PD : P 5 = P £ : PO,
and thus we obtain a reciprocal to PD, or to
T, or equivalent to f —1 This
J * p \ +/>*
X •A/
will evidently be -r-, and PO op will be and the area
ap a
contained between the lines AF, AW, and the curve
GEOH, and eut off by the ordinate PO, will reprefent
x
a
Laftly, make PO : PQnAV : AP, = 1 : /> j and
then P£) will reprefent and the areai- ALEQP
will reprefent
a
But we muft here obferve, that the fluents exprefled
by thefe different areas require what is called the cor-
reElion to accommodate them to the circumftances of
the cafe. It is not indifferent from what ordinate we
begin to reckon the areas. This depends on the initial
dire&ion of the projectile, and that point of the abfcif-
fa AP muff be taken for the commencement of all the
areas which gives a value of p fuited to the initial di¬
rection. Thus, if the projection has been made from
A (fig. 7.) at an elevation of 450, the ratio of the
fluxions x and y is that of equality ; and therefore the
point E of fig. 8. where the two curves interfeCt and
have a common ordinate, evidently correfponds to this
condition. The ordinate EV pafles through V, fo that
AV ox p— AB, zz: 1, =z tangent 450, as the cafe re¬
quires. The values of x and of y correfponding to any
other point of the trajeftory, fuch as that which has AP
for the tangent of the angle which it makes with the
horizon, are now to be had by computing the areas
VEOP, VEQP.
Another curve might have been added, of which the
ordinates would exhibit the fluxions of the arch of the
trajeClory z ^1 ^
and of which the area
And this would have
p x/ i+/>1
17
Confequen-
ces of
knowing
the form
ef the tra¬
jectory.
defcribe fimilar trajectories if the velocities are in the
fubduplicate ratio of the diameters. This we (hall find 78
to be of confiderable practical importance. But let usTodeter-
now proceed to determine the velocity in the different m‘ne .t*ie.
points of the trajeCtory, and the time of defcribing its fe- j-0°
veral portions. points.
Recoiled, therefore, that t)* =z —~—, and that 2*
2 .   
= ar*! -f- p* and y — x p. This gives v'z
—gx 1 +/>*
Therefore v*
X 1 +/>* _
p \/ 1 -f-/1 + c
and
v^JzzU. ±JL, =
V a \/—S\/1 + /,i
p /JI+/I + C
Alfo t was found zz: —, zz
x s/ '+P* _
P s/i 4- />*
qv
If we now fubftitute for v its value
juft found, we obtain t =r ——,
P \/ a
and t
=fj-
\/ a
sj —g'
/> v/l+/>1+C
79
would exhibit the arch itfelf.
been very eafy, for it is » z= .. .  
P s/1 ~\rp1 i + C,
which is evidently the fluxion of the hyperbolic loga¬
rithm of P\/l+P'\- But it is needlefs, fince 2 zz
x >y/i -f-/)1, and we have already got x. It is only in-
creafing PO in the ratio of BA to BP.
And thus we have brought the inveftigation of this pro¬
blem a confiderable length, having afcertained the form of
the trajedory. This is furely done when the ratio of the
arch, abfcifs, and ordinate, and the pofition of its tan¬
gent, is determined in every point. But it is ftill very
far from a fcdution, and much remains to be done before
we can make any pradical application of it. The only
general confequence that we can deduce from the premi-
fes is, that in every cafe where the refiftance in any
point bears the fame proportion to the force of gravity,
the trajedory will be fimilar. Therefore, two balls, of
the fame denfity, projeded in the fame diredion, will
4
The greateft difficulty ftill remains, viz. the accom- ulty
modating thefe formulae, which appear abundantly lim- ^cact';m‘
pie, to the particular cafes. It would feem at firft ^ pf
fight, that all trajedories are fimilar 5 fince the ratio ofj^ to par-
the fluxions of the ordinate and abfciffa correfponding to ticular
any particular angle of inclination to the horizon feemscafes-
the fame in them all: but a due attention to what has
been hitherto faid on the fubjed will ffiow us that we
have as yet only been able to afcertain the velocity in
the point of the trajedory, which has a certain inclina¬
tion to the horizon, indicated by the quantity />, and the
time (reckoned from fome affigned beginning) when the
projedile is in that point.
To obtain abfolute meafures of thefe quantities, the
term of commencement muft be fixed upon. This will
be exprelfed by the conftant quantity C, which is affumed
for completing the fluent oip 1 +p% which is the
bafis of the whole conftrudion. We there found q~
9P \/ 1 +PZ
This fluent is in general q zz
C+oZ’ pJ'^rP1
and the conftant quantity C is to
be accommodated to fome circumftances of the cafe.
Different authors have feleded different circumftances.
Euler,
thod the
funpieit
rig. 5.
« x
PROJECTI
So Euler, in his Commentary on Robins, and in a differta-
Euler’s me. t;on jn Memoirs of the Academy of Berlin publifh-
thnrl , r . J r . ■r .
ed in 1753, takes the vertex or the curve for the begin¬
ning of his ablciffa and ordinate. This is the limpleft
method of any, for C muft then be fo chofen that the
whole fluent may vanifli when/)—0, which is the cafe in
the. vertex of the curve, where the tangent is parallel to
the horizon. We flial! adopt this method.
Therefore, let AP (fig. 9.) —v, PMzry, AM —2;.
Put the quantity C which is introduced into the fluent
11
equal to -. It is plain that n mufl be a number ; for
L e s.
»/> \/1 -f- />*
417
fill:
J n—
height producing the velocity at N —
and the
*—P
Sr
it muft be homologous with /> 1 -f- />z, which is a
number. For brevity’s fake let us exprefs the fluent of
/> a/x -f/>* by the lingle letter P; and thus we ftiall
P    rPP
have
a X
- /
Afr’ y = “ xA+p-,a!=‘'
And - - '—“Sll + P)
X
.   _ _  Now the
n 4- P « -j- P
height h neceffary for communicating any velocity v is
__4£(i±A)
2^(«+P) :
i p
gJ \/
•j-g (I-[-/>»).
« + /’
And laftly,
Thefe fluents, being all taken fo as to vanifli at the
vertex, where the computation commences, and where
p\s — 0 (the tangent being parallel to the horizon), we
obtain in this cafe h — — — and n — —.
n 2>i 2h
Hence rve fee that the circumftance which modifies
all the curves, diftinguifhing them from each other, is
the velocity (or rather its fquare) in the highelt point
of the curve. For h being determined for any body
whofe terminal velocity is u, n is alfo determined ; and
this is the modifying circumftance. Confidering it geo¬
metrically, it is the area which muft be cut off from
the area DMAP of fig. 8. in order to determine the
ordinates of the other cuives.
We muft farther remark, that the values now given
relate only to that part of the area where the body is
defcending from the vertex. This is evident ; for, in
order that y may increafe as we recede from the vertex,
its fluxion muft be taken in the oppofite fenfe to what
it was in our inveftigation. There we fuppofed y to in¬
creafe as the body afcended, and then to diminifh during
the defcent; and therefore the fluxion of y was firft po-
fitive and then negative.
The fame equations, however, will ferve for the
afccnding branch CNA of the curve, only changing
the fign of P } for if we confider y as decreafing during
Hence we learn by the bye, that in no part of theRermrk-
afcending branch can the inclination of the tangent be^lcpio-
fuch that P fhall be greater than n ; and that if ,ve flip-1>erty of tlie
pofe P equal to n in any point of the curve, the velo-f^paorv.
city in that point will be infinite. That is to fay, there ‘ '
is a certain aflignable elevation of the tangent which
cannot be exceeded in a curve which has this elocity
in the vertex. The belt way for forming a conception
of this circumftance in the nature of the curve, is to
invert the motion, and fuppofe an accelerating force,
equal and oppofite to the refiftance, to acl on the body
in conjunftion with gravity. It muft defcribe the fame
curve, and this branch ANC muft have an affymptote
LO, which has this limiting pofition of the tangent.
For, as the body defcends in this curve, its velocity
increafes to infinity by the joint aclion of gravity and
this accelerating force, and yet the tangent never ap¬
proaches fo near the perpendicular pofition as to make
P—This remarkable property of the curve wras
known to Newton, as appears by his approximations,
which all lead him to cuives of a hyperbolic form, ha¬
ying one aflymptote inclined to the horizon. Indeed
it is pretty obvious: For the refiftance increafing fafter
than the velocity, there is no velocity of projeilion fo
great but that the curve will come to deviate fo from
the tangent, that in a finite time it will become pa¬
rallel to the horizon. Were the refiftance proportional
to the velocity, then an infinite velocity would produce
a redilineal motion, or rather a defledion from it lefs
than any that can be afligned.
We now fee that the particular form and magnitude on what-
of this trajedory depends on two circumftances, a and Its form and
n. <7 affeds chiefly the magnitude. Another eircum- ma^niuide
fiance might indeed be taken in, viz. the diminution ofdePends-
the accelerating force of gravity by the fiatical efted of
the air’s gravity. But, as w e have already obferved, this
is too trifling to be attended to in military projediles.
y
— was made equal to />. Therefore the ra-
x >•
dius of curvature, determined by the ordinary me-
tfindc tc ^ C1+/,z) (v/1+/)Z) * j , r x .
thods, is  7 *, and, becaufe ~ is * Simpfon's
P P Fluxions,
— ~pp f°r ^ie defcending branch of the curve, the" 6S’
radius of curvature at M is ^, and,
tf-f-P
the afcent, we muft confider q as exprefling —and in the afcending branch at N, it is ———- ^ ^ <v/^1
x " rJ
therefore P, or I'P ^ 1 + P1-) which is — muft be
taken negatively. Therefore, in the afcending branch,
we have A(^ or x (increafing as wTe recede from A) —
a Q.N or y = " or *=
Vor.. XVII. Part II.
«—P
On both fides therefore, when the velocity is infinitely
great, and P by this means fuppofed to equal or exceed
«, the radius of curvature is alfo infinitely great. We al¬
fo fee that the two branches are unlike each other, and
that wdien p is the fame in both, that is, when the tangent
is equally inclined to the horizon, the radius of cur¬
vature, the ordinate, the abfcifs, and the arch, are all
greater in the afcending branch. This is pretty ob-
3 G vious.
41 8
vicus. For as tLe refiTtancc'afts entirely in diminiftnng
t.]ie velocity, and does not rifeet the defleftion oCcafioned
by gravity, it muft allow gravity to incurvate the path
fo much the mote (with the fame inclination of its line
of aft ion) as the velocity is more diminiftied. The
curvature, therefore, in thofe points which have the
fame inclination of the tangent, is greatett in the de-
fcending branch, and the motion is fwifteft in the
ttfecnding branch. It is otherwife in a void, where both
tides are alike. Here u becomes infinite, or there is no
terminal velocity 3 and n alfo becomes infinite, being
a
~~ lh >  
It is therefore in the quantity F, or j'p J1 +/'%
that the difference between the trajectory in a void and
in a refilling medium confifts •, it is this quantity which
expreffes the accumulated change of the ratio of the
increments of the ordinate and abfcifs. In vacuo the
fecond increment of the ordinate is conftant when the
firft increment of the abfciffa is fo, and the whole
increment of the ordinate is as 1 -f-A And this diffe¬
rence is fo much the greater as P is greater in refpeft
©f ns P is nothing at the vertex, and increafes along
with the angle MTP \ and when this is a right angle,
P is infinite. The trajeftory in a refilling medium
will come therefore to deviate infinitely from a para¬
bola, and may even deviate farther from it than the
parabola deviates from a ftraight line. That is, the di-
llance of the body in a given moment from that point
of its parabolic path where it would have been in a
void, is greater than the dlftance between that point of
the parabola from the point of the ftraight line where
It would have been, independent of the aftion of gra¬
vity. This muft happen whenever the refiftance is great¬
er than the weight of the body, which is generally the
cafe in the beginning of the trajeftory in military pro-
jeftiles ; and this (were it now necefiary) is enough to
83 {how the inutility of the parabolic theory.
Several pro- Although we have no method of deferibing this
pertiesof it traieftory. which would be received by the ancient
alcertained. J J' r , • r 1 r n
geometers, we may alcertam ieveral properties or it,
which will affift us in the folution of the problem. In
particular, we can aflign the abfolute length of any part
of it by means of the logiftic curve. For becaufe P
V1 v;e havep \/1 -f-A* — P, and there-
P R G J E C T I L E S.
q its pofttion at in; then
AM u X log. —— and A/*
X log.
and therefore M m is ~ 17 X log-
fare %. which was
**/
p J' +/>'
L
f
> V1 -fp5i
-f C, cr —X
» + P ’
may be expreffed by logarithms j or % — a
X hyp. log. of
«-f- P
fince at the vertex A, where z
rr -}- O
Thus we can find the values of a great num-
« -{- P
ber of fmall portions, and the inclination of the tan¬
gents at their extremities. Then to each of thefe por¬
tions we can aftign its proportion of the abfciffa and
ordinate, without having recourfe to the values of x and y.
For the portion of abfcifs correfponding to the arch M.w,
whofe middle point is inclined to the horizon in the
angle b, will be X cofine b, and the correfponding
portion of the ordinate will be X fin. A Then we
obtain the velocity in each part of the curve by the
equation /1—-j^X ^-{■p1' '■> or, more direftly the velocity
n+p
v at
84
muft be r= </, P ’► alfo — 0.
Being able, in this way, to afeertain the length A M
of the curve (counted from the vertex), correfponding
to any inclination p of the tangent at its extremity M,
we can afeertain the length of any portion of it, fuch
as M m, by fi :ft finding the length of the part A m, and
then of the part AM. This we do more expeditioully
ihus: Let p exprefs the pofition of the tangent in M, and
M will be = a /L. Laftly, divide the
v //-j- P
length of the little arch by this, and the quotient will be
the time of deferibing Mot very nearly. Add all thefe
together, and we obtain the whole time of deferibing
the arch AM, but a little too great, becaufe the mo¬
tion in the {mail arch is not perfeftly uniform. The
error, however, may be as fmall as we pleafe, becaufe
we may make the arch as fmall as we pleafe •, and for
greater accuracy, it will be proper to take the p by
which we compute the velocity, a medium between
the p for the beginning and that for the end of the
arch.
This is the method followed by Euler, who was one Euler’s me-
of the moft expert analyfts, if not the very firft, in Eu- thod prefer-
rope. It is not the moft elegant, and the methods of l'ec*'
fome other authors, who approximate direftly to the areas
of the curves which determine the values of .v and y, have
a more fcientific appearance j but they are not ultimate¬
ly very different: For, in fome methods, thefe areas are
taken piecemeal, as Euler takes the arch j and by the me¬
thods of others, who give the value of the areas by New¬
ton’s method of deferibing a curve of the parabolic kind
through any number of given points, the ordinates of
thefe curves, which exprefs x and y, muft be taken
fingly, which amounts to the fame thing, with the
great difadvantage of a much more complicated calcu¬
lus, as any one may fee by comparing the expreflions
of x and y with the expreffion of %. As to thofe me¬
thods which approximate direftly to the areas or va¬
lues of x and y by an infinite fevies, they all, without
exception, involve us in moft complicated expreffions,
with coefficients of fines and tangents, and ambiguous
figns, and engage us in a calculation almoft endlefs.
And we know of no feries which converges fall enough
to give us tolerable accuracy, without fuch a number of
terms as is fufficient to deter any perfon from the at¬
tempt. The calculation of the arches is very mode¬
rate, fo that a perfon tolerably verfant in arithmetical
operations may compute an arbh with its velocity and
time in about five minutes. We have therefore no he-
fitation in preferring this method of Euler’s to all that
we have feen, and therefore proceed to determine fome
other circumftances which render its application more
general-
11
PROJECTILES.
s5.
Its upplica-
tion made
more gene¬
ra!.
Through
the whole
of this ar-
ticle^*
meansflu¬
ent.
85
Mode of
applying
this procefs
ioipra&ice.
It there were no refinance, the fmalleft velocity would
be at the vertex of the curve, and it would immediately
increafe by the a£lion of gravity confpiring (in however
fmall degree) with the motion of the body. But in a
refilling medium, the velocity at the vertex is diminifh-
ed by a quantity to which the acceleration of gravity
in that point bears no affignable proportion. It is there¬
fore diminifhed, upon the whole, and the point of fmal-
left velocity is a little way beyond the vertex. For the
fame reai'ons, the greatell curvature is a little way be¬
yond the vertex. It is not very material for our pre-
fent putpofe to afeertain the exa£! pofitions of thole
points.
The velocity in the defeending branch augments con¬
tinually : but it cannot exceed a certain limit, if the ve¬
locity at the vertex has been lefs than the terminal velo¬
city 5 for when the curve is infinite,/) is alfo infinite, and
h— J- p*—, becaufe n in this cafe is nothing in refpect of
P, which is infinite-, and becaufe p is infinite, the num¬
ber hyp. log. />X -j-P** though infinite, vanilhes in
comparifon with />-f- Vi-f/i*; lb that in this cafe P=
\P%i and h—n, and v~ the terminal velocity.
If, on the other hand, the velocity at the vertex has
been greater than the terminal velocity, it will diminith
continually, and when the curve has become infinite, v
will be equal to the terminal velocity.
In either cafe we fee that the curve on this fide will
have a perpendicular affymptote. It would require a
long and pretty intricate analyfis to determine the place
of this afiyinptote, and it is not material for our prefent
purpofe. The place and pofition of the other aiTymp-
tote LO is of the greatefl moment. It evidently di-
ilinguifhes the kind of ttaje&or*/ from any other. Its
pofition depends on this circumftance, that if p marks
the pofition of the tangent, n—P, which is the deno¬
minator of the fradlion expreffing the fquare of the ve¬
locity, muft be equal to nothing, becaufe the velocity
is infinite : therefore, in this place, P — «, or n —
\p V i -\ p1 log. /> _|_ ^/ f ^.p i, In order, therefore,
to find the point L, where the afiymptote LO cuts the
horizontal fine AL, put V~n, then will AL ~x —
 L
y' n—p pJn~p)'
It is evident that the logarithms ufed in thefe expref-
lions are the natural or hyperbolic. But the operations
may be performed by the common tables, by making
4*<r
the value of the arch Mfn of the
CUrVC ~ M X Iog*
If ~L O
fpjp where M means the fubtangent of the com¬
mon logarithms, or 0,43429 i alfo the time of deferi-
bing this arch will be expeditioufiy had by taking a me¬
dium p between the values of
L+JL\nd
and making the time
\/ a
v « -f- P \/« q. (>
71 -J-Q^
— Xlog-
77-f P‘
'M.Ot.y/ g
Such then is the procefs by which the form and mag¬
nitude of the trajectory, and the motion in it, may be
determined. But it does not yet appear how this is to
be applied to any queftion in practical artillery. In this
procefs we have only learned how to compute the mo¬
tion from the vertex in the defeending branch till the
ball has acquired a particular direction, and the motion
to the vertex from a point of the afeending branch where
the ball has another direction, and ail this depending on
the greateft velocity which the body can acquire by fal-
ling, and the velocity which it has in the vertex of the
curve. But the ufual queftion is, “ What will be the
motion of the ball projected in a certain direction with
a certain velocity
The mode of application is this : Suppofe a trajecto¬
ry computed for a particular terminal velocity, produced
by the fall a, and for a particular velocity at the vertex,
which will be characterized by 77, and that the velocity
at that point of the afeending branch where the incli¬
nation of the tangent is 30° is 900 feet per fecond.
Then, we are certain, that if a ball, whole terminal ve¬
locity is that produced by the fall <7, be projedted with
the velocity of 900 feet per fecond, and an elevation of
30°, it will deferibe this very trajedory, and the velo¬
city and time correfponding to every point will be fuch
as is here determined.
Now this trajeClory will, in refped to form, anfvver
an infinity of cafes : for its charaCleriftlc is the propor¬
tion of the velocity in the vertex to the terminal veloci¬
ty. When this proportion is the fame, the number n
will be the fame. If, therefore, we compute the tra¬
jectories for a fufficient variety of thefe proportions, we
lhall find a trajeClory that will nearly correlpond to any
cafe that can be propofed ; and an approximation fufti-
ciently exaCt will be had by taking a proportional me¬
dium between the two trajectories which come neareft-
to the cafe propofed.
Accordingly, a fet of tables or trajectories have been Computed
computed by the Englifti tranflator of Euler’s Ccm-tab.les or.
mentary on Robins’s Gunnery. They are in numbetf11^610”65’
18, diftinguiftied by the pofition of the affymptote ofthe'
afeending branch. This is given for (j°, io°, 1 50, &c.
to 83°, and the whole trajectory is computed as far as it
can ever be fuppofed to extend in praCtice. The follow¬
ing table gives the value of the number n correfponding
to each pofition of the aftymptote.
OLB
OLB
c
5
10
20
25
3°
35
40
0,00000
0,08760
0,17724
0,277x2
0,37185
0,48269
0,60799
°’753^2
0,92914
45
5°
55
60
65
70
75
80
8c
1,14779
x ,43 236
1,82207
2) 39033
3) 2904°
4,88425
8,22357
17)54793
67,12291
Since the path of a projeCtile is much lefs incurvated,
and more rapid in the afeending than in the defeending
branch, and the difference is fo much the more remark¬
able in great velocities; it muft follow, that the range
on a horizontal or inclined plane depends moft on the
afeending branch : therefore the greateft range rvill not
be made with that elevation which bifeCls the angle of
pofition, but with a lower elevation ; and the deviation
from the bifeCting elevation will be greater as the initial
3 G 2t velocities
420
P KOJECTILES.
velocities are greater. It is very difficult to frame an
exact rule for determining the elevation which gives the
gieateft range. We have fubjoined a little table which
gives the proper elevations (nearly) correfponding to
the different initial velocities.
It was computed by the following approximation,
which will Be found the fame with the feries ufed by
Newton in his Approximation.
Let c be the angle of elevation, a the height
producing the terminal velocity, h the height produ¬
cing the initial velocity, and c the number whofe hy¬
perbolic logarithm is I (i. e. the number 2,718).
Then,
7/ “ v X (tan.
f +    — (o coUe.A,
1 2 //. col. e / 2/i\ /
&c. Make y=v, and take the maximum by vary-
1    
ing e, we obtain Sin. 1 e-b-c tin- e — hyperbol. log.
2 /i
f j 4-—— ), which gives us the angle e.
\ a fine e J
The numbers in the firft column, multiplied by the
terminal velocity of the projedtile, give us the initial
velocity 5 and the numbers in the laid column, being
multiplied by the height producing the terminal veloci¬
ty, and by 2,3026, give us the greateft ranges. 'J he
middle column contains the elevation. The table is not
computed with fcrupulous exadlnefs, the quetlion not re¬
quiring it. It may, however, be depended on within
one part of 2000.
To make ufe of this table, divide the initial velocity
by the terminal velocity ?/, and look for the quotient
in the firft column. Oppoiite to this will be found tbe
elevation giving the greateft range •, and the number in
the laft column being multiplied by 2,3026 X n (the heiglit
producing the terminal velocity) will give the range.
TABLE of Elevations giving the grer.tejl Range.
88
Advantage
to be de¬
rived from
tbe folution
of the prob-
iem.
Initial vel.
u
0,6909
0,7820
0,8645
L38i7
L5641
1,7291
2,0726
2,3461
W5936
2,7635
3,1281
3,4544
3,45Sl
3>9IQI
4,I452
4,3227
4,6921
4,8631
Elevation.
43°4o'
43 -20
42 -50
41 .40
40 .20
40 .10
39 -5°
37 -20
35 -5°
35 •—
34 -4°
34 -20
34 -20
33 -5°
33 -3°
33 -3°
31 -5o
31 -5°
Range.
2,3026 a
°»I75I
0,2169
0,2548
0,4999
0,5789
0,6551
0,7877
0,8967
o,9752
1,0319
1,1411
1,2298
1,2277
1,337I
I,3901
1,4274
1,5050
I,534I
Such is the folution which the prefent ftale of our
mathematical knowledge enables us to give of this cele¬
brated problem. It is exadd in its principle, and the ap¬
plication of it is by no means difficult, or even operofe.
But let us fee what advantage we are likely to derive
from.it.
In the firft place, it is very limited in its applica¬
tion. There are few circumldances of general coinci¬
dence, and almoft every cafe requires an appropriated
calculus. Perhaps the only -general rules are the two
following :
1. Balls of equal denfity, projedded with the fame
elevation, and with velocities which are as the fquare-
roots of their diameters, will deferibe fimilar curves.—
This is evident, becaufe, in this cafe, the refiftance will
be in the ratio of their quantities of motion. Therefore
all the homologous lines of the motion will be in the
proportion of the diameters.
2. If the initial velocities of balls projedded with the
fame elevation are in the inverfe fubduplicate ratio of
the whole refiftances, the ranges, and all the homo¬
logous lines of their track, •will be inverfely as thofe re¬
fiftances.
Thefe theorems are of confiderable ufe : for by means
of a proper feries of experiments on one ball projedded
with different elevations and velocities, tables may be
conftrudded which will afeertain the motions of an infi¬
nity of others.
But when we take a retrofpeddive viqw of what we shown from
have done, and cor.fider the conditions which were af-various cxn-
fumed in the folution of the problem, we (hall find that fideianons
much yet remains before it can be rendered of great ver-'
praddical ufe, or even fatisfy the cuviofity of the man of " '
fcience. The refifdance is all along fuppofed to be in
the duplicate ratio of the velocity j but even theory
points cut many caufes of deviation from this law, fuch
as the preffure and condenfation of the air, in the cale
of very fwift motions; and Mr Robins’s experiments are
fufficient to fhow us ffiat the deviations muff be ex¬
ceedingly great in fuch cafes. Mr Euler and all fuh-
fequent writers have allowed that it may be three times
greater, even in cafes which frequently occur ; and Eu¬
ler gives a rule for afeertaining with tolerable accuracy
what this increafe and tbe whole fefiftance may amount
to. Let H be the height of a column of air whole
weight is equivalent to the refiftance taken in the du¬
plicate ratio of the velocity. The whole refiftance will
IP
be expreffed by H-f QQ This number 28845 is the
height in feet of a column of air whofe weight balances
its elafticity. We fhall not at prefent call in quefiion
his reafons for affigni ig this precife addition. They
are rather reafons of arithmetical conveniency than of
phyfical import. It is enough to obferve, that if this
meafure of the refiftance is introduced into the procefs
of invefdigation, it is totally changed j and it is not too
much to fay, that with this complication it requires the
knowledge and addrefs of a Euler to make even a par¬
tial and very limited approximation to a folution.—
Any law of the refiftance, therefore, which is more
complicated than what Bernoulli has affirmed, namely,
that of a fimple power of the velocity, is abandoned by
all the mathematicians, as exceeding their abilities; and
they have attempted to avoid the error arifing from the
aflumption of the duplicate ratio of the velocity, either
by fuppofing the refiftance throughout the whole tra¬
jectory to be greater than what it is in general, or
they have divided the trajectory into different por¬
tions, and affigned different refiftances to each, which
vary,
421
9o
Caufe of its
inutility.
PROJECTILES.
Ttry, throng'll the whole of that portion, in the dupli¬
cate ratio of the velocities. By this kind of patch-
work they make up a trajectory and motion which cor-
rsfponds, in fame tolerable degree, with what ? With an
accurate theory ? No j but with a feries oi experiments,
j'or, in the fith place, every theoretical computation
that we make, proceeds on a fuppofed initial velocity •,
and this cannot be afeertained with any thing approach¬
ing to preciiion, by any theory of the adlion ot gun-
powder that we are yet poffeffed of. In the next place,
our 4 eories of the refilling power of the air are en¬
tirely ellablifhed on the experiments on the flights of
{hot and fhells, and are corredled and amended till they
tally with the moil approved experiments we can find.
We do not learn the r >nges of a gun by theory, but the
theory by the range of the gun. Now the variety and
irregularity of all the experiments which are appealed
to are fo great, and the acknowledged difference between
the refinance to flow and fwift motions is alfo fo great,
that there is hardly any fuppofition which can he made
concerning the refiilance, that will not agree in its re-
fults with many of thofe experiments. 1c appears from
the experiments of Dr Hutton of Woolwich, in 1784,
1*785, and 1786, that the (hots frequently deviated to
the right or left of their intended track 200, 300, and
fometimes 400 yards. This deviation was quite acci¬
dental and anomalous, and there can be no doubt but
that the fliot deviated from its intended and fuppofed
elevation as much as it deviated from the intended ver¬
tical plane, and this without any opportunity of mea-
furing or difeovering the deviation. Now, when we
have the wdrole range from one to three to choofe among
for our meafiu-e of refiflartce, it is evident that the con¬
firmations which have been drawn from the ranges of
fliot are but feeble arguments for the truth of any opi¬
nion. Mr Robins finds his meafures fully confirmed
by the experiments at Metz and at Minorca. Mr
Muller finds the fame. Yet Mr Robins’s meafure both
of the initial velocity and of the refiilance are at leafl
treble of Mr Muller’s j but by compenfation they give
the fame refults. The Chevalier Borda, a very expert
mathematician, has adduced the very fame experiments
in fupport of his theory, in which he abides by the
Newtonian meafure of the refiftance, which is about -5-
of Mr Robins’s, and about | of Muller’s.
What are we to conclude from ail this ? Simply this,
that we have hardly any knowledge of the air’s refift¬
ance, and that even the folution given of this problem
has not as yet greatly increafed it. Our knowledge con-
lifts only in thofe experiments, and mathematicians are
attempting to patch up fome notion of the motion of a
body in a refilling medium, which fhall tally with them.
There is another effential deleft in the conditions af¬
firmed in the folution. The denfity of the air is fup¬
pofed uniform \ whereas wTe are certain that it is lefs
by one-fifth or one-fixth towards the vertex of the
curve, in many cafes which frequently occur, than it is
at the beginning and end of the flight. This is ano¬
ther latitude given to authors in their affumptions of
the air’s refiftance. The Chevalier de Borda has, with
tonfiderable ingenuity, accommodated his inveftigation
to tills circumftance, by dividing the trajedlory into
portions, and, without much trouble, has made one
equation anfwer them all, We are difpofed to think
that his folution of the problem (in the Memoirs of the
Academy of Paris for 1769) correfponds better with
the phyfical circumftances of the cafe than any other.
But this procefs is there delivered in too concife a man¬
ner to be intelligible to a perfon not nerfeclly familiar
with ail the refources of modern analyfis. We there¬
fore preferred John Bernoulli’s, became it is elementary
and rigorous. 91
After all, the practical artillerift rnuft rely chiefly on Necetiity of
the records of experiments contained in the books of
practice at the academies, or thofe made in a more pub-U
lie manner. Even a perledl theory of the air’s refift¬
ance can do him little lervice, unlefs the force of gun¬
powder were uniform. This is far from being the cafe
even in the fame powder. A few hours of a damp day
will make a greater difference than occurs in any theo¬
ry ; and, in fervice, it is only by trial that every thing
is performed. If the firft ftiell fall very much ihort of
the mark, a little more powder is added ; and, in cannon¬
ading, the correction is made by varying the elevation.
We hope to be forgiven by the eminent mathemati¬
cians for thefe obfervations on their theories. They by
no means proceed from any difrefpect for their labours.
We are hot ignorant of the almoft infuperable difficul¬
ty of the talk, and we admire the ingenuity with which
fome of them have contrived to introduce into their ana¬
lyfis reafonable fubftituiions for thofe terms which would
render the equations intractable. But we mull Hill
fay, upon their own authority, that thefe are but inge¬
nious gueffes, and that experiment is the touchftone by
which they mould, thefe fubllitutions 5 and when they
have found a coincidence, they have no motive to make
any alteration. Now, when we have fuch a latitude for
our meafure of the air’s- refiilance,- that we may take if.
of any value, from one to three, it is no w'onder that
compenfations of errors ftiould produce a coincidence ;
but where is the coincidence ? The theorift fuppofes the
ball to fet out with a certain velocity, and his theory
gives a certain range : and this range agrees with obfer-
vation—but how ? Who knows the velocity of the bail
in the experiment ? This is concluded from a theory in¬
comparably more uncertain than that of the motion in
a refilling medium.
The experiments of Mr Robins and Dr Hutton ftrow,
in the molt incontrovertible manner, that the refiilance
to a motion exceeding 1100 feet in a feconcl, is almoft
three times greater than in the duplicate ratio to the re¬
fiftance to moderate velocities. Euler’s tranflator, in
his comparifon of the author’s trajeflories with experi¬
ment fuppofes it to be no greater. Yet the coincidence
is very great. -The fame may be faid of the Chevalier
de Borda’s. Nay, the fame may be faid of Mr Ro¬
bins’s own practical rules : for he makes his F, which
correfponds to our almoft double of what thefe au¬
thors do, and yet his rules are confirmed by practice.
Our obfervations are therefore well founded.
But it mull not be inferred from all this, that the yhe'theory
phyfical theory is of no ufe to the praflical artillerift. is ftill of
It plainly {hows him the impropriety of giving the pro- fome ufe in
jeciile an enormous velocity. This velocity is of no ef Plaice,
fe£t after 200 or 330 yards at fartheft, becaufe u it to
rapidly reduced by the prodigious refiftance of the air.
Mr Robins has deduced feveral practical maxims of the
greateft importance from what we already know of this
ful ft eft, and wftiich could hardly have been even conjec¬
tured without this knowledge. See Gunnery.
And
422
PROJECTILES.
93 And it mud: dill 4e acknowledged, that this branch
hrou"hT cT Phyfical ^c'ence highly interefting to the philofo-
fjreater per- i nor Should we defpair of carrying it to greater
teetion. perfection. The defeits arife almott entirely from our
ignorance of the law of variation of the air’s refiitance.
Experiments may be contrived much more conducive
to our information here than thofe commonly relorted
to. The oblique flights of projeftiles are, as we have
feen, of very complicated inveftigation, and ill fitted for
initrudling us; but numerous and well contrived expe¬
riments on the perpendicular afeents are of great fim-
plicity, being affected by nothing but the air’s refin¬
ance. To make them inftrudfive, we think that the
following plan might be purfued. Let a let of expe¬
riments be premifed for afeertaining the initial veloci¬
ties. Then let fhells be difeharged perpendicularly
with great varieties of denfity. and velocity, and let no¬
thing be attended to but the height and the time •, even
a confiderable deviation from the perpendicular will not
alfefl either of thefe circumftances, and the effect of
this circumflance can eafily be computed. The height
can be afeertained with fufficient precifion for very va¬
luable information by their light or fmoke. It is evi¬
dent that thefe experiments will give direB informa¬
tion of the air’s retarding force j and every experiment
gives us two meafures, viz. the afeent and defeent: and
the comparifon of the times of afeent and defeent, com¬
bined with the obferved height in one experiment made
with a great initial velocity, will give us more informa¬
tion concerning the air's refiflance than 50 ranges. If
rve Ihould fuppofe the refiflance as the fquare of the ve¬
locity, this comparifon will give in each experiment an
exaft determination of the initial and final velocities,
which no other method can give us. Thefe, with ex¬
periments on the time of horizontal flights, with known
initial velocities, will give us more inftruftion on this
head than any thing that has yet been done; and till
fomething of this kind is carefully done, we prefume
to fay that the motion of bodies in a refilling medium
will remain in the hands of the mathematicians as a
matter of curious {peculation. In the mean time, the
rules which Mr Robins has delivered in his Gunnery
are very fimple and eafy in their ufe, and feem to come
as near the truth as any we have met with. He has
not informed us upon what principles they are founded,
and we are difpofed to think that they are rather em¬
pirical than fcientific. But we profefs great deference
for his abilities and penetration, and doubt not but that
he had framed them by means of as fcientific a difeuf-
fion as his knowledge of this new and difficult fuhjedl
94 enabled him to give it.
Tables cal- We lhall conclude this article, by giving two or three
th^rece" ';a^es’ cornPut-e(l from the principles effablifhed above,
ding1 fain- an<^ which ferve to bring into one point of view' the
piples. chief circumftances of the motion in a refilling medium.
Although the refult of much calculation, as any perfon
who confiders the fubjeft will readily fee, they muft not
be confidered as offering any very accurate refults; or that,
in comparifon with one or two experiments, the differen¬
ces ffiall not be confiderable. Let any perfon perufe the
publithed regifters of experiment? which have been made
with every attention, and he will fee fuch enormous irre¬
gularities, that all expectations of perfeft agreement with
them muft ceafe. In the experiments at Woolwich in
J 7 3 which were continued for feveraldays, not only do
3
the experiments of one day differ among themfelves, but
the meqn of all the experiments of one day differs from
the mean of all the experiments of another no lefs than
one fourth of the whole. The experiments in which the
greateft regularity ipay be expeCled, are thofe made
with great elevations. When the elevation is fmall, the
range is more affeCled by a change of velocity, and ftill
more by any deviation from the fuppofed or intended di¬
rection of the {hot.
The firft table ftiorvs the diftance rn yards to wffiich
a ball projected with the velocity 1600 will go, while
its velocity is reduced one-tenth, and the diftance at
which it drops 16 feet from the line of its direction.
This table is calculated by the reftfbnce obferved in Mr
Robins’s experiments. The firft column is the weight
of the ball in pounds. The feco>d column remains the
fame whatever be the initial velocity j but the third co¬
lumn depends on the velocity. It is here given for the
velocity which is very ufual in military fervice, and its
ufe is to affift us in dire Clin? the gun to the mark.—■
If the mark at which a ball of 24 pounds is directed is
474 yards diftant, the axis of the piece muft be pointed
16 feet higher than the mark. Thefe defieCtions from
the line of direction are neatly as the fquares of the
diftances.
The next table contains the ranges in yards of a 2
pound fliot, proieCted at an elevation cf 450, with the
different velocities in feet per fecond, expreffed in the
firit column. The fecond column contains the diftances
to which the ball would go in vacuo in a horizontal
plane ; and the third contains the diftances to which it.
will go through the air. The fourth column is added,
to ff’.ow the height to which it rifes in the air ; and the
fifth fliows the ranges correCted for the diminution of the
air’s denfity as the bullet afeends, and may therefore be
called the correBed range.
I.
200
400
600
800
ICOO
I 200
I4OO
I60O
1800
2000
2200
24OO
2(500
2800
3000
3200
II.
416
1664
3740
6649
IO3OO
14961
20364
26597
4r559
50286
59846
III.
349
1121
1812
2373
2845
3259
3640
3950
4235
4494
4720
4917
5106
5293
5455
IV.
V.
106
33 8
606
866
1138
13'78
1606
1814
1992
2168
2348
2460
2630
2762
2862
3 60
11 ;o
i859
2435
2919
3343
3734
4050
4345
46x0
4842
5°44
5238
543°
5596
5732
The
'St#'* y,
o
42 3;
PRO J E
The initial velocities caft never be puflied as far as
Jfeoftbe we have calculated for in this table 5 but we mean it
latt table, for a table of more extenfive ufe than appears at firit
fight. Recolleft, that while the proportion of the ve¬
locity at the vertex to the terminal velocity remains the
fame, the curves will be fimilar : therefore, it the initial
velocities are as the fquare-roots of the diameters of the
balls, they will defcribe fimilar curves, and the ranges
■will be as the diameters of the balls.
Therefore^ to have the range of a 1 2 pound (hot, if
f rojedled at an elevation of 45, with the velocity 1 500 ;
fuppofe the diameter of the 1 2 pounder to be d, and
that of the 24 pounder D j and let the velocities be v
and V : Then fay, s/d \ ,J!5 — x 500, to a fourth
proportional V. If the 24 pounder be projefted with
the velocity V, it will defcribe a curve fimilar to that
defcribed by the 1 2 pounder, having the initial velocity
1 500. Therefore find (by interpolation) the range of
the 24 pounder, having the initial velocity V. Call this
R. Then D : </=R : r, the range of the 12 pounder
which was wanted, and which is nearly 3380 yards.
We fee by this table the immenfe difference between
the motions through the air and in a void. We fee
that the ranges through the air, inftead of increafing in
the duplicate ratio of the initial velocities, really m-
creafe (lower than thofe velocities in all cafes of mili¬
tary fervice j and in the mold idual cafes, viz. fiom 800
to 1600, they increafe nearly as the fquare-roots of the
velocities.
A fet of fimilar tables, made for different elevations,
would almoft complete what can be done by tneoiy,
and would be much more expeditious in their ufe than
Mr Euler’s Trajectories, computed with great labour
by his Englidi tranfiator.
The fame table may alfo ferve for computing the
ranges of bomb-lhells. We have only to find v hat mull
be the initial velocity of the 24 pound (hot which cor-
refponds to the propofed velocity of the (hell. This
niuft be deduced from the diameter and weight of the
(hell, by making the velocity of the 24 pounder fuch,
that the ratio of its weight to the refiftar.ee may M the
lame as in the (hell.
! T I L E S.
That the reader may fee with one glance the rela¬
tion of thofe different quantities, we have given this
table, expreffed in a figure (fig. ro). The abfeiffa, 10>
or axis DA, is the fcale of the initial.velocities in feet
per fecond, meafured on a fcale of 400 equal parts in Relation of
an inch. The ordinates to the curve ACG exprefs the1*16 ‘hff6-
yards of the range on a fcale containing 800 yards in [■p^YoTt*
an inch. The ordinates to the curve Axy exprefs (by
the fame fcale) the height to which the ball rifes in the
air.
The ordinate BC (drawn through the point of the
abfeiffa which cerrefponds to the initial velocity 2000)
is divided in the points 4, 9, 12, x 8, 24, 32, 42, in the
ratio of the diameters ofcannon-fhot of different weights ^
and the fame ordinate is produced on the other fide of
the axis, till BO be equal to BA ; and then BO is
divided in the fubduplicate ratio of the fame diameters.
Lines are drawn from the point A, and from any point
D of the abfeiffa, to thefe divifions.
We fee diftinftly by this figure how the effeCt of the
initial velocity gradually diminifhes, and that in very
great velocities the range is very little increafed by its
augmentation. The dotted curve APQR, (hows what
the ranges in vacuo would be.
By this figure may the problems be folved. Thus,
to find the range of the 12 pounder, with the initial
velocity 1500. Set off 15CO from B to F ; draw FH
parallel to the axis, meeting the line i2Ain H; draw
the ordinate HK ; draw KL parallel to the axis, meet¬
ing 24 B in L •, draw the ordinate LM, cutting 12 B
in N. MN is the range required.
If curves, fuch as ACG, were laid down in the fame
manner for other elevations, all the problems might be
folved with great difpatch, and with much more accu¬
racy than the theory by which the curves are drawn
can pretend to.
Note, that Jig. 10. as given on P/ate CCCCXLII. is
one-Jui/f lefs than the fcale according to which it is
defcribed; but the prafiical mathematician xvill find no
difficulty in drawing the figure on the enlargedficale to
f jrrefipond to the dej'cription.
PROJECTION OF THE SPHERE.
Siereogra. -pIIE PROJECTION of tlie SPHERE IS il peifpeftlve
phic Pro- l peprefentation of the circles on the fur 1 ace of the
jedtion of p ! anci ;s vanou(ly denominated according to the
the Sphere, pofltJons 0f the eye and plane of projeffton.
There are three principal kinds of projection •, the
fiereographic, the orthographic, and gnomic. In the
ftereoeraohic proje&ion the eye is fuppofed to be placed
on the furface of the fphere ; in the orthographic it is
fuopofed to be at an infinite diftance 5 and in the gno¬
mic projeflion the eye is placed at the centre of t. e
fphere. Other kinds of projeftion are, the globular,
Mercator"1 s, ficenographic, &c. for which fee the c-.rtmles
Geography, Navigation, Perspective, &c.
Definitions.
1. The plane upon which the circles of the fphere
are deferibed, is called the p ane ofi projection, qx the
primitive circle. The pole of this circle is the pole Stereogra-
of projection, and the place of the eye is the projecting nhic Pro-
point. _ ' .
2. The line ofimeafiures of any circle of the fphere is ttK P Kre ^
that diameter of the primitive, produced indefinitely,
which paffes through the centre of the projected circle.
Axiom.
The projection, or reprefentation of any point, is
where the (freight line drawn from it to the pro¬
jecting point interfeCls the plane of projection.
SECTION I.
Ofi the Stcresgraphic Projection of the Sphere.
In the fiereographic projection of the fphere, the
eye
m PROJECTION OF
Stereo.;ra- eye is placed on the flirface cf the fphere in the pole oi
J.hir Fro- (_he great circle upon which the fphere is to be projeft-
the S°b>rc' ° hhe projedlion of the hemifphere oppofile to the
,tu r('f-ye falls within the primi'.ive, to which the projection
is generally limited*, it, however, may be extended to
the ether hemifphere, or that wherein the eye is placed,
the projeftion of which falls without the primitive.
As ail circles in this projection are projected either
into circles or ftraight lines, which are ealily dcoribed,
it is therefore more generally underftood, and by many
■preferred to the other projections.
Proposition I. Theorem I.
THE SPHERE. Sedion I.
But if the circle MN (fig. 2.) be not parallel to the Suneogra-
primitive circle ED, let the great circle ABCD, paf- !
fing through the projecting point, cut it at right angles tJJie Sphere,
in the diameter MN, and the primitive in the diameter ——v ■ _/
BD. Through M, in the plane of the,great circle, let Fig. a.
MF be drawn parallel to BD ; let AM, AN be joined,
and meet BD in m, n. J hen, becaufe AB, AD are
quadrants, and BD, MF parallel, the arch AM is equal
to AF, and the angle AMF or A mn is equal to ANM.
Hence the conic lurface delcribed by the revolution of
AM about the circle MN is cut by the primitive in a
fubcontrary pofition j therefore the lection is in this cafe
likevvife a circle.
Every great circle which paffes through the projecting
point is projected into a ftraight line palling through
the centre of the primitive*, and every arch of it,
reckoned from the other pole of the primitive, is pro¬
jected into its femitangent.
ccccxliii. Let ABCD (fig. i.) be a great circle palling through
Fig. i. A, C, the poles of the primitive, and interfering it in
the line of common feClion BED, E being the centre
of the fphere. From A, the projecting point, let there
be drawn ftraight lines AP, AM, AN, AO, to any
number of points P, M, N, Q, in the circle Ar>CD :
thefe lines will interfeCt BED, which is in the fame
plane with them. Let them meet it in the points /*, w,
«, q; then/>, m, n, q, are the projections of P, M, N,
: hence the whole circle ABCD is projected into the
Itraight line BED, palling through the centre of the
primitive.
Again, becaufe the pole C is projected into E, and
the point M into m \ therefore the arch CM is project¬
ed into the ftraight line E m, which is the femitan¬
gent of the arch CM to the radius AE. In like man¬
ner, the arch CP is projected into its femitangent, E
/>, &c.
Corollaries.
1. Each of the quadrants contiguous to the project¬
ing point is projected into an indefinite ftraight line,
and each of thole that are remote into a radius of the
primitive.
2. Every fmall circle which paffes through the pro¬
jecting point is projected into that ftraight line which is
its common feCtion with the primitive.
3. Every ftraight line in the plane of the primitive,
and produced indefinitely, is the projection of fome
circle on the fphere paffing through the projecting
point.
4. The projection of any point in the furface of the
fphere, is diftant from the centre of the primitive, by
the femitangent of the diftance of that point from the
pole oppofite to the projecting point.
Proposition II. Theorem II.
Every circle on the fphere which does not pafs through
the projecting point is projected into a circle.
If the given circle be parallel !o the primitive, then
a ftraight line drawn from the projecting point to any
point in the circumference, and made to revolve about
the circle, will deferihe the furface of a cone *, which
being cut by the plane of projection para-b-i : o the bafe,
the feCtion will be a circle.- See CONIC-Sethons.
2
Corollaries.
1. The centres and poles of all circles parallel to the
primitive have their projection in its centre.
2. rJ he centre and poles of every circle inclined to
the primitive have their projections in the line oi mea-
fures.
3. All projected great circles cut the primitive in
two points diametrically oppofite ; and every circle in
the plane of projection, which paftes through the extre¬
mities of a diameter of the primitive, or through the
projections of twm points that are diametr r ally oppo¬
fite on the fphere, is the projection of fome great
circle.
4. A tangent to any circle of the fphere, which does
not pafs through the projecting point, is projected into
a tangent to that circle’s projection 5 alfo, the circular
projections of tangent circles touch one another.
5. The extremities of the diameter, on the line of
meafures of any projected circle, are diftant from the
centre of the primitive by the femitangents of the leaft
and greateft diftances of the circle on the fphere, from
the pole oppofite to the projecting point.
6. The extremities of the diameter, on the line of
meafures of any projected great circle, are diftant from
the centre of the primitive by the tangent and cotan¬
gent of half the great circle's inclination to the primi¬
tive.
7. The radius of any projeCted circle is equal to half
the fum, or half the difference of the femitangents of
the leaft and greateft diftances of the circle from the
pole oppofite to the projeCling point, according as that
pole is within or without the given circle.
Proposition III. Theorem III.
An angle formed by two tangents at the fame point
in the furface of the fphere, is equal to the angle
formed by their projeClions.
Let EG I and GH (fig. 3.) be the tw*o tangents, Fig. 3.
and A the projecting point*, let the plane AGE cut
the fphere in the circle AGE, and the primitive in the
line BML. Alfo, let MN be the line of common fec-
tion of the p1ane AGH with the primitive : then the
angle FGH=LMN If the plane FGH be parallel
to the primitive BLD, the propofition is manifeft. If
not, through any point K in AG produced, let the
plant FKPi, parallel to the primitive, be extended to
meet FCH : • the line FH. Then, fcecaufi* the plane
AGF meets t. e iv o parallel planes BED, FKH, the
lines of common feCtion LM, FK are parallel 5 there-
Section I. PROJECTION OF THE SPHERE.
Stereogra- fore the angle AMLrrAKF. But fince A is the
'edlion of poIe t^e chords, and confequently the arches
tJhe Sphere. ^ are ecluah and the arch AEG is the fum of
’ v*—w the arches AL, BG ; hence the angle AML is equal
loan angle at the circumference Banding upon AG,
and therefore equal to AGI or FGK ; confequently
the angle FGKizrFKG, and the fide FG=:FK. In
like manner HG—HK : hence the triangles GHF,
KHF are equal, and the angle FGH—FKHzzLMN.
4-5
rraNHGrrNCG: hence ENC=INE + INC~NCG Stereogra-
-f-INC—a right angle; and therefore NC is a tan-. Pietro,
gent to the primitive at N ; but the arch ND is the^f s^ere
difiance of the lefs circle from its neareft pole TV . .
hence NC is the tangent, and EC the fecant of the
difiance of the lefs circle from its pole to the radius of
the primitive.
Proposition VI. Theorem VI.
Corollaries.
1. An angle contained by any two circles of the
fphere is equal to the angle formed by theiij projec¬
tions. For the tangents to thefe circles on the fphere
are projected into ftraight lines, which either coincide
with, or are tangents to, their projections on the primi¬
tive.
2. An angle contained by any two circles of the
fphere is equal to the angle formed by the radii of their
projedfion? at the point of interfe&ion.
Proposition IV. Theorem IV.
The centre of a prqjedled great circle is diftant from
the centre of the primitive ; the tangent of the incli¬
nation of the great circle to the primitive, and its ra¬
dius, is the fecant of its inclination.
Fig. 4. Let MNG (fig. 4.) be the projedlion of a great
circle, meeting the primitive in the extremities of the
diameter MN, and let the diameter BD, perpendicular
to MN, meet the projedlion in F, G. Bifedl FG in
H, and join NH. Then, becaufe any angle contained
by two circles of the fphere is equal to the angle formed
by the radii of their projections at the point of interfec-
tion; therefore the angle contained by the propofed
great circle and the primitive is equal to the angle
ENH, of which EH is the tangent, and NH the fe¬
cant, to the radius of the primitive.
The projeftion of the poles of any circle, inclined to the
primitive, are, in the line of meafures, difiant from
the centre of the primitive, the tangent, and cotan¬
gent, of half its inclination.
Let MN (fig. 6.) be a great circle perpendicular topiT. <5.
the primitive ABCP), and A the projedting point; then
P, p are the poles of MN, and of all its parallels w n,
&c. Let AP, A p meet the diameter BD in F /;
which will therefore be the projected poles of MN and
its parallels. The angle BEM is the inclination of the
circle MEN, and its parallels, to the primitive : and
becaufe BC and MP are quadrants, and MC common
to both; therefore PC —BM: and lienee PEC is alfo
the inclination of MN and its parallels. Now EF is
the tangent of EAF, or of half the angle PEC the in¬
clination; and E/is the tangent of the angle EA f;
but EA /"is the complement of EAF, hence EyHs the
cotangent of half the inclination.
Corollaries.
1. The projedtion of that pole which L nearefi to the
projedting point is without the primitive, and the pro¬
jedtion of the other within.
2. The projedted centre of any circle is always be¬
tween the projedtion of its neareft pole and the centre of
the primitive ; and the projedted centres of all circles
are contained between their projedted poles.
Corollaries.
1. All circles which pafs through the points M, N
are the projedtions of great circles, and have their cen¬
tres m the line BG; and all circles which pafs through
the pofiiis F, G, are the projedtions of great circles,
and have their centres in the line HI, perpendicular to
BG.
2. If NF, NH be continued to meet tbe primitive in
L, F ; then BE is the meafure of the great circle’s in¬
clination to the primitive; and MT—2BL.
Proposition V. Theorem V.
The centre of projedtion of a lefs circle perpendicular to
the primitive, is diftant from the centre of the primi¬
tive, the fecant of the diftance of the lefs circle from
its neareft pole ; and the radius of projedtion is the
tangent of that diftance.
Fig. 5. Let MN (fig. 5.) be the given lefs circle perpendi¬
cular to the primitive, and A the projedling point.
Draw AM, AN to meet the diameter BD produced
in G and H ; then GH is the projedted diameter of
the lefs circle : bifea GH in C, and C will be its
centre ; join NE, NC. Then becaufe AE, NI are
parallel, the angle INEzrNEA ; but NEA=2NMA
Vol. XVIL Part II.
Proposition VII. Theorem VII.
Equal arches of any two great circles of the fphere
will be intercepted between twro other circles drawn
on the fphere thraugh the remote poles of thofe great
circles.
Let AGB, CFD (fig. y.) be two great circles of the„.
fphere, whofe remote poles are E, P ; through which
draw the great circle PE EC, and lefs circle PGE, in-
terfedting the great circles AGB, CFD, in the points
B, G,and D, F ; then the arch BG is equal to the
arch DF.
Becaufe E is the pole of the circle AGB, and P the
pole of CFD, therefore the arches EB, PD are equal :
and fince BD is common to both, hence the arch ED
is equal to the arch PB. For the fame reafon, the
arches EF, PG are equal ; but the angle DEF is
equal to the angle BPG : hence thefe triangles are
equal, and therefore the arch DF is equal to the arch
BG.
Proposition VIII. Theorem VIII.
If from either pole of a projedted great circle, two ftraight
lines be drawn to meet the primitive and the pro¬
jedtion, they will intercept fimilar arches of thefe
circles.
3 H On
426
PROJECTION OF THE SPHERE.
Seflion L
Stereogra- On the plane of prcje&lon AGB (fig. 7.) let the
phk Fro- great circle CFD be projehted into c f d, and its pole P
the*"Sphere into/>; through f) draw the ftraight lines/) d,pf, then
w—— y—.are the arches GR,/d limilar.
Since /> d lies both in the plane AGB and APBE,
it is in their common fe&ion, and the point B is alfo
in their common leblion ; therefore p d paffes through
the point B. In like manner it may be Ihown that
the line p f paffes through G. Now the points D, F
are projected into d,f: hence the arches FD,y d are li¬
milar ; but GB is equal to FD, therefore the inter¬
cepted arch of the primitive GB is fimilar to the pro¬
jected arch f d.
Corollary.
Hence, if from the angular point of a projected fphe-
rical angle two ftraight lines. be drawn through the
projected poles of the containing lides, the intercepted
arch of the primitive will be the meafure of the fpheri-
cal angle.
Proposition IX. Problem I.
To defcribe the projection of a great circle through two
given points in the plane of the primitive.
Let P and B be given points, and C the centre of
the primitive.
Fig. 8. 1. When one point P (fig. 8.) is the centre of the
primitive, a diameter drawn through the given points
will be the great circle required.
Fig. 9. 2. When one point P (fig. 9.) is in the circumfe¬
rence of the primitive. Through P draw the diameter
PD ; and an oblique circle defcribed through the three
points P, B, D, will be the projeClion of the required
great circle.
3. When the given points are neither in the centre
nor circumference of the primitive. Through either of
Fig. 10. the given points P (fig. 10.) draw the diameter ED,
and at right angles thereto draw the diameter FG.
From F through P draw the ftraight line FPH, meet¬
ing the circumference in H : draw the diameter HI,
and draw the ftraight line FIK, meeting ED produced
in D j then an arch, terminated by the circumference,
being defcribed through the three points, P, B, K, will
be the great circle.
Proposition X. Problem II.
To defcribe the reprefentation of a great circle about
any given point as a pole.
Let P be the given pole, and C the centre of the pri¬
mitive.
1. When P (fig. 8.) is in the centre of the primitive,
then the primitive will be the great circle required.
jj. 2. When the pole P (fig. 11.) is in the circumfe¬
rence of the primitive. Through P draw the diameter
PE, and the diameter AB drawn at right angles to PE
will be the projected great circle required.
3. When the given pole is neither in the centre nor
circumference of the primitive. Though the pole P
Plate j draw the diameter AB, and draw the diame-
ccccxi.iv. ^ej. perpendicular to AB ; through E and P draw
the ftraight line EPF, meeting the circumference in F.
Make FG equal to FD) through E and G draw the
ftraight line EGH, meeting the diameter AB produ- Stereogra-
ced °if neceffary in H 5 then from the centre H, with P1*1/ Pro-
the radius FIE, defcribe the oblique circle DIE, and it^
will be the projeftion of the great circle required. t -t
Or, make DK equal to FA } join EK, which inter-
fects the diameter AB in I j then through the three
points, D, I, E, defcribe the oblique circle DIE.
Proposition XL Problem III.
To find the poles of a great circle.
1. When the given great circle is the primitive, its
centre is the pole.
2. To find the pole of the right circle ACB (fig. 11.)
Draw the diameter PE perpendicular to the given circle
AB ; and its extremities P, E are the poles of the circle
ACB.
3. To find the pole of the oblique circle DEF (fig. Fig. 13.
13.) Join DF, and perpendicular thereto draw the
diameter AB, cutting the given oblique circle DEF
in E. Draw the ftraight line FEG, meeting the cir¬
cumference in G. Make GI, GH, each equal to AD j
then FI being joined, cuts the diameter AB in P, the
lower pole ; through F and H draw the ftraight line
FH />, meeting the diameter AB produced in />, which
will be the oppofite or exterior pole.
Proposition XII. Problem IV.
To defcribe a lefs circle about any given point as a pol*,
and at any given diftance from that pole.
1. When the pole of the lefs circle is in the centre
of the primitive j then from the centre of the primitive,
with the femitangent of the diftance of the given circle
from its pole, defcribe a circle, and it will be the pro-
jeftion of the lefs circle required.
2. If the given pole is in the circumference of the
primitive, from C (fig. 14.), the centre of the primitive, p-
fet off CE the fecant of the diftance of the lefs circle
from its pole P ; then from the centre E, with the tan¬
gent of the given diftance, defcribe a circle, and it will
be the lefs' circle required. Or, make PG, PF each
equal to the chord of the diftance of the lefs circle from
its pole. Through B, G, draw the ftraight line BGD
meeting CP produced in D : bifedl GD in H, and
draw HE perpendicular to GD 5 and meeting PD in E,
then E is the centre of the lefs circle.
3. When the given pole is neither in the centre nor
circumference of the primitive. Through P (fig. 15.),
the given pole, and C the centre of the primitive, drawF’g- I5*
the diameter AB, and draw the diameter DE perpen¬
dicular to AB } join EP, and produce it to meet the
primitive in p; make p F,/> G, each equal to the chord
of the diftance of the lefs circle from its pole ; join EF
which interfefts the diameter AB in H ; from E through
G draw the ftraight line EG I, meeting the diameter
AB produced in I} bifeft HI in K : Then a circle de¬
fcribed from the centre K, at the diftance KH or KI,
will be the projeftion of the lefs circle.
Proposition XIII. Problem V.
To find the poles of a given lefs circle.
The poles of a lefs circle are alfo thofe of its parallel
great
Se&ion I.
Stereogra- great circle. _ If therefore the parallel great circle be
phic Pro. given, then its poles being found by Prob. III. will be
the Sphe0re.thofc of tlle lefs circle- Sut if the parallel great circle
 be not given, let HMIN (fig. 15.) be the" given lefs
Fig. 15. circle. Through its centre, and C the centre of the pri¬
mitive, draw the line of meafufes IAHB j and draw the
diameter DE perpendicular to it, alfo draw the ftraight
line EHF meeting the primitive in F ; make F /> equal
to the chord of the diftance of the lefs circle from its
pole join E and its interfeftion P with the diame¬
ter AB is the interior pole. Draw the diameter /> CL
through E and L, draw E L q meeting the diameter AB
produced in q •, then q is the external pole. Or thus :
Join El interfering the primitive in G; join alfo
EH, and produce it to meet the primitive in F j bifer
the arch GF in p ; from E to ^ draw the ftraight line
EP />, and P is the pole of the given lefs circle.
PROJECTION OF THE SPHERE.
427
line of chords will give the meafure of the arch DE of Sfereogra-
flip' mxr#an 1 (*0 t*-/-»1 rj phic Pt'O—
je<5Hon of
Problem VIII.
the given lefs circle.
Proposition XVI.
To meafure any fphericai angle.
1. If the angle is at the centre of the primitive, it is
meafured as a plane angle.
2. When the angular point is in the circumference of
the primitive 5 let A (fig. 19.) be the angular point, r^f
and ABE an oblique circle inclined to the primitive.
Through P, the pole of ABE, draw the line APp meet¬
ing the circumference in p : then the arch E /> is the
meafure of the angle BAD, and the arch AF p is the
meafure of its fupplement BAF : alfo /> F is the mea¬
fure of the angle BAG, and p ED that of its fupple¬
ment.
Proposition XIV. Problem VI.
To meafure any arch of a great circle.
^ 1. Arches of the primitive are meafured on the line
of chords.
2. Right circles are meafured on the line of femi-
tangents, beginning at the centre of the primitive. Thus,
the meafure of the portion AC (fig. 16 ) of the right
circle DE, is found by applying it to the line of femi-
tangents. The meafure of the arch DB is found by
fubtrafting that of BC from 900 : the meafure of the
arch AF, lying partly on each fide of the centre, is ob¬
tained by adding the meafures of AC and CF. Laftly,
J o meafure the part AB, which is neither terminated at
the centre or circumference of the primitive, apply CA
to the line of femitangents ; then CB, and the difference
between the meafures of thefe arches, will be that of
AB.
Or thus : Draw the diameter GH perpendicular to
DE j then from either extremity, as D, of this diame¬
ter, draw lines through the extremities of the arch in¬
tended to be meafured ; and the intercepted portion of
the primitive applied to the line of chords will give the
xneafure of the required arch. Thus IK applied to the
line of chords will give the meafure of AB.
3. To meafure an arch of an oblique circle : draw
lines from its pole through the extremities of the arch
to meet the primitive, then the intercepted portion of
the primitive applied to the line of chords will give the
Fi«- 17. mea^ure of the arch of the oblique circle. Thus, let
" ’ AB (%• i7-)> be an arch of an oblique circle to be
meafured, and P its pole •, from P draw the lines PAD,
PBE meeting the primitive in B and E ; then the arch
DE applied to the line of chords will give the meafure
of the arch of the oblique circle AB.
3. If the angular point is neither at the centre nor
circumference of the primitive. Let A (fig. 20.) ber-.^ .
the angular point, and DAH, or GAF, the angle toH^
be meafured, P the pole of the oblique circle DAF,
and p the pole of GAH : then from A, through the
points P draw the ftraight lines APM, A/> N, and
the arch MN will be the meafure of the angle DAH;
and the fupplement of MN will be the meafure of the
angle HAF or DAG.
Proposition XVII. Probl£m IX.
To draw a great circle perpendicular to a projefted
great circle, and through a point given in it.
Find the pole of the given circle, then a great circle
defcribed through that pole and the given point will be
perpendicular to the given circle. Hence if the given
circle be the primitive, then a diameter drawn through
the given point will be the required perpendicular. If
the given circle is a right one, draw a diameter at right
angles to it} then though the extremities of this dia¬
meter and the given point defcribe an oblique circle,
and it will be perpendicular to that given. If the given
circle is inclined to the primitive, let it be reprefented
by BAD (fig. 2i.), whofe pole is P, and let A be the
point through which the perpendicular is to be drawn : ^ 216
then, by Prob. I. defcribe a great circle through the
points P and A, and it will be perpendicular to the ob¬
lique circle BAD.
Proposition XVIII. Problem X.
Through a point in a proje&ed great circle, to defcribe
another great circle to make a given angle with the
former, provided the meafure of the given angle is
not lefs than the diftance between the given point and
circle.
Proposition XV. Problem VIL
To meafure any arch of a lefs circle.
Fig. 18. Let DEG (fig. 18.) be the given lefs circle, and
DE the arch to be meafured : find its internal pole P }
and defcribe the circle AFI parallel to the primitive,
and whofe diftance from the projecting point may be
equal to the diftance of the given lefs circle from its
pole P: then join PD, PE, which produce to meet
the parallel circle in A and F. Now AF applied to a
Let the given circle be the primitive, and let A (fig
19.) be the angular point. Draw the diameters AE, DF
perpendicular to each other ; and make the angle CAG
equal to that given, or make CG equal to the tangent
of the given angle then from the centre G, with&the
diftance GC, defcribe the oblique circle ABE, and it
will make with the primitive an angle equal to that
given.
If the given circle be a right one, let it be APB (fig.
22.) and let P be the given point. Draw the diameter Fia- 2a
3H2 GH ®
428
.St.ereog:r.-
phic t-'ro-
jetftion of
the Sphere.
'23*
PROJECTION OF THE SPHERE.
Se6aon TL
GH perpcnJicHiar Lo AB j join GP, and produce k to
a; make J:I b equal to twice A a : and G b being join¬
ed interfecls AB in C. Draw CD perpendicular to AB,
and equal to the cotangent of the given angle to the
radius PC ; or make the angle CPD equal to the com¬
plement of that given? then from the centre D, with
the radius DP, deferibe the great circle FPE, and the
angle APF, or BPE, will be equal to that given.
If APB (fig. 23.) is an oblique circle. From the
angular point P, draw the lines PG, PC through the
centres of the primitive and given oblique circle. I hrough
C, the centre of APB, draw G CD at right angles to
PG 5 make the angle GPD equal to that given; and
from the centre D, with the radius DP, deferibe the
oblique circle FPE, and the angle APF, or BPF, will
be equal to that propofed.
about a as a pole, deferibe the great circle EDF, cut¬
ting the primitive and given circle in E and D, and it
will be the great circle required.
Scholium.
Stereogra¬
phic Cro-
jedtion of
the Sphere.
It will hence be an eafy matter to conftrudi; all the
various fpherical triangles. The reader is, however,
referred to the article Spherical TRIGONOME TR T, for
the method of conftrufling them agreeably to thk pro¬
jection ; and alfo for the application to the refolution of
problems of the fphere. For the method of projecting
the fphere upon the plane of the meridian, and of the
horizon, according to the itereographic projection, ice
the article GEOGRAPHY.
SECTION II.
Propositiox XIX. Problem XL
Any great circle cutting the primitive being given, to
deferibe another great circle which (hall cut the gi¬
ven one in a propofed angle, and have a given arch
intercepted between the primitive and given circles.
Plate If the given circle be a right one, let it be reprefent-
CCCcXLV ed by A PC (fig. 24.) ; and at right angles thereto draw
F;S- the diameter BPM ; make the angle BPF equal to the
complement of the given angle, and PE equal to the
tangent of the given arch ; and from the centre of the
primitive with the fecant of the fame arch deferibe the
arch Gg. Through F draw EG parallel to AC, meet-
ing Gg in G ; then from the centre G, \vith the
tangent PF, deferibe an arch a 0, cutting APC in I,
and join GI. Through G, and the centre P, draw the
diameter FIK ; draw PL perpendicular to HK, and
IL perpendicular to GI, meeting PL in L ; then L
will be the centre of the circle HIK, which is that re¬
quired.
But if the given great circle be inclined to the pri-
j- mitive, let it be ADB (fig. 25.), and E its centre :
D make the angle BDF equal to the complement of that
given, and DF equal to the tangent of the given arch,
as before. From P, the centre of the primitive, with
the fecant of the fame arch, deferibe the arch G and
from E, the centre of the oblique circle, with the ex¬
tent EF, deferibe an arch interfedfing G g in G. Now
G being determined, the remaining part of the opera¬
tion is performed as before.
When the given arch exceeds 90°, the tangent and
fecant of its fupplement are to be applied on the line
DF the contrary way, or towards the right; the former
conflruflion being reckoned to the left.
Profosition XX. Problem XII.
Any great circle in the plane of projection being given,
to deferibe another great circle, which (hall make gi¬
ven angles with the primitive and given circles.
Jig. 26, Let ADC (fig. 26.) be the given circle, and its
pole. About P the pole of the primitive, deferibe an
arch m n, at the diilance of as many degrees as are in the
angle which the required circle is to make with the pri¬
mitive. About Q the pole of the circle ADC, and
at a dikance equal to the meafure of the angle which
the required circle is to make with the given circle
ADC, deferibe an arch 0 «, cutting m n in n. Then
Of the Orthographic Projection of the Sphere.
The orthographic projeflion of the fphere, is that in
which the eye is placed in the axis of the plane of pro¬
jection, at an infinite diitance with refpedt to the dia¬
meter of the fphere; fo that at the fphere all the vifual
rays are affirmed parallel, and therefore perpendicular to
the plane of projection.
Hence the orthographic projection of any point is
where a perpendicular from that point meets the plane
of projection : and the orthographic reprelentation of
any objeCt is the figure formed by perpendiculars drawn
from every point of the objeCt to the plane of pro¬
jection.
This method of projection is ufed in the geometrical
delineation of eclipfes, occultations, and tranfits. It is
alfo particularly ufeful in various other projections, fuch
as the analemma. See Geography, &c.
Proposition I. Theorem I.
Every ftraight line is projected into a flraight line. If
the given line be parallel to the plane of projection,
it is projected into an equal ftraight line ; but if it is
inclined to the primitive, then the given ftraight line
will be to its projection in the ratio of the radius to
the cofine of inclination.
Let AB (fig. 27.) be the plane of projection, and
let CD be a ftraight line parallel thereto : from the ex¬
tremities C, D of the ftraight line CD, draw the lines
CE, DF perpendicular to AB ; then by 3. of xi. of
Fuel, the interfeCtion EF, of the plane CEFD, with
the plane of projection, is a ftraight line : and becaufe
the ftraight lines CD, EF are parallel, and alfo CE,
DF ; therefore, by 34. of i. of Fuel, the oppofite fides
are equal; hence the ftraight line CD, and its projec¬
tion EF, are equal. Again, let GH be the propofed
ftraight line, inclined to the primitive ; then the lines
GE, FIF being drawn perpendicular to AB, the inter¬
cepted portion EF will be the projection of GH.
Through G draw GI parallel to AB, and the angle IGH
will be equal to the inclination of the given line to the
plane of projection. Now GH being the radius, GI,
or its equal EF, will be the coftne of IGH ; hence the
given line GH is to its projection EF as radius to the
cofinc or inclination.
FJg. 27.
Corollaries.
Section II.
Orthogra- COROLLARIES.
jeetion of *• A fli'aight line perpendicular to the plane of pro-
the Sphere, jeflion is projefted into a point.
v 2. Every flraight line in a plane parallel to the pri¬
mitive is projected into an equal and parallel ilraight
line.
3. A plane angle parallel to the primitive is projected
into an equal angle.
4. Any plane rectilineal figure parallel to the primi¬
tive is projected into an equal and fimilar figure.
5. The area of any rectilineal figure is to the area
of its projection as radius to the cofine of its inclina¬
tion.
Proposition II. Theorem II.
Every great circle, perpendicular to the primitive, is
prcjeCted into a diameter of the primitive ; and every
arch ot it, reckoned from the pole of the primitive, is
projected into its fine.
PPiOJECTION OF THE SPHERE. 429
tance of the parallel circle from the primitive, or the Orthogra-
fine of its diitance from the pole of the primitive. Phic.iJro'.
jeCtion of
Proposition IV. Theorem IV. thejsphere.
An inclined circle is projected into an ellipfe, whofe
tranfverfe axis is the diameter of the circle.
1. Let ELF (fig. 30.) be a great circle inclined to p;^
the prinaitive EEF, and EF their line of common fee- a J *
tion. From the centre C, and any other point K, in
EF, let the perpendicular CB, KI be drawn in the
plane of the primitive, and CL, KN, in the plane of
the great circle, meeting the circumference in L, N.
Let LG, ND be perpendicular to CB, KI ; then G,
D are the projections of L, N. And becaufe the tri¬
angles LCG, NKD are equiangular, CL*: CG*:: NK5:
DK* : or EC* : CG* :: LKF : OK* : therefore the
points G, D are in the curve of an ellipfe, of which.
EF is the tranfverfe axis, and CG the lemiconjugate
axis.
Fig. 2S. Let BIT) ("fig. 28.) be the primitive, and ABCD
a great circle perpendicular to it, pafljng through its
poles A, C ; then the diameter BED, which is their
line'of common feCHon, will be the projection of the
circle ABCD. For if from any point, as G, in the
circle ABC, a perpendicular GH fall upon BD, it will
alfo be perpendicular to the plane of the primitive :
therefore H is the projection of G. Hence the whole
circle is projected into BD, and any arch AG into EH
equal to G1 its fine.
Corollaries.
1. Every arch of a great circle, reckoned from its in-
terfeCtion with the primitive, is projected into its verfed
fine.
2. Every lefs circle perpendicular to the primitive is
projected into its line of common feCtion with the pri¬
mitive, which is alfo its own diameter 3 and every arch
of the femicircle above the primitive, recksned from the
middle point, is projected into its fine.
3. Every diameter of the primitive is the projection
of a great circle ; and every chord the projection of a
lels circle.
4. A fpherical angle at the pole of the primitive is
projected into an equal angle.
Proposition III. Theorem III.
A circle parallel to the primitive is projected into a
circle equal to itfelf, and concentric with the primi¬
tive.
Let the lefs circle FIG (fig. 29.) be parallel to the
l lS-29- plane of the primitive END. The ftraight line HE,
which joins their centres, is perpendicular to the primi¬
tive } therefore E is the projection of H. Let any radii
HI and IN perpendicular to the primitive be drawn.
Then IN, FIE being parallel, are in the fame plane 5
therefore IH, NE, the lines of common feCtian of the
plane IE, with two parallel planes, are parallel ; and
the figure IHEN is a parallelogram. Hence NE —
IH, and coniequentiy ITG is projected into an equal
circle KNL, whofe centre is E.
Corollary. •
The radius of the projection is the cpfine of the dif-
Corollaries.
1. In a projected great circle, the femiconjugate axis
is the cofine of the inclination of the great circle to the
primitive.
2. Perpendiculars to the tranfverfe axis intercept
correfponding arches of the projection and the primi¬
tive.
3. The eccentricity of the projection is the fine of the
inclination of the great circle to the primitive.
Cafe 2. Let AQB (fig. 31.) be a lefs circle, incli-p-
ned to the primitive, and let the great circle LBM, per- a’
pendicular to both, interfeCt them in the lines AB, LM.
From the centre Q, and any other point N in the dia~
meter AB, let the perpendiculars TOP, N£), be drawn
in the plane of the lefs circle, to meet its circumference
in T, P, Q. Alfo, from the points A, N, O, B, let
AG, NI, OC, BH, be drawn perpendicular to LM j
and from P>.& draw PE, QD, TF, perpendicular
to the primitive ; then G, I, C, H, E, D, F, are the
projections of thefe points, Becaufe OP is perpendicu¬
lar to LMB, and OC, PE, being perpendicular to the
primitive, are in the fame plane, the plane COPE is per¬
pendicular to LBM. But the primitive is perpendicular
to LBM 5 therefore the common feCHon EC is perpen¬
dicular to LBM, and to LM. Flence CP is a parallelo¬
gram, and EC — OP. In like manner, FC, DI, are
proved perpendicular to LM, and equal to OT, NQ.
Thus ECF is a ftraight line, and equal to the diameter
PT. Let QJi, DK be parallel to AB, LM; then
HO = NQ DI =r KC, and PR >< RT zr EK X
Kh. But AO : CG : : NO : Cl ; therefore AOJ •
CG* : : OR* : DK* : and ECJ : CG* : ; EKF ;
DK*.
Corollaries.
1. The tranfverfe axis is to the conjugate as radius to
the cofine of the circle’s inclination to the primitive.
2. Half the tranfverfe axis is the cofme of half the
fum of the greateft and leaft diftances of the lefs circle
from the primitive.
3. The extremities of the conjugate axis are in the
line of meafures, diftant from the centre of the primitive
by the cofines of the greateft and leaft diftanccs of the
l.efs circle from the primitive.
4? if,
PROJECTION OF THE SPHERE. SeOion II.
4. If from the extremities of the conjugate axis of
any elliptical projection perpendiculars be drawn (in the
fame direction if the circle do not interfeft the primi¬
tive, but if othervvife in oppofite directions), they will
interfeCt an arch of the primitive, whofe chord is equal
to the diameter of the circle.
Proposition V. Theorem V.
The projected poles of an inclined circle are in its line
of meafures diftant from the centre of the primitive
the fine of the inclination of the circle to the pri¬
mitive.
Let A BCD (fig. 32.) be a great circle, perpendicu¬
lar both to the primitive and the inclined circle, and
interfeCting them in the diameters AC, MN. Then
ABCD paffes through the poles of the inclined circle ;
let thefe be P, ; and let P/>, Qjq, be perpendicular to
AC ; />, q are the projected poles } and it is evident that
/> O fine of BP, or MA, the inclination.
Corollaries.
1. The centre of the primitive, the centre of the pro-
lection, the projected poles, and the extremities of
the conjugate axis, are all in one and the fame ftraight
line.
2. The diftance of the centre of projection from the
centre of the primitive, is to the cofine of the dittance
of the circle from its own pole, as the fine of the cir¬
cle’s inclination to the primitive is to the radius.
Proposition VI. Problem I.
To defcribe the projection of a circle perpendicular to
the primitive, and whofe diftance from its pole is equal
to a given quantity.
Let PA p B (fig. 33.) be the primitive circle, and
P, p the poles of the right circle to be projected.
Then if the circle to be projected is a great circle,
draw the diameter AB at right angles to the axis P/>,
and it will be that required. But if the required pro¬
jection is that of a lefs circle, make PE, PF each equal
to the chord of the diftance of the lefs circle from its
pole •, join EF, and it will be the projection of the lefs
circle required.
Proposition VII. Problem II.
Through a given point in the plane of the primitive to
defcribe the projection of a great circle, having a
given inclination to the primitive.
1. When the given inclination is equal to a right an¬
gle, a ftraight line drawn through the centre of the
primitive, and the given point, will be the projection re¬
quired.
2. When the given inclination is lefs than a right
angle, and the given point in the circumference of the
primitive. Let R (fig. 34.) be a point given in the
circumference of the primitive, through which it is re¬
quired to draw the projection of a great circle, inclined
to the primitive in an angle meafured by the arch QP
of the primitive.
Through the given point R draw the diameter PCS,
and draw GC^ at right angles to it. Make the arch
4
GV of the primitive equal to QP, and draw VA at Orthogra-
right angles to GC j and in Gj-, towards the oppofite t'ro'
parts of C, take CB equal to AC j then, with the the Sphere
greater axis RS, and lels axis AB, defcrib& an ellipfe, ^ ^ ‘t
and it will be the projection of the oblique circle re¬
quired.
3. When the diftance of the given point from the
primitive is equal to the cofme of the given inclination.
Every thing remaining as in the preceding cafe j let
A be the given point, and AC the cofine of an arch
GV, equal to the given arch QP; then drawing the
diameter RCS at right angles to ACB, the ellipfe de-
fcribed with the given axis RS, AB will be the projec¬
tion of the inclined circle.
4. When the diftance of the given point from the
centre of the primitive is lefs than the femidiameter of the
primitive, but greater than the cofine of the given in¬
clination.
Let D be the given point, through which draw the
diameter IC i; and at the point D draw QL perpen¬
dicular to DC meeting the primitive in L ) alfo draw
LK, making with LD the angle DLK equal to the
complement of the given inclination. Let LK meet
DC in K ; then will DK be lefs than DC. On DC as^^er 03
a diameter defcribe a circle, and make DH equal to^^j
DK ; through H draw a diameter of the primitive
RCS, and defcribe an ellipfe through the points R, D,
S, and it will be the proje&ion of the inclined circle.
Proposition VIII. Problem III.
Through two given points in the plane of the primi¬
tive to defcribe the projeftion of a great circle.
1. If the two given points and the centre of the pri¬
mitive be in the fame ftraight line, then a diameter of
the primitive being drawn through thefe points will be
the projeftion of the great circle required.
2. When the two given points are not in the fame
ftraght line with the centre of the primitive •, and one of
them is in the circumference of the primitive.
Let DR (fig. 34.) be the two given points, of which
R is in the circumference of the primitive. Draw the
diameters RCS, and GC g, FDH perpendicular to
it, meeting the primitive in G^F. Divide GC, £ C,
in A, B, in the fame proportion as FH is divided in D j
and defcribe the ellipfe whofe axes are RS, AB, and
centre C ; and it will be the projection required.
3. When the given points are within the primitive,
and not in the fame ftraight line with its centre.
Let D, E (fig. 35.) be the two given points *,Fig. 35.
through C the centre of the primitive draw the ftraight
lines ID, KEfj draw DL perpendicular to If, and
EO perpendicular to K k, meeting the primitive in L,
O. Through E, and towards the fame parts of C,
draw EP parallel to DC, and in magnitude a fourth
proportional to LD, DC, OE. Draw the diameter
CP meeting the primitive in R, S, and defcribe an el¬
lipfe through the points D and R, or S, and it will alfo
pafs through E. This ellipfe will be the projection of
the propofed inclined circle.
Proposition IX. Problem IV.
To defcribe the projection of a lefs circle parallel to the
primitive, its diftance from the pole of the primitive
being given.
From
Sedticn II.
PROJECTION OF THE SPHERE.
Orthogra- From the pole of the primitive, with the fine of the
^edionof Siven diftance of the circle from its pole, defcribe a
the Sphere. c^rc^e» an^ ^ will be the proje£tion of the given lefs
43*
circle.
Proposition X. Problem V.
About a given point as a projefted pole to defcribe the
projedtion of an inclined circle, whofe diftance from
its pole is given.
Fig. 36, Let P (fig. 36.) be the given projefted pole, through
which draw the diameter and draw the diameter
H b perpendicular thereto. From P draw PL per¬
pendicular to GP meeting the circumference in L j
through which draw the diameter L /. Make LT,
LK each equal to the chord of the diftance of the lefs
circle from its pole, and join TK, which interfedls L /,
in Q. From the points T, Q, K, draw the lines -FA,
QS, KB, perpendicular to G^j and make OR, OS,
each equal to or QX. Then an ellipfe defcribed
through the points A, S, B, R will be the projedlion of
the propofed lefs circle.
Proposition XL Problem VI.
To find the poles of a given projedled circle.
1. If the projedfted circle be parallel to the primitive,
the centre of the primitive will be its pole.
2. If the circle be perpendicular to the primitive,
then the extremities of a diameter of the primitive
drawn at right angles to the ftraight line reprefenting
the projedled circle, will be the poles of that circle.
3. When the projedled circle is inclined to the pri¬
mitive.
p;g. 3^. Let ARBS (fig. 36, 37,) be the elliptical projection
of any oblique circle; through the centre of which,
and C the centre of the primitive, draw the line of mea-
fures CBA, meeting the ellipfe in B, A ; and the pri¬
mitive in G,£-. Draw CH, BK, AT perpendicular
to G g, meeting the primitive in H, K, T. Bifeft the
arch KT in L, and draw LP perpendicular to G ;
then P will be the projected pole of the circle, of which
ARBS is the projection.
Proposition XII. Problem VII.
intercepted portion BF of the primitive wall be the Orthogra-
meafure of the given arch DE of the lefs circle DEH. PIi;c.i>ro*.
3. If the given lefs circle, of which an arch is to be
meaiured, is perpendicular to the primitive. f
Let ADEB (fig. 40.) be the lefs circle, of whichFig. 40.
the meafure of the arch DE is required. Through C,
the centre of the primitive, draw the line of meafures
Mm, and from the interfeCtion O of the given right
circle, and the line of meafures, with the radius OA, or
OB, defcribe the femicircle AFGB ; through the points
D, E, draw the lines DF, EG parallel to the line of
meafures, and the arch FG will be the meafure of DE,
to the radius AO. In order to find a fimilar arch in the
circumference of the primitive, join OF, OG, and at
the centre C of the primitive, make the angle mCH
equal to FOG, and the arch mM to the radius Cm
will be the meafure of the arch DE.
4. When the great projection is of a lefs circle incli¬
ned to the primitive.
Let RDS (fig. 41.) be the projeftion of a lefs circle pig. ^
inclined to the primitive, and DE a portion of that cir¬
cle to be meafured. Through O the centre of the pro-
jecled circle, and C the centre of the primitive, draw
the line of meafures Mm; and from the centre O, with
the radius OR, or OS, defcribe the femicircle RGFS ;
through the points D, E draw the lines DF, EG
parallel to the line of meafures, and FG will be the
meafure of the arch DE to the radius OR, or OS.
Join OF, OG, and make the angle mCH equal to
hOG, and the arch ?n H of the primitive will be the
meafure of the arch DE of the inclined circle RDS.
The converfe of this propofition, namely, to cut off
an arch from a given projected circle equal to a given
arch of the primitive, is obvious.
The above operation would be greatly (hortened by
ufing the line of fines in the feflor.
It feems unneceffary to infill farther on this projec¬
tion, efpecially as the reader will fee the application of
it to the projection of the fphere on the planes of the
Meridian, Equator, and Horizon, in the article Geo¬
graphy $ and to the delineation of Ec/ipfes in the arti¬
cle Astronomy. The Analemma, Plate CCXXXV. in
the article Geography, is alfo according to this projec¬
tion j and the method of applying it to the folution of
aftronomical problems is there exemplified.
To meafure any portion of a projected circle, and con-
verfely.
1. When the given projection is that of a great cir¬
cle.
Fig. 38. Let ADBE (fig. 38.) be the given great circle,
either perpendicular or inclined to the primitive, of
which the portion DE is to be meafured, and let M m
be the line of meafures of the given circle. Through
the points D, E, draw the lines EG, DF parallel to
M m; and the arch FG of the primitive will be the
meafure of the arch DE of the great circle, and con-
verfely.
2. When the projection is that of a lefs circle paral-
P^ate lei to the primitive.
ccccxlvi. Let DE (fig. 39.) be the portion to be meafured,
39* of the dels circle DEH parallel to the primitive. From
the centre C draw the lines CD, CE, and produce them
to meet the primitive in the points B, F. Then the
SECTION III.
Of the Gnomonic ProjeGion of the Sphere.
In this projection the eye is in the centre of the
fphere, and.the plane of projection touches the fphere in
a given point parallel to a given circle. It is named
gnomonic, on account of its being the foundation of di¬
alling : the plane of projection may alfo reprefent the
plane ot. a dial, whofe centre being the projeted pole
the femiaxis of the fphere will be the ftile or gnomon
of the dial.
As the. projection of great circles is reprefented by
ftraight lines, and lefs circles parallel to the plane of
projetion are projected into concentric circles : there¬
fore many problems of the fphere are very eafily refol-
ved. Other problems, however, become more intricate
on account of fome of the circles being projected into el-
lipfes, parabolas, and hyperbolas.
Brofositioit
43 2
Gnomonic
Proiefticn
of the
Sphere.
PROJECTION OF
Proposition I. Theorem I.
Every great circle is projected into a ftraight line per¬
pendicular to the line of meafures •, and whofe diftance
from the circle is equal to the cotangent of its incli¬
nation, or to the tangent of its neareft diftance from
the pole of the projection.
THE SPHERE. Section III.
Gnoinonic
Corollary. projedlion
If a circle be parallel to the plane of projection, and Sphere.
45 degrees from the pole, it is projected into a circle u—v. . ■,.<
equal to a great circle of the fphere j and therefore may
be confidered as the primitive circle, and its radius the
radius of projection.
*'-S-43> Let Bx\D (fig. 42.) be the given circle,'and let
the circle CBED be perpendicular to BAD, and to
the plane of projection 5 whofe interfeCtion CF with
this laft plane will be the line of meaiures. Now fince
the circle CBED is perpendicular both to the given
circle BAD and to the plane of projection, the com¬
mon fection of the two laft planes produced will there¬
fore be perpendicular to the plane of the circle CBED
produced, and confequently to the line of meafures :
hence the given circle will be projected into that fec¬
tion ; that is, into a ftraight line palling through </,
perpendicular to C d. Now C is the cotangent of the
angle Cd A, the inclination of the given circle, or the
tangent of the arch CD to the radius AC.
Corollaries.
1. A great circle perpendicular to the plane of pro¬
jection is projected into a ftraight line paffing through
the centre of projection : and any arch is projected into
its correfpondent tangent.
2. Any point, as D, or the pole of any circle, is pro¬
jected into a point d, whofe diltance from the pole of
projection is equal to the tangent of that diftance.
3. If two great circles be perpendicular to each
other, and one of them paffes through the pole of pro¬
jection, they will be projected into two ftraight lines
perpendicular to each other.
4. Hence if a great circle be perpendicular to feveral
other great circles, and its reprefentation pafs through
the centre of projection •, then all thefe circles will be
reprefented by lines parallel to one another, and perpen¬
dicular to the line of meafures, for reprefentalion of that
firft circle.
Proposition II. Theorem II.
If two great circles interfeCt in the pole of projection,
their reprefentations wall make an angle at the centre
of the plane of projection, equal to the angle made by
thefe circles on the fphere.
For fmce both thefe circles are perpendicular to the
plane of projection, the angle made by their interfeCtions
with this plane is the fame as the angle made by thefe
circles.
Proposition III. Theorem III.
Any lefs circle parallel to the plane of projection is pro¬
jected into a circle whofe centre is the pole of projec¬
tion, and its radius is equal to the tangent of the dif¬
tance of the circle from the pole of projection.
Proposition IV. Theorem IV.
A lefs circle not parallel to the plane of projection iti
projected into a conic feCtion, whofe tranfverfe axis
is in the line of meafures 5 and the diltance of its
nearelt vertex from the centre of the plane of pro¬
jection is equal to the tangent of its nearelt diitance
from the pole of projection •, and the diltance of the
other vertex is equal to the tangent of the greatelt
diltance.
Any lefs circle is the bafe of a cone whofe vertex is
at A (fig. 43.) ; and this cone being produced, its in-Fig- 43.
terfeCtion with the plane of proieCtion will be a conic
feCtion. Thus the cone DAF, having the circle DF
for its bafe, being produced, will be cut by the plane
of projection in an ellipfe whofe tranfverfe diameter is
df; and C d is the tangent of the angle CAD, and
C f the tangent of CAF. In like manner, the cone /
AFE, having the fide AE parallel to the line of mea¬
fures df, being cut by the plane of projection, the
feCtion will be a parabola, of which yis the nearelt ver¬
tex, and the point into which E is prcjeCted is at an
infinite diltance. Alfo the cone AFG, whofe bafe is
the circle FG, being cut by the plane of projection,
the feCtion will be a hyperbola ; of which f is the near¬
elt vertex j and GA being produced gives d the other
vertex.
Corollaries.
1. A lefs circle will be projected into an ellipfe, a
parabola, or hyperbola, according as the diltance of
its molt remote point is lefs, equal to, or greater than,
90 degrees,
2. If H be the centre, and K >&, / the focus of (he
ellipfe, hyperbola, or parabola 5 then HKrz' — 
for the ellipfe
H £ —  : — for the hyperbola j
and f n being drawm perpendicular to AE f l —
n E-j-Fjf .
  for the parabola.
Proposition V. Theorem V.
Let the plane TW (fig. 44.) be perpendicular to theFig. 44.
plane of projection TV, and BCD a great circle of the
fphere in the plane TW. Let the great circle BED
be projected into the Itraght line b e k. Draw CQS
perpendicular to b h, and C m parallel to it and equal
to CA, and make QS equal to Qy/z; then any aftgle
QS t is the meafure of the arch Q t of the projected
circle.
Let the circle PI (fig. 42.) be parallel to the plane
GF, then the equal arches PC, Cl are projected into
the equal tangents GC, CH *, and therefore C the point
of contaCt and pole of the circle PI and of the projec¬
tion, is the centre of the reprefentation G, H.
Join AQ : then becaufe C m is equal to CA, the
angle QC m equal to QCA, each being a right angle,
and the fide QC common to both triangles •, therefore
O m, or its equal QS, is equal QA. Again, fince the
plane ACQ is perpendicular to the plane TV, and b Q
to
Se&lon III. PROJECTION OF
Gnomonic to the interfe&ion CQ ; therefore ^ Q is perpendicular
^t'lhe011 an^ * ^encej fmce AQ^ and QS are
Sphere, equal, all the angles at S cut the line £ in the fame
u—/ points as the equal angles at A. But by the angles at
A the circle BED is projedted into the line b Q.
Therefore the angles at S are the meafures of the parts
of the projected circle b and S is the dividing centre
thereof.
THE SPHERE.
Corollary.
Hence, if from the projected pole of any circle a
perpendicular be erefted to the line of meafures, it
will cut off a quadrant from the reprefentation of that
circle.
Proposition VIII. Theorem VIII.
4J3
Gnomonic
Prcjedtion
of the
Sphere.
Corollaries.
1. Any great circle £ is projedled into a line of
tangents to the radius SQ.
2. If the circle b C pafs through the centre of pro-
jedtion, then the projedting point A is the dividing cen¬
tre thereof, and C is the tangent of its correfpondent
arch CB to CA the radius of projedtion.
Proposition VI. Theorem VI.
Fig. 44. Let the parallel circle GLH (fig. 44.) be as far from
the pole of projedtion C as the circle FNI is from its
pole ; and let the diftance of the poles C, P be bifedt-
ed by the radius AO : and draw b AD perpendicular
to AO ; then any ftraight line b Qt drawn through b
will cut off the arches h /, F n equal to each other in
the reprefentations of thefe equal circles in the plane
of projedtion.
Let the projedtions of the lefs circles be defcribed.
Then, becaufe BD is perpendicular to AO, the arches
BO, DO are equal •, but fince the lefs circles are
equally diftant each from its refpedtive pole, therefore
the arches FO, OH are equal 5 and hence the arch BF
is equal to the arch DH. For the fame reafon the
arches BN, DL are equal ; and the angle FBN is equal
to the angle LDH 3 therefore, on the fphere, the
arches FN, HL are equal. And fince the great circle
BNLD is projedted into the ftraight line bQ n I. &c.
therefore n is the projedlion of N, and / that of L ;
hence/«, h /, the projections of FN, HL refpedtively,
are equal.
Proposition VII. Theorem VII.
Fig. 45. If F/? d, h/g, (fig. 45.) be the projedtions of two equal
circles, whereof one is as far from its pole P as the
other from its pole C, which is the centre of projec¬
tion 3 and if the diftance of the projedted poles C,/> be
divided in 0, fo that the degrees in Co, op he equal,
and the perpendicular 0 S be eredted to the line of
meafures g h. Then the line p n,C l drawn from the
poles C, p, through any point () in the line 0 S, will
cut off the arches F n, h l equal to each other, and to
the angle QC/>.
The great circle A 0 perpendicular to the plane of the
primitive is projedted into the ftraight line 0 S perpendi¬
cular to g h, by Prop. i. cor. 3. Let £) be the projec¬
tion of q ; and fince p £), CQ are ftraight lines, they are
therefore the reprefentations of the arches P y, C y of
great circles. Now fince P y C is an ifofceles fpherical
triangle, the angles PCQ, CPQ are therefore equal 3
and hence the arches P y, C y produced will cut off
equal arches from the given circles FI, GH, whofe re¬
prefentations ¥ n, hi are therefore equal : and fince the
angle QC/> is the meafure of the arch h /, it is alfo the
meafure of its equal F 77.
Vol. XVII. Part II.
Let ¥ nh (fig. 45.) be the projection of any circle FI,Fig.45*
and p the projedfion of its pole P. If be the
cotangent of CAP, and g B perpendicular to the
line of meafures g C, let CAP be bifedted by A 0,
and the line 0 B drawn to any point B, and alfop B
cutting ¥ nk m d; then the angle ^ 0 B is the mea-
fures of the arch F d.
The arch PG is a quadrant, and the angle g 0
PA -J-0 APzzg AC <9 APrr^ AC -j- CA o=g Ao;
therefore g Az=g 0 ; confequently 0 is the dividing cen¬
tre of ^ B, the reprefentation of GA 3 and hence, by
Prop. v. the angle ^ 0 B is the meafure of^B. But fince
pg reprefents a quadrant, therefore p is the pole of ^B 3
and hence the great circle/x/B pafling through the pole
of the circles g B and F n will cut off equal arches in both,
that is, F d—g B z= angle ^ 0 B.
Corollary.
The angle ^oB is the meafure of the angle gp¥>.
lor the triangle gp¥> reprefents a triangle on the
fphere, wherein the arch which g B reprefents is equal
to the angle which the angle/> reprefents 3 becaufe £/>
is a quadrant: therefore ^ 0 B is the meafure of both.
Proposition IX. Problem I.
To draw a great circle through a given point, and whofe
diftance from the pole of projedlion is equal to a given
quantity.
Let ADB ("fig. 46.) be the projedHon, C its pole or Fig. 46.
centre, and P the point through which a great circle is
to be drawn : through the points P, C draw the ftraight
line PC A, and draw1 CE perpendicular to it: make the
angle CAE equal to the given diftance of the circle
from the pole of projedHon C 5 and from the centre C,
with the radius CE, deicribe the circle EFG : through
P draw the ftraight line PIK, touching the circle EFG
in I, and it will be the projedlion of the great circle re¬
quired.
Proposition X. Problem II.
To draw a great circle perpendicular to a great circle
which paffes through the pole of projedHon, and at a
" given dirtance from that pole.
_ Let ADB (fig. 46.) be the primitive, and Cl the
given circle : draw CL perpendicular to Cl, and make
the angle CLI equal to the given diftance : then the
ftraight line KP, drawn through I parallel to CL, will
be the required projedlion.
Proposition XL Problem III.
At a given point in a projected great circle, to draw ano¬
ther great circle to make a given angle with the for¬
mer 3 and, converfely, to meafure the angle contained
between two great circles.
Let P (fig. 47.) be the given point in the given great Fig. 47.
3 I circle
434
PROJECTION OF THE SPHERE.
Section III.
Cnomonic circle PE, and C the centre of the primitive : through
points P, C draw the ftraight line PCG ; and draw
Sphere. t^e ra(iius of the primitive CA perpendicular thereto ",
V—y—> join PA; to which draw AG perpendicular: through G
draw BGD at right angles to GP, meeting PB in B j
bifeft the angle CAP by the ftraight line AO ", join BO,
and make the angle BOD equal to that given j then
DP being joined, the, angle BPD will be that requir¬
ed.
If the meafure of the rngle BPD be required, from
the points B, D draw the lines BO, DO, and the angle
BOD is the meafure of BPD.
Proposition XII. Problem IV.
To defcribe the projection of a lefs circle parallel to the
plane of projection, and at a given diftance from its
pole.
one half of « : then with the vertex and focus k, de- Gnomonic
fcribe the parabola f for the projection of the given cir- Projection
cleFE. ®ftthe
ophere.
Proposition XV. Problem VII. v— J
To find the pole of a given projected circle.
Let DMF (fig. 50.) be the given projected circle Fig. 50.
wdiofe line of meafures is DF, and C the centre of pro¬
jection •, from C draw the radius of projection CA, per¬
pendicular to the line of meafures, and A will be the
projecting point : join AD, AF, and bifedt the angle
DAF by the ftraight line AP j hence P is the pole.
If the given projedtion be an hyperbola, the angle
/"AG (fig. 49.)) bifefted, will give its pole in the line
of meafures j and in a parabola, the angley’AE bifedted
will give its pole.
Proposition XVI. Problem VIII.
Fig. 46. Let x\DB (fig. 46.) be the primitive, and C its cen¬
tre : fet the diftance of the circle from its pole, from B
to H, and from FI to D j and draw the ftraight line
AED, interfering CE perpendicular to EC, in the
point E : with the radius CE defcribe the circle EFG,
and it is the projeftion required.
Proposition XIII. Problem V.
To draw a lefs circle perpendicular to the plane of pro-
PJate jeaion-
^7' Let C (fig. 48.) be the centre of projection, and TI
b ^ ‘ a great circle parallel to the propofed lefs circle : at C
make the angles ICN, TCO each equal to the diftance
of the lefs circle from its parallel great circle TI j let
CL be the radius of projection, and from the extremity
L draw LM perpendicular thereto j make CV equal to
LM ; or CF equal to CM : then with the vertex V and
aiTymptotes CN, CO defcribe the hyperbola W VK f ; or,
focus F and CV defcribe the hyperbola, and it
will be the perpendicular circle deferibed.
Proposition XIV. Problem VI.
To defcribe the projection of a lefs circle inclined to the
plane of projection.
Draw the line of meafures p (fig. 49.) 5 and at C, the
Fig. 49. centre of projection, drawr CA perpendicular to dp, and
equal to the radius of projection : with the centre A, and
radium AC, defcribe the circle DCFG 5 and draw KAE
parallel to dp: then take the greateft and lealt diftances
of the circle from the pole of projection, and fet them
from C to D and F refpeCtively, for the circle DF 5 and
from A, the projecting point, draw the ftraight lines AF/j
and AD d; then df will be the traniverfe axis of the el-
lipfe : but if D fall beyond the line RE, as at G, then
from G draw the line GAD d, and df \s the tranfverfe
axis of an hyperbola : and if the point D fall in the line
RE, as at E, then the line AE wall not meet the line of
meafures, and the circle wall be projected into a parabola
whofe vertex is f: bifeCt ^yin H, the centre, and for the
ellipfe take half the difference of the lines A.d, Af
which laid from H will give K the focus: for the hy¬
perbola, half the fum of Ad, Af being laid from H,
will, give I its focus : then wath the tranfverfe axis y/j
and focus K, or k, defcribe the ellipfe ^ My or hyper¬
bola y^w, which will be the projection of the inclined
circle : for the parabola, make EQ equal to Fy and
drawy« perpendicular to AQ_, and make fk equal to
To meafure any portion of a projected great circle, or to
lay off' any number of degrees thereon.
Let EP (fig. 51.) be the great circle, and IP a por- ^r.
tion thereof to be meafured : draw ICD perpendicular to
IP ; let C be the centre, and CB the radius of projection,
with which defcribe the circle EBD j make IA equal
to IB ", then A is the dividing centre of EP j hence
AP being joined, the angle IAP is the meafure of the
arch IP.
Or, if IAP be made equal to any given angle, then
IP is the correfpondent arch of the projection.
Proposition XVII. Problem IX.
To meafurc any arch of a projected lefs circle, or to lay
off any number of degrees on a given projected lefs cir¬
cle.
Let Fn (fig. 52.) be the given lefs circle, and P its
pole : from the centre of projection C draw7 CA perpen-5Z*
dicular to the line of meafures GH, and equal to the ra¬
dius of projection •, join AP, and bifeCt the angle CAP
by the ftraight line AO, to which draw7 AD perpendicu¬
lar : defcribe the circle G / H, as tar diftant from the
pole of projection C as the given circle is from its pole
P •, and through any given point n, in the projected cir¬
cle F n, draw7 D « /, then H / is the meafure of the arch
F n.
Or let the meafure be laid from H to /, and the line
D/joined w7ill cut off F « equal thereto.
Proposition XVIII. Problem X.
To deferibe the gnomonic projection of a fpherical
triangle, when three tides are given j and to find the
meafures of either of its angles.
Let ABC (fig. 53.) be a fpherical triangle whofe pig 53.
three tides are given: draw the radius CD (fig. 54.) Fig.
perpendicular to the diameter of the primitive EF; and 6
at the point D make the angles CDA, CDG, ADI,
equal refpeCtively to the tides AC, BC, AB, of the
fpherieal triangle ABC (fig. 530’ hues DA, DG
interfeCting the diameter EF, produced if neceffary in
the points A and G : make DI equal to DG ; then
from the centre C, with the radius CG, defcribe an
arch ; and from A, with the diftance AI, defcribe ano¬
ther arch, interfeCting the former in B j join AB, CB,
and ACB wall be the projection of the fpherical tri¬
angle (fig. 53.) and the reCtilineal angle ACB is the
meafure of the fpherical angle ACB (fig. 53-)•
Proposition
Section III. PROJECTION OF THE SPHERE.
I'rojcdion Proposition XIX. Problem XI.
Sphere. ^iie three angles of a fpherical triangle being given, to
t v   projecl it, and to find the meafures of the lides.
Fig. 55. -k6*- 55’) the fpherical triangle of which
the angles are given : conftruft another fpherical triangle
EFG, whofe fides are the fupplements of the given angles
of the triangle ABC ; and with the fides of this fup-
plemental triangle defcribe the gnomonic projeftion,
&c. as before.
It may be obferved, that the fupnlemental triangle
El'G has alfo a fupplemental part EF^,* and when the
fides GE, GF, which are fubftituted in place of the
angles A, B, are obtufe, their fupplements E, ^ F
are to be ufed in the gnomonic projedlion of the tri¬
angle.
Proposition XX. Problem XII.
Given two fides, and the included angle of a fpheri¬
cal triangle, to defcribe the gnomonic projedtion of
that triangle, and to find the meafures of the other
parts.
Fig. 56. the fides AC, CB, and the angle ACB (fig.
J3-)> be given •, make the angles CDA, CDG (fig.
56.) equal refpedlively to the fides AC, CB (fig.
530 ? ah° make the angle ACB (fig. 56.) equal to
the fpherical angle ACB (fig. 53.), and CB equal to
CG, and ABC will be the projedlion of the fpherical
triangle.
^ To find the meafure of the fide AB : from C draw
CL perpendicular to AB, and CM parallel thereto,
.meeting the circumference of the primitive in M 5
make LX equal to LM; join AN, BN, and the angle
ANB will be the meafure of the fide AB.
To find the meafure of either of the fpherical angles,
as BAC : from D draw DK perpendicular to AD,
and make KH equal to KD : from K draw KI per¬
pendicular to CK, and let AB produced meet KI in
I) and join HI : then the redtilineal angle KHI is the
meafure of the fpherical angle BAC. By proceeding
in a fimilar manner, the meafure of the other angle will
be found.
Proposition XXL Problem XIII.
Two angles and the intermediate fide given, to defcribe
the gnomonic projedlion of the triangle; and to find
the meafures of the remaining parts.
Let the angles CAB, ACB, and the fide AC of the
fpherical triangle ABC (fig. 53.), be given : make the
angle CDA (fig. 56.) equal to the meafure of the given
fide AC (fig. 53.) 5 and the angle ACB (fig. 56.) equal
to the angle ACB (fig. 53.) j produce AC to H, draw
DK perpendicular to AD, and make KH equal to KD j
draw KI perpendicular to CK, and make the angle
KHI equal to the fpherical angle CA B : from I, the
interfedlion of KI, HI, to A draw IA, and let it in-
terfedl CB in B, and ACB will be the gnomonic pro-
jedlion of the fpherical triangle ACB (fig. 53.). The
unknown parts of this triangle may be meafured by laft
problem.
Proposition XXII. Problem XIV.
Two fides of a fpherical triangle, and an angle oppo-
fite to one of them given, to dqfcribe the projedtion
of the triangle; and to find the meafure of the re- Gnomonic
mainyrg parts. Projedtion
Let tlie fides AC, CB, and the angle BAC of the Sphere,
fpheiical triangle ABC (fig. 33.) be given : make the ^
angles CDA, CDG (fig. 56.) equal refpedKvely to
the meafures of the given fides AC, BC : draw DK
perpendicular to AD, make KH equal to DK, and
the angle KHI equal to the given fpherical angle
BAC : draw the perpendicular KI, meeting HI in
I; j°in -A I; and from the centre C, with the diftance
CG, defcribe the arch GB, meeting AI in B, join
CB, and ABC will be the redlilineal projedlion of the
fpherical triangle ABC (fig. 53.) and the meafures
of the unknown parts of the triangle may be found as
before.
Proposition XXIII. Problem XV.
Given two angles, and a fide oppofite to one of them, to
defcribe the gnomonic projedtion of the triangle, and
to find the meafures of the other parts.
Let the angles A, B, and the fide BC of the tri¬
angle ABC (fig. 53.) be given : let the fupplemental
triangle EFE be formed, in which the angles E, F, G,
are the fupplements of the fides BC, C A, AB, refpedlive-
ly, and the fides EF, EG, GE, the fupplemenls of the
angles C, A, B. Now at the centre C (fig. 36.)
make the angles CDA, CDK equal to the meafures
of the fides GE, GF refpedlively, being the fupple¬
ments of the angles B and A $ and let the lines DA,
DK interfedl the diameter of the primitive EF in the
points A and K: draw DG perpendicular to AD,
make GH equal to DG, and at the point H make the
angle GHI equal to the angle E, or to its fupplement;
and let El, perpendicular to CH, meet HI in I, and
join AI: then from the centre C, with the diftance
CG, defcribe an arch interfering AI in B •, join CB,
and ABC will be the gnomonic projedtion of the gi¬
ven triangle ABC (fig. 33.): the fupplement of the
angle ACB (fig. 36.) is the meafure of the fide AB,
the* meafures of the other parts are found
as before.
Jt has already been obferved, that this method of pro-
jedlion has, for the moft part, been applied to dialling
only. However from the preceding propofitions, it ap¬
pears that all the common problems of the fphere may
be more eafily refolved by this than by either of the pre¬
ceding methods of projedlion; and the facility with
which thefe problems are refolved by this method has
given it the preference in dialling. It may not per¬
haps be arnifs, in this place, to give a brief illuftration
of it in this particular branch of fcience.
In an horizontal dial, the centre of projedlion Z Fig. 57.
(% 57*) reprefents the zenith of the place for which
the dial is to be conftrudled ; ZA the perpendicular
height of the ftyle : the angle ZPA, equal to the given
latitude, determines the diftance ZP of the zenith from
the pole; and AP the edge of the ftyle, which by its
fhadow gives the hour: the angle ZAP, equal alfo to
the latitude, gives the diftance of the equator EQ from
the zenith : let E a be equal to EA, and a will be the
dividing point of the equator. Hence if the angles
E a I, E zr II, &c. E a XI, E a X, &c. be made equal
t0 I5e>j 30°> &c*tbe equator will be divided into hours}
3 I 2 and
4.36
PROJECTION OF THE SPHERE. Section III.
Gnomonic and lines drawn from P to tliefe points of divifion will
^fthfi011 ^ ^our fines*
Sphere. ^ t^e e^^er vertical, or inclined to the hori-
u—-y^j zon, then the point Z will be the zenith of that place
whole horizon is parallel to the plane of the dial: ZE
wdll be that latitude of the place ; and the hours on the
former dial will now be changed into others, by a quan¬
tity equal to the difference of longitude between the
given place and that for which the dial is to be conftru&ed.
Thus, if it is noon when the fhadow of the ftyle falls on
the line P X, then the difference of meridians is the
angle E « X, or 30°. Hence, wdien a dial is to be
conftrucfed upon a given plane, either perpendicular or
inclined to the horizon, the declination and inclination
of that place muff be previoully found.
In an ereft diredt fouth dial, its zenith Z is the
fouth point of the horizon, ZP is the diffance of this
point from the pole, and ZE its diftance from the equa¬
tor. If the dial is directed to the north, Z reprefents the
north point of the horizon 5 PZ the diftance of Z from
the pole under the horizon ; and ZE the elevation of the
equator above the horizon.
If the dial is an ereft eaft or weft dial, the zenith Z
is the eaft or weft points of the horizon accordingly,
and the pole P is at an infinite diftance, for the angle
ZAP is a right angle; and therefore the line AP will
not meet the meridian PZ. The line ZA produced is Gnomonic
the equator, and is divided into hours by lines perpendi- Projection
cular to it. ot t^ie
If the plane of the dial is parallel to the equator, its t p ^ere’ .
zenith Z coincides with one of the poles of the equa¬
tor P 5 and hence the hour lines of this dial are formed
by drawing lines from the point Z, containing angles
equal to 150.
In the preceding methods of proje&ion of the fphere,
equal portions ef a great circle on the fphere are re-
prefented by unequal portions in the plane of projec¬
tion, and this inequality increafes with the diftance from
the centre of projection. Hence, in projections of the
earth, thofe places towards the circumference of the
projection are very much diftorted. In order to avoid
this inconveniency, M. de la Hire * propofed, that the # 77^ a,
eye fhould be placed in the axis produced at the di- VAcademic
ftance of the fine of 450 beyond the pole: In this cafe R°yal des
arches of the fphere and their projections are very near-*^'170r-
ly proportional to each other. Hence in a map of the
earth agreeable to this conftruCtion, the axis, inftead oigraphy.
being divided into a line of femitangents, is divided
equally, in like manner as the circumference. The map
of the world is conftruCted agreeable to this method of
projection.
PRO
Projection PROJECTION, in Perfpeflive, denotes the ap-
Prolate Pearance> or reprefentation of an objeCt on the perfpec-
. , tive plane.
The projection of a point is a point through which an
optic ray paffes from the objective point through the
plane to the eye } or it is the point wherein the plane cuts
the optic ray.
And hence may be eafily conceived what is meant by
the projection of a line, a plane, or a folid.
PROJECTION, in Alchemy, the calling of a certain
imaginary powder, called powder of projection, into a
crucible, or other veffel, full of fome prepared metal,
or other matter 5 which is to be hereby prefently tranf-
muted into gold.
Powder of PROJECTION, or of the philofophers ftone,
is a powder fuppofed to have the virtue of changing any
quantity of an imperfeCt metal, as copper or lead, into
a more perfeCt one, as filver or gold, by the admixture
of a little quantity thereof. ^
The mark to wdiich alchemifts directed all their en¬
deavours, was to difcover this pow'der of projection. See
Philosophers Stone, and Chemistry, Hi/lory of
PROJEC CURE, in Architecture, the outjetting
and prominency, or embofiing, which the mouldings
and other members have beyond the naked w’all, co¬
lumn, &c.
PROLAPSUS, in Surgery, a prolapfion or falling
out of any part of the body from its natural fituation :
thus we fay, prolapfus intefini, “ a prolapfion of the in-
teftine,” &c. See Surgery.
PROLATE, in Geometry, an epithet applied to
a fpheroid produced by the revolution of a femi-ellipfis
about its larger diameter, See Spheroid.
PRO
PROLEGOMENA, in Philology, certain prepara- Prolego-
tory obfervations or difcourfes prefixed to a book, &c. mena
containing fomething neceffary for the reader to be ap- II.
prifed of, to enable him the better to underftand the, Pro_llfic*
book, or to enter deeper into the fcience, &c.
PROLEPSIS, a figure in Rhetoric, by which we an¬
ticipate or prevent what might be objected by the adver-
fary. See Oratory, N° 80.
PROLEPTIC, an epithet applied to a periodical dif-
eafe wdiich anticipates, or wLofe paroxyfm returns fooner
and fooner every time j as is frequently the cafe in agues.
PROLIFER flos, (proles, “ an offspring 5” and
fero, “ to bear) 5” a prolific flower, or a fiower wLicb
from its own fubftance produces another; a Angular de¬
gree of luxuriance, to which full flmvers are chiefly in-
cident. See Botany.
PROLIFIC, fomething that has the qualities necef¬
fary for generating.
The prolific powers of fome individuals among man¬
kind are very extraordinary.—Inftances have been found
where children, to the number of fix, feven, eight, nine,
and fometimes fixteen, have been brought forth after
one pregnancy. The wife of Emmanuel Gago, a la¬
bourer near Valladolid, was delivered, the 14th of June
1779, of five girls, the two firft of whom were bap¬
tized : the other three were bom in an hour after; two
of them were baptized 5 but the laft, when it came into
the world, had every appearance of death. The cele¬
brated Tarfin was brought to bed in the feventh month
of her pregnancy, at Argenteuil near Paris, 17th July
1779, of three boys, each 14 inches and a half long, and
of a girl 13 inches: they were all four baptized, but
did not live 24 hours.
The
IROJKOTION of the ftEHEiiE .
'T®'
4k
Hate CCOCXUJi.
' ->
✓
-s
.
/
Plate eccc xur.
i
\
fepHiEiu:
M-atc CCCCXTiV
NT
aJ
IB
C |
/
C-
\ >'
3 /]
-
; i\
/ m
\ j
k:
i r1/
/
...
(
.
*
Pk on p c tic > Moitiie Sphilkt
I’l.ite CCCJdXIA’I
Mate CX’CCX
,r/2si.
1 K U <
r j
. A
T?i 
\ w
-X
7Z
V Tv^x
t'
>
I
PRO [ 437 ] PRO
Prolific The public papers for the month of June 1779 thefe expectations might roufe indignation, and be fol- Promii'e,
Proimfe mac^e menti°n one Maria Ruiz, of the diftrict of lowed by confequences injurious to the perfon, the cha- u-—v—^
_ ' Lucena in Andalufia, who was fucceflively delivered of rafter, or intereft, of him who made it—it becomes a 2-t
16 boys, without any girls; and feven of them were matter of prudence in the promifer to keep his word.comes^o
ftill alive on the 17th of Auguft thereafter. The fol- And farther, as a certain degree of confidence is found be binding,
lowing, though a recent faft, is almoft incredible: In neceflary to the very exiftence of civil fociety, and as
the year 1755, a Mufcovite peafant, named James others may have afted on the faith of his promife, it is
Kyrl°ffi an<i his wife, were prefented to the emprefs now not a matter of prudence only to keep his word 
of Ruflia. This peafant had been twice married, and it is a duty which he owes to all who have fpent their
wTas then 70 years of age. His firft wdfe was brought time, their money, or their labour, in confequence of
to bed 21 times; namely, four times of four children thofe expeftations which he has warranted them to en-
each time ; feven times of three, and ten times of two ; tertain.
making in all 57 children, who were then alive. His It, then, being confonant to found reafon, necefiary
fecond wife, who accompanied him, had already been to the exiftence of civil fociety, and in general the inte-
delivered feven times, once of three children, and fix reft of both the promifer and promifee, that the words
times of twins, which made 15 children for her lhare. of the promife Ihould be fulfilled, it has become a
Thus the Mufcovite patriarch had already had 72 chil- maxim in morals that a man is obliged to perform his
dren by two marriages. We are allured that the ful- promife. 3
tan Muftapha III. had ilfue by his concubines 580 In many inftances, the great difficulty concerning a lnterPreta"
male children. What number of female children he promife is, how to explain it; for although the groundstion °[a
had, and whether there were twins of both fexes, we of its obligation be thofe expeftations which it has fo^times
are not informed. T hefe fafts fuppofe great fecundity ; raifed, a queftion will occur, Is the promifer bound to difficult,
and whatever credit is given them, we muft confider as anfwer fully all the expeftations to which the different
entirely fabulous what is reported concerning a countefs conftruftions of his words may have given birth ? Should
of Holland who was delivered of 365 children, of a I, for inftance, defire a man to run with a letter to fuch
very fmall fize. a place, and engage to fatisfy him upon his return ; and
PROLIXITY in difeourfe, the fault of entering in- if on his return I gave him double of the ufual hire in
te too minute a detail, or being too long, precife, and like cafes; but if he be not fatisfied with lefs than the
circumftantial, even to a degree of tedioufnefs. triple of fuch a fum, am I obliged to grant his demands ?
PROLOCUTOR of the convocation, the fpeaker or This will lead us to confider the rules by which a pro¬
chairman of that affemblv. See Convocation. mife Ihould be interpreted. 4
PROLOGUE, in dramatic poetry, a difeourfe ad- If a promife were always to be deemed obligatory Whether
dreffed to the audience before the drama or play begins, in the fenfe in which the promifee receives it, a man the mean-
The original intention was to advertife the audience of would not know what he had promifed ; the promifee,ing 0^fthe
the fubjeft of the piece, and to prepare them to enter from a difference of views, affociations, and intereftSjor^onfifee
more eafily into the aftion, and fometimes to make an might conceive a fenfe of which the promifer had ne- ought to be
apology for the poet. ver dreamed; might fuppofe engagements which wereta^en*
PROMETHEUS, the fon of Japetus, fuppofed to never intended, which could not be forefeen, and, al-
have been the firft difeoverer of the art of ftriking fire though forefeen, could not be performed. For thefe
by flint and fteel; which gave rife to the fable of his reafons it is natural to think that the fenfe of the pro-
ftealing fire from heaven : A renowned warrior ; but mifer ftiould rather direft the interpretation. He knows
whofe hiftory is involved in fable. He flouriihed about precifely what it is he has undertaken, and is unquef-
1687 B. C. The poetical account is, that he formed a tionably the beft judge of what meaning he affixed to
man of clay of fuch exquifite ivorkmanfliip, that Pallas, his words. His explanation ftiould therefore be admit-
charmed with his ingenuity, offered him whatever in ted, if information alone could give him a title to decide
heaven could contribute to finiflr his defign ; and for this in the affair.
purpofe took him up with her to the celeftial manfions, But fomething more than mere information, or a
where he ftole fome fire from the chariot of the fun, knowledge of the caufe, is expefted from a judge, as
which he ufed to animte his image. At this theft Jupi- integrity is equally effential to his charafter. Doubts
ter wasfo enraged, that he ordered Vulcan to chain him may arife when the words will admit of various mean-
down on Mount Caucafus, and fent an eagle or vulture ings, whether the promifer will be fo candid as impar-
to prey on his liver ; which every night was renewed, tially to own the precife meaning which he had aftually
in proportion to the quantity eaten up in the day-time, annexed to his expreffions: At any rate, if he willies to
until at laft he was delivered by Hercules, who killed deceive, he might purpofely ufe an ambiguous phrafeo-
the vulture. l°gy> an(^ perform the promife in a fenfe of his own
Prometheus, in Ancient AJlronomy, was the name of without fatisfying the reafonable hopes of the promifee.
a conftellation of the northern hemilphere, now called When the daughter of Tarpeius bargained with Ta-
Promife Hercules, Engonajin. See ASTRONOMY. tius to betray the citadel for what he and his Sabines
defined. PROMISE, inordinary cafes, is a declaration of fome wore on their left hands, meaning their rings and their
intention to be put in execution ; but in morals is a fo- golden bracelets, Tatius probably performed his pro-
lemn affeveration by which one pledges his veracity that mife in the way w'hich he intended, wdien he caufed her
he fliall perform, or caufe to be performed, the thing to be buried under their Ihields, wdiich they carried alfo
which he mentions. on their left hands. But who w ill fay that here were not
As inch a declaration excites expeftations in the treachery and a dilhonourable abufe of that confidence
minds of thofe to whom it is made; and as to fruftrate which had been repofed in him ?
It
PRO
f 43& ]
PRO
is not bind¬
ing.
Promife. It mud therefore be obvious, that the import of a
u,—y——j promjpe^ w}iere its meaning is difputed, is not to be de1-
In doubtful termined by the fenfe of the promifer nor by the expec-
r ales the tations of the promifee j and if it was faid that the obli-
interpreta- gation of a promife arofe from thofe expeftations which
turn of nei- jla^ ra;feci by it, the affertion now muft be limited
be ^tufted expedfations which were intentionally raifed by
the promifer, or thofe which to his knowledge the pro¬
mifee was induced to entertain in confequence of that
declaration which had been made to him. Should there
flill be a doubt about wdrat expeftations were intention¬
ally raifed, and what ihould have been reafonably enter¬
tained, recourfe muft be had to the judgement of thole
who are allowed to be perfons of candour, and who are
acquainted with the charafters of the men, and with
5 thofe circumftances in which the promife was made.
Cafes where The following are fome of the cafes in which a pro-
a promife mife is not binding. As the obligation to perform the
promife arifes from thofe expectations which are inten¬
tionally raifed by the promifer j it is plain that no pro¬
mife can be binding before acceptance, before the pro¬
mife has been communicated to the promifee, and be¬
fore he has entertained hopes of its performance. The
cafe is limilar where a promife is releafed, that is, where
the performance is difpenfed with by the promilee, and
7 where he entertains no expectations on account of any
When it is thing than the promifer has laid to him. Should a third
releafed by perf0n entertain hopes on account of the promife, he is
Jee proim' to cherilh thefe hopes at his own hazard, having no en¬
couragement from the promifer to do fo : yet if this per-
fon has been warranted to hope by the promifee, the pro¬
mifee has renounced his privilege of releating the pro¬
mife, and along with the promifer becomes bound for its
8 performance.
Where its A promife is not binding where the performance is
perform- unlawful *, and the performance is unlawful where it is
ance is un- contrary to former promifes, or to any moral and reli-
la-.vfuh gious precept, which from the beginning to the end of
time is of perpetual and unalterable obligation. Thus
no man is bound by his promife to give to me wThat he
has already promifed to another ; and no man is bound
by his promife to blafpheme God, to commit murder,
or to criminate the innocent. Such promifes are un¬
lawfully made, and cannot be otherwife than unlawful¬
ly performed.
Some have even carried their fcruples fo far as to
doubt, whether any promife unlawfully made, can be
doubts have lawfully performed. Should a man, during the lifetime
aruen. ]-qs wjfe> happen to promife marriage to another, fuch
-a man (they fay) by the Chriftian religion has already
committed adultery in his heart *, and Ihould he after¬
wards become a widower, be is not bound, and he even
ought not, to fulfil his engagements, as this would be
putting his criminal intention into execution. This fpe-
cies of reafoning, we muft confefs, is to us unintelligi¬
ble.—As the wife is dead, what now fhould prevent tne
man from marrying the objeCt of his affeClions ? Why,
fay the cafuifts, he already is under a promife to marry
her, and his promife was made at a time when it ftiould
not have been made. It is true, the performance, con-
fidered by itfelf, is oppofed by no law human or divine *,
but then it originated in what was wrong ; and however
much the Supi-eme Being and the bulk of the creation
may be out of the fecret, we have difeovered by the in¬
genious j,logic of cafuiftry, that evil can never fpring
2
0
A cafe
where
out of good, nor good out of evil j but that the means Promife.
and the end, the motive and the action, are always of the *'
fame complexion in morals. 10
When a promife is made, the particular circumftances Error'e.cm?
in which it is to be deemed obligatory are fometimes l)romiles‘
mentioned. “ I promife (for inftance) to lend my friend
200 pounds within three days, provided a certain cre¬
ditor which I name do not make a demand on me before
that time. In other cafes no circumftance is forefeen
by the promifer to prevent the fulfilling of his engage¬
ment and hence we have erroneous promifes, which
proceed on the fuppofition that things are true, poffible,
and lawful, which are not fo. An erroneous promife,
which proceeds on the falfe reprefentation of the pro¬
milee, is not binding.
A London gentleman lately purchafed an eftate in
the fouth of England at a public fale, believing the
defeription which he faw in the newfpapers, and which
likewife was given by the au&ioueer, to be true j but
finding afterwards that the eftate nowife correfponded
to the defeription, the law freed him from his engage¬
ment, becaufe the feller had evidently been guilty of
a breach of promife in not fatisfying thofe expe&ations
which he had intentionally and even ftudioufiy excited
in the buyers.
An erroneous promife, whofe performance is impof- A promife
fible, is not binding. Before the conclulion of the not binding
late war a planter of Tobago promifed to fend to hisw^entlie
friend in England 1 2 hogftieads pf fugar from the next IsYm
year’s produce of bis eftale j but before that time To- pofiible,
bago fell into the hands of the French, and the Weft
Indian found it impoflible to anfwer the expectations of
his friend in England. J2
An. erroneous promife, whofe performance is unlaw- nor when
ful, or, to fpeak more precifely, whofe performance is lt ls unlaw-
contrary to a prior promife, or to any moral or reli-fu^
gious obligation, is not binding. A father, believing
the accounts from abroad of his fon’s death, foon af¬
ter bequeathes his fortune to his nephew : but the
fon, the report of whofe death had been falfe, returns
home, and the father is releafed from the promife to
his nephew, becaufe it was contrary to a prior promife,
which he had tacitly come under to his fon. This prior
promife wras implied in the whole of the father’s con-
duft, and was exprefled in figns as emphatic and as
unequivocal as thofe of language. It had all the ef-
feCl too of the moft folemn promife on the fon, who,
to his father’s knowledge, was induced in confequence
of this promife to entertain the moft fanguine hopes
of fucceeding to his father, if he furvired. The world
likewife could bear teftimony that thefe expectations
were not raftily cherifhed. He was brought into exif-
tence by means of his father, who was thereby under-
ftood to love him affectionately •, he was uihered in¬
to fociety as the reprefentative of his family, and was
therefore fuppofed to be the heir of its wealth. Religion
itfelf fupported his pretenfions, pronouncing the father
worfe than an infidel who negleCts to fliow that atten¬
tion to his children which the world naturally expeCts
from a parent.—That the father’s promife was not re¬
leafed from the mere circumftance that the miftake was
known to his nephew the promifee, will appear plain
from the following circumftance. Suppofe the father
a landed proprietor, that the leafe of one of his farms
has expired, and that he has long been expeCting
to
PRO
[ 439
refufed, fion
grant a
Promife. to let it at 200l.; fuppofe that this fum is
' and that he agrees with the prefent tenant to
new leafe ?t 150!-—the obligation here to perform
'his promife is not diffolved by an after offer of 200!.,
though the tenant knew that 200I. had been expend¬
ed, and that only from defpairing of that fum his
landlord had granted the new leafe at 150I.; the pro¬
mife is binding, becaufe the performance is every way
lawful, contrary to no prior engagement, and oppofed
to no principle in morals. The law of the land, were
the proprietor reluftant, would enforce the obligation,
and exacd obedience in the tone of authority 5 becaufe
breaches of faith, were they permitted in fuch cafes,
would deftroy all confidence, and annihilate the bonds
of focial union :
Men live and profper but in mutual trull 5
A confidence of one another’s truth. Oroonoko.
. 13
Util ity no
criterion
The great difficulty which many have to encounter
in determining when erroneous promifes ought or ought
judgeot t0 not to k'ffib arifes from their proceeding on a prin-
tiie validity whole confequences they do not feem to be al-
ofpromifes ways aware. There is feldom, they perceive, a virtu¬
ous aflion that is not attended with fbrne happy effects 5
and it will, perhaps, be generally allowed, that the com¬
parative merit of fimilar virtues may fafely be ellimated
by their utility : But to make utility, as fome do, the
criterion of virtue, and pronounce an adlion vicious or
virtuous merely on account of thofe confequences which
they fee may flow from it, is a dangerous maxim. Evil
has often fprung out of good, and good out of evil ; and
good and evil have frequently fprung from the fame ac-
. . I4.
This prin¬
ciple would
give a fane-
tion to vice
and falfe-
hcod.
tion. In Mandeville’s Hive,
That root of evil Avarice,
That damn’d ill-natur’d baneful vice,.
Was Have to Prodigality,
That noble fin •, whilft Luxury
Employ’d a million of the poor,
And odious Pride a million more.
Envy itfelf and Vanity
Vvere minillers of Induftry :
That darling folly, Ficklenefs,
In diet, furniture, and drefs,
That flrange ridiculous vice, was made
The very wheel that turn’d the trade.
The defeription here is not altogether falfey and thefe
indeed may be fome of the confequences that flow
from avarice, luxury, pride, vanity, and envy : but thefe
are not all.—To fee at once all the confequences that
fpring from an aflion, the good and the bad, the par¬
ticular and general, the immediate and remote, would
require fometimes the forefight of Ornnifcience, and at
all times a knowledge fuperior to what is human. In
the Fable of (he Bees, the author’s objeft was to fliow
that private vices are public benefits 5 and he therefore
was naturally led by his argument to confider only fuch
confequences of vice as favoured his hypothefis. He
xvanted candour. And that artifice which runs through
his Fable happens to remind us, that while the remote
and the general effebls of an aflion may not be feen,
the particular and immediate, which fall within our no¬
tice, are apt to be viewed through tire medium of paf-
] PRO
interefl, or opinion. For thefe reafons, it appears Promife.
furprifing how any perfon fhould ever imagine that the —v—
obligation to perform a promife (hould depend entirely
upon the ideas which the promiler apprehended of its
utility.
1 he belt 1'efutation of fuch an opinion are the Angu¬
lar conclufions to which it leads. j 5
A late writer on political juftice, who appears to t'l>e confe-
have embraced it, gets into realoning not very common. rlliences
In a part of his lyitem he looks on morals as an article
of trade: virtue and vice, in his Chapter of Promifes,
are but antiquated terms tor profit and lofs j and right and abiurd.
and wrong are ufed to exprefs what is beneficial and
what is hurtful, in his apprehenfion, to himfelf and the
community.—-With refpedt to veracity, thofe “ rational
and intelligent beings,” by whom he withes the affairs'
of the world to be carried on, may, while they , aft as
rational and intelligent, break or perform their promifes
at pleafure. He thinks it “ effential to various circum-
ftances of human intercourfe, that we fliould be known
to beflow a Heady attention upon the quantities of con¬
venience or inconvenience, of good or evil, that might
arife to others from our conduft.” After this atten¬
tion, the difappointment of the promifee is not to be
minded, though the expeftations excited by thefe “ ra¬
tional and intelligent beings” may have “ altered the na¬
ture of his fituation, and engaged him in undertakings
from which he would otherwile have abftained.” What
the promifer takes to be the general utility and the fit-
nefs of things is to be his guide. And a breach of
promife will be attended with the following advantages:
“ The promifee, and all other men, will be taught to
depend more upon their own exertions, and lels upon
the affiftance of others, which caprice may refufe or
juftice withhold. He and all others will be taught to
acquire fuch merit, and to engage in fuch purfuits, as
(hall oblige any honeft man to come to their fuccour if
they ftiould Hand in need of affiflance.” This breach
of promife, with a view to the general utility, will, lb
far from being criminal, form a part of that refolute
execution of juftice which would in a thoufand ways
increafe the independence, the energies, and the virtue of
mankind L” * Godwin's
Such are the views which determined this author to Inquiry
confider “ the validity of promifes” as “ inconfiflent r^nce,n'l7’g
with juftice,” and as “ foreign to general good.” From y.1,:?;™1
one, however, who relies with fo much confidence onbockiii’.-
the promifer, it would certainly be defirable to know, chap* 3*
whether the perfon, who violates his faith for the pub- x6
lie utility, is always to be candid. Where, breach of A private
faith promotes his-own inlereft, ought he alone to de- ’“dwidual
cide on the validity of his promife ? or where promifes!!<1S nor’/’lu
are broken tor the general good, is he to be guided byhisfehemes
his own vifionary Ichemesof utility? Is he to aft as of utility on .
truftee for the public without any delegated power ? ^ public,
and ftiall the community fubmit to his decifions without
fo much as putting the queftion, Who hath made thee
a ruler over us ? When a writer thus deviates fo far
from the path of reafon, it is natural to alk, what was
the ignis fatuus that milled him ? In the prefent cafe it
is pretty obvious. Being fomething of opinion with
the celebrated Turgot f, that romances are the only f See Note,
books in which moral principles are treated in an im-hook bb
partial manner, this gentleman, in his Chapter ofcns!i3- ^
Promifes, feems to have borrowed a part of his morality
» from..
PRO [ 440
Promile, from the doggerels of Butler j and having adopted,
though from different motives, the political principles
of Sir Hudibras’s fquire, that obedience to civil go¬
vernment is not due becaufe it is promifed, he has come
to exaftly the fame concluffon with refpedl to the ob¬
ligation of keeping one’s word. But Ralph has rea-
foned with more ingenuity; and has fliown not only
that the public good, but the glory of the Lord, may
be fometimes promoted by a breach of faith.
The faints
are God¬
win’s ra¬
tional and
intelligent
teings.
I?
Views of
utility an
unfafe
guide in
morals.
The faints, * whom oaths and vows oblige,
Know little of their privilege •,
Farther, I mean, than carrying on
Some felf-advantage of their own :
For if the dev’l, to ferve his turn,
Can tell truth, why the faints ftrould fcorn,
When it ferves theirs, to fwear and lie,
I think there’s little reafon why :
Fife h’ has a greater pow’r than they,
Which ’twere impiety to fay :
W’ are not commanded to forbear,
Indefinitely, at all to fwear j
But to fwear idly, and in vain,
Without felfintereft and gain ;
For breaking of an oath and lying
Is but a kind of felf-denying,
A faint-like virtue j and from hence
Some have broke oaths by Providence :
Some, to the glory of the Lord,
Perjur’d themlelves and broke their word —
For faints may do the fame thing by
The fpirit, in fincerity,
Which other men are tempted to,
And at the devil’s inftance do.
Hudibras, Canto II.
Here are new views of utility j which, were they to
be confidered as of any weight, would increafe the dif¬
ficulty of determining when an erroneous promile ought
to be kept.
But fliould views of utility be laid afide, and ffiould
it be made an invariable rule that truth is on no account
to be violated, that deceit is never to be praftifed, and
that moral obligations are not to be diffblved for the
profped! of any phyfical advantage ; thofe doubts
which arife concerning the validity of erroneous pro-
mifes will foon difappear. Difagreeable perhaps and
ridiculous confequences may fometimes arife to a few
individuals from an honeft and confcientious adherence
to their promife ; but will any aflert that the general
good, t/iat burden of the fong, will ever be endangered
by too much veracity ?
So numerous inconveniences arife daily from the re¬
gular operation of thofe great phyfical laws, which are
under the immediate direftion of Providence, that thofe
philofophers who have adopted the principle of utility,
and are much furprifed to fee the univerfe fo aukwardly
planned for the eafe and comfort of them and their fpe-
cies, have been under the neceffity of imputing many
events in nature to the malignity of fome evil indepen¬
dent being ; or of allowing that things have degenera¬
ted fince they firft came from the hands of the Crea¬
tor, and that they muff now be exceedingly altered
from what they had been when He chofe to pronounce
them all very good. Thus, abfurdity or impiety muff;
l
] PRO
always be the confequence of judging of the vice Promife.
and virtue of an a6tion by its utility, and of eftimat- ''“"“’'v
ing its utility by our limited views and erroneous con¬
ceptions.
As for extorted promifes, it is curious to obferve
how this queftion ftrould always be ftarted, whether or
not they ought to be kept ? and another queftion
ftrould feldom be thought of, whether or not they ought lS
to be made ? Fortitude was one of the cardinal virtues, Extorted
among the ancients ; and is deemed of fuch importance pronrifes.
in the Chriftian fyftem, that the fearful are clafied with
the unbelievers, and are thought unworthy of the fa¬
vour of the Deity, as being incapable of fupporting thofe
trials to which heaven expofes the faithful as the trueft ^
teft of Chriftian virtue.—If a perfon flrould want the Whether
neceflary fortitude to be virtuous, it will be a poor ex-binding or
cufe for his bafenefs, that he has added deceit to hisnot‘
cowardice : and furely it is not the bufinefs of morality,
when it has found him guilty of one crime, to grant
him a difpenfation for committing two. The laws of
jurifprudence, it will readily be allowed, cannot favour
the claims of the promifee ; becaufe they ought never
to lend their fupport to oppreffion and violence. But
their acquittal, ftrould he violate his faith, will by
no means vindicate the charafter of the promifer.
Their acquitting a woman from the charge of adultery,
goes a fhort way in reftoring the fair reputation of her
innocence.
Let jurifprudence decide as it will, the man of honour
and the generous patriot can never be brought to re-
fpeft the perfon who, ftruck vrith a panic, could betray
either himfelf or his friends. The magnanimous fpirits
who could die for the truth will view with contempt
his pitiful deceit. Thofe unfortunate men who may
fuffer from that very diftruft which the breach of his
faith has begotten, will always deteft him as a traitor
and enemy ; and heaven itfelf cannot be fuppofed to re¬
ward that foldier who deferts her caufe, and relinquifties
the poll which ftie has afligned him, at the fight of dan-
ger.
If we once begin to accommodate morality to the
difpofitions and humours of mankind, it is hard to fay
where this fpecies of complaifance will end. The de¬
grees of timidity are fo various, and fome tempers by
nature fo yielding, that repeated importunity or an ear¬
ned: requeft will extort a promife. 2Q
A young lady was frequently prefied by her dying q-he laws
hufband to grant him a promife that Ihe would not of morality
marry after his death. For fome time (he was able to are not to
refill with becoming fpirit his abfurd requeft ; but upon
be accom¬
modated to
nterefts of
ot a fecond lover, andraan^‘n^'
his declaring oftener than once that he could not other-^ jiu_
wife die in peace, Ihe complied and promifed. I 00 mours and
young, however, for this effort of continence, {he after
wrards liftened to the addreffes
found her heart infenfibly engaged before Ihe adverted
to the impropriety of a new attachment. But propo-
fals of marriage could fcarcely fail to remind her of her
promife and awaken her fcruples. Thefe llte foon com¬
municated to her lover, with her firm refolution to re¬
main a widow, if the contrary meafure, which Ihe great¬
ly preferred, and on which her earthly happinefs
depended, were not approved by fome fpiritual coun-
fellor.
Upon this declaration it was agreed to take the advice
of their own minifter, who was an eminent diffenting
clergyman
PRO [44
Promife. clergyman in the diocefe of Oxford : but this gentle-
■,~l man, unwilling to decide in a matter of fuch importance,
propofed to refer it to Dr Seeker, who was then bifhop
of that fee. This prelate too declined to give any judg¬
ment in the cafe j but, as was his way, muttered up a
number of arguments on each fide of the queftion, and
committed them to a letter, which a learned gentleman
of our acquaintance had feme time ago an opportunity
of feeing in manufeript.
If the fentiments to which the bithop was inclined
could have been inferred from his ftatement of argu¬
ments, he feemed to think that the promife was binding.
In our opinion, he ought to have given a pofitive deci-
fion. It was no matter whether the promife was ex¬
torted or not : the promile was made; and the queftion
was now, whether or not wras the performance lawful ?
That it was lawful appears evident. The lady was un¬
der a moral obligation to remain a widow 5 and no
moral obligation, fo far as we know, required her to
marry.
To be fruitful and multiply, indeed, is declared in
Scripture, and is found, to the woful experience of many,
to be one of the general laws of our nature. But of
all thofe laws intended by nature to regulate the con-
ducl of inferior intelligences, the moral,which were meant
to be checks and corredlors of thofe abufes to which
the phyfical are apt to be carried, are certainly the moft
Moral laws facred and obligatory. To procreate his fpecies, a man
fuperior to is not then to be guilty of adultery, or of fornication,
or to liften to the lewd calls of incontinency. St Paul’s
ligation. obfervation, that it is better to marry than burn, can¬
not be allowed in this inftance to have much weight.
He has not defined what degree of amorous inflamma¬
tion conftitutes burning, nor in what cafes this burning
would be a fufficient warrant for marrying. In the
prefent inftance he does not even confider marriage as
a duty j he compares it with burning, and thinks it on¬
ly the leaft of the two evils. Not that marriage is evil
of itfelf ^ for he that marrieth doth well: but there are
circumftances in which it would be inconvenient to mar¬
ry, and in which he that marrieth not is faid to do bet¬
ter. But if thofe inconveniences be reafons fufficient to
deter from marrying, is that perfon to be held excufable
who, in order to gratify an animal paffion, fomewhat
refined, fhould violate an oath, and trample on a facred
moral obligation ?
The young lady might indeed declare that her earth¬
ly happinefs was at an end if ffie were not permitted to
marry again : but what circumftance prevented her
from marrying ? It was not the opinion of her own
paftor, or the bilhop of Oxford : the truth is, it was
certain fcruples of her orvn, which being unable of her-
felf to overcome, ffie had pioufiy folicited the affiftance
of others. It is certainly a misfortune that a devotion¬
al and amorous turn ftrould always be fo clofely con-
nefled in the females. Both, however, cannot always
be indulged. Who will fay, that the motive is rational
which inclines one to cheriffi a paffion which confcience
difapproves ? The virtue of continency might indeed
have borne hard on this lady’s conftitution, and in her
way to immortal happinefs might have formed a gate fo
ftrait and narrow as it might be difficult for her to pafs
through : but after all, her cafe was not harder than that
of nuns, who take the vows of perpetual chaftity, and
endure fufferings of a fimilar nature, and in fome inftances
Vol. XVII. Part II.
1 ] PRO
even perhaps greater than hers ; yet doing it cheerfully, Promite-
from the fuppofition that the Omnifcient is well acquaint- o II
ed with the nature of the great facrifice which they ‘ roriS^‘oe'j
make, and that after death he will ftudy to requite them,
and bellow on them fomelhing like an equivalent, which
in their opinion can fcarcely be lefs than a happinefs in
heaven as ample as their withes and as lulling as their
fouls.
Every promife, therefore, which is not releafed, nor
fraudulently obtained by the promifee, is to be held bind¬
ing if the performance be lawful and poffible. 22
The Chriftian cannot, and a man of honour willA promife
fcarcely venture to reject this maxim, that a gcod man0* a fimil?r
ought not to change though he i’wear to his hurt.
a limple promife and a promiffory oath are not very dif- ''
ferent in point, of obligation. Moft people know, and
where any moral duty is concerned, they ought parti¬
cularly to refledt, that this world is governed by an Al¬
mighty Being, who knows all things, who lives always,
and who is juft to reward and to puniffi. The perfon
who makes a promiflbry oath does it avowedly under
an immediate fenfe of thefe truths; the perfon who
makes a fimple promife, though he certainly ought, yet
may not reftedl on thefe at the time. The former,
when he violates his oath, exhibits, only to outward
appearance, a greater contempt of the Divine power,
knowledge, and juftice, than he who violates a fimple
promife under an impreffion of the fame truths. To
Him who knows the fecrels of the heart, the breach of
the promife muft appear as criminal as the breach of the
oath. See Assumpsit and Oath.
PROMONTORY, in Geography, a high point of
land or rock projecting into the fea; the extremity of
which towards the fea is called a cape or headland.
See Geography Index.
PROMPTER, in the drama, an officer pofted be¬
hind the feenes, whole bufineis it is to watch attentively
the adlors fpeaking on the ftage, in order to fugged and
put them forward when at a ftand, to corredt them when
amifs, &c. in their parts.
PROMULGATED, of Promulged, fomething
publifhed or proclaimed, and generally applied to a
law, to denote the publiftung or proclaiming it to the
people.
PiiONAOS, in the ancient agriculture, a porch to
a church, palace, or other fpacious building. Sec the
article Porch.
PRONATION, among anatomifts. The radius of
the arm has two kinds of motion, the one called pro-
nation, the other fuptnation. Pronation is that where¬
by the palm of the hand is turned downwards ; and fu-
pination, the oppofite motion thereto, is that whereby
the back of the hand is turned downwards. The pe¬
culiar mufcles whereby pronation is performed, are call¬
ed pronatores, as thofe by which fupination is performed
are termed fupinatorcs. See Anatomy, Table of the
Mufcles, and Plates.
PRONG-hoe, in huffiandry, a term ufed to exprefs
an inftrument ufed to hoe or break the ground near and
among the roots of plants.
The ordinary contrivance of the hoe is very defe&ive,
it being only made for feraping on the furface ; but the
great ufe of hoeing being to break and open the ground,
Sefide the killing of the weeds, which the ancients, and
many among us, have thought the only ufe of the hoe,
3 K this
PRO [ 442 ] PRO
Prong-hoe this dull and blunt inftrument is by no means calculated
_ il . for the purpofes it is to ferve. The proncr-hoe confiits of
tion. ^wo hooked points ol fix or feven inches long, and when
- firuck into the ground wall ttir and remove it the fame
depth as the plough does, and thus anfwer both the ends
ol cutting up the weeds and opening the land. It is ufe-
ful even in the horfe-hoeing hufbandry, becaufe the hoe-
plough can only come within three or four inches of the
rows of the corn, turnips, and the like ; whereas this in-
ftrument may be ufed afterwards, and with it the land
may be railed and ftirred even to the very ftalk of the
plant. See Agriculture.
PRONOUN, Pronomen, in Grammar, a declinable
part of fpeech, which being put inftead of a noun, points
out fome perfon or thing. See Grammar.
PRONUNCIATION, in Grammar, the manner of
articulating or founding the wmrds of a language.
Pronunciation makes the moft difficult part of written
grammar •, in regard that a book expreffing itfelf to the
eyes, in a matter that wholly concerns the ears, feems
next akin to that of teaching the blind to diftinguilh co¬
lours : hence it is that there is no part lb defeftive in
grammar as that of pronunciation, as the writer has fre¬
quently no term whereby to give the reader an idea of
the found he wmuld exprefs j for want of a proper term,
therefore, he fubftitutes a vicious and precarious one.
To give a juft idea of the pronunciation of a language,
it feems neceflary to fix as nearly as poffible all the feve-
ral founds employed in the pronunciation of that lan¬
guage. Cicero tells us, that the pronunciation under¬
went feveral changes among the Romans : and indeed it
is more precarious in the living languages, being, as Du
Eos tells us, fubfervient to faflrion in thefe. The French
language is clogged wfith a difficulty in pronunciation
from wffiich moft others are free 5 and it confifts in this,
that moft of their wTords have twro different pronuncia¬
tions, the one in common profe, the other in verfe.
As to the pronunciatiqn of the Engliftr language, the
ingenious Mr Martin, in his Spelling-Book of Arts and
Sciences, lays down the following rules : 1. The final (e)
lengthens the found of the foregoing vowTel; as in can,
cane; rob, robe; tun, tune, &c. 2. The final (e), in words
ending in re, is founded before the r like u ; as majjacre,
maJJ'a-cur ; lucre, lu cur, &c. 3. The Latin diphthongs
te, ce, are founded like e; as /Etna, Etna, ceconomy, eco¬
nomy, &c. : but at the end of the words oe founds like 0;
as in toe, foe, &c. 4. Alfo the Engliffi improper diph¬
thongs, ea, eo, eu, ue, found only the e and u ; as tea or
te ; feoffee or feffce ; due or du ; true or tru, &c. though
fometimes eo and ea are pronounced like ce, as in people,
fear, near, &c. 5. Sometimes the diphthong {ie ) is
pronounced like e in ceiling, like ee in field, and, at the
end of wmrds, always like y, as in lie, &c. 5 and <?/is pro¬
nounced either like e or at, as in deceit, reign, &c. 6. The
triphthong eau is pronounced like 0, in beau and jet d'eau;
and ieu founds like u in lieu, adieu, &c. 7. The found
of c is hard before the vowels a, 0, u, as in call, cold, cup,
&tc. ; alfo fometimes before h, as in chart, cold, &c. ;
and before / and r, as in clear, creep, &c. It is other-
wife generally foft, as in city, cell, cyder, child, See. 8. In
French words ch is founded like jb, as in chagreen, ma¬
chine ; and fometimes like qu, as in choir. 9. The
found of^ is hard before a, 0, u, l, r, as in gall, go, gum,
glean, grope ; alfo before ui, as in guilt, guild, &c. j and
before h, as in ghofi 3 fometimes before z, as in gibbous,
gibber iff. It is alfo generally hard before e, as in get, Pronuncia-
geld, &c. 3 but foft in many words derived from the llon,
Greek and Latin, as geometry, genealogy, genus, &c.
Two gg are always hard, as in dagger, &c“ The found ' v
afg, wffien toft, is like that of j. 10. In any part of a
word, ph founds like/, as inphilofophy, &c. n. The
found of qu, at the end of French words, is like k, as in
rifque, &c. 12. The fyllables ti and ci, if followed by
a vowel, found like fi or Jhi ; as in fiction, logician, &c.
13. When cc occurs before i, the firft is hard and the
latter/is foft 3 as m flaccid, &c. 14. The letter p is not
pronounced at the beginning of fyllables before/and t;
as inpfaim, ptarmies, &c. As to other peculiarities re¬
garding the pronunciation of fingle letters, many of them
have been taken notice of at the beginning of each, in the
courfe of this work.
But it is not enough to know7 the juft pronunciation
of fingle letters, but alfo of words : in order to which,
the accenting of words ought to be well underftood 3
fince nothing is more harfti and difagreeable to the ear,
than to hear a perfon fpeak or read with wrong ac¬
cents. And indeed in Englilh the fame word is often
both a noun and a verb, diftinguiffied only by the ac¬
cent, which is on the firft fyllable of the noun, and on
the laft of the verb 3 as ferment and ferment; record and
record, &c. We are to obferve alfo, that in order to a
juft expreffion of words, fome require only a fingle ac¬
cent on the fyllable, as in torment, &c. 3 but in others
it Ihould be marked double, as in am'mal, becaufe it is
pronounced as if the letter was wrote double, viz. anni-
mal.
Mr Sheridan’s Dictionary wall be found extremely
ufeful as a directory in acquiring the pronunciation of
the Englifti language ; but care muft be taken to avoid
his provincial brogue, v'hich has certainly mifled him in
feveral inftances. Mr Walker’s Pronouncing Dictionary,
lately publiftied, w'ill likewife deferve the ftudent’s at¬
tention. It is a work of great labour and merit, and is
highly ufeful. It has indeed fome faults and inaccura¬
cies, but it is notwithftanding, in all probability, the belt
of the kind.
Pronunciation is alfo ufed for the fifth and laft part
of rhetoric, which confifts in varying and regulating the
voice agreeably to the matter and words, fo as moft ef¬
fectually to perfuade and touch the hearers. See Ora¬
tory, Part IV.
PROOF, in Law and Logic, is that degree of evidence
wffiich carries conviction to the mind. It differs from
demonftration, which is applicable only to thofe truths
of wffiich the contrary is inconceivable. It differs like¬
wife from probability, which produces for the moft part
nothing more than opinion, while proof produces belief.
See Probability.
The proof of crimes wras anciently effeCted among
our anceftors divers ways 3 viz. by duel or combat, fire,
water, &c. See Duel and Ordeal.
PROOF of Artillery and Small Arms, is a trial wffie-
ther they ftand the quantity of powder allotted for that
purpofe. The rule of the board of ordnance is, that
all guns, under 24-pounders, be loaded with powffier as
much as their {hot weighs 3 that is, a brafs 24-pounder
with 21 lb. a brafs 32-pounder with 26 lb. 12 oz. and
a 42-pounder with 31 lb. 8. oz. 3 the iron 24-pounder
with 18 lb. the 32-pounder with 21 lb. 8.-oz. and the
42-pounder with 23 lb.
The
PRO [ 443 1 PRO
Preofl The brafs light field-pieces are proved with powder
v ' that wreighs half as much as their fhot, except the 24-
pounder, which is loaded with 10 lb. only.
Government allows 11 bullets of lead in the pound for
the proof of mulkets and 14.5, or 29 in two pounds, for
fervice j 17 m tne pound for the proof of carabines, and
20 for fervice ; 28 in the pound for the proof of piftols,
and 34 for fervice.
When guns of a new metal, or of lighter conftruc-
tion, are proved j then, befides the common proof, they
are fired 200 or 300 times, as quick as they can be,
loaded with the common charge given in aftual fervice.
Our light 6-pounders were fired 300 times in 3 hours
27 minutes, loaded with 1 lb. 4 oz. without receiving
any damage.
PROOF of Powder, is in order to try its goodnefs and
ftrength. See Gunpowder.
Proof of Cannon, is made to afcertain their being
well caft, their having no cavities in their metal, and,
in a word, their being fit to refill the effort of their
charge of powder. In making this proof, the piece is
laid upon the ground, fupported only by a piece of
wood in the middle, of about 5 or 6 inches thick, to
raife the muzzle a little j and then the piece is fired
againft a folid butt of earth.
Tools ufed in the PROOF of Cannon, are as follows :
Searcher, an iron focket with branches, from 4 to 8
in number, bending outwards a little, with fmall points
at their ends : to this focket is fixed a wooden handle,
from 8 to 12 feet long, and if inch in diameter. This
fearcher is introduced into the gun after each firing, and
turned gently round to difeover the cavities within ; if
any are found, they are marked on the outfide with
chalk 5 and then the
Searcher with one point is introduced : about which
point a mixture of wax and tallow is put, to take the
impreflion of the holes; and if any are found of one-
fourth of an inch deep, or of any confiderable length,
the gun is rejected as unferviceable to the government.
Reliever, is an iron ring fixed to a handle, by means
of a focket, fo as to be at right angles \ it ferves to dif-
engage the firft fearcher, when any of its points are re¬
tained in a hole, and cannot otherwife be got out.
When guns are rejected by the proof-mafters, they or¬
der them to be marked x thus, which the contradlors
generally alter IVP thus j and after fuch alteration, dif-
pofe of them to foreign powers for Woolwich proof.
The moft curious inftrument for finding the principal
defects in pieces of artillery, was lately invented by Lieu¬
tenant-general Defaguliers, of the royal regiment of ar¬
tillery. This inftrument, grounded on the trueft mecha¬
nical principles, is no fooner introduced into the hollow
cylinder of the gun, than it difeovers its defeats, and
more particularly that of the piece not being truly bor¬
ed j which is a very important one, and to which moft
of the difafters happening to pieces of artillery are in a
great meafure to be imputed j for, when a gun is not
truly bored, the moft expert artillerift will not be able
to make a good (hot.
PROOF of Mortars and Howitzers, is made to afcer¬
tain their being well caft, and of ftrength to refift the
effort of their charge. For this purpofe the mortar or
howitzer is placed upon the ground, with feme part of
their trunnions or breech funk below the furface, and
refting on wooden billets, at an elevation of about 70
degrees. Propaga-
Ihe mirror is generally the only inftrument to dif- .
cover the defedls in mortars and howitzers. In order
to ufe it, the fun mull ftiine ; the breech mull be placed
towards the fun, and the glafs over-againft the mouth
of the piece : it illuminates the bore and chamber fuffi-
ciently to difeover the flaws in it.
PROOF of Foreign Prafs-Artillery. ill, The Pruflians,
Their battering-train and garrifon artillery are proved
with a quantity of powder equal to i the weight of the
Ihot, and fired 75 rounds as fall as in real fervice j that
is, 2 or 3 rounds in a minute. Their light field-train,
from a 12-pounder upwards, are proved with a quantity
of powder rrr i~3d of the weight of the (hot, and fired
150 rounds, at 3 or 4 rounds in a minute. From a 1 2-
pounder downwards, are proved with a quantity of pow¬
der = i-yth of the ftiot’s weight, and fired 300 rounds,
at 5 or 6 rounds each minute, properly fpunged and
loaded. Their mortars are proved with the chambers
full of powder, and the (hells loaded. Three rounds are
fired as quick as poflible.
2d, The Dutch prove all their artillery by firing each
piece 5 times j the two firft rounds with a quantity of
powTder = 2-3ds of the weight of the (hot; and the
three lad rounds with a quantity of powder — the
weight of the (hot.
3d, The French the fame as the Dutch.
PROOF, in brandy and other fpirituous liquors, is a
little white lather which appears on the top of the li¬
quor when poured into a glafs. This lather, as it dimi-
nilhes, forms itfelf into a circle called by the French the
chapelet, and by the Englilh the bead or bubble.
Proofs of Prints, were anciently a few impreflions Nichols's
taken off in the courfe of an engraver’s procefs. He Hfe of Ho-
proved a plate in different dates, that he might afcertain
how far his labours had been fuccefsful, and when they
were complete. The excellence of fuch early impref-
fions, worked with care, and under the artift’s eye, occa-
fioning them to be greedily fought after, and liberally
paid for, it has been cuftomary among our modern print-
fellers to take off a number of them, amounting perhaps,
to hundreds, from every plate of confiderable value ; and
yet their want of rarenefs has by no means abated their
price. On retouching a plate, it has been alfo ufual, a-
mong the fame confcientious fraternity, to cover the in-
feription, which was immediately added after the firft
proofs were obtained, with flips of paper, that a number
of fecondary proofs might alfo be created.
Proof, in the fugar trade. See Sugar.
Proofs, in printing. See Printing.
PROPAGATION, the a£l of multiplying the kind.
See Generation.
PROPAGATION of Plants. The mod natural and the
moft univerfal way of propagating plants is by feeds.
See Plants. But they may alfo be propagated by fets,
pieces, or cuttings, taken from the parent plant. Wil¬
lows are very eafily propagated by fets : fuch as rife to
be confiderable timber trees being raifed from fets feven
or eight feet long, (harpened at their larger ends, which
are thruft into the ground by the fides of ditches, on the
banks of rivers, or in any moift foil. The fallow trees
are raifed from fets only three feet long. The plane tree,
mint, &c. may be propagated in the fame way. In pro-
3 K 2 viding
PRO [ 444 ] PRO
Propaga viding the flips, fprigs, or cuttings, however, care irmft
u'm be taken to cut oif fuch branches as have knots or joints
Property. tvvo or three inches beneath them : f’mall top fprigs of
y—1 two or three years growth are the belt for this operation.
Plants are alio propagated by parting their roots, each
part of which, properly managed, lends out frefli roots.
Another mode oi propagating plants is by layering or
laying the tops of the branches in the ground.
The method of layering is this : I)ig a ring-trench
round tire ftool, of a depth full able to the nature of the
plant ; and having pitched upon the ihoots to be layer¬
ed, bend them to the bottom of the trench (either with
or without plaihing, as may be found nroil convenient),
and there peg them fall 5 or, putting fome mould upon
them, tread them hard enough to prevent their fpring-
ing up again—fill in the mould—place the top of the
layer in an upright pollure, treading the mould hard
behind it; and cut it carefully 01T above the firft, fe-
cond, or third eye. Plants are alfo propagated by their
bulbs.
The number of vegetables that may be propagated
from an individual is very remarkable, efpecially in the
molt minute plants. The annual product of one feed
even of the common mallow hns been found to be no
lefs than 200,000 ; but it has been proved, by a ltri£t
examination into the more minute parts of the vegetable
world, that the common wall mofs produces a much
more numerous offspring. In one of the little heads of
this plant there have been counted 13,824 feeds. Now
allotting to a root of this plant eight branches, and to
each branch fix heads, which appears to be a very
moderate computation, the produce of one feed is
6 X 13824 ~ 82944 j and 8x82944 gives 663,5(52
feeds as the annual produce of one feed, and that fo
imall that 13824 of them are contained in a capfule,
whofe length is but one ninth of an inch, its diameter
but one 23d of an inch, and its weight but the 13th part
of a grain.
For the propagation or culture of particular plants,
fee Agriculture.
PROPER, fomething natural and effentially belong¬
ing to any thing.
PROPERTIUS, Sextus Aurelius, a celebrated
Latin poet, born at Mevania, a city of Umbria, now
called Bevagna, in the duchy of Spoletto. He went to
Rome after the death of his father, a Roman knight,
who had been put to death by order of Auguftus, for
having followed Antony’s party during the triumvirate.
Propertius in a fliort time acquired great reputation by
his wit and abilities, and had a confiderable Ihsre in the
efteem of Maecenas and Cornelius Callus. He had alfo
Ovid, Tibullus, Baffus, and the other ingenious men of
his time, for his friends. He died at Rome 19 B. C.
He is printed with almoft all the editions of Tibullus
and Catullus : but the belt edition of him is that which
was given feparately by Janus Brouckhufius at Amiler-
dam, 1702, in 4to, and again in 1714, 4to, cumcurisfe-
cundis ejufdem. We have four books of his Elegies or
Amours with a lady called Hq/Ha, or HoJHlia, to whom
he gave the name of Cynthia.
PROPERIV, in a general fenfe, is a particular vir¬
tue or quality which nature has bcftowred on fome things
exclufive of all others : thus, colour is a property of
light 5 extenfion, figure, divifibility, and impenetrability,
are properties of body.
Property, in Law, is deferibed to be the higheftright Property.
which a perfon has or can have to any thing.  v—
There is nothing which fo generally ftrikes the ima-
gination, and engages the affections of mankind, as the ‘ ‘ 0R‘
right of property 5 or that foie and defpotic dominion
which one man claims and exercifes over certain external
things of the world, in total exclufion of the right of any
other individual in the univerfe. And yet there are very Tpe or;„;.
few that will give themfelves the trouble to confider nal founda-
the original and foundation of this right. Pleafed as fi°n of the
we are with the poffeilion, we feem afraid to look back r‘S^t t0
to the means by w hich it was acquired, as if fearful of^^peer^
fome defect in our title 5 or at belt we reft fatisfied withraliycon-
the decifion of the laws in our favour, without examin- fidered.
ing the reafon or authority upon which thofe laws have
been built. We think it enough that our title is deri¬
ved by the grant of the former proprietor, by defeent
from our anceftors, or by the laft will and tellament of
the dying owner : not caring to refleCl, that (accurate¬
ly and ftriftly fpeaking) there is no foundation in na¬
ture or in natural law, why a fet of words upon parch¬
ment ftiould convey the dominion of land ; w hy the fon
fhould have a right to exclude his fellow creatures from
a determinate fpot of ground, becaufe his father had
done fo before him 5 or why the occupier of a particu¬
lar field or of a jewel, when lying on his death-bed and
no longer able to maintain poiTeflion, ftiould. be entitled
to tell the reft of the world which of them ftiould enjoy
it after him. Thefe inquiries, it muft be owned, would
be ufelefs and even troublefome in common life. It is
well if the mafs of mankind will obey the laws when
made, without ferutinizing too nicely into the reafons
of making them. But when law is to be confidered
not only as a matter of practice, but alfo as a rational
fcience, it cannot be improper or ufelefs to examine
more deeply the rudiments and grounds of thefe pofitive
conftitutions of fociety. ^
In the beginning of the world, we are informed by This right
holy writ, that the all-bountiful Creator gave to man arifes from
“ dominion over all the earth •, and over the fifti of the a ^'v'ne
“ fea, and over the fowl of the air, and over every li-^umt’
“ ving thing that moveth upon the earth.” This is the
only true and folid foundation of man’s dominion over
external things, whatever airy metaphyfical notions may
have been ftarted by fanciful writers upon this fubjeCL
The earth, therefore, and all things therein, are the ge¬
neral property of all mankind, exclufive of other beings,
from the immediate gift, of the Creator. And, while
the earth continued thinly inhabited, it is reafonable to
fuppofe, that all was in common among them, and that
every one took from the public ftock to his own ufe fuch
things as his immediate neceffities required.
Thefe general notions of property were then fufficient The Rate
to anfwer all the purpofes of human life 5 and might per-of property
haps ftill have anfwered them, had it been poffible for'n tfi£ ear^
mankind to have remained in a ftate of primaeval fimpli-the
city : as may be collerfted from the manners of many A-
merican nations, when firft difeovered by the Europe¬
ans ; and from the ancient method of living among the
firft Europeans themfelves, if w7e may credit either the
memorials of them preferved in the golden age of the
poets, or the uniform accounts given by hiftorians of thofe
times wherein erant omnia communia et indivifa omnibus, ,
veluti unum cunBis patrimonium cjfet. Not that this com~cernnC'nt
rmmion of goods leems ever to have been applicable,
even
PRO
[ 445 ]
PRO
various
things.
Property, even in the earlieft ages, to aught but the fubjlance of
—y—*-/ the thing ; nor could it be extended to the ufe of it. For,
by the law of nature and reafon, he who firft began to
ufe it, acquired therein a kind of tranhent property,
that lafted fo long as he was ufing it, and no longer :
or, to fpeak with greater preciuon, the right of poffef-
lion continued for the fame time only that the a& of pof-
feffion lafted. Thus the ground was in common, and
no part of it wras the permanent properly of any man in
particular } yet whoever wTas in the occupation of any
determinate fpot of it, for reft, for thade, or the like,
acquired for the time a fort of ownerfhip, from which
it would have been unjuft, and contrary to the law of
nature, to have driven him by force 5 but the inftant
that he quitted the ufe or occupation of it, another might
feize it without injuftice. Thus alfo a vine or other
tree might be laid to be in common, as all were equal¬
ly entitled to its produce ; and yet any private indivi¬
dual might gain the foie property of the fruit, which he
had gathered for his own repaft. A doftrine vrell illu-
ftrated by Cicero, who compares the world to a great
theatre, which is common to the public, and yet the
place which any man has taken is for the time his own.
Rife of per- But when mankind increafed in number, craft, and
manent ambition, it became necefiary to entertain conceptions
property in Gf more permanent dominion j and to appropriate to in¬
dividuals, not the immediate ufe only, but the very
fubjlance of the thing to be ufed : otherwife innume¬
rable tumults muft have arifen, and the good order of
the world been continually broken and difturbed, while
a variety of perfons wrere ftriving who fhould get the
firft occupation of the fame thing, or difpudng which
of them had actually gained it. As human life alfo
grew more and more refined, abundance of convenien-
cies wrere devifed to render it more eafy, commodious,
and agreeable j as habitations for (heller and fafety, and
raiment for wTarmth and decency. But no man would
be at the trouble to provide either, fo long as he had
only an ufufmftuary property in them, which wras to
ceafe the inftant that he quitted pofleftion •,—if, as foon
as he walked out of his tent, or pulled off his garment,
the next ftranger who came by would have a right to
inhabit the one and to wear the other. In cafe of ha¬
bitations in particular, it was natural to obferve, that
even the brute creation, to whom every thing elfe was
in common, maintained a permanent property in their
dwellings, efpecially for the protection of their young ;
that the birds of the air had nefts, and the beafts of the
field had caverns, the invafion of which they efteemed a
very flagrant injuftice, and would facrifice their lives to
prelerve them. Hence a property was foon eftablilhed
in every man’s houfe and home-ftall 5 which feem to have
been originally mere temporary huts or moveable cabins,
fuited to the defign of Providence for more fpeedily peo¬
pling the earth, and fuited to the wandering life of their
owners, before any extenfive property in the foil or
ground wras eftablithed. And there can be no doubt,
but that moveables of every kind became fooner appro¬
priated than the permanent fubftantial foil : partly be-
caufe they wrere more fufceptible of a long occupancy,
which might be continued for months together without
any fenfible interruption, and at length by ufage ripen
into an eftablifhed r'^’it •, but principally becaufe few
of them could be fit for ufe, till improved and meliorat¬
ed by the bodily labour of the occupant; which bodily
labour, bedewed upon any fubjeCt which before lay in
common to all men, is univerfally allowed to give the Property,
faireft and moil reafonable title to an exclufive property v 1
therein. 6
The article of food was a more immediate call, and in food and
therefore a more early coniideration. Such as wrere not other necef-
contented with the fpontaneous produCl of the earth faryartkks.
fought for a more folid refrefhment in the fleih of beafts,
which they obtained by hunting. But the frequent dif-
appointments incident to that method of provilion indu¬
ced them to gather together fuch animals as were of a
more tame and fequacious nature j and to eftablifh a per¬
manent property in their flocks and herds, in order to
fuftain themfelves in a lefs precarious manner, partly by
the milk of their dams, and partly by the fleih of the
young. The fupport of thefe their cattle made the ar¬
ticle of water alfo a very important point. And there¬
fore the book of Genefis (the moil venerable monument ^
of antiquity, coniidered merely with a viewf to hiitory) Nature of
will furnith us with frequent inftances of violent conten-patriarchal
tions concerning wells ; the exclufive property of which ProPerty*
appears to have been eftabliftied in the firil digger or oc¬
cupant, even in iuch places where the ground and herbage
remained yet in common. Thus we rind Abraham, who
was but a fojourner, afferting his right to a well in the
country of Abimelech, and exafting an oath for his fe-
curity, “ became he had digged that well.” And Ifaac,
about 90 years afterwards, reclaimed this his father’s
property ; and, after much contention with the Phili-
flines, was fuffered to enjoy it in peace.
All this while the foil and pafture of the earth re¬
mained Hill in common as before, and open to every oc¬
cupant : except perhaps in the neighbourhood of towns,
where the neceffity of a f®le and exclufive property in
lands (for the fake of agriculture) was earlier felt, and
therefore more readily complied with. Otherwife, when *
the multitude of men and cattle had confumed every
convenience on one fpot of ground, it was deemed a na¬
tural right to feize upon and occupy fuch other lands as
would more eafily fupply their neceftities. This pra&ice
is dill retained among the wild and uncultivated nations,
that have never been formed h^o civil dates, like the
Tartars and others in the eaft 5 where the climate itfelf,
and the bdundlefs extent of their territory, confpire to
retain them ftill in the fame favage ftate of vagrant
liberty, which was univerfal in the earlieft ages, and
which Tacitus informs us continued among the Ger¬
mans till the decline of the Roman empire. We have
alfo a ftriking example of the fame kind in the hifto-
ry of Abraham and his nephew Lot. When their joint
fubftance became fo great, that pafture and other con-
veniencies grew fcarce, the natural confequence was,
that a ftrife arofe between their fervants 5 fo that it was
no longer practicable to dwell together. This conten¬
tion Abraham endeavoured to compofe : “ Let there
be no ftrife, I pray thee, between thee and me. Is not
the whole land before thee ? Separate thyfelf, I pray
thee, from me : If thou wilt take the left hand, then I
will go to the right •, or if thou depart to the right
hand, then I will go to the left.” This plainly implies
an acknowledged right, in either, to occupy whatever
ground he pleafed, that was not pre-oceupied by other
tribes. “ And Lot lifted up his eyes, and beheld all
the plain of Jordan, that it was well watered every where,
even as the garden of the Lord. Then Lot chofe him
all the plain of Jordon, and journeyed eaft j and Abra¬
ham dwflt in the land of Canaan,”
Upon
PRO [ 446
, Piopeity. ^ Upon the fame principle was founded the right of
~v ~ migration, or fending colonies to find out new habita¬
tions, when the mother-country was overcharged with
inhabitants 5 which was pra&ifed as well by the Phoe¬
nicians and Greeks, as the Germans, Scythians, and
other northern people. And, fo long as it was confined to
the flocking and cultivation of defert uninhabited coun-
g tries, it kept ftri£tly within the limits of the law of nature.
Neceffity of But as the world by degrees grew more populous, it
ao°dP oGaw's dall.y be?ame more difficult to find out new fpots to in-
refpedtingV without encroaching upon former occupants j and
jit. by conftantly occupying the fame individual fpot, the
fruits of the earth were confirmed, and its fpontaneous
produce deftroyed, without any provifion for a future
fupply or fucceffiort. It therefore became neceflary to
pur fire fome regular method of providing a conftant fub-
Mence ; and this neceffity produced, or at lead pro¬
moted and encouraged, the art of agriculture. And the
art of agriculture, by a regular connexion and confe-
quence, introduced and eftabliffied the idea of a more
permanent property in the foil than had hitherto been
received and adopted. It was clear that the earth would
not produce her fruits in fufficient quantities without the
a(fiHance of tillage ; but who would be at the pains of
tilling it, if another might watch an opportunity to feize
upon and enjoy the produft of his induftry, art, and la¬
bour ? Had not therefore a feparate property in lands,
as well as moveables, been veffed in fome individuals*
the world muff have continued a foreft, and men have
been mere animals of prey j which, according to (ome
philofophers, is the genuine ftate of nature. Whereas
now (fo gracioufly has Providence interwoven our duty
and our happinefs together) the refult of this very ne¬
ceffity has been the ennobling of the human fpecies, by
giving it opportunities of improving in rational facul¬
ties, as well as of exerting its natural. Neceffity begat
property : and in order to infure that property, recourfe
was had to civil fociety, which brought along with it a
long train of infeparable concomitants j ftates, govern-
ment, laws, punifliments, and the public exercife of re¬
ligious duties. Thus connefted together, it was found
that a part only of fociety was fufficient to provide, by
* their manual labour, for the neceffary fubfiftence of all j
and leifure was given to others to cultivate the human
mind, to invent ufeful arts, and to lay the foundations of
fcience.
The only queftion remaining is, How this property
r* Q m r* o Arno 1 Itt ~ — —.1 j. * a. * .1 _ ,
1
PRO
9
•Pronerty
acquired became a&ually veiled ; or what it is that gave a man
■upancy.8* an e.xcluflve rigbt to retain in a permanent manner that
^ y‘ fpecific land which before belonged generally to every
body, but particularly to nobody ? And as we before
obferved, that occupancy gave the right to the temporary
ufe of the foil; fo it is agreed upon all hands, that oc¬
cupancy gave alfo the original right to the permanent
property in the fubjlance of the earth itfelf, which ex¬
cludes every one elfe but the owner from the ufe of it.
I here is indeed fome difference among the writers on
natural law, concerning the reafon why occupancy fliould
convey this right, and invert one with this abfolute pro¬
perty : Grotius and Puffendorf infilling, that this right
of occupancy is founded upon a tacit "and implied af-
fent of all mankind, that the firft occupant fhould be¬
come the owner 5 and Barbeyrac, Titius, Mr Locke,
and others, holding that there is no fuch implied affent,
neither is it neceffary that there Ihould be ; for that the’
very aft of occupancy, alone, being a degree of bodily
4
labour, is from a principle of natural juftice, without any Property.
confent or compafl, fufficient of itfelf to gain a title. A w—
dnpute that lavours too much of nice and fcholaftic re¬
finement.^ However, both fides agree in this, that oc¬
cupancy is the tiling by which the title was in fadt ori¬
ginally gained j every man feizing to his own continu¬
ed ufe fuch fpots of ground as he found moft agreeable
to his own convenience, provided he found them unoc¬
cupied by any one elfe.
Property, both in lands and moveables, being thus what
originally acquired by the firft taker, which takii ;g means it is
amounts to a declaration, that he intends to appropriate preferred
the thing to his own ufe, it remains in him, by the prin-or
eiple of uniyerfal law, till fuch time as he does fome
other add which (hows an intention to abandon it j for
then it becomes naturally fpeaking, publici juris once
more, and is liable to be again appropriated by the next
occupant. So if one is poffeffed of a jewel, and carts it
into the lea or a public highway, this is fuch an exprefs
derelidtion, that a property will be verted in the firft
fortunate finder that (hall feize it to his own ufe. But
if he hides it privately in the earth, or other fecret place*
and it is difeovered, the finder acquires no property
therein ; for the owner had net by this adi declared
any intention to abandon it, but rather the contrary : and
if he lofes or drops it by accident, it cannot be colle&ed
from thence that he defigned to quit the poffeffion $ and
therefore in fuch cafe the property ftill remains in the
lofer, who may claim it again of the finder. And this,
we may remember, is the dodlrine of the Engliffi law’
with relation to 1'REASURE-Trove.
But this method of one man’s abandoning his pro¬
perty, and another feizing the vacant poffeffion, how¬
ever well-founded in theory, could not long fubfift in
fadt. It was calculated merely for the rudiments of
civil fociety, and neceffarily ceafed among the compli¬
cated interefts and artificial refinements of polite and
eftabliffied governments. In thefe it was found, that
what became inconvenient or ufelefs to one man, was
highly convenient and ufeful to another ; who was rea-
dy to give in exchange for it fome equivalent that was
equally defirable to the former proprietor. This mu¬
tual convenience introduced commercial traffic, and
the reciprocal transfer of property by fale, grant, or
conveyance : which may be confidered either as a con¬
tinuance of the original poffeffion which the firft occu¬
pant had •, or as an abandoning of the tiling by the
prefent owner, and an immediate fucceffive occupancy
of the fame by the new proprietor. The voluntary de-
relidlion of the owner, and delivering the poffeffion to
another individual, amount to a transfer of the proper¬
ty ; the proprietor declaring his intention no longer to
occupy the thing himfelf, but that his own right of oc¬
cupancy (hall be veiled in the new acquirer. Or, taken
in the other light, if I agree to part with an acre of my
land to 1 itius, the deed of conveyance is an evidence
of my intending to abandon the property •, and Titius
being the only or firft man acquainted with fuch my
intention, immediately fteps in and feizes the vacant pof¬
feffion : thus the confent expreffed by the conveyance
gives Titius a good right againft me ; and poffeffion or
occupancy confirms that right againft all the world be-
fides. ; Ir
The moft univerfal and effectual way of abandoning How it
property is by the death of the occupantwhen, both Soes 011
the a&ual poffeifion and intention of keeping poffef-
fion pant-
Property.
P R O [ 44^
fion ceafmg, the property, which is founded upon fuch
' poffeffion and intention, ought alfo to ceafe of courfe.
For, naturally fpeaking, the inftant a man ceafes to be,
he ceafes to have any dominion : elfe, if he had a right
to difpofe of his acquifitions one moment beyond his life,
he would alfo have a right to diredt their difpofal for a
million of ages after him; which would be highly ab-
furd and inconvenient (hv). All property muit there¬
fore ceafe upon death, conlidering men as abfolute indi¬
viduals, and unconnedted with civil fociety: for then,
by the principles before eftablilhed, the next immediate
occupant would acquire a right in all that the deceafed
polleffed. But as, under civilized governments, which
are calculated for the peace of mankind, fuch a confti-
tution would be produdtive of endlels dillurbances, the
univerfal law of almoft every nation (which is a kind of
fecondary law of nature) has either given the dying per-
fon a power of continuing his property, by difpoling of
his poffeffions by will j or, in cafe he negledts to dilpofe
ol it, or is not permitted to make any dlipolition at all,
the municipal law of the country then fteps in, and de¬
clares who fhall be the fucceflbr, reprefentative, or heir
of the deceafed 5 that is, who alone fhall have a right to
enter upon this vacant pofleffion, in order to avoid that
confufion which its becoming again common would oc-
cafion. And farther, in cafe no teftament be permitted
by the law, or none be made, and no heir can be found
fo qualified as the law requires, ftill, to prevent the ro-
buft title of occupancy from again taking place, the doc¬
trine of efcheats is adopted in almofl every country ;
wdiereby the fovereign of the ftate, and thofe who claim
under his authority, are the ultimate heirs, and fucceed
to thofe inheritances to which no other title can be
formed.
Of the right The right of inheritance, or defcent to the children
of inheri- and relations of the deceafed, feems to have been allow-
tance.
ed much earlier than the right of deviling by teftament.
We are apt to conceive at the firft view that it has na¬
ture on its fide ; yet we often miftake for nature what
we find eftablifhed by long and inveterate cuftom. It
is certainly a wife and effectual, but clearly a political,
eftablifhment; fince the permanent right of property,
vefted in the anceftor himfelf, was no natural, but mere¬
ly a civil, right. It is true, that the tranfmifiion of one’s
pofleflions to pofterity has an evident tendency to make
a man a good citizen and a ufeful member of fociety:
it fets the paffions on the fide of duty, and prompts a
man to deferve well of the public, when he is fure that
the reward of his fervices will not die with himfelf, but
be tranfmitted to thofe with vrhom he is connefted by
the deareft and moft tender afteftions. Yet, reafonable
as this foundation of the right of inheritance may feem,
it is probable that its immediate original arofe not from
fpeculations altogether fo delicate and refined, and, if
not from fortuitous circumftances, at leaft from a plainer
and more fimple principle. A man’s children or neareft
relations are ufually about him on his death-bed, and
are the earlieft witneflfes of his deceafe. They became
therefore generally the next immediate occupants, till
at length in procefs of time this frequent ufage ripened
] PRO
into general law. And therefore alfo in the earlieft Property,
ages, on failure of children, a man’s fervants born under
his 1 oof were allowed to be his heirs 5 being immediate¬
ly on the fpot when he died. For we find the old pa¬
triarch Abraham exprefsly declaring, that “ fince God
had given him no feed, his fteward Eliezer, one Lorn in
his houfe, was his heir.”
While property continued only for life, teftaments Lafl wills
were uielefs and unknown j and when it became inhe-ortefta»
ritable, the inheritance was long indefeafible, and themeIits
children or heirs at law were incapable of exclufion by
Till at length it was found, that fo ftrift a rule
will. o  ^    
of inheritance made heirs difobedient and headftrong,
defrauded creditors of their juft debts, and prevented
many provident fathers from dividing or charging their
eftates as the exigence of their families required. This
introduced pretty generally the right of difpofing of
one’s property, or a part of it, by te/lament; that is, by
written or oral inftruftions properly voitncjjed and au¬
thenticated, according to the pleafure of the deceafed j
which we therefore emphatically ftyle his will. This
was eftablifhed in fome countries much later than in
others. In England, till modern times, a man could
only difpofe of one-third of his moveables from his wife
and children ; and in general, no will was permitted of
lands till the reign of Henry VIII. and then only of a
certain portion j for it was not till after the Reftovation
that the power of devifing real property became fo uni¬
verfal as at prefent.
Wills, therefore, and teftaments, rights of inheritance, are erea-
and fucceflions, are all of them creatures of the civil ortures of the
municipal laws, and accordingly are in all refpefts re- muni^ 1
gulated by them; every diftind country having differ-
ent ceremonies and requifites to make a teftament com¬
pletely valid j neither does any thing vary more than Blackjt.
the right of inheritance under different national eftablilh-*70"2"^”*’
ments. In England particularly, this diverfity is carri¬
ed to fuch a length, as if it had been meant to point out
the power of the laws in regulating the fucceflion to
property, and .how futile every claim muft be that has
not its foundation in the pofitive rules of the ftate. In
perfonal eftates, the father may fucceed to his children
in landed property, he never can be their immediate heir
by any the remoteft poffibility : in general, only the eld-
eft fon, in fome places only the youngeft, in others all
the fons together, have a right to fucceed to the inheri¬
tance : In real eftates, males are preferred to females,
and the eldeft male will ufually exclude the reft ; in the
divifion of perfonal eftates, the females of equal degree
are admitted together with the males, and no right of
primogeniture is allowed.
This one confideration may help to remove the'Sciupks
fcruples of many well-meaning perfons, who fet up arefpecting
miftaken confcience in oppofition to the rules of lawn heritable
If a man difinherits his fon, by a will duly executed ProPerty
and leaves his eftate to a ftranger, there are many who‘emOV£t1’
confider this proceeding as contrary to natural juftice ;
while others fo fcrupuloufly adhere to the fuppofed in¬
tention of the dead, that if a w ill of lands be attefted
by only two witneffes inftead of three, which the law
requires,
(a). This right, inconvenient as it certainly is, the law of Scotland gives to every man over his real eftate. by
authorilmg him to entail it on his heirs for ever. See Law, clxxx. 9, 10, 11. and Tailzie.
PRO
r 448 i
PRO
Property.
t 6
Of things
that are
ihll in com¬
mon.
T7
Of fimilar
things
which have
been appro¬
priated.
requires, they are apt to imagine that the heir is
bound in confcience to relinquiih his title to the devi-
fee. But both of them certainly proceed upon very er¬
roneous principles : as if, on the one hand, the fon had
by nature a right to fucceed to his father’s lands; or
as if, on the other hand, the owner was by nature
entitled to diredl the fuccetlion of his property after
his own deceafe. Whereas the law of nature fuggefts,
that on the death of the poiTeffor, the eilate thould
again become common, and be open to the next occu¬
pant, unlefs otherwife ordered, for the fake of civil
peace, by the pofitive law of fociety. The pofitive
law of fociety, which is with us the municipal laws of
England and Scotland, direffs it to veft in fuch perfon
as the lait proprietor (hall by will, attended with certain
requifites, appoint 5 and, in ckfedt of fuch appointment,
to go to fome particular perlbn,' who, from the refult of
certain local conftitutions, appears to be the heir at
law. Hence it follows, that, where the appointment is
regularly made, there cannot be a fhadow of right in
any one but the perfon appointed : and, wThere the ne-
ceffary requifites are omitted, the right of the heir is
equally ftrong, and built upon as folid a foundation, as
the right of the devifee wmuld have been, fuppofing fuch
requifites were obferved.
But, after all, there are fome few things, which, not-
withfianding the general introduction and continuance
of property, mull ftill unavoidably remain in common *,
being fuch wherein nothing but an ufufrudluary pro¬
perty is capable of being had : and therefore they ftill
belong to the firft occupant, during the time he holds
pofleflion of them, and no longer. Such (among others)
are the elements of light, air, and water ; which a man
may occupy by means of his windows, his gardens,
his mills, and other conveniences : fuch alfo are the
generality of thofe animals which are faid to be fercr
natures, or of a wild and untameable difpofition 5 which
any man may feize upon and keep for his own ufe or
pleafure. All thefe things, fo long as they remain in
pofleflion, every man has a right to enjoy without dif-
turbance ; but if once they eicape from his cuftody,
or he voluntarily abandons the ufe of them, they return
to the common flock, and any other man has an equal
right to feize and enjoy them afterwards.
Again, there are other things in which a permanent
property may fubfift, not only as to the temporary ufe,
but alfo the folid fubftance •, and which yet would be
frequently found without a proprietor, had not the wif-
dom of the law provided a remedy to obviate this in¬
convenience. Such are forefts and other wafte grounds,
which were omitted to be appropriated in the general
diftribution of lands : fuch alfo are wrecks, eftrays, and
that fpecies of wild animals, which the arbitrary con-
ftitutions of pofitive law have diftinguifhed from the
reft by the well-known appellation of game. With re¬
gard to thefe and fome others, as difturbances and quar¬
rels \vould frequently arife among individuals contend¬
ing about the acquifition of this fpecies of property by
firft occupancy, the law has therefore wifely cut up
the root of diflenfion, by veiling the things themfelves
in the fovereign of the ftate 5 or elfe in his reprefenta-
tives appointed and authorifed by him, being ufually
the lords of manors. And thus our legiflature has uni-
yerfally promoted the grand ends of civil fociety, the
peace and fecurity of individuals, by fteadily purfuing
that wife and orderly maxim, of afligning to every Property,
thing capable of ownerlhip a legal and determinate Prophecy,
owner.
In this age of paradox and innovation, much has rr,e reafor(_
been faid ot liberty and equality ; and icme few have ing of thofe
contended for an equalization of property. One ofwhocon-
the wildeft declaimers on this fubjedl, who is for abo-teni^?ran
Hilling property altogether, has (inadvertently we fup-^.a^z*‘o
pofe) given a complete confutation, not only of hisperty.
own arguments, but alfo of the arguments of all who
have written, or, we think, can write, on the fame fide
of the queftion. After labouring to prove that it is
grofs injuftice in any man to retain more than is
abfolutely neceflary to fupply him with food, clothes,
and fhelter, this zealous reformer ftates an objection to
his theory, arifing from the well-known allurements of
floth, which, if the accumulation of property were not
permitted, -would banifti induftry from the whole world.
The objection be urges fairly, and anfwers it thus: “ It
may be obferved, that the equality for which we are
pleading is an equality that would fucceed to a ftate
of great intellectual improvement. So bold a revolu¬
tion cannot take place in human affairs, till the general
mind has been highly cultivated. The prefent age of
mankind is greatly enlightened ■, but it is to be feared
is not yet enlightened enough. Hafty and undigefted
tumults may take place, under the idea of an equaliza¬
tion of property j but it is only a calm and clear con-
viftion of jultice, ofjuftice mutually to be rendered and
received, of happinefs to be produced by the defertion of
our mof rooted habits, that can introduce an invariable
fyftem of this fort. Attempts without this preparation
will be produ&ivte only of confufion. Their effeCI will
be momentary, and a new and more barbarous inequali¬
ty will fucceed. Each man with unaltered appetite will
watch his opportunity to gratify his love of power, or
his love of diftindion, by ufurping on his inattentive
neighbours.” r
Thefe are juft obfervations, and fuch as we have of- j-he effC(£l
ten made to ourfelves on the various propofed reforma-of igno-
tions of government. The illumination which the au- ranee of
thor requires before he would introduce his abolition of^1^ian na*
property, would conftitute men more than angels ; for
to be under the influence of no paflion or appetite, and
to be guided in every aCtion by unmixed benevolence
and pure intelleCf, is a degree of perfeCHon which we
can attribute to no being inferior to God. But it is
the objeCt of the greater part of this writer’s book to
prove that all men muft arrive at fuch perfeCfion be¬
fore his ideal republic can contribute to their happi¬
nefs 5 and therefore every one who is confcious of be¬
ing at any time fwayed by paffion, and who feels that
he is more attached to his wife or children than to
ftrangers, will look without envy to the prefent inequa¬
lities of property and power, if he be an intelligent dif-
ciple of Mr Godwin.
Literary PrOPEETT. See COPT-Right. s
PROPHECY is a word derived from and Definition,
in its original inqxirt fignifies the prediftion of future
events. 2
As God alone can perceive with certainty the future Prophecy
actions of free agents, and the remote confequences ofproves a fu-
thofe laws of nature which he himfelf eftablilhed, pro-Pernatur.a*
phecy, when clearly fulfilled, affords the moft convincing
evidence of an intimate and fupernatural communion Deity.
between
PRO
3
The pro-
ftfl'ors of
alJ religion
have pre¬
tended to
it.
4
The word
in Scrip¬
ture has va
rious mean
in js.
* Ch. vi
ver. 7.
f 1 Cor.
ch. xiv.
ver. 3.
Prophecy, between God and the perfon who uttered the predic-
v tion. .1 ogether with the power of working miracles,
it is indeed the only evidence which can be given of fuch
a communion. Hence among the profeflors of every re¬
ligious fyftem, except that which is called the religion
'of nature, there have been numberlefs pretenders to
the gift of prophecy. The Pagan nations of antiquity
had their oracles, augurs, and foothfayers. Modern
idolaters have their necromancers and diviners ; and the
Jews, Chrilfians, and Mahometans, have their feers and
prophets,
1 he ill-founded pretentions oi paganifm, ancient and
modern, have been expofed under various articles of
this work. (See Divination, Magic, Necroman¬
cy, and Mythology). And the claims of the Ara¬
bian impoltor are examined under the articles Alco¬
ran and Mahometanism ; fo that et prefent we have
only to confider the ufe, intent, and truth, of the Jewith
and Chriftian prophecies.
Previous to our entering on this inveftigation, it may
be proper to obferve, that in the Scriptures of the Old
and New 1 eftaments, the fignification of the word pro¬
phecy is not always confined to the foretelling of fu¬
ture events. In leveral inltances it is of the fame im¬
port with preaching, and denotes the faculty of illu-
ftrating and applying to prefent praflical purpofes the
doclnnes or prior revelation. Thus in Nehemiah it is
faid, “ Phou haft appointed prophets to preach *j” and
whoever fpeaketh unto men to edification, and exhorta¬
tion, and comfort, is by St Paul called a prophetf.
Hence it was that there were fchools of prophets in
Ilrael, where young men were inftrufted in the truths
of religion, and fitted to exhort and comfort the people.
In this article, however, it is chiefly of importance to
confine ourfelves to that kind of prophecy which, in
declaring truths either paft, prefent, or future, required
the immediate infpiration of Gcd.
Every one who looks into the hiftory of the world
muft obferve, that the minds of men have from the be¬
ginning been gradually opened by a train of events ftill
improving upon, and adding light to each other •, as
that of each individual is, by proceeding from the firft
elements and feeds of fcience, to more enlarged views,
and a ftill higher growth. Mankind neither are nor
ever have been capable of entering into the depths of
knowledge at once ; of receiving a whole fyftem of na¬
tural or moral truths together; but muft be let into
them by degrees, and have them communicated by little
and little, as they are able to bear it. That this is the
cafe with refpeft to human fcience, is a fafl which can¬
not be queftioned \ and there is as little room to que-
ftion it with refpeft to the progrefs of religious know¬
ledge '.mong men, either taken colleflively or in each
individual. Why the cafe is thus in both, why all are
not adult at once in body and mind, is a queftion which
the religion of nature is equally called upon with reve¬
lation to anfwer. The fact may not be eafily accounted
for, but the reality of it is incontrovertible.
Accordingly, the great qbjefl of the feveral revela¬
tions recorded in the Old Teftament was evidently to
keep alive a fenfe of religion in the minds of men, and
to train them by degrees for the reception of thofe
limple but fublime truths by which they wTere to be fa-
ved. 1 lie notions which the early defeendants of A-
dam entertained of the Supreme Being, and of the re-
Vol. XVII. Part II.
[ 449 ]
P R O
Science and
religion
gradually
acquired.
The reve¬
lations of
the Old
Tejftament
gradual.
lation in which they flood to him, were probably very ft-ophecy.
grots 5 and we fee them gradually refined by a feries of v '
revelations or prophecies, each in fucceflion more ex¬
plicit than that by which it was preceded, till the ad¬
vent of Him who was the way, the truth, and the life,
and who brought to light life and immortality. /
When a revelation was made of any important truth, Prophecy
the grounds of which the mind of man has not facul- a’ways ae-
ties to comprehend, that revelation, though undoubt-conil-'a,lie<*
' fdly a prophecy, muft have been fo far from confirm- b;y mua‘
ing the truth of revealed religion in general, that it
could not gain credit itfelf, but by fume extrinfic evi¬
dence that it came indeed from God. Hence we find
Mofes, after it was revealed to him from the burning
bulb that he fliould deliver his countrymen from Egyp¬
tian bondage, replying, “ Behold, they will not believe
me, nor hearken to my voice ; for they will fay, the
Lord hath not appeared unto thee.” This revelation
certainly conftituted him a prophet to Ifrael; and there
cannot be a doubt but that he perfectly knew the divine
fotu-ce from which he received it : but he very naturally
and reafonably concluded, that the children of Ifrael
would not believe that the Lord had appeared to him,
unlefs he could give them fome other proof of this pre¬
ternatural appearance than his own fimple affirmation of
its reality. This proof he was immediately enabled to
give, by having conferred upon him the power of work¬
ing miracles in confirmation of his prophecy. Again,
when Gideon was called to the deliverance of Ifrael,
the angel of the Lord came and faid unto him, “ The
Lord is with thee, thou mighty man of valour : go in this
thy might, and thou {halt lave Ifiael from the hand of the
Midianites. Have not I lent thee ?” Here was a pro¬
phecy delivered by the angel of the Lord to encourage
Gideon’s undertaking: but he, being probably afraid
of fome illufion ol fenfe or imagination, demanded a
fign that he was really an angel who talked with him.
A fign is accordingly given him, a miraculous fign, with
which he is fatisfied, and undertakes the work appointed
him. _ s
From tbefe and many fimilar tranfadions recorded and of it-
in the Old Teftament, it appears that prophecy was never felf can be
intended as evidence of an original revelation. It isn? Procf
indeed, by its very nature, totally unfit for fuch a pur-
pofe ; becaufe it is impoffible, without fopie extrinfic a 10n*
proof of its divine origin, to know whether any pro¬
phecy be true or falfe, till the era arrive at which it ought
to be fulfilled. When it is fulfilled, it affords complete
evidence that he wffio uttered it fpake by the fpirit of
God, and that the doftrines which he taught of a reli¬
gious nature, were all either diftated by the fame fpirit,
or at leaft are true, and calculated to dirett mankind in
the way of their duty.
The prophecies vouchfafed to the patriarchs in the It was in-
moft early periods of the world, were all intended to tended to
keep alive in their minds a fenfe of religion, and to di- Preferve a
reft their views to the future completion of that firft
and greateft prophecy which was made to Adam im- mong men.
mediately on his fall: but in order to fecure credit to
thofe prophecies themfelves, they were always accom¬
panied by fome miraculous fign that they ivere indeed
given by the God of truth, and not the delufions of
fanaticifm or hypocrify. Prophecy, in the proper fenfe
of the word, commenced with the fall; and the firft
inftance of it is implied in the fentence denounced upon
3 L the
IO
Probable
effects of
the firft
prophecy
on our firft
parents.
PRO
Prophecy, the original deceiver of mankind } “ I _ f  
“ v between thee and the woman, and between thy feed
and her feed : It thall bruife thy head, and thou lhalt
bruife his heel.”
This prophecy, though one of the mod important
that ever was delivered, when confidered by itfelf, is ex¬
ceedingly obfcure. That Adam (hould have under-
flood it, as fome of his degenerate fons have pretended
to do, in a literal fenfe, is abfoiutely impoffible. He
knew well that it was the great God of heaven and
earth who was fpeaking, and that fuch a Being was
incapable of trilling with the wretchednefs of his fallen
creature. The fentence denounced upon himfelf and
his wife was awful and fevere. The woman was doom¬
ed to forrow in conception; the man to forrow and
travel all the days of his life. The ground was cur-
fed ior his faK.e } and the end of the judgement was,
“ T>uft thou art, and to dull thou fhalt return.” Had
our firft parents been thus left, they mult have looked
upon themielves as rejected by their Maker, delivered
up to trouble and forrow in the world, and as having no
hope in any other. With fuch impreflions on their minds
they could have retained no fenfe of religion j for reli¬
gion, when^ unaccompanied by hope, is a ftate of frenzy
and diftraction . yet it is certain that they could have no
hope from any thing exprefsly recorded by Mofes, ex¬
cept what they might draw from this fentence paffed
on their deceiver.. Let us then endeavour to afcertain
what confolation it could afford them.
At that awful juncture, they muff have been fenfible
that their fall was the vi&ory of the ferpent, whom by-
experience they had found to be an enemy to God and
to man. It could not therefore but be fome comfort
to them to hear this enemy firrt condemned, and to fee
that, however lie had prevailed againft them, he had
gained no viftory over their Maker. By his condem¬
nation they were lecured from thinking that there was
any malignant being equal to the Creator in power and
dominion j an opinion which, through the prevalency of
evil, gained ground in after times, and was deftruaive
of all true religion. The belief of God’s fupreme do¬
minion being thus preferved, it was ftill neceffary to
give them luch hopes as might induce them to love as
-veil as to fear him j and thefe they could not but con¬
ceive when they heard from the mouth of their Creator
and Judge, that the ferpent’s viaory was not complete
even over themfelves ; that they and their pofterity
mould be enabled to conteff his empire j and that
though they were to fuffer much in the ftruggle, they
tliould yet finally prevail, bruile the ferpent’s head, and
deliver themfelves from his power and dominion.
. This prophecy therefore was to our firft parents a
light. Ihining in a dark . place. All that they could
certainly conclude from it was, that their cafe was not
defpeiate that fome remedy, fome deliverance from the
evil they were under, would in time appear ; but when or
where, or by what means they were to be delivered, they
could not poffibly underftand, unlefs the matter was
further revealed to them, as probably it was at the infti-
tution of facnfice (See Sacrifice). Obfcure, how¬
ever, ^as this promife or prophecy was,, it ferved after
the fall as a foundation for religion, and truft and con¬
fidence towards God in hopes of deliverance in time
from the evils of difobedience : and this appears to have
been the foie purpofe for which it was given, and not,
Prophe cy>
1 45o j PRO
.viil put enmity as fome wsll-raeaning though weak advocates for Clirif-
tianity have imagined, as a prediclion pointing diretlly
to the crofs of Chrill.
As this prophecy, was the firft, fo is it the only con-
fiderable one in which we have any concern from the
creation to the days of Noah. It was proportioned to
the then wants and neceflities of the world, and was the
grand charter of God’s mercy after the fall. Nature
had no certain help for finners; her rights were loft
with ner innocence. It was therefore neceffary either
to deftroy the offenders, or to raife them to a capacity
of falvation, by given them fuch hopes as might ena¬
ble them to exercife a reafonable religion. So far the
light of this prophecy extended. By what means God
intended to work their falvation, he did not exprefsly
declare : and who has a right to complain that he did
not, or to prefcribe to him rules in difpenfing his mercy
to the children of men ?
Upon the hopes of mercy which this prophecy gives The curfe
in very general terms, mankind refted till the birth of removed
Noah. At that period anew propliecy was delivered ^jern tfie
by Lamech, who foretels that his fon ftiould comfortsrouncl'
them concerning the work and toil of their hands,
“ becaufe of the earth which the Lord had curfedy We
are to remember that the curfe pronounced upon the
earth was part of the fentence paffed upon our firft pa¬
rents ; and when that part was remitted, if it ever was
remitted, mankind would acquire new and more lively
hopes that in God’s good time they {hould be freed from
the whole. But it has been Ihcwn by Bilhop Sherlock*, * u/e and
that this declaration, of Lamech’s was a predi&ion, that Intent of
during the life of his fon the curfe fhould be taken off Prophecy.
from the earth : and the fame prelate has proved with
great perfpicuity, and in the moft fatisfaiftory manner,
that this happy revolution actually took place after
the Hood. The limits prefcribed to an article of this
kind will not permit us even to abridge his arguments.
We ftrall only obferve, that the truth of his conclufion
is manifeft from the very words of fcripture; for when
God informs Noah of his defign to deftroy the world,
he adds, “ But with thee will I eftablilh my covenant
and as foon as the deluge was over, he declared that he
“ would not again curfe the ground any more for man’s
fake 5 but that while the earth Ihould remain, feed time
and harveft, and cold and heat, and fummer and winter,
and day and night, Ihould not ceafe.” From this laft
declaration it is apparent that a curfe had been on the
earth, and that feed-time and harveft; had often failed j
that the curfe was now taken off; and that in confe-
quence of this covenant, as it is called, with Noah and
his feed and with every living creature, mankind Ihould
not henceforth be fubje&ed to toil fo fevere and fo gene¬
rally fruitlefs. 0
It may feem furprifing perhaps to fome, that after foA future
great a revolution in the world as the deluge made,life not
God fhould fay nothing to the remnant of mankind ofthen espli*
the punifhments and rewards of another life, but fhould
make a new covenant with them relating merely to fruit- C
ful feafons and the bleffings of the earth. But in the
fcriptures we fee plainly a gradual working of provi¬
dence towards the redemption of the world from the
curfe of the fall; that the temporal bleflings were firft
reftored as an earneft and pledge of better things to
follow ; and that the covenant given to Noah had,
ftriaiy fpeaking, nothing to do with the hopes of futuri-
PRO
Prophecy, ty, wlucli were referved to be the matter of another
“V—■*'' covenant, in another age, and to be revealed by him,
whofe province it was to “ bring life and immortality
to light through the gorpel.” But if Noah and his
forefathers expected deliverance from the whole curfe of
the fall, the aftual deliverance from one part of it was
a very good pledge of a further deliverance to be ex¬
pelled in time. Man himlelf was curfed as well as the
ground ; he was doomed to dull : and fruitful feafons
are but a fmall relief, compared to the greatnefs of his
lofs. But when fruitful feafons came, and one part of
the curfe was evidently abated, it gave great aflurance
that the other fhould not laft for ever, but that by
fome means, ftill unknown to them, they fliould be
freed from the wrhole, and finally bruife the ferpent’s
head, who, at the deluge, had fo feverely bruifed man’s
heel.
Upon this affurance mankind relied for fome genera¬
tions, and praftifed, as we have every reafon to believe,
a rational wmrlhip to the one God of the univerfe. At
laft, howTever, idolatry was by fome means or other in¬
troduced (fee Polytheism), and fpread fo univerfally
through the world, that true religion would in all pro¬
bability have entirely failed, had not God vilibly inter-
pofed to preferve fuch a fenfe of it as w^as necelfary for
the accomplifhment of his great defign to reftore man¬
kind. This he did by calling Abraham from amidft
his idolatrous kindred, and renewing to him the word of
prophecy : “ Get thee out of thy country (faid he),
and from thy kindred, and from thy father’s houfe,
unto a land that I will fhew thee. And I wall make of
thee a great nation, and I will blefs thee and make thy
name great; and thou (halt be a blefiing. And I wall
blefs them that blefs thee, and curfe him that curfeth
thee ; and in thee lhall all the families of the earth be
bleffed.” Thefe magnificent promifes are feveral times
repeated to the father of the faithful with additional cir-
cumftances of great importance, fuch as, “ that he fhould
be multiplied exceedingly •, that he fhould be a father
of many nations ; that kings fhould come out of him
and above all, that God would eftablifh an everlafling
Covencnit with him and his feed, to give him and them
all the land of Canaan for an everlafling pojfeffion, and
to be their Gody
Upon fuch of thefe promifes as relate to tempo¬
ral bleftings we need not dwell. They are much of
the fame nature with thofe which had been given be¬
fore to Lamech, Noah, Shem, and Japheth; and all
the wmrld knows how amply and literally they have
been fulfilled. There was however fo little probability
in nature of their accomplifhment at the time wftien they
were made, that we find the patriarch afking “ Where-
f Genefis ^7 he fhould hnoivf that he fhould inherit fuch an ex-
Xv. 8. &c. tent of country ?” And as die promifes that he fhould
f 451 1
P R O
*3
Promife to
Abraham.
inherit it were meant to be a foundation for religion Prophecy*
and confidence in God, a miraculous fign was given him ' '' V"—*■'
that they came indeed from the fpirit of truth. This
removed from his mind every doubt, and made him give
the fulleft credit, not only to them, but alfo to that
other promife, “ that in his feed fhould all the nations
of the earth be bleffed.”
What diftincl notion he had of this blefting, or in
what manner he hoped it fliould be effected, we cannot
pretend to fay. “ But that he underftood it to be a
pronufe of reftoring mankind, and delivering them from
the remaining curfe of the fall, there can be no doubt.
He knew that death had entered by fin •, he knew that
God had promifed viclory and redemption to the feed
of the woman. Upon the hopes of this reftoration the
religion of his anceftors was founded ; and when God,
from whom this blefling on all men veas expe&ed, did
exprefsly promife a blefling on all men, and in this pro¬
mife founded his everlafting covenant—what could Abra¬
ham elfe expedl but the completion in his feed of that
ancient promife and prophecy concerning the viclory
to be obtained by the woman’s feed ? The curfe of the
ground ivas expiated in the flood, and the eartli reftored
with a blefling, which was the foundation of the tempo¬
ral covenant with Noah ; a large {hare of which God
exprefsly grants to Abraham and his pofterity particu¬
larly, together with a promife to bring, by their means,
a new and further blefling upon the whole race of men.
If we lay thefe things to heart, we cannot fuppofe that
lefs could be expedted from the new promife or prophe¬
cy given to Abraham than a deliverance from that part
of the curfe ftill remaining on men : Z)a/? thou art, and
to dujl thou /halt return. In virtue of this covenant A-
braham and his pofterity had reafon to expedl that the
time would come when man fhould be called from his
dull again. For this expeclation they had his affurance
who gave the covenant, that he would be their God
for ever. Well might bur Saviour then tell the fens of
Abraham, that even Mofes at the bufti fliowed the re-
furredlion of the dead, when he called the Lord the
God of Abraham, and the God of Ifaac, and the God
of Jacob*.” * sher-
Thefe promifes made to Abraham were renewed to^ock’- life
Ifaac and Jacob ^ to the laft of whom it was revealed,hntenl
not only that all the nations of the earth fliould be Prolhe'
bleffed in his feed, but that the blefling fliould fpring ^
from his fon Judah. It is, however, by no means evi- rr j^ac
dent that any one of thofe patriarchs knew precifely by an(i jacob,
what means (a) the Curfe of the fall was to be entirely
removed, and all men called from their dull again. It
was enough that they were convinced of the fa6l in ge¬
neral terms, fince fuch conviftion was a fufficient foun¬
dation of a rational religion ; and the defeendants of A-
braham had no other foundation upon •which to reft
3 L 2 their
(a) This they certainly could not know from the promifes exprefled in the very general terms in which thev
are recorded in the book of Genefis. It is, however, not improbable that thofe promifes, as they immediately re¬
ceived them, were Conceived in terms more precife and particular *, and, at all events, Dr Warburton has proved
to the full convi£lion of every man who is not a determined unbeliever, that Abraham was commanded to facrifice
his fon Ifaac, not only as a trial of his obedience, but alfo that God might give him what he earneftly defired a
feenical reprefentaticn of the means by which mankind were to be redeemed from death. The learned writer
thinks, and his reafoning compels us to think with him, that to this tranfaftion our Saviour alludes when he fays
** Your father Abraham rejoiced to fee my day, and he faw it and was glads”
15
T he iavr or
Mofes and
the fuc-
ceeding
prophets.
PRO [45
Pro^iecy. their hopes, and pay a cheerful worfhip to the God of
their fathers, till the giving of the law to Mofes. Then
indeed they were incorporated into a fociety with muni¬
cipal laws of their own, and placed under a theocratic
government; the temporal promiies made to their fa¬
thers were amply fulfilled ; religion was maintained a-
mong them by rewards and puniihments equally diftri-
buted in this world (fee Theology) : and a fines of
prophets fucceeding one another pointed out with great¬
er and greater ciearneis, as the fulnels of time approach¬
ed, the perfon wb-3-was to redeem mankind from the
power of death by what means he was to work that
great redemption, and at what precife period he was to
make his appearance in the world. By thefe fuperna-
tural interpofitions of divine providence, the principles
of pure theilm and the practice of true religion were
preserved among the children of Ifrael, when all other
nations were funk in the grofleil idolatry, and wallowed
in the molt abominable vices ; when the far-famed E-
gyptians, Greeks, and womans, fell down with adoration
to flocks and Itones and the vileft reptiles; and when
16
Were all
intended to
keep alive
a fenfe of
religion..
'1
The pro¬
phecies to
be confider
ed ip con-
netfhon,
they E d no well-grounded hope of another life, and
were in fa£t without God in the world.
From this fhort deduction,.we think ourfelves intitled
to conclude, that the primary ufe and intent of prophe¬
cy, under the various difpenlations of the Old Tefta-
ment, was not, as is too often fuppofed, to eftabliih the
divine million of Jefus Chrift, but to keep alive in the
m.nds of thoie to whom it was given, a fenfe of reli¬
gion, and a hope of future deliverance from the curie of
the falT It was, in the expreflive language of St Peter,
“ a light that (hone in a dark place, unto which men
did well to take heed until'the day dawned and the day-
flar arofe in their hearts.” But though this was cer¬
tainly the original intent of prophecy (for Chrift, had
he never been foretold, would have proved himfeif to
be the fbn of God with power by his aftonifhing mi¬
racles, and his refurrection from the dead), yet it can¬
not be denied, that a long feries of prophecies, given
in different and far diftant ages, and having all their
completion in the life, death, and refurreffion, of.Telus
concur very forcibly with the evidence of miracles to
prove that he was the feed of the woman ordained to
bruife the head of the ferpent, and reftore man to his
forfeited inheritance. To the Jews the force of this
evidence mull have been equal, if not fuperior, to that
of miracles themfelves; and therefore we find the A-
poftles and firft preachers of the gofpel, in their ad-
dreffes to them, conftantly appealing to the law and the
prophets, whilft they urged upon the Gentiles the evi¬
dence of miracles.
In order to form a right judgement of the argument
for the truth of Chnftiaiuty drawn from the fure word
of.prophecy, we muft not confider the prophecies given
in the Old I eft ament as fo many prediSlions only inde¬
pendent of each other ; for if we do, we fhall totally lofe
light of the purpofe for which they were originally gi¬
ven, and fhall never be able to fatisfy ourfelves when
confronted by the obje&ions of unbelievers. It is eafy
for men of leifure and tolerable parts to find difficulties
in particular prediffions, and in the application of them
made by writers, who lived many hundred years ap'o,
and who had many ancient books and records of the
Jewifh church, from which they drew many palfages,
and perhaps fome prophecies j which books and records
2 ] PRO
we have not to enable us to underftand, and to juftify Prophecy,
their applications. But it is not fo eafy a matter to x—■■■'
fnow, or to perfuade the world to believe, that a chain
of prophecies reaching through leveral thoufand years,
delivered at different times, yet manifeftly fubfervient
to one and the fame adminiftration of providence from
beginning to end, is the effe& of art and contrivance
and religious fraud. In examining the feveral prophe¬
cies recorded in the Old Teftament, we are not to fup-
pofe that each of them exprefsly pointed out and clear¬
ly characterized Jefus Chrift. Had they done fo, in-
ftead of being a fupport to religion in general, the pur¬
pofe for which they were originally intended, they
would have had a very different effeCt, by making thofe
to whom they were given repine at being placed under
difpenfations- fo very inferior to that of the gofpel. We
are. therefore to inquire only whether all the notices,
which, in general and often metaphorical’ terms, God
gave to the fathers of his intended falvation, are perfeCT-
ly anfwered by the coming of Chrift ; and we fhall find
that nothing has been promifed with refpeCl to that fub-
jecl which has not been performed in the ampleft man¬
ner. If we examine the prophecies in this manner, we
fhall find that there is not one of them, which the
Apofiles have applied to the Meftfah, that is not appli¬
cable in a rational and important fenfe to fomething in
the birth, fife, preaching, death, refurreClion, and afeen-
flon of Jefus of Nazareth ; that as applied to him they
are all confiftent w ith each other ; and that thouuh
home few of them may be applied without abfurdity to
perfons and events under the Jewifh difpenfation, Chrift
is the only perfon that ever exifted in whom they all
meet as in a centre. In the limits preferibed us, it is
impofiible that we ftiould enter upon a particular proof
of this pofition. It has been proved by numberlefs wri¬
ters, and, with refpecl to the moft important prophecies,
by none with greater fuccefs than Bifhop Sherlock in
his Ufe and Intent of Prophecy in the feveral ages of
the World ; a work which we recommend to our read¬
ers as one of the moft valuable on the fubjeCl m our own
or any other language.
But admitting that it wmuld have been improper, for Objection
the reafons already hinted at, to have given a clear and train the
precife defeription of Chrift, and the Chriftian difpenfa-ubbunty
tion, to men who were ordained to live under difpen-,,f P10ijhe-
fations lefs perfeft, howq it may be a/ked, comes it toCy’
pafs that many of the prophecies applied by the writers
of the gofpel to our Saviour and his aftions are ftill dark
and obfeure, and fo far from belonging evidently to him
and to him only, that it requires much learning and fa-
gacity to fhowr even now' the conneftion between fome
prophecies and the events ? T f.
In anfwer to thefe queftions, the learned prelate juft Ar.bvtrtd.
referred to obferves, “That the obfeurity of prophecy
does not arife from hence, that it is a relation or deferip¬
tion of fomething ; for it is as eafy to (peak of
things future plainly, and intelligibly, as it is of things
part or prefent, It is not, therefore, of the nature of
prophecy to be obfeure ; for it may eafily be made,
when he wdio gives it thinks fit, as plain as hiflory. On
the other fide, a figurative and dark defeription of a
future event will be figurative and dark ftill when the
event happens; and confequently will have all the ob¬
feurity of a figurative and dark defeription as well after
as before the event. The prophet Ifaiah deferibes the
peace
)
PRO [ 453 ] PRO
Prcphfcy, peace of Chrift’s kingdom in the following manner :
"-y—‘ The wolf dull dwell with the lamb, and the leopard
(hall lie down with the kid, and the calf and the young
lion, and the fading,‘together, and a little child ihall
lead them.’ Nobody, fome modern Jews excepted,
ever underftood this literally ; nor can it now be lite¬
rally applied to the ftate of the gofpel. It was and is
capable of different interpretations : it may mean tem¬
poral peace, or that internal and fpiritual peace—that
tranquillity of mind, which lets a man at peace with
God, himfelf, and the world. But whatever the true
meaning is, this prophecy does no more obtrude one
determinate fenfe upon the mind fince the coming of
Chrift than it did before. But then we fay, the Hate
of the gofpel rvas very properly prefigured in this de-
fcription, and is as properly prefigured in a hundred
more of the like kind •, and fince they all agree in a fair
application to the ftate of the gofpcd, we ftrongly con¬
clude, that this Hale wras the thing foretold under fuch
expredions. So that the argument from prophecy for
the truth of ChriRianity does not reit on this, that the
event has neceffarily limited and afcertained the parti-
oular fenfe and meaning of every prophecy •, but in this,
that every prophecy has in a proper fenfe been completed
by tire coming of ChriH. It is abfurd, therefore, to
expedf clear and evident conviftion from every fingle
prophecy applied to ChriH j the evidence muR arife
from a viewr and comparifon of all together.” It is
doubtlefs a great mi flake to fuppofe that prophecy was
intended folely or chiefly for their fakes in wmofe time
the events predicted are to happen. What great occa-
fion is there to lay in fo long beforehand the evidence
of prophecy to convince men of things that are to hap¬
pen in their own times ; the truth of which they may,
if they pleafe, learn from their own fenfes ? Yet fome
people are apt to talk as if they thought the truth of
the events predidled depended very much on the evi¬
dence of prophecy : they fpeak, for inflance, as if they
imagined the certainty and reality of our Saviour's re-
furrecRion were much concerned in the clearnefs of the
prophecies relating to that great and w’onderxul event,
and feem to think that they are confuting the truth of
his refurreRion when they are pointing out the abfurdi-
ty of the prophecies relating to it. But can any thing
be more abfurd ? For what ground or pretence is there
to inquire whether the prophecies foretelling that the
Mefliah fhould die and rife again do truly belong to
Chrifl, unlefs rve are firR fatisfied that ChriR died and
rofe again ?
The part which unbelievers ought to take in this
queRion, if they would make any ufe of prophecy,
fhould be, to fhowT from the prophets that Chrifl was
neceffarily to rife from the dead; and then to prove
that in faR Jefus never did rife. Here would be a plain
confequence. But if they like not this method, they
ought to let the prophecies alone ; for if ChnR did not
rife, there is no harm done though the prophets have
not foretold it. And if they allow the relurreRion of
ChriR, what do they gain by difcrediting the prophets ?
The event will be what it is, let the prophecies be what
they will.
Thefe confiderations fliow how far the gofpel is necef¬
farily concerned in prophetical evidence, and how clear
the prophecies fhould be. ChriR claims to be the per-
fqn foretold in the law and the prophets j and as truth
muR ever be confiflent with itfelf, this claim muR be Prophecy,
true as well as all others. This is the part then to be —'•v—--'
tried on the evidence of prophecy : Is ChriR that per-
fon defcribed and foretold under the Old Teftament or
not? Whether all the prophecies relating to him be
plain or not plain, it matters little ; the fingle queRion
is, Are there enough plain to fliow us that ChriR is the
perfon foretold under the Old Teftament ? If there be,
we are at an end of our inquiry, and want no farther’
help from prophecy ; efpecially fince we have feen the
day dawn and enjoyed the marvellous light of the gofpel
of God. 2o
But fo unreafonable are unbelievers, that whilft fome Objections
of them objeR to the obfcurity of the prophecies, from the
others have rejeRed them altogether on account of their
clearnel’s, pretending that they are hiltories and not
prediRions. The prophecies againft which this objec¬
tion has been chiefly urged are thofe of Daniel, which
were fiift called in quettion by the famous Porphyry,
lie affirmed that they were not compofed by Daniel,
whofe name they bear, but by fome author who lived
in Judea about the time of Autiochus Epiphanes ,
becaufe all to that time contained true hiftory, but that
all the faRs beyond that were manifeftly falfe. 2I
This method of oppofing the prophecies, as a father anfwereT
of the church rightly obferves, is the flrongeft teftimo-
ny of their truth : for they are fo exaRly fulfilled, that
to infidels the prophet feemed not to have foretold
things future, but to have related things paft. To an
infidel of this age, if he has the fame ability and know¬
ledge of hiftory that Porphyry had, all the fubfequent
prophecies of Daniel, except thofe which are Rill ful¬
filling, would appear to be hiftory and not prophecy ; from vvhat
for it entirely overthrows the notion of their being has bappen-
written in the days of Antiochus Epiphanes, or of theec' fltice
Maccabees, and eftablifhes the credit of Daniel as a pro- tfie 0hFc'
phet beyond contradiRion, that there are feveral of^p.
thofe prophecies which have been fulfilled fince that pe¬
riod as well as before ; nay, that there are prophecies of
Daniel which are fulfilling at this very time in the
world.
Our limits will not permit us to enter into the objec¬
tions which have been made to this prophet by the au¬
thor of The Literal Scheme of Prophecy coufidered ;
nor is there occafion that we fliould enter into them.
They have been all examined and completely anfuered
by Bifhop Chandler in his Vindication of his Defence
of Chriftianity, by Mr Samuel Chandler in his Vindica-1
tion of the Antiquity and Authority of Daniel’s Prophe¬
cies, and by Bifhop Newton in his excellent Differla-^ ^ ^ ^
tions on the Prophecies. To thefe authors we refer thep,cqs 0f\he
reader; and ihall conclude the prefent article with aprtfentagc.
view of fome prophecies given in very remote ages,
which are in this age receiving their accomplifhment.
Of thefe the firft is that of Noah concerning the fer-
vitude of the pofterity of Canaan. In the greater part
of original manufcripts, and in our verfion of the holy
fcriptures, this prophecy is thus expreffed : “ Curfed
be Canaan; a fervant of fervants fhall he be unto his
brethren but in the Arabic verfion, and in fome co¬
pies of the Septuagint, it is, “ Curfed be Ham the fa¬
ther of Canaan ; a fervant of fervants fhall he be to his
brethren.” Whether the curfe was really pronounced
upon Ham, which we think moft probable, or only uo-
on his fon Canaan, we fhall find the prediRion remark¬
ably
PRO [ 454
iProphacy. ably fulfilled, not barely ages after the book of Genefis
v was very generally known, but alio at this very day.
It is needlefs to inform any man who has but looked
into the Old Teftament, that when the ancient patri¬
archs pxonounced either a curfe or a blefling upon any
of their fons, they meant to declare the future fortunes,
not Ox that fon individually, but of his defcendants as a
tribe or a nation. Let us keep this in mind, and pro¬
ceed to compare with Noah’s prophecy jirjl the fortunes
of the defcendants of Canaan, the fourth fon of Ham,
and then the fortunes of the pofterity of Ham by his
other fons.
With the fate of the Canaanites every reader is ac¬
quainted. They were conquered by Jofhua feveral cen¬
turies after the delivery of this prophecy j and fuch of
them as were not exterminated were by him and Solo¬
mon reduced to a date of the lowed fervitude to the If-
raelites, the poderity of Shem the brother of Ham. The
Greeks and Romans, too, who were the delcendants of
Japheth, not only fubdued Syria and Paledine, but alfo
purfued and conquered fuch of the Canaanites as were
anywhere. remaining, as for indance the Tyrians and
Caithaginians, of whom the former were ruined by A-
lexander and the Grecians, and the latter by Scipio and
the Romans. Nor did the effefts of the curfe dop
there. The miferable remainder of that devoted people
have been ever fmce (laves to a foreign yoke 5 fird to the
Saracens who are defcended from Shem, and afterwards
to the Turks who are defcended from Japheth j and un¬
der the Turkifh dominion they groan at this day.
If we take the prophecy as it dands in the Arabic
crlion, its accomph(hment is dill more remarkable.
The whole continent of Africa was peopled principally
by the poderity of Ham. And for how many ages have
the better paits of that country lain under the dominion
fird of the Romans, then of the Saracens, and now of
the lurks? In what wickednefs, ignorance, barbarity,
Havery, and mifery, live mod of its inhabitants ? and
of the poor negroes how many thoufands are every year
(old and bought like beads in the market, and conveyed
from one quarter of the world to do the work of beads
in another; to the full accomplidiment indeed of the
prophecy, but to the lading difgrace of thofe who are
from the love of gain the indruments of fulfilling it.
(Nothing can be more complete than the execution of
tne ^fentence^ as well upon Ham as upon Canaan *, and
the hardied infidel will not dare to fay that it was pro¬
nounced after the event.
I he next prophecy which we (hall notice is that of
Abraham concerning the multitude of his defcendants •,
which every one knows is dill fulfilled in the Jews even
in their difperfed (late, and therefore cannot have been
given after the event of which it fpeaks.
. fame kind are the feveral prophecies concern¬
ing Khmael; of which fome have been fulfilled, and
others are at prefent fulfilling in the mod adonifliing
manner. Of tVnc \ \ . •. r . ^
]
PRO
manner. Of this fon of Abraham it was foretold, that
“ Jould be a wild man ; that his hand diould be
againd every man, and every man’s hand againd him :
that he (hould dwell in the prefence of all his brethren :
that he diould be multiplied exceedingly, beget twelve
princes, and become a great nation.” ' The facred hif-
torian -who records thefe prophecies adds, that “ God
was with the lad, and he grew, and dwelt in the wilder-
nefs, and became an archer.”
To (how how fully and literally all thefe prophecies Prophecy,
have been accomplidied, would require more room than ^
we have to bellow j and to the reader of hidory the la¬
bour would be (uperfluous. We (hall therefore only re-
qued the unbeliever to attend to the hidory of the
Arabs, the undoubted defcendants of Idimael j and ta
fay how it comes to pafs, that though they have been
lobbers by land and pirates by lea for time immemorial,
though their hands have been againft every man, and
every man’s hand againd them, they always have dwelt,
and at this day dwell, in the prefence of their brethren^
a free and independent people. It cannot be pretended
that no attempt has ever been made to conquer them ;
for the greated conquerors in the world have all in their
turns attempted it: but though fome of them made
great progrefs, not one was ever crowned with fuccefs.
It cannot be pretended that the inaccediblenefi of their
country has been their protedlion ; for their country has
been often penetrated, though it never was entirely
fubdued. When in all human probability they have
been on the brink of ruin, they wxre fignally and pro¬
videntially delivered. Alexander was preparing an ex¬
pedition againd them, when he was cut off in the (lower
of his age. Pompey was in the career of his conqueds
when urgent affairs called him elfewhere. Ailius Gal¬
los had penetrated far into their country, when a fatal
difeafe dedroyed great numbers of his men, and oblio-ed
him to return. Trajan befieged their capital city, but
was defeated by thunder and lightning and whirlwinds.
Severus befieged the fame city twice, and was twice re¬
pelled from before it. The Turks, though they w'ere
able to wred from them their foreign conqueds, have
been fo little able to fubdue the Arabs themfelves, or
even to redrain their depredations, that they are obliged
to pay them a fort of annual tribute for the fafe paffage
of the pilgrims who go to Mecca to pay their devotions.
On thefe fads w^e diall not exclaim. He who is not
druck upon comparing the fimple hidory of this Angular
people with the prophecies fo long ago delivered of them
and their great ancedor, whofe love of liberty is compa¬
red to that of the wild afs, would rife wholly unmoved
from our exclamations.
A fourth prophecy of this kind, which cannot be al- The
leged to have been uttered after the event, is the denun- perLn If
ciation <)f Moles againd the children of Ifrael in cafe of the Jews
their difobedience ; which is fo literally fulfilled, that '5,ainIy
even at this moment it appears rather a hidory of theforetold*
prefent date of the Jews, than a remote prediftion of
their apodafy and punidiment. “ And the Lord diall
fcatter thee among all people from the one end of the
earth even unto the other. And among thefe nations
dialt thou find no eafe, neither (hall the foie of thy foot
have red ; but the Lord (hall give thee there a tremb¬
ling heart and failing of eyes, and forrow of mind. And
thy life (hall hang in doubt before thee ; and thou (halt
fear day and night, and (halt have none affurance of thy
life,” (Deut. xxviii. 64, 65, 66.). “ And thou dialt
become an adonifhment, a proverb, and a bye-word
among all nations, whither the Lord (hall lead vou.”
(Deut. xxviii. 37.). '
_ Similar to this denunciation, but attended with fome
circumdances dill more wonderful, is the following pre-
diftion of the prophet Hofea: “ The children of Ifrael
(hall abide many days without a king, and without a
prince, and without a facrifice, and without an image,
and
PRO [ 455
Prophecy, and without an ephod, and without teraphim. After-
v "' wards (hall the children of Ifrael return, and feek the
Lord their God, and David their king; and fhall fear
the Lord and his goodnefs in the latter days (b).” In
this paffage we find the ftate of the Jews for the laft
1700 years clearly and diftin&ly defcribed with all its
circumftances. From the time that they rejefted their
Meffiah all things began to work towards the deftruc*
tion of their politics both civil and religious •, and with¬
in a few years from his death, their city, temple, and
government, were utterly ruined ; and they themielves
not carried into a gentle captivity, to enjoy their laws,
and live under governors of their own, as they did in
Babylon, but they were fold like beads in a market,
and became Haves in the drifted fenfe j and from that
day to this have had neither prince nor chief among
them. Nor will any one of them ever be able, after all
their pretences, to prove his defcent from Aaron, or to
fay with certainty whether he is of the tribe of Judah
or of the tribe of Levi, till he fhall difcover that un-
knowm country where never mankind dwelt, and where
the apocryphal Efdras has placed their brethren of the
ten tribes. This being the cafe, it is impodible they
can have either an altar, or a facrifice, or a priedhood,
according to the inditution of Mofes, but are evidently
an outcad people living under laws which cannot be ful¬
filled.
The caufe of this deplorable condition is likewife af-
figned with the fame perfpicuity : They are fcattered
over the face of the earth, becaufe they do not acknow¬
ledge Chrid for the Mediah ; becaufe they do not fub-
mit to their own king, the true David. In the prophe¬
tic writings the name of David is frequently given to
the Mediah, who was to defcend from that prince.
Thus Ezekiel, fpeaking of the kingdom of Chrid, fays,
44 I wall fet up one Shepherd over them, and he (hall
feed them, even my fervant David ; he diall feed them,
and he (hall be their drepherd.” And Jeremiah fays,
44 They diall ferve the Lord their God, and David their
king, whom I will raife up unto them.”
That in thefe places, as w^ell as in the padage under
condderation, the Mediah is meant, is undeniable; for
David the fon of Jede w^as dead long before any of the
three prophets was born'; and by none of them it is faid,
“ afterwards David their king diall come again but
44 afterwards the children of Ifrael Jhall return to David
their king,” they (hall recover from their blind infatua¬
tion, and feek him whom they have not yet knowm.
By their not receiving Jefus for their Chrid, they have
forfeited all claim to the divine favour, and are, of con-
fequence, “ without a king, and without a chief, and
without a facrifice, and without an altar, and without a
priedhood.”
The time, however, will come, when they diall re¬
turn and feek “ the Lord their God and David their
king;” when they diall tremble before him w'hom their
fathers crucified, and honour the fon even as they ho-
25
and the
caufe of
it.
26
Their re
turn alfo
foretold.
] PRO
iiour the father. That this part of the prophecy will Prophecy*
in time be as completely fulfilled as the other has been L ■ J
may be confidently expefted from the wonderful prefer-
vation of the Jews for fo many ages. Scattered as they
a) e over the whole earth, and haled as they are by all
nations, it might naturally be thought, that in procefs
of time they would have coalefced with their conquer¬
ors, and have been ultimately abforbed and annihilated
by their union, fo that no trace of them diould now
have remained ; yet the faft is, that, difperfed as they
have ever fince been over the whole face of the globe,
they have never, in a fingle indance, in any country, lod
their religious or natural didinftions ; and. they are now
generally fuppofed to be as numerous as they were under
the reigns of David and Solomon. This is contrary to
all hi dory, and all experience of the courfe of human
affairs in fimilar cafes ; it has been boldly and juftly
ftyled a Handing miracle. Within 1000 or 1200'years
back, a great variety of extraordinary and important re¬
volutions have taken place among the nations of Eu¬
rope. In the fouthern part of this iiland the Britons
were conquered by the Saxons, the Saxons by the Danes,,
and the Danes and Saxons by the Normans ; but in a
fevy centuries thefe oppofite and hodile nations were con-
folidated into one indidinguifliable mafs. Italy, about the
fame time that Britain was fubdued by the Saxons, wras
conquered by the Goths and Vandals : and it is not eafy
to conceive a more driking contrad than that which fub-
fided between the polifhed inhabitants of that delightful
country and their favage invaders ; and yet how foon
did all didinftton ceafe between them ! In France, the
Roman colonies gradually adimilated wfith the ancient
Gauls; and in Spain, though the Moors continued for
feveral ages, and till their final expulfion, a didinft
people, yet after they w^ere once reduced to a date of
fubjeftion, their numbers very fenfibly diminifhed ; and
fuch of them as were differed to remain after their lad
overthrow^ have been long fince fo blended with the Spa¬
niards that they cannot now be didinguidied. But with
regard to the Jews, the wonder is, that though they do
not in any country where they are fettled bear any pro¬
portion to the natural inhabitants, though they are uni-
verfally reduced to a date of the fowled fubjeftion, and
even expofed to hatred, contempt, and perfecution ; yet
in no indance does there feem to be the lead appearance
or probability of their numbers being diminifhed, in no
indance do they difcover any decay of attachment to their
religious principles. Whence then comes it that this
people alone, who, having no form of government or a
republic anywhere fubfiding, are without the means by
which other people are kept united and didinft, diould
dill be preferved amongd fo many different nations ?
How comes it, when they have been thus fcattered in¬
to fo many didant corners, like dud which cannot be
perceived, that they fhould dill fo long furvive the dif-
folution of their own date, as well as that of fo many
others? To thefe quedions the anfwer is obvious: They
are
(b) Such is our trandation of this remarkable prophecy ; but the Greek verfion of the Seventy has it, per¬
haps more properly, thus: “ The children of Ifrael fhall abide many days without a king, and without a
chief, and without a facrifice, and without an altar, and without a priedhood, and without a prophecies. Afier-
wards,’ &c.
c/
PRO [ 456 ] PRO
piOphecy,
Prophet.
27
Of prophe¬
cies re-
fpedling
the Chii-
Itian
church.
are prcfeived, that, as a nation, “ they may return and
feek the Lord their God and David their king, and fear
the Lord and his goodnefs in the latter days.”
- We might here fubjoin many prophecies both from
the Old and the New Teftament, and efpecially from
the writings of St Paul and St John, which fo clearly
deferibe the various fortunes of the Chriftian church,
her progrels to that fiate of general corruption under
which lire was funk three centuries ago, and her gradual
reftoration to her primitive purity, th.it they cannot be
fuppofed to proceed from the cunning craftinefs of men,
or to have been written after the events of which they
fpeak. To do juftice to thefe, however, would require
a volume, and many excellent volumes have been writ¬
ten upon them. The reader who wifhes for fatisfaftion
on fo interefting a fubjeft will do well to confult the
writings of Mr Mede and Sir Ifaac Newton, together
with Bifhop Newton’s DilTertations, and the Sermons of
Hurd, Halifax, and Bagot, preached at Warburton’s
lecture. We lhall only obferve, that one of the ableft:
reafoners that Great Britain ever produced, after having
paid the clofeft attention to the prediftions of the New
Teftament, hath been bold enough to put the truth of
revealed religion itfelf upon the reality of that prophetic
fpirit which foretold the defolation of Chrift’s church
and kingdom by antichrift. “ If (fays he), IN THE
days of St Paul and St John, there was any foot-
ftep of fuch a fort of power as this in the world j or if
there had BEEN any fuch power in the world ; or if
there was then any appearance or probability that
could make it enter into the heart of man to imagine
that there EVER could BE any fuch kind of power in
the world, much lefs in the temple or church of God;
and if there be not NOW fuch a power aftually and con-
fpicuoufly exercifed in the world; and if any pifture of
this power. DRAWN AFTER THE EVENT, can now de¬
feribe it more plainly and exactly than it was originally
deferibed in the words of the prophecy—then may it,
with feme degree of plaufibility, be fuggefted, that the
prophecies are nothing more than enthufiaftic imagina¬
tions.”
Upon the whole, we conclude with Bifhop Sherlock,
that the various prophecies recorded in the Holy Scrip¬
tures were given, not to enable man to forefee with
clearnefs future events, but to fupport the feveral dif-
penfations of religion under which they were refpedfive-
ly promirlgated. The principal prophecies recorded in
the Old Teftament led mankind to hope for a complete
deliverance from the curfe of the fall ; and therefore
tended to fill their minds with gratitude, and to enforce
a cheerful obedience to that God who in the midft of
judgement lemembereth mercy. The prophecies, whe¬
ther in the Old or New Teftament, that pourtray the
prefent Irate of the Jews, and the various fortunes of the
Chriftian church, as they are daily fulfilling in the pre-
lenee of all men, are the ftrongeft pofiible proof of the
divinity of our holy religion, and fupply to us in the
latter days the place of miracles, by which it was at firft
eftablifhed.
PROPHET, in general, a perfon who foretels future
events; but is particularly applied to fuch infpired per-
fons among the Jews as were commiflkmed by God to
declare his will and purpofes to that people. Among
the canonical books of the Old Teftament we have the
writings of 16 prophets, four of whom are denominated
2
the greater prophets, viz. Ifaiah, Jeremiah, Ezekiel, and Prophet
Daniel; fo called from the length and extent of their li
writings, which exceed thofe of the others, viz. Hofea, 1 i0F0rt'0r>«
Joel, Amos, Obadiah, Jonah, Micah, Nahum, Habak- ^ "*
kuk, Haggai, Zechariah, and Malachi, who are called
the lefer prophets, from the ftiortnefs of their writings.
The Jews do not place Daniel among the prophets, be-
caufe, they fay, he lived the life of a courtier rather
than that of a prophet. An account of the feveral
writings of the prophets may be feen each under it a
particular head. See the article Isaiah, &c.
Sons of the P ROPUFTS, in feripture hiftory, an appel¬
lation given to young men who were educated in the
fchools or colleges under a proper mafter, wjio was
commonly, if not always, an infpired prophet, in the
knowledge of religion and in facred roufic, and thus
were qualified to be public preachers; which feems to
have been part of the bulinefs of the prophets on the
Sabbath days and feftivals. It is probable that God
generally chofe the prophets," whom he infpired, out of
thefe fchools. See Prophecy.
PROPITIATION, in Theology, a facrifice offered
to God to afluage his wrath and render him propitious.
Among the Jews there were both ordinary and public
facrifices, as holocaufts, &c. offered by way of thar.kf-
giving; and extraordinary ones, oft’ered by particular
perfons guihy of any crime, by way of propitiation.
The Romifh church believe the mafs to be a faerifice
of propitiation for the living and the dead. The re¬
formed churches allow of no propitiation but that one
offered by Jefus Chrift on the crofs. See Sacrifice.
PROPITIATORY, any thing rendering God pro¬
pitious ; as we fay propitiatory facrifices, in contradi-
ftin61 ion to facrifices which were euchari/lical. Among
the Jews the propitiatory was the cover or lid of the
ark of the covenant ; which was lined both within and
withoutfide with plates of gold, infomuch that there was
no wood to be feen. This propitiatoiy was a type or
figure of Chrift, whom St Paul calls the propitiatory
ordained from all ages. See Ark of the Covenant.
PROPOLIS, the name of a certain fubftance more
tenacious than wax, with which the bees Hop up all the
holes or cracks in the fide of their hives. See Bee,
N° 13.
PROPONTIS, or sea of Marmora, a part of the
Mediterranean, dividing Europe from Alia ; it has the
Hellefpont or canal of the Dardanelles to the fouth-
weft, whereby it communicates with the Archipelago,
and the ancient Bofphorus of Thrace, or ftrait of
Conftantinople to the north-eaft, communicating with
the Black or Euxine fea. It has- two caftles : that on
the Alia fide is on a cape, where formerly flood a tem¬
ple of Jupiter. The caftle of Europe is on an oppo-
fite cape, and had anciently a temple of Serapis. It is
120 miles long, and in fome places upwards of 40 miles
broad.
PROPORTION, the identity or fimilitude of two
ratios. Plence quantities that have the fame ratio be¬
tween them are faid to be proportional ; e. gr. if A be
to B as C to D, or 8 be to 4 as 30 to 15 ; A, B, C, D,
and 8, 4, 30, and 15, are faid to be in proportion, or
are limply called proportionals. Proportion is frequent¬
ly confounded with ratio ; yet have the two in reality
very different ideas, which ought by all means to be
diftinguilhed. Ratio is properly the relation or habi¬
tude
PRO [ 457 ] P R O
Proportion, tude of two things, which determines the quantity of
* one from the quantity of another, without the interven¬
tion of any third : thus we fay the ratio of 5 and 10 is
2, the ratio of 12 and 24 is 2. Proportion is the fame-
r.cfs or likenefs of two fuch relations *, thus the relations
between 5 and 10 and 12 and 24 being the fame, or
equal, the four terms are laid to be in proportion.
Hence ratio exifts between two numbers, but propor¬
tion requires at lead three. Proportion, in fine, is the
habitude or relation of two ratios when compared toge¬
ther *, as ratio is of two quantities. See Algebra, A-
ritumetic and Geometry.
Arithmetical and Geometrical P ROPORZION. See Pro¬
gression.
Inordinate PROPORTJON, is where the order of the
terms compared is dhturbed or irregular. As, for ex¬
ample, in two ranks of numbers, three in each rank,
viz. in one rank, - - 2, 3, 9,
and in the other, - - 8, 24, 36,
which are proportional, the former to the latter, Tout in
a different order, viz. - 2 : 3 : : 24 : 35,
and - - - - 3 : 9 : : 8 : 24,
then ; calling out the mean terms in each rank it is con¬
cluded that - - 2 : 9 : : 8 : 36,
that is, the fivlt is to the third in the firil rank, as the
fir ft is to the third in the fecond rank.
Harmonica/ or Mafical PROPORTION, is a kind of
numeral proportion formed thus : of three numbers, il
the firft be to the third as the difference of the firft and
fecond to the difference of the fecond and third j the
three numbers are in harmonical proportion.
Thus 2, 3, 6, are harmonical, becaufe 2 : 6 : : 1 : 3.
So alfo four numbers are harmonical, when the firft is
to the fourth as the difference of the firft and fecond to
the difference of the third and fourth.
Thus 24, 16, 12, 9, are harmonical, becaufe 24 : 9
: : 8 : 3. By continuing the proportional terms in the
firft cafe, there arifes an harmonical progreftlon or fe-
ries.
1. If three or four numbers in harmonical propor¬
tion be multiplied or divided by the fame number 5 the
produffs or quotients will alfo be in harmonical pro¬
portion : thus, if 6, 8, 1 2, which are harmonical, be
divided by 2, the quotients 3, 4, 6, are alro harmoni¬
cal ; and reciprocally the produffs by 2, v.z. 6, 8,
1 2.
2. To find an harmonical mean between two num¬
bers given ; divide double the produff of the two num¬
bers by their fum, the quotient is the mean required ;
thus fuppofe 3 and 6 the extremes, the produff of thefe
is 18, which doubled gives 36 ; this divided by 9 (the
fum of 3 and 6) gives the quotient 4. Whence 3, 4, 6,
are harmonical.
3. 'bo find a third harmonical proportion to two
numbers given.
Call one of them the firft term, and the other the
fecond ; multiply them together, and divide t!ie pro¬
duff by the number remaining after the lecond is fub-
traffed from double the firft •, the quotient is a third
harmonical proportional: thus, fuppofe the given terms
3, 4, their produff 12 divided by 2 (the remainder af¬
ter 4 is taken from 6, the double of the firft), the quo¬
tient is 6, the harmonical third fought.
4. To find a fourth harmonical proportion to three
terms given •, multiply the firft into the third, and di-
Vql. XVII. Part II.
vide the product by the number remaining after the Proportion-
middle or fecond is fubtra6led from double the firft ; II.
the quotient is a third harmonical proportion } thus fup- ^ 10P0iui0n-,
poling the numbers 9, 12, 16, a fourth will be found by
the rule to be 24.
5* If there be four numbers difpofed in order, where¬
of one extreme and the two middle terms are in arith¬
metical proportion j and the fame middle terms with
the other extreme are in harmonical proportion ; the
lour are in geometrical proportion •, as here 2 : 3 : : 4 :
6, which are geometrical^ whereof 2, 3, 4, are arith¬
metical, and 3, 4, 6, are harmonical.
6. If betwixt any two numbers you put an arithme¬
tical mean, and alfo an harmonical one, the four will be
in geometrical proportion : thus betwixt 2 and 6 an
arithmetical mean is 4, and a harmonical one 3 } and
the four 2 : 3 : : 4 : 6, are geometrical.
We have this notable difference between the three
kinds of proportion, arithmetical, harmonical, and geo¬
metrical ; that from any given number we can raife a
continued arithmetical feries increafing in infinitum, but
not decreafmg : the harmonical is decreafable in infini¬
te m, but not increafable \ the geometrical is both.
Proportion, or Rule of Three. See Arithmetic.
Reciprocal PROPORTION. See Reciprocal.
Proportion is alfo ufed for the relation between
unequal things of the fame kind, whereby their feveral
parts correfpond to each other with an equal augmenta¬
tion or diminution.
Thus, in reducing a figure into little, or in enlarging
it, care is taken to obferve an equal diminution or en¬
largement, through all its parts : fo that if one line,
e. gr. be contraffed by one-third of its length, all the
reft fhall be contraffed in the fame proportion.
Proportion, in ArcluleSlure, denotes the iuft mag¬
nitude of the members of each part of a building, and
the relation of the feveral parts to the whole 5 e. gr. of
the dimenfions of a column, &c. with regard to the or-
donnance of the whole building.
One of the greatell differences among architeffs, M.
Perrault obferves, is in the proportion of the heights
.of entablatures with refpeff to the thicknefs of the
columns, to which they are always to be accommo¬
dated.
In effcff, there is fcarcely any work, either of the an¬
cients or modern'!, wherein this proportion is not dif¬
ferent ; fome entablatures are even near twice as high as
others :—yet it is certain this proportion ought of all
others to be molt regulated ; none being of greater im¬
portance, as there is none in which a defect is fooner
feen, nor any in which it is more (hocking.
Compafi of PROPORTION, a name by which the
French, and after them fome Englifh, authors call the
Sector.
PROPORTIONAL, relating to proportion. Thus
we fay, proportional compaffes, parts, feales, fpirals, &c.
Proportionals, in Geometry, are quantities, either
linear or numeral, which bear the fame ratio or relation
to each other.
PROPOSITION, in Logic, part of an argument
wherein fome quality, either negative or pofitive, is at¬
tributed to a fubjeff.
Proposition, in Mathematics, is either fome truth
advanced and (hown to be fuch by demonftration, or
fpme operation propofed and its folution Ihown. If the
3 M propofitioK
PRO
•Propofition propofition be deduced from feveral theoretical defini
Profe ^ons comPared together, it is called a theorem ; if from
u—a praxis, or feries of operations, it is called a problem.
See the articles Theorem and Problem.
Proposition, in Oratory. See Oratory, N° 28.
124.
Proposition, in Poetry, the firft part of a poem,
wherein the author propoies briefly, and in general,
what he is to fay in the body of his work. It tliould
comprehend only the matter of the poem, that is, the
action and perfons that add. Horace prefcribes modefty
and fimplicity in the propofition, and would not have
the poet promife too much, nor raife in the reader too
great ideas of what he is going to relate.
PROPREFECT, among the Romans, the prefeft’s
lieutenant, or an officer whom the prefedl of the pre-
torium commifTioned to do part of his duty in his
place.
PROPRETOR, a Roman magilfrate, who, having
difcharged the office of pretor at home, was fent into a
province to command there with his former pretorial
authority. It wras alfo an appellation given to thofe
who, without having been pretors at Rome, were fent
extraordinarily into the provinces to adminifter juffice
with the authority of pretors.
PROPRIETOR, or Proprietary, is he who pof-
feffes any thing as his own in the utmofi degree. Such
monks were called proprietary as had referved goods and
effe6ls to themfelves, notwithffanding their formal re¬
nunciation of all at the time of their profeffion. They
are frequently mentioned in the Monaji. Anglic. &c.
and were to be very feverely dealt with ; to be excom¬
municated, deprived of burial, &c. Monachi proprieta-
rii excommunicentur ab abbotibus : et,Ji in morte propri¬
etor ius inventus fierit, ccclc/ia/lica car eat febultura. &c.
Addit. ad Matt. Par.
PRO RATA, in commerce, a term fometimes ufed
by merchants for in proportion ; as, each perfon mull reap
the profit or fuftain the lofs, pro rata to his interefl, that
is, in proportion to his flock.
PROROGATION, the aft of prolonging, adjourn¬
ing, or putting off, to another time. The difference be-
between a prorogation and an adjournment of parlia¬
ment is, that by prorogation the feffion is ended, and
fuch bills as paffed in either houfe, or both houfes, and
had not the royal affent, mull at the next affembly be¬
gin again.
PROSCRIPTION, a publication made in the name
of the chief or leader of a party, whereby he promifes
a reward to any one who fhall bring him the head of one
of his enemies.
Sylla and Marius by turns profcribed each others ad¬
herents.—Under the triumvirate great part of the befl
and braveft of the Romans fell by profcription.
The term took its rife from the praftice of writing
down a lift of the perfons names, and polling it in pub¬
lic 5 from pro and fcribo “ I write.”
PROSE, the natural language of mankind, loofe and
unconfined by poetical meafures, rhymes, &c. In which
fenfe it Hands oppofed to verfe.
There is, however, a fpecies of profe which is meafu-
red, fuch as that in which epitaphs and other infcrip-
tions are generally written ; and indeed every man who
has formed for himfelf a flyle writes in uniform periods
regularly recurring. It has been much difputed whe-
[ 45s ]
PRO
ther a poem can be written in profe. We enter not into
that difpute, as we have faid enough on the fubjeft elfe-
where. See Novel.
The word profe comes from the Latin prof a, which
fome will have derived from the Hebrew poras, which
fignifies expendit: others deduce it from the Latin pror-
fa, ofprorfus, “ going forwards by way of oppofi-
tion to verfa, or “ turning backwards,” as is neceffary in
writing.
PROSECUTION, in the criminal lawn The next
flep towards the punifhment of offenders after Commit¬
ment, is their profecution, or the manner of their for¬
mal accufation. And this, in the Englifh law, is either
upon a previous finding of the faft by an inquefl or
grand jury ; or without fuch previous finding.
The former wjay is either by Presentment or In¬
dictment. See thefe articles.
The remaining methods of profecution are without
any previous finding by a jury, to fix the authoritative
ft amp of verifimilitude upon the accufation. One of
thefe, by the common law, was when a thief was taken
with the mainour, that is, with the thing ftolen upon
him, in manu. For he might, wEen fo detefted, fla¬
grante deliEio, be brought into court, arraigned, and
tried, without indiftment : as by the Danifh law he
might be taken and hanged upon the fpot without ac¬
cufation or trial. But this proceeding w^as taken away
by feveral ftatutes in the reign of Edward III. though
in Scotland a fimilar procefs remains to this day. So
that the only fpecies of proceeding at the fuit of the
king, without a previous indiftment or prefentment by
a grand jury, now feems to be that of Information j
which fee.
Thefe are all the methods of profecution at the fuit
of the king. There yet remains another, w'hich is
merely at the fuit of the fubjeft, and is called an Ap¬
peal. See that article.
But of all the methods of profecution, that by indift¬
ment is the moft general. See Indictment.
PROSECUTOR, in law, he that purfues a caufe in
another’s name.
PROSELYTE, a new convert to fome religion or
religious feft.
PROSERPINACA, a genus of plants belonging to
the triandria clafs, and in the natural method ranking-
under the 15th order, Inundatce. See Botany Index.
PROSERPINE, in fabulous hiftory, the daughter
of Jupiter and Ceres, w-as carried off by Pluto as fhe
w7as gathering flowers with her companions. Ceres,
difconfolate for the lofs of her daughter, after having
long fought her, heard where fhe was, and intreated
Jupiter to let her return from hell. This requeft Ju¬
piter granted, on condition ftie had tafted nothing in
Pluto’s dominions. Ceres therefore went to fetch her j
but w'hen her daughter wras preparing to return, Afca-
laphus gave information that he had feen Proferpine eat
fome grains of a pomegranate flie had gathered in Plu¬
to’s garden j on which £he was fentenced to continue in
Tartarus in quality of Pluto’s fpoufe, and the queen of
thofe gloomy regions: but to mitigate the grief of Ce¬
res for her difappointment, Jupiter granted that her
daughter fhould only fpend fix months together in hell
wdth her hufband, and the other fix on earth with her
mother.
Some mythologifts imagine that the latter part of the
fable
Piofe
II
Proferpine.
FRO t 459 ] PRO
Profeuche fable alludes lo the corn, which muft remain all the
tl winter hid in the earth, in order to fprout forth in the
Ptixagoras. (prjjng? anci proc[uce the harveft.
PROSEUCHE, in antiquity, properly fignities praij-
€t'; but it is taken for the places of prayer of the Jews,
and was pretty near the fame as their fynagogues. But
the fynagogues were originally in the cities, and were
covered places : whereas, for the mod part, the pro-
feuches were out of the cities, and on the banks of ri¬
vers j having no covering, except perhaps the fhade of
fome trees or covered galleries. The word is Greek,
TTgos-eti^n, prayer.
PROSEAMBANOMENE, the name of a mufical
note in the Greek fyltem.
As the two tetrachords of the Greeks were conjunc¬
tive, or, in other words, as the higheft note of the firft
ferved likewife for the lowed note of the fecond, it is
plain that a complete o£lave could not be formed. To
remedy this deficiency, therefore, one note beneath the
lowed tetrachord wyas added, as an oftave to the high-
ed of the lad tetrachord. Thus, if we fuppofe the
fird to have begun on B, the lad mud have ended upon
A, to which one note fubjoined immediately beneath
the lowed B in the diatonic order mud have formed an
oftave. This note was called projlambanomene. But
it appears from authors who have fcrutinized antiquity
Burney's with fome diligence, and perhaps with as much fuccefs
Hiflory of as the data upon which they proceeded could produce,
Mufic. that the names of the notes in the Greek fydem, which
r ‘ Llt‘ originally dgnified their natural Ration in the fcale of
afcending or defcending founds, were afterwards ap¬
plied to# their pofitions in the lyre. Higher or lower,
then, according to this application, did not fignify their
degrees of acutenefs or gravity, but their higher or
lower fituation upon this indrument.
PROSODY, that part of grammar which treats of
the quantities and accents of fyllables, and the manner
of making verfes.
The Englifh profody turns chiefly on two things,
numbers and rhyme. See Poetry, n° 66—76. and
Part HE
PROSOPIS, in Botany, a genus of the monogy-
nia order, belonging to the decandria clafs of plants.
The calyx is hemifpherical and quadridentate $ the
Rigma is Ample ; the legumen inflated and moncfper-
mous. See Botany Index.
PROSOPOPOEIA, a figure in oratory, whereby
we raife qualities of things inanimate into perfons. See
Oratory.
PROSTATJE, in Anatomy, a gland, generally fup-
pofed to be two feparate bodies, though in reality but
one, fituated jud before the neck of the bladder, and
furrounding the beginning of the urethra. See Ana-
, TOMY Index.
PROSTYLE, in ArchheBure, a range of columns
in the front of a temple.
PROTAGORAS, a famous Greek philofopher, was
Enfield's born at Abdera. In his youth, bis poverty obliged
Hi/lory of him to fubmit to the fervile office of frequently car-
P/.’/lofophy, ij-ying logs of wood from the neighbouring fields to
Abdera. It happened that as he was one day going
on briikly towards the city under one of thefe loads, he
was met by Democritus, who was particularly druck
with the neatnefs and regularity of the bundle. Defi¬
ning him to dop and reft himfelf, Democritus exami¬
ned more clofely the ftruCture of the load, and found that Protagoras
it was put together with mathematical exadtnefs j upon p
which he alked the youth whether he himfelf had made 1 ^ .
it up. Protagoras aflured him that he had ; and imme¬
diately taking it to pieces, with great eafe replaced
every log in the fame exaft order as before. Democri¬
tus expreifed much admiration of his ingenuity ; and
faid to him, “ Young man, follow me, and your talents
ftiall be employed upon greater and better things.” The
youth confented, and Democritus took him home, main ¬
tained him at his own expence* and taught him philo-
fophy, which qualified him for the office of legiflator of
the Thurians. He was more fubtle than folid in his
reafonings; however he taught at Athens with great
reputation, but was at length baniffied from thence for
the impiety of his doftrines. He then travelled, and vi-
fited the ifiands in the Mediterranean, where it is faid
that he was the firft philofopher who taught for money.
He died in a voyage to Sicily, in a very advanced age.
He commonly reafoned by dilemmas, and left the mind
in fufpenfe with refpeft to all the queflions he propofed.
His moral principles w^ere adopted by Hobbes. (See
Moral Philosophy). Plato wrote a dialogue againd
him. He flouriffied 400 years B. C.
PROTASIS, in the ancient drama, the fird part of
a cOmic or tragic piece, wherein the feveral perfons are
fliown, their charafters intimated, and the fubjeft of
the piece propofed and entered upon.
It might reach as far as our twro firft afts 5 and wffiere
it ended the epitafis commenced. See the article Epi-
tasis.
PROTEA, the Silver-tree, a .genus of plants, be¬
longing to the tetrandria clafs •, and in the natural me¬
thod ranking under the 47th order, Atellatx. See
Botany Index.
PROTECTOR, a perfon who undertakes to Ihelter
and defend the vTeak, helplefs, and diftrefled.
Every Catholic nation, and every religious order, has
a protestor redding at the court of Rome, -who is a car¬
dinal, and is called the cardinalproteBor.
Protestor is alfo fometimes ufed for a regent of a king¬
dom, made choice of to govern it during the minority
of a prince.
Cromwell aflumed the title and quality of lord pro¬
teBor of the commonwealth of England.
PROTESILAI TURRIS, the fepulchre of Protefi-
laus, with a temple, at wdiich Alexander facrificed,
(Arian) ; filuated at the fouth extremity of the Helle-
fpont, near the Cherfonefus Thracia. Protefilaus was
the fird Greek wffio landed on the coaft o. Troy, and
the firft Greek flam by the Trojans, (Homer, Ovid).
His wife Laodamia, to alluage her grief, begged the
gods for a fight of his fhade ; and obtaining her requeft,
ihe expired in his embraces, (Hyginus.) Protefilaus
was alfo called Phylacidcs, from Phylace, a town of
ThefTaly.
PROTEST, in Law, is a call of witnefe, or an open
affirmation that a perfon does, either not at all, or but
conditionally, yield his confent to any a<51, or to the
proceeding of any judge in a court in which his jurif-
diftion is doubtful, or to anfwer upon his oath farther
than he is bound by law.
Any of the lords in parliament have a right to pro-
teft their diflent to any bill pafled by a majority : wfliich
proted is entered in form. This is faid to be a very
3 M 2 ancient
P R O [ 400 1 PR O
Proteft anc'enL finvSt'g'e. The commons have rtc right to pro-
11 teft. See Parliament.
Protoyi.e-. PrqxssT, in Commerce, a fummons written by a no¬
tary-public to a merchant, banker, or the like, to accept
Or .diicharge a bill of exchange drawn on him, after his
having refufed either to accept or pay it. See Bll.L of
Exchange.
PROTESTANT, a name hr ft given in Germany
to thofe who adhered to the doctrine ot Luther •, be-
caufe in 1529 they protefted againft a decree of the
emperor Charles V. and the diet of Spires ; declaring
that they appealed to a general council. The fame
name has alfo been given to thofe of the fentiments of
Calvin ; and is now become a common denomination lor
all thofe of the refeftmed churches.
PROTEUS, in Heathen Mythology. See #’.GY?T,
n° 6.
PR OTH ON OT ARY, a term which properly lig-
nities fr/l notary, and which was anciently the title
of the principal notaries of the emperors of Conftanti-
nople.
Prothonotary, w’-h us, is ufed for an officer in the
court of king’s bench and common pleas; the former
of which courts has one, and the latter three. The
prothonotary of the king’s bench records all civil ac¬
tions fued in that court, as the clerk of the crown-office
does all criminal caufes. The pi-othoaetaries of the
common pleas enter and enrol all declarations, plead¬
ings, affizes, judgements, and actions: they alfo make
out all judicial writs, except writs of habeas corpus, and
ffringes jurator, for which there is a particular office,
called the habeas corpora office; they likewife enter re¬
cognizances acknowledged, and ail common recoveries 5
make exemplifications of records, &c.
In the court of Rome there is a college of 1 2 pre¬
lates, called apfolicalprotkonotaries, empowered to re¬
ceive the laft wills of cardinals, to make all informa¬
tions and proceedings neceflary for the canonization of
faints; and all fuch acts as are of great confequence to
the Papacy : for which purpofe they have the right of
ad million into all confiftories, whether public or half
public. They alfo attend on the pope whenever he
performs any extraordinary ceremony out of Rome.
PROTO, a Greek term, frequently ufed in com-
pofition of priority : thus proto-collum, in the ancient
jurifprudence, fignifies the firft leaf of a book ; proto-
martyr, the firft martyr ; proto-plaft, the firft man
formed, &c.
PROTOGENES', a celebrated ancient painter,
was born at Caunas, a city of Caria. fubjeft to the
Rhodians, and dourifhed 300 years before the birth of
* our Saviour. He wras firft obliged to paint (hips for h’s
livelihood •, but afterwTards acquired the higheft remr-
*tation for hiftory-painting ; though Apelles blamed him
for finifliing his pieces too highly, and not knowing
when to have done. The fineft of his pictures was
that of Jalifus, which is mentioned by feveral ancient
authors, though none of them gave any dclcription of
it. He worked feven years on this picture 5 during
which time he lived entirely upon lupines and water,
being of opinion that this light and fimple nouriffi-
ment left him greater freedom of fancy. Apelles, on
feeing this picture, rvas Itruck with fuch ,admiration,
that he vTas unable to fpeak, or to find words fufficient
io exprefs his idea of its beauty. It was this picture
that laved the city of Rhodes when befieged by De- Protogene*
metrius king of Macedon-, for being able to attack it ^ aor
only on that fide where Protogenes worked, which he 1 ‘ 1
intended to burn, he chofe rather to abandon his -de-
fign than to deftroy fo fine a piece. Pliny fays, that.
Apelles afking him what price he had for his pictures,
and Protogenes naming an inconfiderable fum, Apelles
concerned at the injuttice done to the beauty of his
produ'ftions, gave him 50 talents, about io,oool. for
one picture only, declaring publicly that he would
fell it for his own. 'i bis generofily made the Rho¬
dians fenfible of the merit of Protogenes ; and they were
fo eager to purchafe the picture Apelles had bought,
that they paid him a much greater price for it than he
had given.
PROT OTYPE, is the original or model after which
a thing uras formed j but chiefly ufed for the patterns of
things to be engraved, catt, &c.
PROTRACTOR, an inftrument for laying down
and meafuring angles upon paper with accuracy and
difpatch ; and by which the uie of the line of chords
is fuperfeded. This inftrument is varioufiy formed, as
femicircular, rectangular, or circular ; and conftrucfted
of different materials, as brafs, ivory, &c. It is necei-
fary in laying down thofe furveys or other plans where
angles are concerned.
The retdangular prolraflor is conffrafted in form
of a right-angled parallelogram, which, when applied
to a cafe r,c mathematical inftruments, is fnbftiluted in
place of the lemicircular protraftor and fcale of equal Plrte
parts. Fig. 1. is a reprefentation ©f it: the manner ofccccxlviu
ufing it is exaftly fimilar to that of the femicircular 1 ’S' I’
one.
The circular protraftcr, as its name implies, is a
complete circle, and is fuperior by far to either of the
former, both in point of accuracy and difpatch, efpe-
cially when feveral angles are to be formed at the fame
point. The limb of this inffrument is divided into
^60 degrees, and each degree in force protractors is
halved : it has a fubdividing fcale or vernier, by which
an angle may be laid down or meafured to a fingle mi¬
nute. In the centre of the protraftor is a fine mark,
which, when an angle is to be protracted r meafured,
is to be laid upon the angular point, and o, or zero on
the limb, upon the given line forming one fide of the
angle.
Fig. 2. reprefents a circular protraftor whofe limb is Fig- 2.
divided as above deferibed, and the dividing fcale on
the index, which moves round the limb of the protrac¬
tor on a conical centre, gives every minute ot a de¬
gree. That part of the index beyond the limb has a
fteel point fixed at the end, in a direft line with the
centre of the protraftor, and whofe ufe is to prick off
the propofed angles.
Fig. 3. is another circular protraftor, a little differ- Fig. 3-
ently ccnftrufted from the former. The central point
is formed by the interfeftion of two lines croffing each
other at right angles, which are cut on a piece of glafs.
The limb is divided into degrees and half degrees, ha¬
ving an index with a vernier graduated to count to a
fingle minute, and is furnifhed with a tooth and pinion,
by means of which the index is moved round by turn¬
ing a fmall nut. It has two pointers, one at each end
of the index, furniffied with rprings for keeping them
fufpended while they are bringing to any angle j and
p n o r 4 ,5i ] pro
Protra&or being brought, applying a finger to the top of the
I! pointer, and preffing it down, pricks off the angle,
proverb. 'p^ere js advantage in having two pointers, that all
the bearings round a circuit may be laid or pricked oft,
although the index traverfes but one half of the pro-
tradfor.
Fig. 4. Another circular protraftor, different from either of
the former, is reprefented at fig. 4. The centre is alio
formed by the interfedlioh of two lines at right angles
to each other, which are cut on glafs, that all parallax
may thereby be avoided. Ihe index is moved round
by a tooth and pinion. ihe limb is divided into de¬
grees and half degrees, and fubdrvided to every minute
by the vernier. The pointer may be fet at any conve¬
nient ditlance from the centre, as the focket which
carries it moves upon the bar EL, and is fixed thereto
by the nut ID, at right angles to the bar EC, and
moveable with it. There is another bar EF : On this
bar different fcales of equal parts are placed ; fo that by
moving a fquare again!! the inner edge thereof, angles
may be transferred to any ditlance within the limits,
from the centre containing the lame number of degrees
marked out by the index.
It would indeed be fuperfiuous to deferibe any more
of thefe circular protradlors, efpecially as the nttle al¬
terations in them depend very much upon the fancy of
the art ill. Suffice it however to fay, that we have
feen others frill differently coni!rafted, one of which
we ihall briefly deferibe". The dhifions upon the
limb of this inftrument are fimilar to thofe already de-
feribei; but the index is a ftraight bat continued to
fome confiderable diftance each way beyond the. limb
of the inftrument, and has a vernier to fhow. minutes
as ufual; a mark upon one cf the edges of the index al¬
ways coincides with the erntre of the in(1 rumen 1. In-
flead, therefore, of pricking down the angle as in the
formec, part of the line containing the angle may be
drawn, which, although perhaps not. fo accurate as a
point, is more confpicuous, and the line is eafily com¬
pleted upon removal of the protraftor. Ihe common
dimenfions of the circular part of thefe inftrunients is
from fix to ten inches diameter } and they are made of
brafs.
PROTUBERANCE, in Anatomy, is any eminence,
whether natural or preternatural,that projects 01 advan¬
ces out beyond the reft.
PROVEDITOR, an officer in feveral parts ot Italy,
.particularly at Venice, who has the direftion ct matters
relating to policy.
PP.OVENCE, a province or government of I ranee
bounded by Dauphine on the north, by Piedmont on
the eaft, by the Mediterranean on the fouth, and by
the river Rhone, which feparates. it from Languedoc,
on the weft : it is about 1 00 miles long, and near as
many broad. . . „ . ,
PRGVEXD, or Provender, originally fignified a
kind of veffel containing the meafure of corn daily gi¬
ven to a horfe, or other beail ot labour, for Ins fuofift-
ence; but is now generally ufed to figmfy the i.ood
for cattle ; whatever it is.
PROVERB, according to Camden, is a concife,
witty, and wife fpeech, grounded upon experience,
and for the moft part containing fome ufeful inftruc-
Book of Proverbs, a canonical book of the Old
Teftafnent, containing a part of the proverbs of Solo- ProverE
mon the fon of David king of lirael. "i he firft 24 Providence.
chapters are acknowledged to be the genuine wmrk of
that prince ; the next five chapters are a collection of fe¬
veral of his proverbs made by order of King Hezekiah ;
and the two laft Lem to have been added, though be¬
longing to different and unknown authors, Agur the.
fon of Jakeh, and King Lemuel.
In this excellent book are contained rules for the
conduct of all conditions of life } for kings, courtiers,'
mafters, fervants, fathers, mothers, children, &c. 1
PROVIDENCE, the iuperintenclence and care which Definition.
God exercifes over creation. 2
That there exitls a divine providence, which attends belief of a
to the affairs of this world, and direfts their courfe, hasPr0VK^n,ce
been a received opinion among the human race in every
country and in every period of hiitory. Every altar
that is erefted, every prayer and every facrifice that is
offered up, affords a proof of this belief. So fully have
men been convinced of the fincerity of each other’s faith
upon this fubjecl, that in one form, that of an appeal to
the Divine Ruler of the world, by the folemnity of an
oath, they have introduced it both into the moil ordi¬
nary and the moft important bufinefs cf life. ~
This univerfal conviction of men of all degrees ofExiftence
knowledge, from the moft profound philofopher to theofprovi-
rudeft barbarian, is probably to be traced to fome pri-^nc^V
maeval tradition, never totally effaced from any nation 0]) £,jentj_
under heaven. The truth itfelf, however, is fufceptlble fic piinci-
of the moft complete proof from principles of fcience. pies.
If the world had a beginning, it may obvioufly have an
end, and can be continued in exiflence only by the con-
ftant energy of that power by which it was at firft crea¬
ted. He therefore who acknowledges a creation and
denies a providence, involves himfelf in this palpable
contradiction—“ that a fyftem, which of itfelf had not
an original and momentary exiftence, may yet of itfelf
have a perpetual exiftence ; or that a being which can¬
not of itfelf exift for a fecond of time, may yet, of it¬
felf, exift for thoufands of years!'’ Or fhouid we be fo
complaifant, as for a moment to fuppofe, with certain
theifts, ancient and modern, that the matter of the uni-
verfe is felf-exiftent and eternal, and that the power of
God was exerted, not in creating fubftances, but in. re¬
ducing the original matter from a iiate ot chaos into
that beautiful order in which we tee it arranged } the
conftant energy of providence muft ftill be aomitted as
neceffary to preferve the forms and to continue the mo¬
tions which were originally impreffed upon the chaotic
mafs. From late experiments it appears extremely
doubtful whether any two atoms of the moft. folid body
be in actual contaft ; and that they are not all in contact
is certain. (See Metaphysics, N' ipb. and Op lies,
N° 45, p. 185. Yet it requires a very confiderable de¬
gree of force to carry to a greater diftance from one
another the parts of a ftone or of a bar of iron. By
what power then are thefe parts kept contiguous i It
cannot be by their own *, becaufe nothing can aft where
it is not prefeni, and becaufe our bed philotophy. has
long taught us that the atoms of matter are effentially
inaftive. Again, it requires a very great degree of
force to bring two bodies, however imall, into cppai ent
contaft (fee Optics, ubifupra') ; and therefore it follows
that they muft be kept afunder by fome foreign power.
Everv attempt to folvc thefe phencmeiuw y the int.er-
venrion.
\
PRO [
Fiuvuler.ce, veiition of a fubtle fluid is vain ; for the queftidn recurs,
what keeps the parts of the fluid itfelf contiguous, and
yet feparated from each other?
The cohefion therefore of the parts of matter* and
that which is called their repullive power, demtmftrate,
through the whole fyftem, the immediate energy of
fomething which is not matter, and by which every bo¬
dy Imall and great is preferved in its proper fomn It
has been elfewhere flrown [fee Metaphysics, Part II.
chap. j. and MotiOH, N° iq, 20.), that the various
motions which are regularly carried on through the uni-
verfe, by which animals and Vegetables grow and decay,
and by which we have day and night, fummer and win¬
ter, cannot be accoithted for by any laws of mere me-
chanifm, but necefiarily imply the conftant agency of
lomething which is itfelf diftin£t from matter. But
the forms^ of bodies are preferved, and their natural mo¬
tions carried on, for purpofes obvioufly planned by Wif-
dom. The power therefore which effecls. thefe things
mull be combined with intelligence : but powTer and in¬
telligence preferving the order of the univerfe conftitute
ail that is meant by *a general providence j which is
therefore as certainly adminiflered as the fun daily rifes
and lets, or as bodies are kept folid by what is terhled
4 cohefion and repulliou.
Abliracted and metaphyfical as this reafoning may
mins of appear* it is by no means peculiar to the philofophers of
Hindoftan. Turope. Its force has been felt from time immemo-
* Apiatic ”al ^ the Bramins of Hindoftan, who, as Sir William
Refearihes, •'°nes informs us *, “ being unable to form a diftimft idea
/ol. i. o biute matter independent of mind, or to conceive
that the work of fupreme goodnefs was left a moment
to itfelf, imagine that the Deity is ever prefcnt to his
work, not in fubftance but in fpirit and in energy.”
On this rational and fublime conception they have in-
de^ built numberlefs abfurd fuperftitlons ; but their
holding the opinion itfelf, fliows that they believe in the
jcality of pi'ovidence upon philofophical principles: and
what truth is there on which the mind of man has not
ingrafted marks of its owrn weaknefs ?
Few nations, however, except the ancient Greeks*
have had philofophers equally fubtile with the Bramins
of India ; and therefore though all mankind have in ge¬
neral agreed in the belief of a luperintfcnding Providence,
they have in different ages and countries admitted that
uPon different kinds of evidence, and formed very
different notions concerning the mode in which the Di-
s ' vine fuperintendence is exerted.
While focieties are ftillinarude and linpoHlhed ftate,
while individuals poffefs little fecurity and little leifure
or the exertion of their rational powers, every impor¬
tant or fingular appearance in nature becomes an objeft
of wonder or of terror. In this ftate of ignorance* men fee
not the univerfe as it is, a great colledftion of connefted
parts, all contributing to form one grand and beautiful
yitem. Every appearance feems to ftand alone : they
know that it muft have a caufe, but what that caufe is
they are ignorant. The phenomena exhibited by nature
are fo complicated and fo various, that it never occurs
to them that it is poffible for one Being to govern the
whole. Hence arofe the different fyftems of polytheifm
that have appeared in the world. Nature was divided
into different regions, and a particular invifible power
was.afiigned to each department: one conduced the
'Earning chariot of the fun, another wielded the terrible
462
•Idea of pro
vidence in
rude ages.
] PRO
thunderbolt, and others were employed in diflufing Providence^
plenty, and introducing the ufeful arts among men*.' *
Thus, although the various fyftems of polytheifm in
general acknowledged one Supreme Ruler, the father of
gods and men, yet they at the fame time peopled not
only the regions above, the air and the heavens, but
they alio filled the ocean and the land, every grove, and
every mountain, with aftive but invifible natures. ’Ha¬
ving arifen from the fame caufes, thefe fyftems of poly,
theiim, which are fo many hypothefes concerning Divine
providence, are all extremely fimilar * and we have ft
very favourable fpecimen of them in the elegant my¬
thology of Greece and Rome, which gave to every re¬
gion of nature a guardian genius, and taught men in the
deep receffes of the foreft, or in the windings of the ma-
jeftic flood* to expeft the prefence of protefting and
friendly powers. See Polytheism.
, Notwithftanding this univerfal reception, in fome The doc-
form or other, of the doftrine of a divine providence, trine has
it has in every age met with fome opponents. The 0PP°*
moft ancient of thefe were Democritus and Leucippus;r:ents in
J hey denied the exiftence of a Deity^—afferted that all* m°fteVer^
things were mechanically neeeffary, and that thought^6’
and fenfe were only modifications of matter. This is
atheifm in the ftrifteft fenfe, and the only form of it
that lias ever been confiftently fupported. Epicurus
followed upon the fame principles ; but he rendered the
fyftem altogether abfurd, .by confefling the freedom of
the human will. I o avoid the imputation of atheifm,
he afferted the exiftence of God 5 but declared that he’
refided above the heavens, and interfered not in human
affairs. One of his maxims was, that “ the bleffed and
immortal Being neither hath any employment himfelf
nor troubles himfelf with others.” Maximus Tyrius *’ * Max-
jiiftly obferVes, that this is rather a defeription of a Tjr. Lif-
Sardanapalus than of a Deity. And fome of the mo-fert- 2P-
rahfts f of antiquity remarked, that they knew many d*
men among themfelves poffeffed of aaive and generousi
minds, whofe characters they valued more highly X^nNatwa
that of Epicurus’s god. Some of the ancients alfo ap-•^>d’orz/w»
pear to have entertained the following ftrange notion :lib’li'
They acknowledged the exiftence of a Supreme and of
many inferior deities 5 but at the fame time, they fop-
pofed that there is a certain fate which rules over all
and is fuperjor to the gods them lei Ves. See NeceSSITT
in Pvfythology,
The providence exerted by the Author of nature
over his works is ufually divided into two branches : a
general, referring to the management of the univerfe at
large *, and a particular providence, chiefly regarding
particular men.
Upon the fir ft of thefe, in The Religion of Nature de- 7
hneated, the quell ion is ftated fomewhat in the follow- SSlce
ing manner: The world may be faid to be governed * '
or at leaft cannot be fa?d to fludluate fortuitoufly, if
there are laws or rules by which natural caufes acf • if
the feveral phenomena in it fucceed regularly, and* in
general the conftitution of things is preferved 5’ if there
are rules obferved in the produdioh of herbs, trees and
the like ; if the feveral kinds of animals are fonufhed
with faculties proper to determine their a&ions in the
different ftations which they hold in the general econo¬
my of the world 5 and laftly, if rational beings are ta¬
ken care of in fuch a manner as will at laft agree beft
Wnu reafon. By the providence of God we ought to
underftantl
PRO [ 463 ] PRO
8
as it re-
fpefts ina¬
nimate ob¬
jects,
Providence, underftand his governing the world by fuch laws as thefe
s ' ~'r" now mentioned : fo that if there are fuch, there mull be
a Divine providence.
With regard to inanimate objeBs, the cafe agrees pre-
cifely with the above fuppofition. The whole of that
univerfe which we fee around us is one magnificent and
well regulated machine. The world that we inhabit
is a large globe, which, conduced by an invifible power,
flies with a rapidity of which we have no conception,
through an extent of fpace which fets at defiance every
power of fancy to embody it into any diitinft image.
A large flaming orb Hands immoveable in the heavens }
around which this, and other worlds of different magni¬
tudes, perform their perpetual revolutions. Hence arife
the expe£led returns of day and night, and the regular
diverfity of feafons. Upon theie great operations a
thoufand other circumftances depend. Hence, for ex¬
ample, the vapours afcend from the ocean, meet above
in clouds, and after being condenfed, defcend in (bowers
to cover the earth with fertility and beauty. And
thefe appearances are permanent and regular. During
every age fince men have been placed upon the earth,
this aftoniihing machine continued fteadily to perform
its complicated operations. Nothing is left to chance.
The fmalleft bodies are not lefs regular than the largeft,
and obferve continually the fame rules of attraction, re-
pulfion, &c. The apparent variations of nature pro¬
ceed only from different circumftances and combinations
of things, acting all the while under their ancient laws.
We ourfelves can calculate the effects of the laws of
gravitation and of motion. We can render them fub-
lervient to our own purpofes, with entire certainty of
fuccefs if we only adhere to the rules eftabliihed by na¬
ture, that is to fay, by providence.
Vegetables alfo live and flouriftr according to prefcri-
bed methods. Each fort is produced from its proper
feed ; has the fame texture of fibres, is at all times
nourifhed by the fame kind of juices, digefted and pre¬
pared by the fame veffels. Trees and ihrubs receive
annually their peculiar liveries, and bear their proper
fruits : fo regular are they in this laft: refpecff, that every
fpecies may be faid to have its profeflion or trade ap¬
pointed to it, by which it furnifhes a certain portion of
manufacture, or of food, to fupply the wants of animals:
being created for the purpofe of confumption, all ve¬
getables produce great quantities of feed to fupply the
neceffary wafte. Here too, then, there is evidently a
regulation by which the feveral orders are prefcrved, and
the ends of them anfwered according to their firft: efta-
blilhment.
With regard to animals, they too, in ftructure of their
form, are fubject to laws fimilar to thofe which govern
the vegetable world. In the fentient part of their con-
ffitution they are no lefs fubjecff to rule. The lion is al¬
ways fierce, the fox is crafty, and the hare is timid.
Every fpecies retains from age to age its appointed place
and character in the great family of nature. The
various tribes are made and placed in fuch a manner
as to find proper means of fupport and defence. Beafts,
birds, fifties, and infecffs, are all poffeffed of organs
and faculties adapted to their refpeflive circumftances,
and opportunities of finding their proper food and
prey.
Man is fubjecft to the ordinary laws which other ma¬
terial and animal fubftances obey j but he is left more
vegetable*.
10
animals,
11
and man
at large in the determination of his aflions. Yet even Providence^
here things do not flueftuate at random. Individuals do "~v
indeed rile and perifti according to fixed rules, and na¬
tions themfelves have only a temporary endurance.
But the fpecies advances with a fteady progrels to in¬
tellectual improvement. This progrefs is often inter¬
rupted ; but it appears not to be lefs fure at the long-
run than even the mechanical laws which govern the
material part of our conftitution. Amidft the convul-
fion of ftates and the ruin of empires, the ufeful arts,
when once invented, are never loft. Thefe, in better
times, render fubfiftence eafy, and give lei fure for reflec¬
tion and ftudy to a greater number of individuals.
Tyre and Sidon have paffed away, Athens itfelf has be¬
come the prey of barbarians, and the profperity of
ancient Egypt is departed, perhaps for ever ; but the
ftiip, the plow, and the loom, remain, and have been
perpetually improving. Thus every new convulfion of
fociety does lefs mifehief than the laft j and it is hoped
that by the afliftance of printing the moft poliflied arts
and the moft refined fpeculations have now become im¬
mortal.
The world is not then left in a ftate of confufion :
it is reduced into order, and methodifed for ages to
come5 the feveral fpecies of beingshaving their offices
and provinces affigned them. Plants, animals, men,
and nations, are in a ftate of continual change j but fuc-
ceffors are appointed to relieve them, and to carry on
the fcheme of Providence. r 2
But the great difficulty is, how to account fflr that Difficulty
providence which is called particular : For rational be-0* account'
ings, and free agents, are capable of doing and deferving
well or ill ; and the fafety or danger, that happinefs or vidence.m
unhappinefs of a man here, murt depend upon many
things that feem fcarcely capable of being determined
by Providence. Betides himfelf and his own conduct,
he depends upon the conduct of other men; whofe
actions, as we naturally fuppofe, cannot, confidently
with their free will, be controuled for the advantage of
another individual. The actions of numbers of men
proceeding upon their private freedom, with different
degrees of ability, as they crofs and impede, or diredtly
oppofe each other, muft produce very different effects
upon men of different characters, and thus in a ftrange
manner embarrafs and entangle the general plan. And
as to the courfe of nature, it may juftly be atked, is the
force of gravitation to be fufpended till a good man
pafs by an infirm building ? (See Prayer). Add to
this, that fome circumftances appear abfolutely irrecon-
cileable. The wind which carries one into port drives
another back to fea j and the rains that are juft fuffi-
cient upon the hills may drown the inhabitants of the
valleys. In ftiort, may we expeft miracles ? or can
there be a particular Providence that forefees and pre¬
pares for the feveral cafes of individuals, without force
frequently committed upon the laws of nature and the
freedom of intelligent agents ?
In whatever way it is brought about, there is little No good
doubt that fomething of this kind mufldke place. For argument
as the Deity does direCt, as already mentioned, the great a£.ainft *ts
and general progrefs of things in this world, he mullexiftence*
alfo manage thofe of lefs importance. Nations are
compofcd of individuals. The progrefs of individuals
is the progrefs of the nation, and the greateft events
ufually depend upon the hiftory and the moft trifling
actions
p 11
■Prov.dtnce. actions of private perfons
v———' cejve }10w the fapermtendence and management of all
this can be brought about. But as the ways and the
thoughts of the Omnipotent Spirit, whofe influence per¬
vades, and rules, and animates nature, referable not the
limited operations of men^ we can only form conjec¬
tures concerning the means by which his government is
conducted.
i. In the firft place, then, it is not impohible that the
O [ 464 ] PRO
The difficulty is to con- Terrified by the gigantic bulk and mighty force of Go- Provitlerce
14 .
The Deity
-may eafily
fore fee
the adtioiis
@f men;
and may
thence fit
them for
their fitua-
tions in
fife.
16
The pofli-
bility of
this exem¬
plified.
Deity thould forefee the future actions of intelligent be¬
ings. Many of thefe actions depend upon the mecha-
nifm of the material world, which was formed by himfelf,
and mutt; be entirely known to him. Many men among
ourfelves pcffefs much fagacity in difeerning the future
actions of others, from attending to their known charac¬
ters, and the circumftances in which they are placed.
If fuperior nature s do exilt, and minds more perfect than
the human, they muft poflefs this penetration in a more
eminent degree in proportion to the excellence of their
intellectual powers. But if this difeernment be in God
proportionable to his nature, as in lower beings it is •
proportionable to theirs, it then becomes altogether
unlimited, and the future actions of free agents are at
once unlocked and expofed to his view. Add to this,
that the Author of nature is well acquainted with
the creatures that he has made •, he knows the me-
chanifm of our bodies, the nature and extent.of our
underftandings, and all the circumtlances by which we
are furrounded. "With all thefe advantages, it is making
no great ftretch to fuppofe him capable of difoernin-g
the line of conduft which we will purfue; and this
even fetting afide the infinity of his nature, to which a
thoufand years are as one day, and fuppofing him to
reafon from probabilities in the imperfeft manner that
we do.
2. There is no impoffi'oiiity at leaf!, that men, whofe
characters and actions are thus foreknown, may be in¬
troduced into the world in fuch times and places as
that their acts and behaviour may not only -coincide
with the general plan of things, but may alfo anfvver
many private cafes. The celeitial bodies are fo placed
that their jarring attraftions make out a fplendid lyilem.
Why then may there not be in the Divine mind fome-
thing like a projection of the future hi dory of mankind,
as well as of the motions of the heavenly bodies r And
why fhould it not be thought poffible for men, as well
as for them, by fome fecret law, or rather by the ma¬
nagement of an unfeen power, to be brought into their
places in fuch a manner as that, by the free ufe of their
faculties, the conjunctions and oppofitions of their in-
terefts and inclinations, the natural influence of their
different degrees of talents, power, and wealth, they
may confpire to make out the great fcheme of human
affairs ? There is no abfurdity in this fuppofition : it is
not beyond the power of an almighty and perfeCt Be¬
ing ; and it is worthy of him. Let us take from the
Jewifli hiftory, as moft generally known, an example of
what may be fuppofed to happen daily. It was the
intention of providence to place David the fon of Jeffe
upon the throne of the Hebrews. The country is in¬
vaded by a foreign enemy : the hoftile armies meet, and
lie encamped upon oppofite mountains. A man comes
forth from the army of the invaders, as was extremely
common in thofe times, and defies the Hebrew hoft to
fend.forth a champion to meet him in fingle combat.
liah, no man would rifle the unequal conflief. David,
who was too young to carry arms, had been fent to the
camp with provifions for his brothers, and heard the
challenge. In defence of his fleck he had killed fome
bealls of prey in the wildernefs, and he was an excellent
markfman with the fling. He thought it might pro¬
bably be as eafy to kill a man as a wild beail; at all
events, he knew that a ftone well direfted would prove
no lefs fatal to a giant than to a dwarf: he therefore
refolved to try his {kill j and he tried it with fuccefs.
Here no man’s free will was interrupted, and no miracle
was accompliffied: Yet by this train of circumftances
thus brought together, a foundation was laid for the fu¬
ture fortunes of the fon of jeffe, for the greatnefs of
his country, and for accomplifhing the purpofes of Pro¬
vidence. According to Seneca, “ Hoc dico, fulmina
non mitli a Jove, led fic omnia difpofita, ut ea etiam.
quae ab illo non fiunt, tamen fine ratione non fiunt; quae
illius eft.'—Nam etii Jupiter ilia nunc non facit, fecit ut
fierent.”—I fay, that the lightning comes not direBly
from the hand of Jove, but things are properly difpofed
for the in direct execution of his will; for he acts not im¬
mediately, but by the intervention of means.
3. Laftly, it is not impoffiblc that many things may Secret in-
be accompiiflied by fecret influence, upon the human Pierces oa
mind, either by the Deity'himfelf, or by the intervention ^
of agents poffeffed of powers fuperior to thofe which from
belong to us. “ For inftance, if the cafe fhculd require poffible.
that a particular man be delivered from lome threaten¬
ing ruin, or from fome misfortune, which would certain¬
ly befal him if he fliould go fuch a way at fuch a time,
as he intended : upon this occafion lome new reafons
may be prefented to his mind why he fliould not <gp at
all, or not then, or not by that road; or he may forget
to go. Or, if he is to be delivered from lome danger¬
ous enemy, either fome new turn given to his thoughts
may divert him from going where the enemy will be,
or the enemy may be after the fame manner diverted
from coming where he Ihall be, or his referitment may
be qua/feel; or fome proper method of defence may be
fuggefted to the perfon in danger. After the fame man¬
ner advantages and fucceffes may be conferred on the
deferving ; as, on the other fide, men, by way of punilh-
rnent for their crimes, may incur mifehiefs and calami¬
ties. Thefe things, and fuch as thefe (fays Mr Wollas¬
ton *), maybe. For fince the motions and afiions cfc* Religion
men, which depend upon their wills, do alfo depend
upon their judgments, as thefe again do upon the prefent fe^. ^ '
appearances of things in their minds ; if a new profpec!
of things can be any way produced, the lights by which
they are feen altered, new forces and directions impreffed
upon the fpirits, paffions exalted or abated, the power of
judging enlivened or debilitated, or the attention taken off
without any fufpenfion or alteration of the Handing
laws of nature,—then, without that, new volitions, de-
figns, meafures, or a ceffation of thinking, may alfo be
produced •, and thus many things prevented that other-
wife would be, and many brought about that would not.
That there may poffibly be fuch infpirations of new
thoughts and counfels (continues our author), may
perhaps appesr farther from this, that we frequently
find thoughts arifing in our heads, into which we are
led by no difeourfe, nothing we read, no clue of reafon-
ing, but they furprife and come upon us from we know
not
P R O r 465 ] PRO
Providence, not what quarter. If they proceeded from the mobility
^ ' of fpnits ftiaggling out of order, and fortuitous affections
of the brain, or were they of the nature of dreams,
why are they not as wild, incoherent, and extravagant
as they are ?” Is it not much more reafonable to ima¬
gine that they come by the order and direftion of an
all-feeing and all-gracious God, who continually watches
over us, and difpofes every thing in and about us for the
good of ourfelves or others ? not to fpeak of the agree-
ablenefs of this notion to the opinions of the bed; and
wiieif men in all ages (a). “ If this, then, be the cafe, as
it leems to be, that men’s minds are fufceptible of fuch
infinuations and imprejfions, as frequently, by ways un¬
known, do affedf them, and give them an inclination
towards this or that; how many things (alks our
author) may be brought to pafs by thefe means without
fixing and refixing the laws of nature, any more than
they are unfixed when one man alters the opinion of
another by throwing in his way a book proper for that
!§ purpofe ?”
And may All this may be effedled either by the immediate in-
be efLdted terpofition of God himfelf, or by that of beings invi/ib/e,
b'-enor^to ant^ !n nature fuperior to us, who act as the miniders
tlV or by his providence. That there are iuch beings we can
the Deity, hardly doubt, as it is in the highed degree improbable
that fuch imperfect beings as men are at the top of the
jeale of created exidence. And fince we ourfelves, by
the ufe of our limited powers, do often alter the courfe
of things within our fphere from what they would be
it left to the ordinary laws of motion and gravitation,
without being faid to alter thofe laws ; why may not fu¬
perior beings do the fame as indruments of divine pro¬
vidence ? This idea of the intervention of fuperior na¬
tures is beautifully illudrated by Thomfon in the follow¬
ing palTage:
Thefe are the haunts of meditation, thefe
The feenes where ancient bards th’ infpiring breath,
itcftatic, felt ; and from this world retir’d,
Convers’d with angels and immortal forms,
On gracious errands bent: to fave the fall
Of virtue druggling on the brink of vice ;
In waking whifpers, and repeated dreams,
To hint pure thought, and warn the favour’d foul
For future trials fated to prepare.
*We agree, however, with Mr Wolladon, in thinking
the power of thefe beings not fo large as to alter or ful-
pend the general laws of nature (fee Miracle) ; for
the world is not like a bungling piece of clock-work,
which requires to be often fet backwards or forwards.
We are likewife perfedlly fatisfied, that they cannot
change their condition, to ape us or inferior beings 5
and confequently we are not apt hadily to credit dories
of portents, &c. fuch as cannot be true, unlefs the nature
of things and their manner of exidence were occafional-
ly reverfed. Yet as men maybe fo placed as to become,
Vo 1, XVII. Part II.
even by the free exercife of their own powers, irfirumenis Fr vidense
of God’s particular providence to other men } fo may ' f
we well fuppofe that thefe higher beings may be fo
diftributed through the univerfe, and (ubjedl to fuch an
economy, unknown to us, as may render thejn alfio in-
ftruments of the fame providence j and that they ’may,
in proportion to their greater abilities, be capable, con-
fifiently with the laws of nature, of influencing human af¬
fairs in proper places. I9
We fliall next proceed to date fome of the chief ob-Obj '-Hons
jeftions which in ancient or modern times have beent,> the ci:oc*
brought againd the opinion, that the world is governed ^uV(,°‘n„e
by a Divine providence. 1  
1. The fird of thefe is this, that the fydem of nature nom the
contains many imperfections which it ought not to do if raperfec-
it be the woik of a perfedlly wife and good Being. Totlons 01 na_
avoid the force of this objection, fome modern writersture’
have deferted the ground of fupreme and abfoiute g6od~
neis, which the ancient theids always occupied, and have
alferted that the divine perfeftion confifts in unlimited
power and uncontrouled lupremacy of will; that confe¬
quently the Deity does not always that which is bed, but
merely what he himfelf pleafes •, and that for no other
reafon but becaufe be wills to do fo. But this is no bet¬
ter than atheifm itfelf. For it is of no importance to us
whether the univerfe is governed by blind fate or chance,
that is to fay, by nothing at all j or whether it is govern¬
ed by(an arbitrary fovereignwdll that is directed by chance,
or at lead by no principle of beneficence. ,r
The true anfwer to this objection is, that no created anfwered.
fydem can have every perfection, becaufe it mult necefih-
rily be deditute of felf-exidence and independence ; and
therefore if beings deditute of fome perfections be bet¬
ter than nothing, it wras wmrthy of infinite power and
perfedt goodnefs to create fuch beings. In our prefent
date, w7e mortals dand upon too low7 ground to take a
commanding view of the whole frame of things. We
can only reafon concerning what is unknown from the
little that is within our reach. In that little, we can
fee that wifdom and goodnefs reign ; that nature al¬
ways aims to produce perfection ; that many falutary
effeCts refult even from the thunder and the dorm : and
wre doubt not that a view' of the wdiole ItruCture of the
univerfe would afford an additional triumph to the good¬
nefs and {kill of its great Architect.
We fee a regular afeent in the fcale of beings from
mere lifelefs matter up to man ; and the probability is,
that the fcale continues to afeend as far above man in
perfection as created beings can poffibly be raifed.—
The foie purpofe of God in creating the world mud
have been to produce happinefs : but this would be moll
effeCtually done by creating, in the fird place, as many
of the mod perfeCt clafs of beings as the fydem could
contain ; and afterwards other claffes lefs and lefs per¬
feCt, till the whole univerfe Ihould be completely
full. We do not politively affert fuch a fcheme of
creation,
3 N Where
(a) That fuch xvas the general belief of the Greeks in the days of Homer, is plain from that poet’s condantly
introducing his deities into the narrative of his poems, and telling us that Minerva, or fome other god, altered the
minds of his heroes. “ By this,” fays Plutarch, “ the poet does not mean to make God defray the wTill of man,
but only move him to w7ill : nor does he miraculoufly produce the appetites themfelves in men, but only caufes
fuch imaginations as are capable o£ exciting them.”
PRO
Providence.
[ 466 ]
PRO
Where all muft full, or not coherent be j
And all that rifes, rife in due degree,
-vas actually in the divine Architeft’s intention ; but
that it is poffible, Is fufficiently obvious. No man will
pretend to lay, that this earth could afford a comfort¬
able fubliftence to a greater number of the human race,
were all the inferior animals annihilated, than it could
at prefent, fwarming as every element is with life.—
Suppofe then, that as many men had been placed at
firft upon the earth as it could poffibly fupport, and
that matters had been fo conilituted, as that the num¬
ber Ihould never have been either increafed or diminish¬
ed 5 we beg leave to alk, whether, fmee there would have
been evidently room for inferior animals, it would have
been moft worthy of infinite goodnefs to leave the whole
globe to men, or to introduce into it different orders of
lefs perfeft beings, which, while they could not incom¬
mode this principal inhabitant, would each find plea-
fure in its own exiftence ? To this queffion different
anfwers cannot furely be given. Let the reader then
extend his view, and confider the univerfe, which, how¬
ever vail, cannot be pofitively infinite, as one fyftem as
much united as the feveral parts of this globe ; let him
fuppofe that there were at firft created as many of the
higheft order of beings as it could have contained had
creation there ftopt; let him remember that happinefs
in many different degrees is valuable •,—and he will not
lurely think it any imputation on the goodnefs of God
that there are in the univerfe many beings far from per-
feflion. The moft imperfeft of thefe are by themfelves
better than nothing ; and they all contribute to make
tip a fyftem which, confidercd as a whole, we have
every reafon to believe to be as perfedt as any thing not
22 felf-exiftent can poflibly be.
Obje&ion 2. If the world is condudled by a benevolent provi-
introduc ^ence5 ^ow cnme evil to be introduced into it ? This
tion of evil has perplexed mankind in all ages. The an¬
cient Perfians refolved it, by affecting the exiftence of
two gods, Oromafdes the author of good, and Arima-
nius the author of evil. From them the Chriftian he¬
retics called Manichees borrowed their dodlrine of two
oppofite co-eternal principles. Both the Platonifts and
Stoics aferibed the origin of evil to the perverfenefs or
imperfedlion of matter, which they thought the Deity
could not alter : and Pythagoras imagined a ftate of
pre-exiftence, in which the fouls of men had committed
offences, for which they are here fuffering the punifli-
ment. But thefe hypothefes are, fome of them impious,
23 and all unfatisfadlory.
anfwered. Taking the expreffion in its moft extenfive fenfe, the
evils to which the human race are expofed may be re¬
duced to pain, uneajinefs, difappointment of appetites, and
death ; ot which not one could have been wholly pre¬
vented without occafioning greater evils, inconfiftent with
the perfect goodnefs of the Creator. As long as we
have folid bodies capable of motion, fupported by food,
fubjeft to the influence of the almofphere, and divifible,
they muft necefiarily be liable to diffolution or death :
But if a man could fuffer death, or have his limbs bro¬
ken, without feeling pain, the human race had been long
ago extmft. A fever is a ftate of the body in which
the fluids are in great diforder. Felt we no uneafinefs
from that diforder, we fhould have no inducement to
pay the proper attention to our ftate, and ihould cer¬
tainly die unawares, without fufpecling ourfelves to be Providence,
in danger ; whereas, under the prefent adminiftration of —v—^
divine providence, the pain and ficknefs of the difeafe
compel us to have recourfe to the remedies proper for
reftoring us to foundnefs and to health. Of the unea-
fineffes to which we are liable, and which are not the ef-
fe& of immediate pain, the greateft has been fometimes
faid to arife from the apprehenfion of death, which
conftantly flares us in the face, and frequently embitters
all our pleafures even in the hour of perfeft health 
But this dread of death is implanted in our breafts for
the very beft of purpofes. Had we no horror at the
apprehenfion of death, we fhould be apt, whenever any
misfortune befel us, to quit this world rafhly, and rufh
unprepared into the prefence of our Judge : but the
horror which attends our reftetftions on our own diffo¬
lution, arifing not from any apprehenfions of the pain of
dying, but from our anxiety concerning our future ftate
ot exiitence, tends ftrongly to make us aft, while we are
here, in fuch a manner as to enfure our happinefs here¬
after. Add to this, that the fear of death is the great-
eft fupport of human laws. We every day fee perfons
breaking through all the regulations of fociety and
good life, notwithftanding they know death to be the
certain confequence, and feel all the horrors of it that
are natural to man : and therefore were death divefted
of thefe horrors, how infignificant wTould capital punifh-
ments be as guardians of the law, and how infecure
would individuals be in civil fociety ?
_ With regard to the unavoidable misfortunes and an¬
xieties of our prefent ftate, fo far from being truly hurt¬
ful in themielves, they are proofs of divine beneficence.
When we fee men difpleafed with their fituation, when
we hear them complain of the difficulties, the miferies,
and the cares of life, of the hardfhips which they have
undergone, and the labours which ftill lie before them ;
inftead of accounting them unfortunate, we ought to
regard them as aftive beings, placed in the only fitua¬
tion that is fit for the improvement of their nature.
1 hat difeontent, thefe reftlefs wiffies to improve their
condition, are fo many fine indications that their facul¬
ties will not languiffi. They who are in the leaft de¬
gree accuftomed to obferve the human charafter, know
well the influence which plealhre and repofe have in en¬
feebling every manly principle, and how capable they
are of attaching us even to a fordid and diflionourable
exiftence.
Happy indeed it is for the human race, that the
number of thofe men is fmall whom providence has
placed in fituations in which perfonal aftivity is unne-
ceffary. By far the greater number are compelled to
exert themfelves, to mix and to contend with their equals,
in the race of fortune and of honour. It is thus that
our powers are called forth, and that our nature reaches
its higheft perfeftion. It is even perhaps a general
truth, that they who have ft niggled with the greateft
variety of hardlhips, as they always acquire the higheft
energy of charafter, fo if they have retained their in¬
tegrity, and have not funk entirely in the conteft, fel-
dom fail to fpend their remaining days refpeftable and
happy, fuperior to paffion, and fecured from folly by the
poffeffion of a wifdpm dearly earned.
_ But the benefits of phyfical evils have been fet in a phyfis4al
ftill ftronger light by a great matter of moral wifdom, evil the
who was himfelf fubjeft to many of thofe evils. Thatcaufe of
man moral Sood''
yoh nfoil's
Idler, n°
£9.
PRO [467
Providence man is a moral agent, fent into tliis world to acquire
 habits of virtue and piety to fit him for a better hate,
is a truth to which no confiftent theift will for a mo¬
ment refufe his aflent. But almoft all the moral good
which is left among us, is the apparent effeft of phyfical
evil.
“ Goodnefs is divided by divines into fobernefs, righ-
teoufnefs, and godlinefs. Let it be examined how each
of thefe duties would be pradlifed if there were no phyfi¬
cal evil to enforce it.
“ Sobriety or temperance is nothing but the forbear¬
ance of pleafure *, and if pleafure was not followed by
pain, wrho would forbear it ? We fee every hour thofe
in whom the defire of prefent indulgence overpowers all
fenfe of pall, and all forefight of future mifery. In a
remiflion of the gout, the drunkard returns to his wine,
and the glutton to his feaft; and if neither difeafe nor
poverty were felt or dreaded, every one would fink down
in idle fenfuality, without any care of others, or of him-
felf. To eat and drink, and lie down to fleep, would be
the whole bufinefs of mankind.
“ Righteoufnefs, or the fyftem of focial duty, may be
fubdivided into juftice and charity. Of juftice, one of
the heathen fages has ihown, with great acutenefs, that
it was imprefled upon mankind only by the inconveni¬
ences which injuftice had produced. ‘ In the firft
ages (fays he) men a£ted without any rule but the im-
pulfe of defire they pradlifed injuftice upon others, and
fuffered it from others in their turn j but in time it was
difcovered, that the pain of fuffering wrong was greater
than the pleafure of doing it j and mankind, by a general
compadt, fubmitted to the reftraint of lawrs, and refigned
the pleafure to efcape the pain.’
“ Of charity, it is fuperfluous to obferve, that it could
have no place if there were no wantfor of a virtue
which could not be pradtifed, the omiftion could not
be culpable. Evil is not only the occafional but the
efficient caufe of charity ; we are incited to the relief
of mifery by the confcioufnefs that we have the fame
nature with the fufferer 5 that we are in danger of the
fame diftreifes, and may fome time implore the fame af-
fiftance.
“ Godlinefs or piety Is elevation of the mind towards
the Supreme Being, and extenfion of the thoughts of
another life. The other life is future, and the Supreme
Being is invifible. None would have recourfe to an
invifible power, but that all other fubjedls had eluded
their hopes. None would fix their attention upon the
future, but that they are difcontented with the prefent.
If the fenfes were feafted with perpetual pleafure, they
would always keep the mind in fubjedtion. Reafon
has no authority over us but by its power to warn us
againft evil.
“ In childhood, wdrile our minds are yet unoccupied,
religion is impreffed upon them j and the firft years of
almoft all who have been well educated are palled in a
regular difcharge of the duties of piety : But as we
advance forward into the crowds of life, innumerable
delights folicit our inclinations, and innumerable cares
diftradl our attention. The time of youth is palfed in
noify frolics ; manhood is led on from hope to hope,
and from projedt to projedl; the diffolutenefs of plea¬
fure, the inebriation of fuccefs, the ardour of expedi¬
tion, and the vehemence of competition, chain down
the mind alike to the prefent fcene : nor is it remem-
1
PRO
bered how foon this mift of trifles muft be fcattered, Providence
and the bubbles that float upon the rivulet of life be r * '
loft for ever in the gulf of eternity. To this confide-
ration fcarce any man is awakened but by fome preffing
and refiftlefs evil} the death of thofe from whom he de¬
rived his pleafures, or to whom he deftined his pof-
feffions, fome difeafe which ffiows him the vanity of
all external acquifitions, or the gloom of age which
intercepts his profpedts of long enjoyment, forces
him to fix his hopes upon another ftate ; and when
he has contended with the tempefts of life till his
ftrength fails him, he flies at laic to the fhelter of re¬
ligion.
“ That mifery does not make all virtuous, experience
too certainly informs us ; but it is no lefs certain,
that of what virtue there is, mifery produces far the
greater part. Phyfical evil may be therefore endured
with patience, fince it is the caufe of moral good ; and
patience itfelf is one virtue by wffiich we are prepared
for that’ftate in which evil ihall be no more.”
The calamities and the hardfhips of our prefent ftate, Objeclidnl
then, are fo far from being real evils, of which provi-hom the
deuce ought to be accufed, that in every point of view
in which we can confider them, they afford the fureft0 J?t°ra
proofs of the wdfdom of its adminiftration, and of itsb ’
goodnefs to man.
The moft ferious difficulty lies in accounting for the
permiffion of moral evil or guilt, in a fyftem governed
by infinite benevolence and wifdom. Thofe wdio in a
confiftent manner hold the dodlrine of the abfolute ne-
ceffity of human aflions in its full extent, and acknow'-
ledge all its confequences, find it eafy to elude this diffi¬
culty. They very fairly deny the exiftence of any fuch
thing as moral evil in the abftradt ; and affert, that what
wTe call a crime, is nothing more than an aftion which
we always regard with a painful fenfation : that thefe
apparent evils endure only for a time j and that all will
at laft terminate in the perfedlion and happinefs of every
intelligent being.
Upon the fyftem of liberty, the fhorteft anfwer feems anfwerriL
to be this: that fome things are abfolutely impoffible,
not from any weaknefs in the Deity, but becaufe they
infer abfurdity or contradiction. Thus it is impoffible
for twice two to be any thing elfe than four ; and thus
it is impoffible for Omnipotence itfelf to confer felf-
approbation upon an intelligent being who has never
deferved it 5 that is to fay, it is impoffible for a man of
feufe to be pleafed with himfelf for having done a cer¬
tain aftion, w'hile he himfelf is confcious that he never
did that aftion. But felf-approbation conllitutes the
higheft, the moft unmingled, and permanent felicity, of
which our nature is capable. It is not in the power
of Omnipotence itfelf, then, to beftow the higheft and
moft permanent felicity of our nature •, it muft be earned
and deferved before it can be obtained. In the fame
manner good defert, virtue or merit, cannot be confer¬
red; they muft be acquired. To enable us to acquire
thefe, we muft be expofed to difficulties, and muft fuf*
fer in a certain degree. If thefe difficulties had no in¬
fluence upon our conduf! and feelings, if they expofed
us to no real danger, no fabric of merit and of feif-
approbation could be reared upon them. All that the
Supreme Being could do for us, was to confer fuch art
original conftitution and charafler as would enable us
to do well if we thou Id exert our utmoft powers. The
3 N 2 tmiverfe
PRO [ 468 ] PRO
Providence, univerfe is not ruled by favour, but by juldice. Com-
'r~ piete felicity mull; be purchaied. Guilt is an abufe of
our freedom, a doing ill where we could have done
well, and is entirely the work of man. Heaven could
not avoid permitting its exilfence, and expofmg us to
danger 5 for temptation is necelfary to virtue, and vir¬
tue is the perfection of our nature, our glory, and our
happinefs.
e us 1 ^ The permiffion of moral evil has been fo ably ac¬
counted for by Simplicius, a Pagan writer, and there¬
fore net bialfed by any partiality to the Jewiib or Chri-
llian Scriptures, that we cannot deny ourfelves the plea-
lure of laying his reafoning before our readers. He
* SimpHc- alks *, “ Whether God may be called the author of lin,
'■'/(F'2 p^iSd kecauk he permits the foul to ufc her liberty? and
187. ed. ’ anfwers the quellion thus :
Salrruif. “ He who fays that God fhou-d not permit the exer-
cife of its freedom to the loul, mull affirm one of thefe
two things 5 either that the foul, though by nature ca¬
pable of indifferently chooling good or evil, ihould yet be
conftantly prevented from chooiing evil j or elfe that it
Ihould have been made of fuch a nature as to have no
povjer of choofing evil.
“ The former affertion (continues he) is irrational
and abfurd 5 for what kind of liberty would that be in
which there ffiould be no freedom of choice ? and wffiat
choice could there be, if the mind were conftantlv re-
llrained to one fide of every alternative ? With relpcCt
to the fecond affertion, it is to. be obferved (lays he),
that no evil is in itfelf defirable, or can be chofen as
✓sS
Objection
from the
apparent
cor fivfion
of human
atfaiis,
evil. But if this power of determining itfelf either
way in any given cafe muff be taken from the foul, it
muff either be as fomething not good, or as fome great
evil. But whoever faith fo, does not confider how many
things there are which, though accounted good and
defirable, are yet never put in competition with this free¬
dom of will: for without it we ftiould be on a level with
the brutes •, and there is no perfon who would rather be
a brute than a man. If God then Ihows his goodnefs
in giving to inferior beings fuch perfeftions as are far
below this, is it incongruous to the divine nature and
goodnefs to give man a felf-determining power over his
aftions, and to permit him the free exercife of that
power ? Had God, to prevent man’s fin, taken away the
liberty of his will, he would likewife have deftroyed
the foundation of all virtue, and the very nature of man j
for there could be no virtue were there not a poffibility
of vice ; and man’s nature, had it continued rational,
would have been divine, becaufe impeccable. There¬
fore (continues he), though we attribute to God, as its
author, this felf-determining power, which is fo neceffary
in the order of the univerfe 5 we have no reafon to at¬
tribute to hirp that evil which comes by the abufe of li¬
berty : For God doth not caufe that averfion from good
which is in the foul when it fins 5 be only gave to the
foul fuch a power as might turn itfelf t© evil, out of
which he produces much good, which, without fuch
a power, could not have been produced by Omnipotence
itfelf.” So confonant to the doffrine of our feriptures
is the reafoning of this opponent of the writings of
Mofes ! Fas ejl et ab hojle doceri.
The laft objection to the belief of a divine providence
arifes from the apparent confufion of human affairs, that
all things happen alike to all, that bad men are profpe-
rous, and that a total, want of juftice appears to attend
the divine adminiftrations. Even the beft men have at Providence.
times been fhaken by this conlideration.—But there are   w—'
many reafons for rendering this world a mixed feene : it
would become unfit for a ffate of trial and of education
to virtue were it otherwife.
It has been ffiown already, that phyfical evil is the anfwered,
parent of moral good ; and therefore it would be abfurd
to expeCt that the virtuous Ihould be entirely exempt¬
ed from that evil. For the occafional profperity of the
wicked, many reafons have been affigped even by thole
who, in their difquifitions, were not guided by that re¬
velation which has brought to light life and immorta¬
lity. “ God (fays Plutarch) Iparcs the wicked, that he by Phi-
may fet to mankind an example of forebearance, and sarch.
teach them not to revenge their injuries too hallily on
each other. He fpares lome wicked men from early
pumffiment, in order to make them inffruments of his
juftice in punilhing others. And he fpares all for a
time, that they may have leifure for repentance ; for
men (fays the lame excellent moralift) look at nothing
further, in the pumfhments which they iniliCt, than to
fatisfy their revenge and malice, and therefore they pur-
fue thofe who have offended them with the utmoit rage
and eagernefs whereas God, aiming at the cure of thofe
who are not utterly incurable, gives them ft{]et(2t»Xteirdctc
“ lime to be converted.”
But this objection receives the beft folution from the
doctrine of the immortality of the human foul.
——  And fee !
’Tis come, the glorious morn 1 the fecond birth
Of heav’n and earth ! awakening nature hears
The new creating xvord, and ftarts to life,
In every height’ned form, from pain and death
For ever free. The great eternal'fcheme>
Involving all, and in a perfeci whole
Uniting, as the profpeCl wider fpreads,
To realbn’s eye refin’d clears up apace.
Ye % rainly wife ! Ye blind prefumptuous ! now,,.
Confounded in the duff, adore that Pow’r
And Wifdom oft arraign’d j fee now the caufe,
Why unaffuming worth in fecret liv’d
And died negleCIed : why the good man’s (hare
In life was gall and bitternefs of foul:
Why the lone widow and her orphans pin’d
In ftarving folitude ; while luxury,
In palaces, lay ftraining her low thought.
To form unreal wants : why heav’n-born truth,
And moderation fair, wore the red marks
Of fuperftition’s fcourge ; why licenc’d pain,
That cruel fpoiler, that ernbofom’d foe,
Imbitter’d all .our blifs. Ye good diftreft !
Ye noble few ! who here unbending Hand
Beneath life’s preffure, yet bearajp a while.
And what your bounded view, which only law
A little part, deem’d evil, is no more :
The ftorms of wintry time will quickly pafs,
And one unbounded fpring encircle all.
Thomson’s Winter.
31
The :minor.
taiit) oi the
fill! the heft,
anivver to
thb objec¬
tion.
PROVIDENCE-Plantation, a colony of New-England,
which, with Rhode-ifland, formerly conftituted a charter
government. Its chief town is Newport.
Providence, one of the leal! of the Bahama iflands
in the American ocean, but the beft of thofe planted
and fortified by the Engliffi. It is feated on the eaft
fide
Pry‘.'I rit e
£de of the gulf of Florida,
il 25. o.
iV0^' , PROVINCE, in Roman antiquity, a country of com
fiderable extent, which, upon being entirely reduced un¬
der the Roman dominion, was new-modelled according
to the pleafure of the conquerors, and fubjected to the
Command of annual governors, fent from Rome ; being
commonly obliged to pay fuch taxes and contributions
as the fenate thought fit to demand.
Of thefe countries, that, part of France next the Alps
was one, and ftill retains the name Provence.
Nicod derives the word a procul vivendo, “ living
afar off but it is better deduced from pro and vittco
“ I overcome.”
Province, in Geography, a divifion of a kingdom or
Rate, comprifing feveral cities, towns, &c. all under the
fame government, and ulually diftinguilhed by the extent
either of the civil or ecclefialtical jur.fdiction.
The church diftinguidies its provinces by archbilhop-
rics 5 in which fenfe, England is divided into two pro¬
vinces, Canterbury and York.
The United Provinces are feven provinces of the Ne¬
therlands, who, revolting from the Spanilh dominios,
made a perpetual alliance, offenfive and defenfive, at
Utrecht, anno 1 qyq. See UNITED Provinces.
PROVINCIAL, fomething relating to a province.
It alfo denotes, in Romilh countries, a perfon who has
the direflion of the feveral convents of a province.
PROVISIONS, in a military fenfe, implies all man¬
ner of eatables, food or provender, ufed in an army, both
for man and beaft.
PROVOST of a city or town, is the chief municipal
magillrate in feveral trading cities, particularly Edin¬
burgh, Paris, &c. being much the fame with mayor in
other places. He prelldes in city-courts, and together
with the bailies, who are his deputies, determines in all
differences that arife among citizens.
The provoft of Edinburgh is called lord, and the fame
title is claimed by the provoff of Glafgow. The former
calls yearly conventions of the royal boroughs to Edin¬
burgh by his miflives, and is, ex ojpcio, prelident to the
convention when met.
Provost, or Prevot-Royal, a fort of inferior judge
formerly eftabibhed throughout Frace, to take cogni¬
zance of all civil, perfonal, real, and mixed caufes, among
the people only.
Grand P UOVOST of France, or of the Houfchold, had
jurifdidlion in the king’s boufe, and over the officers
therein ; looked to the policy thereof, the regulation of
provifions, See.
Grand PllOVOST of the Con/1 able, a judge who ma¬
nages proceffes againft the foldiers in the army who have
committed any crime.
He has four lieutenants diftributed throughout the
army, called provofts of the army, and particularly provofts
in the feveral regiments.
Provost Mar/hal of an Army, is an officer appoint¬
ed to feize and fecure deferters, and all other crimi¬
nals. He is to hinder foldiers from pillaging, to in¬
dict offenders, and fee the fentence paffed on them ex¬
ecuted. He alfo regulates the weights and meafures,
and the price of provifions, Sic. in the army. For
the difeharge of his office, he has a lieutenant, a clerk,
and a troop of marfhal-rucn on horfeback, as allb an ex¬
ecutioner.
p R u
There is alfo a provoft-marffnal in the navy, who has Frovofts
charge over prifoneu, Sec. J ^
The French alfo had a provoft-general of the marines,, innj
whole duty it was to profecute the marines when guilty
of any crime, and to make report thereof to the council
of war \ befides a marine provoff: in every veffel, who
was a kind of gaoler, and took the prifoners into his care,-
and kept the veffel clean.
PROVOSTS of the Marjhals, were a kind of lieutenants
of the marlhals of France ; of thefe there were 180 feats
in France; their chief jurifdidlion regarded highwaymen,
footpads, houfe-breakers, Sec.
P ROVOST of the Mint, a particular judge inftituted for
the apprehending and profecuting of falfe coiners.
Provost, or Prevot, in the king’s Rabies; his office
is to attend at court, and hold the king’s llirrup when
he mounts his horie. There are four provofts of this kind,
each of whom attends in his turn, monthly.
PROW, denotes the head or fore-part of a ffiip, par¬
ticularly in a *dley j being that which is oppofite to
the poop or ftern.
PROXIMITY, denotes the relation of nearnefs, ei¬
ther in refpedf of place, blood, or alliance.
PRUDENCE, in ethics, may be defined an ability-
of judging what is belt, in the choice both of ends and
means. According to the definition of the Roman mo-
ralift, De Offiehs, lib. i. cap. 43. prudence is the know¬
ledge of what is to be defired or avoided. According¬
ly, he makesprudentia /De Legibus, lib. i.) to be a con-
traclion of providentia, or forefight. Plato /De Legibus,
lib.iii.) calls this the leading virtue } and Juvenal, Sat. x.
obferves,
Nullum numen abejlji ft prudentia.
The idea of prudence includes evGxXue, or due conful-
tation; that is, concerning fuch things as demand con-
fultation in a right manner, and for a competent timer
that the relolution taken up may be neither too preci¬
pitate nor too flow; and c-imna-tf, or a faculty of diicern-
ing proper means when they occur 3 and to the perfec¬
tion of prudence, thefe three things are farther required,
viz. hivorng, or a natural fagacity 5 acy^vo*, prefence of
mind, or a ready turn of thought} and or expe¬
rience. 'I‘he extremities of prudence are craft or cun¬
ning on the one hand, which is the purfuit of an ill end
by direft and proper though not honeft means *, and fol¬
ly on the other, which is either a miftake, both as to the
end and means, or profecuting a good end by foreign
and improper means. Grove’s MoralPhilofophy, vol. ii.
chap. ii.
PRUDENTIUS, or Aurelius Prudentius Cle¬
mens, a famous Chriftian poet, under the reign of Theo-
dofius the Great, who was born in Spain in the year
348. He firft followed the profeffion of an advocate,
was afterwards a judge, then a foldier, and at length
had an honourable employment at court. We have a
great number of his poems, which, from the choice of
his fubjccls, may be termed Chriflian poems; but the
ftyle is barbarous, and very different from the purity of
the Auguftan age. The moft efteemed editions of Pru-
dentius’s works are that of Amfterdam, in 1667, with
Heinfius’s Notes, and that of Paris in 1687, in ufum
Delphini.
PRUNELLA, a genus of plants belonging to tire
didynamja clafs j and in the natural method ranking
under
pro r 469
W. Long. 77. 3 j. N. Lat.
'Prunes,
Pronin?
the
P Pi
12til order,
u
holoracece.
See
'under
Index
PRUNES, are plums dried in the funlhine, or in
an oven.
PRUNING, in Gardening and Agriculture, is the
lopping off the iuperfluous branches of trees, in order to
make them bear better fruit, grow higher, or appear
more regular.
Pruning, though an operation of very general ufe, is
neverthelefs rightly underflood by few ; nor is it to be
learned by rote, but requires a ftrict obfervation of the
different manners of growth of the feveral forts of fruit-
trees ; the proper method of doing which cannot be
known without carefully obferving how each kind is
naturally difpofed to produce its fruit : for fome do this
on the fame year’s wood, as vines \ others, for the moft
part, upon the former year’s wood, as peaches, ne<Ra-
rines, &c. ; and others upon fpurs which are produced
upon wood of three, four, &c. to fifteen or twenty years
old, as pears, plums, cherries, &c. Therefore, in order
to the right management of fruit-trees, provifion fiiould
always be made to have a fufficient quantity of bearing
wood in every part of the trees ; and at the fame time
there fhould not be a fuperfiuity of ufelefs branches,
which would exhauft the ftrength of the trees, and caufe
them to decay in a few years.
The reafons for pruning of fruit-trees, are, I. To
preferve them longer in a vigorous bearing-ftate •, 2. To
render them more beautiful; and, 3. To caufe the fruit
to be larger and better tailed.
The general inftruflicns for pruning are as follow.
The greateft care ought to be taken of fruit-trees in the
fpring, when they are in vigorous growth ; which is the
only proper feafon for procuring a quantity of good
wood in the different parts of the tree, and for difpla-
cing all ufelefs branches as foon as they are produced, in
order that the vigour of the tree may be entirely diftri-
buted to fuch branches only as are defigned to remain.
For this reafon trees ought not to be neglefted in April
and May, when their Ihoots are produced : however,
thofe branches which are intended for bearing the fuc-
ceeding year Ihould not be ffiortened during the time of
their growth, becaufe this would caufe them to produce
two lateral Ihoots, from the eyes below' the place wEere
they rvere flopped, which would draw much of the
ftrength from the buds of the firft Ihoot : and if the
two lateral Ihoots are not entirely cut away at the win¬
ter-pruning, they wall prove injurious to the tree. This
is to be chiefly underftood of ftone-fruit and grapes 5 but
pears and apples, being much harder, fuffer not fo much,
though it is a great difad vantage to thofe alfo to be
thus managed. It muft likewife be remarked, that
peaches, netlarines, apricots, cherries, and plums, are
always in the greateft vigour when they are leaft maim¬
ed by the knife 5 for where large branches are taken
off, they are fubjedl to gum and decay. It is therefore
the moft prudent method to rub off all ufelefs buds when
they are firft produced, and to pinch others, where new
(hoots are wanted to fupply the vacancies of the wall ;
by which management they may be fo ordered as to
wrant but little of the knife in winter-pruning. The
management of pears and apples is much the fame with
thefe trees in fummer ; but in winter they muft be very
differently pruned : for as peaches and ne&arines, for
[ 4-70 1 P R u
Botany the moft part, produce their fruit upon the former year’s Pruning,
wood, and muft therefore have their branches (hortened
according to their ftrength, in order to produce new
(hoots for the fucceeding year ; fo, on the contrary, pears,
apples, plums, and cherries, producing their fruit upon
fpurs, which come out of the wood of five, fix, and feven
years old, ftiould not be (hortened, becaufe thereby thofe
buds which w'ere naturally difpofed to form thefe fpurs,
would produce wood-branches j by which means the
trees wrould be filled with wrood, but wTould never pro¬
duce much fruit. The branches of ftandard-trees (hould
never be (hortened unlefs where they are very luxuriant,
and, by growing irregularly on one fide of the trees, at-
traft the greateft part of the fap, by which means the
other parts are either unfurnilhed with branches, or are
rendered very weak ; in which cafe the branch (hould
be (hortened down as low as is neceffary, in order to ob¬
tain more branches to fill up the hollow of the tree :
but this is only to be underftood of pears and apples,
which will produce (hoots from wood of three, four, or
more years old ; whereas moft forts of ftone-fruit will
gum and decay after fuch amputations : whenever this
happens to ftone-fruit, it (hould be remedied by flopping
or pinching thofe (hoots in the fpring, before they have
obtained too much vigour, which will caufe them to
pu(h out fide-branches ; but this muft be done with cau¬
tion. \ ou muft alfo cut out all dead or decaying
branches, which caufe their heads to look ragged, and
alfo attraft noxious particles from the air : in doing of
this, you (hould cut them clofedown to the place where
they were produced, otherwife that part of the branch
which is left will alfo decay, and prove equally hurtful
to the reft of the tree j for it feldom happens, when a
branch begins to decay, that it does not die quite down
to the place where it was produced, and if permitted to
remain long uncut, often infefls fome of the other parts
of the tree. If the branches cut off are large, it will be
very proper, after having fmoothed the cut part exa&ly
even with a knife, chiffel, or hatchet, to put on a plafter
of grafting clay, which will prevent the wet from foak-
ing into the tree at the wounded part. All fuch branches
as run acrofs each other, and occafion a confufion in the
head of the tree, (hould be cut off 5 and as there are fre¬
quently young vigorous (hoots on old trees, which rife
from the old branches near the trunk, and grow upright
into the head, thefe (hould be carefully cut out every
year, left, by being permitted to grow, they fill the tree
too full of w'ood.
As to the pruning of foreft-trees, if they be large, it
is beft not to prune them at all; yet, if there be an ab-
folute neceflity, avoid taking off large boughs as much
as poflible. And, 1. If the bougfi be fmall, cut it
fmooth, clofe and doping. 2. If the brai ch be large,
and the tree old, cut it off at three or four feet from the
ftem. 3. If the tree grow' crooked, cut it off at the
crook, (loping upward, and nurfe up one of the moft pro-
mifing (hoots for a new ftem. 4. If the tree grow' top-
heavy, its head muft be lightened, and that by thinning
the boughs that grow out of the main branches. But
if you would have them fpring, rub off the buds, and
(liroud up the fide ftioots. 5. If the fide-bough ftili
break out, and the top be able to fuftain itfelf, give the
boughs that put forth in fpring a pruning after Midfum-
mer, cutting them clofe.
It
P R U [ 471 ] p
Pruning Jt has been obferved, that trees are fubjeft to gum Cianus of the Propontis •
Pruliia anc^ ^ecay> *n confequence of pruning j to prevent thefe ~ '
injurious effefts, a remedy has been propofed by Mr
^ _ , a _   ^
Bucknall, which on trial, it is faid, has been fuccefsful.
By this method the branches to be removed are to be
cut clofe to the place of leparation from the trunk,
fmoothed well with a knife, and the wound is to be
fmeared over with medicated tar, laid on with a
painter’s brulh. The following is the compolition of
this medicated tar. One quarter of an ounce of corro-
five fublimate reduced to fine powder, by beating it
with a wooden hammer, is introduced into a three pint
earthen pipkin, with about a glafsful of gin or other
fpirit. The mixture is to be wTell ftirred till the fubli*
mate is diffolved. The pipkin is then gradually filled
with vegetable or common tar, and conftantly liirred,
till the mixture be blended together as intimately as
poffible $ and this quantity will at any time be fufficient
for 200 trees. To prevent danger, let the corrofive
fublimate be mixed wuth the tar as quickly as poflible
after it is purchafed } for being of a very poifonous na¬
ture to all animals, it Ihould not be fuffered to lie about
a houfe, for fear of mifchief to fome part of the fa¬
mily.
By applying this compofition, Mr Bucknall can,
without the leaft danger, ufe the pruning hook on all
forts of trees, much more freely than by the ufe of any
article hitherto recommended. The following remarks
by the author on pruning in general, feem worthy of
notice, and w'e give them in his own words. “ I give
no attention (fays he) to fruit branches, and wood bran¬
ches 5 but beg, once for all, that no branch fhall ever
be fhortened, unlefs for the figure of the tree, and then
conftantly taken off clofe to the feparation, by which
means the wround foon heals. The more the range of
the branches ftioots circularly, a little inclining upwards,
the more equally will the fap be diftributed, and the
better wrill the tree bear •, for, from that circumftance,
the fap is more evenly impelled to every part. Do not
let the ranges of branches be too near each other ; for,
remember all the fruit and the leaves ftiould have their
full fhare of the fun j and wdiere it fuits, let the middle
of the tree be free from wood, fo that no branch ftiall
ever crofs another, but all the extreme ends point up¬
wards.
PRUNUS, a genus of plants belonging to the icof-
andria clafs ; and in the natural method ranking under
the 36th ordea, Pomacecc. See Botany Index.
PRUSA, in Ancient Geography, a town fituated at
Mount Olympus in Myfia, built by Prufias, who waged
war wTith Croefus, (Strabo) ; with Cyrus, (Stephanus) 5
both cotemporary princes. Now called Burfa or Prafa,
capital of Bithynia, in Afia Minor. E. Long. 29. 5.
N. Lat. 39. 22.
PRUSIAS, the name of feveral kings of Bithynia.
Prusias, a town of Bithynia, anciently called Cios,
from a cognominal river, and giving name to the Sinus
Pv U
A , rebuilt by Prufias the fon of Pruffia,
Zela, after having been deftroyed by Philip the fon of
Demetrius: it flood on the Sinus Cianus, at the foot of
Mount Arganthonius. This is the Prufias who harbour¬
ed Hannibal after the defeat of Antiochus.—-Of this
place was Afclepiades, furnamed Prujicus, the famous
phyfician.
PRUSSIA, a modern, but defervedly celebrated ^ate ,
kingdom of Europe, whofe monarch, along with PrufliaCCCCXLIV*
Proper, poffeffes alio the eleftorate of Brandenburg, and
fome other territories of confiderable extent. The di-
ftriht properly called PruJJia is of great extent, and di¬
vided into the Ducal and Regal Pruflia, the latter be¬
longing to the republic of Poland till the late partition
of the Poliftr territories. Both together are ef great
extent j being bounded on the north by the Baltic, on
the fouth by Poland and the duchy of Mazovia, on the
weft by Pomerania, and on the eaft by Lithuania and r
Samogitia. I he name is by lome thought to be deri-EtymoJo-
ved from the Boruffi, a tribe of the Sarmatians, who, of the
migrating from the foot of the Riphaean mounntains,name"
were tempted by the beauty and fertility of the coun¬
try to fettle there. Others think that the name of this
country is properly PoruJJia ; Po in the language of the
natives fignifying near, and PoruJJia fignifying near Raf-
Jia. To the latter etymology w’e find the king of Pruflia
himfelf affenting in the treatiie intitled Memoirs of the
Houfe of Brandenburg. However, it muft be owned,
that thefe or any other etymologies of the word are very
uncertain, and we find nothing like it mentioned by hi-
ftorians before the tenth century. %
The ancient ftatc of Pruflia is almoft entirely un-ExrreiIie
known. However, the people are faid to have been^j^"^
very favage and barbarous j living upon raw flefli, andcientinhE-
dlinking the blood of horfes at their feafts, according bitants.
to Stella, even to intoxication (a). Nay, fo extreme¬
ly favage W'ere this people, that they were even unac¬
quainted with the method of conftrudling huts, and took
up their dwelling in caves and cavities of rocks and trees,
where they protected themfelves and children from the
inclemencies of the weather. Among fuch a people it
is vain to expeft that any tranfaftions would be record¬
ed, or indeed that any thing worthy of being recorded
would be tranfacled. We lhall therefore begin our hi-
ftory of Pruflia with the time when the Teutonic knights
firft got footing in the country. (See TEUTONIC
Knights').
On the expulfion of the Chriftians from the Holy Teutonic
Land by Saladin, a fettlement was given to the Teu- knights
tonic knights in Pruflia by Conrade duke of Mazovia, . £et
the competitor of Bolellaus V. for the crown of Poland.^ counl1
-i heir firft refidence in this country wTas Culm ; to which try.
territory they w'ere confined by the conditions of the do¬
nation, excepting what they could conquer from their
pagan neighbours, all w’hich the emperor granted to
them in perpetuity.
Encouraged by this grant, the knights conquered the
greateft
(a) This author does not mention any particular method by which they communicated an inebriating quality to
the blood of animals. Poflibly, however, the vital fluid may have a property of this kind, though unknown in our
days where fuch barbarous cuftoms are difufed. Drunkennefs from drinking blood is frequently mentioned in Scrip-.-
tare, but whether literally or metaphorically muft be decided by the learned.
Pn’.flia.
4
Expelled.
Hiftory of
Bramlen-
■burg.
* N® 27,
-&.C.
P Tl U [47
greateft part of the country which now goes by the name
of Prujpa; and, not content with this, became very
troublel’ome to Poland, infomuch that the monarchs of
that kingdom were fometxmes obliged to carry on dan¬
gerous and bloody wars with them •, for an account of
which we refer to the article Poland, n° 61. 67, &c.
The Teutonic order continued in PrulTia till the year
1531. Their lail grand-mailer was Albeit marquis of
.Brandenburg, and nephew to Sigifmund I. king of Po¬
land. He wras preferred to this dignity in hopes that
his affinity to Sigifmund might procure a reilitution ot
feme of the places which had been taken Irom the order
during the former unluccefsful wars with Poland j but
in this the fraternity were difappointed. Albert, hoiv-
ever, was fo far from endeavouring to obtain any favour
from his uncle by fair means, that he refuied to do ho¬
mage to him, and immediately began to make prepara¬
tions for throwing off his dependence altogether, and
tecoveiing the -whole of Pruffia and Pomerania by force
of arms. In this he was fo far from fucceeding, that,
being foiled in every attempt, he wTas forced to re-
fign the dignity of grand-mafter ^ in recompenfe for
which, his uncle bellowed on him that part of Pruffia
now called Ducal, in quality of a fecular duke. It was
now the intereft of the houfe of Brandenburg to affilt in
the expulfion of the fraternity} and accordingly, be¬
ing at lail driven out of Pruffia and Pomerania, they
transferred their chapter to Mariendal in Franconia } but
in that and other provinces of the empire where they
fettled, little more than the name of the order, once io
famous, now remains.
The other moll confiderable part of his Pruffian ma-
jefly’s dominions is the eleftorale of Brandenburg.
Like other parts of Germany, it was anciently poi-
feffed by barbarians, of whom no hilloiy can be given.
Thefe were fubdued by Charlemagne, as is related un¬
der the article France * ; but being on every occafion
ready to revolt, in 927 Henry the Fowler eltablifhed
margraves, or governors of the frontiers, to keep the
barbarians in awe. The firll margrave of Brandenburg
was Sigefroy, brother-in-law to the above-mentioned
emperor j under whofe adminiflraticn the biffioprics of
Brandenburg and Havelberg were eflabliihed by Otho I.
From this Sigefroy, to the fucceffion of the heufe of
Hohenzollern, from whom the prefent ele£lor is defeen-
ded, there are reckoned eight different families, who
have been margraves of Brandenburg •, namely, the fa¬
mily of the Saxons, of Walbeck, Staden, Plenck, An¬
halt, Bavaria, Luxemburg, and Mifnia. The margraves
of the four firft races had continual wars with the Van¬
dals and other barbarous people •, nor could their ravages
be Hopped till the reign of Albert furnamed the Bear,
the firft prince of the houfe of Anhalt. Fie wTas made
margrave by the emperor Conrad III. and afterwards
raffed to the dignity of eleilor by Frederic Barbaroffa,
about the year 1100. Some years afterwards the
king of the Vandals dying without iffue, left the
Middle Marche by bis laft will to the eledlor, who was
befides poffeffed of the Old Marche. Upper Saxony, the
country of Anhalt, and part of Luface. In 1332 this
line became extindl, and the electorate devolved to the
empire. It was then given by the emperor Louis of
Bavaria to bis fon Louis, who was the firft of the fixth
xace. Louis the Fioman fucceeded his brother -? and
2
2 ] PR U
as he alfo died without children, he was fucceeded by Pj.Fh.
Otho, bis third brother, who fold the deflorate to the w”r>v
emperor Charles IV. of the houfe of Luxemburg, for
200,000 florins of gold. Charles IV. gave the Marche
to his fon Winceflaus, to whom Sigifmund fucceeded.
I his eleftor, being embarraffed in his circumfiances,
fold the New Marche to the knights of the I cutonic
order. Joffe fucceeded Sigifnuu.dj but afpiring to the
empire, fold the deflorate to William duke of Mif¬
nia ) who, after he had poffelTed it for one year, fold
it again to the emperor Sigifmund. In 1417, Fre¬
deric VI. burgrave of Nuremberg, received the invefli-
ture of the country of Brandenburg at the diet of Con-
ftance from the hands of the emperor Sigifmund 3 who,
two years before, had conferred upon him the dignity
of eleftor, and arch-chamberlain of the Floly Roman
empire.
This prince, the fiift of the family of Hohenzol-
lem, found himlelf poffeffed of the Old and Middle
Marche, but the dukes of Pomerania had ufurped the
Marche Ukraine. Again!! them, therefore, the eleflor
immediately declared war, and icon recovered the
province. As the New Marche ftill continued in the
hands of the Teutonic kights, to whom it had been
fold as we have already mentioned, the eltflor, to
make up for this, took poffeffion of Saxony, which at
that time happened to be vacant by the death of Al¬
bert the laft eleflor of the Anhalt line. But the em¬
peror, not approving of this Hep, gave the inveftiture
of Saxony to the duke of Mifnia ; upon which Frede¬
ric voluntarily defifted from his acquifitions. This
eleflor made a divifion of his poffeffions by will. Flis
eldeft fon was deprived of his right on account of his
having too clofely applied himlelf to fearch for the
philofopher’s ftone; fo he left him only Voigtland.
The deflorate was given to his lecond fon Frederic j
Albert, furnamed Achilles, had the duchies of Franco- *
nia; and Frederic, furnamed the Fat, had the Old
Marche •, but by his death it returned to the deflorate
of Brandenburg.
Frederic I. was fucceeded by bis fon, called alfo
Frederic, and furnamed Iron-tooth on account of his
ftrength. He might with as great reafon have been
furnamed the Magnanimous, fince he refufed two
crowns, viz. that of Bohemia, which was offered him
by the pope, and the kingdom of Poland to which he
was invited by the people; but Frederic declared he
would not accept of it unlefs Cafimir brother to La-
diflaus the late king refafed it. Thefe inftances of
magnanimity had fuch an effefl on the neighbouring
people, that the ftates of Lower Lufatia made a vo¬
luntary furrender of their country to him. But as Lu¬
fatia was a fief of Bohemia, the king of that country
immediately made war on the eleftor, in order to re¬
cover it. However, he was lo far from being fuccefs-
ful, that, by a treaty of peace concluded in 1462, he
was obliged to yield the perpetual fovereignity of Cor-
bus, Peits, Sommerfeld, and lome other places, to the
eleftor. Frederic then, having redeemed the New
Marche from the'Teutonic order for the fum of 100,oco
florins, and ftill further enlarged his dominions, refign-
ed the fovereignty in 1469 to his brother Albert, fur- 6
named Achilles. Exploits of
Albert was 37 years old when his brother refigned^^1^""
cbilks.
Pruflia.
U [ 473 ] P li U
^'S e:s:P^0^s> f°r which a part of the duchy of Cleves j and obtained of the Jlol-
Pruffia and
Branden-
tmrg unit¬
ed.
8
Unfortu¬
nate reign
of the elec
tor George
William.
* See Jwe
den.
9
Reign of
Frederic
William
the Great.
the ele&orate to him.   ____    
he had the furname of Achi/tes, had been performed
while he was burgrave of Nuremberg. He declared
war againft Lewis duke of Bavaria, and defeated and
took him prifoner. He gained eight battles againft
the Nurembergers, who had rebelled and contefted
his rights to the burgraviate. In one of thefe he fought
hngly againft 16 men, till his people came up to his
afliftance. He made himfelf mafter of the town of
Grieffenburg in the fame manner that Alexander the
Great took the capital of the Oxydracae, by leaping
from the top of the walls into the town, where he de¬
fended himfelf fingly againft the inhabitants till his
men forced the gates and refcued him. The confidence
which the emperor Frederic III. placed in him, gain¬
ed him the direction of almoft the whole empire. He
commanded the Imperial armies againft Lewis the
Rich duke of Bavaria ; and againft Charles the Bold
duke of Burgundy, who had laid fiege to Nuis, but
concluded a peace at the interpofition of Albert. He
gained the prize at 17 tournaments, and was never dif-
mounted.
All thefe exploits, however, had been performed be¬
fore Albert obtained the deflorate. From that time
we meet with no very important tranfaflions till the
year 1594, when John Sigifmund of Brandenburg,
having married Anne the only daughter of Albert
duke of Pruftia, this united that duchy to the elec¬
torate, to which it has continued to be united ever
fince ; and obtained pretentions to the countries of Ju¬
liets, Berg, Cleves, Marck, Ravenfburg, and Ravenftein,
to the fucceffion of which Anne was heirefs.
Sigifmund died in 16x9, and was fucceeded by his
fon George William 5 during whofe government the
deflorate fuffered the moft miferable calamities. At
this time it was that the war commenced between the
Proteftants and Catholics, which lafted 30 years. The
former, although leagued together, were on the point
of being utterly deftroyed by the Imperialifts under
the command of Count Tilly and Wallenftein, when
Guftavus Adolphus of Sweden turned the fcale in their
favour, and threatened the Catholic party with utter
deftruflion *. But by his death at the battle of Lut-
zen, the fortune of war was once more changed. At
laft, however, peace was concluded with the empe¬
ror j and, in 1640, the deflor died, leaving his do¬
minions to his fon Frederic William, furnamed the
Great.
This young prince, though only 20 years of age
at the time of his acceflion, applied himfelf with the
utmoft diligence to repair the Ioffes and devaftations
occahoned by the dreadful wars which had preceded.
He received the inveftiture of Pruflia perfonally from
the king of Poland, on condition of paying 100,000
florins annually, and not making truce or peace with
the enemies of that crown. His envoy likewife recei¬
ved the inveftiture of the deflorate from the emperor
Ferdinand III. The deflor then thought of recover¬
ing his provinces from thofe who had ufurped them.
He concluded a truce for 20 years with the Swedes,
who evacuated the greateft part of his eftates. He
likewife paid 140,000 crowns to the Swedifh garri-
fons, which ftill poffeffed fome of his towns ; and he
concluded a treaty with the Heffians. who delivered up
Vol. XVII. Part IL
Pruflia.
landers the evacuation of iome other cities.
In tne mean time, the powers of Furope began to
be weary of a war which had continued for iuch a
length of time with fuch unrelenting fury. The cities
of Ofnaburg and Munfter being chofen as the moft
proper places for negociation, the conferences were
opened in the year 1645 5 but, by reafon of the mul¬
tiplicity of buhnefs, they were not concluded till two
years after. France, which had efpoufed the interefts
of Sweden, demanded that Pomerania Ihould be ceded
to that kingdom as an indemnification for the expences
which the war had coll Guftavus Adolphus and his
fucceffors. Although the empire and the elector refu-
fed to give up Pomerania, it was at laft agreed to give
up to the Swedes Hither Pomerania, with the ifles of
Rugen and Wollin, aifo fome cities 5 in return for
which cefuon, the bilhoprics of Halberftadt, Minden,
and Camin, were fecularized in favour of the eleftor,
of which he was put in poffeffion, together with the
lordftiips of Hochenftein and Richenitein, with the 10
reverfion of the archbifliopric of Magdeburg. This was Preaty
the treaty of Weftphalia concluded 111 1648, and which We^pllaJ;a
ferves as a bafis to all the poffeflions and rights of the COl’C UC ed’
German princes. The elector then concluded a new
treaty with the Swedes, for the regulation of limits,
and for the acquittal of fome debts, of which Sweden
would only pay a fourth 5 and next year the deflorate,
Pomerania, and the duchies of CJcves, were evacuatecL
by the Swedes. ^
Notwithftanding all thefe treaties, however, theTheelec-
Swedes foon after invaded Pomerania, but were en-tor fucceec^
tirely defeated by the eleflor near the town of Fehr-at a,jftcthe
bellin. Three thoufand were left dead on the fpot,S'Ve eS’
among whom were a great number of officers; and a
great many were taken prifoners. The eleflor then
purfued his viftory, gained many advantages over the
Swedes, and deprived them of the cities of Stralfund
and Gripfwald. On this the Swedes, hoping to
oblige the deflor to evacuate Pomerania, which he
had. almoft totally fubdued, invaded Pruffia, from Li¬
vonia, with 16,000 men ; and advancing into the
country, they burned the fuburbs of Memel, and took
the cities of Tike and Infterburg. The deflor, to
oppofe the invaders, left Berlin on the 10th of’Ja¬
nuary 1679, . at the head of 9000 men. The Swedes
retired at his approach, and were greatly hafaffed by
the troops on their march. So fuccefsful indeed was
the deflor on this o.ccafion, that the Swedes loft aL
moft one half of their army killed or taken prifoners.
At laft, having, croffed the bay of Frifch-haff and*
Courland on the ice, he arrived on the 19th of January
wlifi his infantry, within three miles of Tilfe, where
the Swedes had their head quarters. The fame day
his general, Trefenfeldt, defeated two regiments of
the enemy near Splitter 5 and the Swedes who were
in Tilfe abandoned that place, and retired towards
Courland. They were purfued by General Gortz
and entirely defeated with fucli {laughter, that fcarce 13
3000 of them returned to Livonia. Yet, notwithftand-fs obli£ed
ing all thefe viflories, the deflor, being preffed on 1°™ of
tJl2 °ther fide ^ the. viflonous generals of France, peace ^
1-1. lurenne and the prince of Conde, was obliged tothem*
make peace with the Swedes. The conditions were
3 ° that
(
P raffia
*3
A ftrange
eml>alfy
from the
( ham of
Tartary.
T4
FretlericTir,
obtains the
title of
kin? of
Pruflia.
P R U [ 47
that lire treaty of WeUphalia ftiould ferve for a bafis
' to the peace ; that the elector fliould have the proper¬
ty cf the cuiloms in all the ports of Further Pomera¬
nia, with the cities of Camin, Gartz, Grieffenburg,
and Wildenbruck ; on his part, he confenled to give up
to the Swedes all that he had conquered from them,
and to give no affiftance to the king of Denmark, up¬
on condition that France delivered up to him his pro¬
vinces in Weftphalia, and paid him 300,000 ducats,
as an indemnification for the damages done by the
French to his ftates. This treaty was ftyled the peace
of St Germain.
With the treaty of St Germain terminated the mi¬
litary exploits of Frederic William, who palled the lath
years of Iris adminiftration in peace. His great quali¬
ties had rendered him refpefted by all Europe, and had
even been heard of in Tartary. Fie received an embafly
from Murad Geray, cham ol the Tartars, courting his
friendfhip. The barbarian ambafiador appeared in fuch
tattered clothes as fcarce covered his nakednefs, fo that
they were obliged to furnilh him with other clothes be¬
fore he could appear at court. His interpreter had a
wooden nofe and no ears, in 1684, Frederic received
into his dominions great numbers of Proteftants who fled
out of France from the perfecutions of Louis XI V. afier
he had revoked the edidt of Nantz. Twenty thoufand
of them are faid to have fettled at this time in the elec¬
torate, where they introduced new arts and manufac¬
tures, that were of the utmoft benefit to the country.
By this, however, he difobliged Louis XIV. for which
reafon he concluded an alliance with the emperor \ and
having furniflied him with 8000 troops again!! the Turks
in Hungary, the emperor yielded to him the circle of
Schvvibus in Silefia, as an equivalent for all his rights in
that province.
In 1688, the eledlor Frederic William died, and was
fucceeded by his fon Frederic III. This prince was re¬
markably fond of fhow and ceremony, which, during the
courfe of his government, involved him in much expence.
The regal dignity feemedto be the greateft objeft of his.
ambition. To obtain this, he joined with the emperor in
the alliance againft France, in which he was engaged
by William III. king of Britain. Fie alfo yielded up
the circle of Schwibus, which had been given to his
predeceffor ; and, in 1700, obtained from the emperor
that dignity which he had fo earnellly defired. The
terms on which it was obtained were, 1. That Frederic
fhould never feparate from the empire thofe provinces of
his dominions which depended on it. 2. That he fliould
not, in the emperor’s prefence, demand any other marks
of honour than thofe which he had hitherto enjoyed.
3. That his Imperial majefly, when he wrote to him,
fhould only give him the title of Royal Dileciion.
A. That neverthelefs the miniflers which he had at
Vienna lliould be treated like thofe of other crowned
heads. 3. That the eleftor fliould maintain 6000 men
in Italy at his own expence, in cafe the emperor fliould
be obliged to make w’ar on account of the fucceflion
of the houfe of Bourbon to the crown of Spain. 6.
That thofe troops ftiould continue there as long as the
war lafted.
Thus was the kingdom of Pruffia eftabliflied through
the friendlhip of the emperor, with whom Frederic I.
fo called as being the firft king of Pruflia, continued all
his life in ftvidl alliance. Indeed he was a pacific
4 ]
P R u
prince ; and though contemptible in his p?rmn, and FrafTvv.
incapable of atchieving great things, had this merit, —“4'
that he always preferved his dominions in peace, and
thus confulted the true intereft of his fubjecls much
more than thofe monarchs who have dazzled the eyes
ol the world by their military exploits, tie was indeed
vain,, and fond of fliow, as we have already obferved;
but had a good heart, and is laid never to have vio¬
lated his conjugal vow ; though it does not appear that
he was greatly beloved by his royal conforts (of whom
he had three) on that or any other account. T
Frederic I. died in the beginning of 1713, and was prederic If-
fucceeded by Frederic William. He was in almoftot Pruf'.la
every thing the reverfe of his father. His difpoiiLions 3 mamii
were altogether martial j fo that he applied himlelf en-Pnnce'
tirely to the augmentation of his army, and perfebling
them in their exercife, by which means they became the
moft expert foldiers in Europe. His foible was an am¬
bition of having his army compofed <pf men above the
ordinary fize ; but as thefe could not be procured, he
compofed a regiment of the tailed: men he could find ;
and as his officers made no fcruple of picking up fuch
men wherever they could find them for his majtllyV
ufe, the neighbouring Hates were frequently offended,.
and a war was often likely to enfue even from this ridL
culous cauie. However, his Pruffian majefly was ne¬
ver engaged in any martial cnterprife of confequence:
but having, put his army on the mofl refpeetable foot¬
ing of any in the world, and filled his coffers, for he
was of a very faving difpofition, he put it in the power
of his fon to perform thofe exploits which hare been
matter of aflonifhmcnt to all Europe. r6
It was in this king’s reign that Pruffia firft perceived Enmity be¬
lter natural enemy and rival to be the houfe of Auftria, tween
and not France as had been formerly fuppofed. Hence an^
frequent bickerings took place between t hefe two powers, Au(u:a‘
for which the perfecution of the Proteflants by fome of
the Catholic ftates of the empire afforded a pretence \
and though a war never actually place, yet it was eafy
to fee that both were mortal enemies to each other.
But when Frederic William died in 1740, this enmity
broke out in full force. The emprefs queen was- then
left in a very difagreeable fituation, as has been obferv¬
ed under the article Britain, N° 41c, &c. Of thisFrc(jf.icnL
Frederic III. took the advantage to do himfelf juftice, asfeizes SUe-*
he faid, with regard to Silefia, of which his anceftorsfia.
had been unjuftly deprived. This province be feized at
that time : but it coft him dear •, for the emprefs, hav¬
ing at laft overcome all difficulties, formed againft him
the moft terrible combination that ever was known in
Europe.
The treaty was hardly concluded with the king of
Pruffia, by which (he reluctantly yielded up the province
of Silefia, and with it a clear revenue of 8oo,oool. a-year,
before fhe entered into another with the court of Peterf-
burg, which was concluded May 22. 1746. This treaty^, J,8
as far as it was made public, was only of a defenfive na-1Ion adrift
ture 5 but fix fecret and feparate articles were added to him. ^
it. By one of thefe it was provided, that in cafe his
Pruffian majefty fliould attack the emprefs queen, or the
emprefs of Ruffia, or even the republic of Poland, it
fliould be confidered as a breach of the treaty of Dref-
den, by which Silefia was given up. It was alfo fii-
pulated, that, notwithftanding tint treaty (which in¬
deed had been dictated by the king of Pruffia bimfelf),
the
P R U
F 475 1
P R U
/Pruflia
}9
He invades
Saxony,
so
and takes
16,000 Sax*
ons prifon-
*rs.
21
He is pro-
fecuted in
the AuJic
council, and
put to the
ban of the
empire.
the right of the emprefs-queen to Sileixa llili conti¬
nued, and for the recovery of that province the con-
tra£Hng powers thould mutually furnilh an army of
60,000 men. To this treaty, called the treaty of Pe-
terjburg, the king of Poland was invited to accede ;
but he, being in a manner in the power of the king
of Pruffia, did not think proper to lign it : however,
he verbally acceded to it in fuch a manner, that the
other parties were fully convinced of his defign to co¬
operate with all their meafures j and in confideration
of this intention, it was agreed that he fhould have
a (hare in the partition of the king of Pruffia’s do¬
minions, in cafe of a fuccefsful event of their enter-
prifes.
In confequence of thefe machinations, every art was
nfed to render the king of Pruflia perfonally odious to
the eraprefs of Ruffia ; the queen of Hungary made
vatt preparations in Bohemia and Moravia ; and the
king of Poland, under pretence of a military amufement,
drew together 16,000 men, with wThom he occupied a
itrong poll at Pirna. The queen of Hungary, ftill
further to ftrengthen herfelf, concluded a treaty with
the court of France at Verfailles, dated May 1. 1756.
But in the mean time, the king of Pruflia having un-
derftood by his emiffaries what was going forward, re-
foived to be beforehand with his enemies, and at lead:
to keep the war out of his own country j and therefore
entered Saxony with a confiderable army. At firfl he
affe&ed only to demand a free paiTage for his troops,
and an obfervance of the neutrality profeffed by the
king of Poland *, but, having good reafons to doubt
this neutrality, he demanded, as a preliminary, that
thefe Saxon troops fhould immediately quit the ffrong
poll they occupied, and difperfe themfelves. This de¬
mand was refufed ; on which his Pruffian majefty
blockaded the Saxon camp at Pirna, refolving to re¬
duce it by famine, fince its ftrong fituation rendered an
attack very dangerous. At that time there were in Bo¬
hemia two Saxon armies, one under the command of
M. Brown, and the other under M. Picolomini. To
keep theie in awe, the king had fent M. Schwerin
with an army into Bohemia from the country of
Glatz, and M. Keith had penetrated into the fame
kingdom on the fide of Mifnia. But fill the king of
PruiTia did not entirely confide in thefe difpofitions 3
and therefore fearing left M. Brown might afford fome
affifiance to the Saxons, he joined his forces under
Keith, and on December 1. attacked and defeated the
Auflrian general, fo that the latter found it impoflible
to relieve the Saxons, who, after a vain attempt to re¬
tire from their port, were all taken prifoners. The
king of Poland quitted his dominions in Germany,
and the Pruflians took up their winter quarters in
Saxony. Here they feized on the revenues, levied ex¬
orbitant contributions, and obliged the country to fur-
nifh them with recruits. The king of Pruffia at this
time made himfelf mafter of the archives of Drefdcn,
by which means he procured the originals of thole
pieces above-mentioned, which, when produced to the
world, gave a full proof of the combination that had
been formed againft him, and confequently juftified the
meafures he had taken for his own defence.
No fooner had the king entered Saxony, in the man¬
ner already related, than a procefs was commenced
agalnff him in the emperor’s Aulic council, and before
22
Prodigious
the diet of the empire, where he was foon condemned
for contumacy, and put to the ban of the empire.
The various circles of the empire were ordered to fur-
nhh their contingents of men and money to put this
fentcnce in execution 3 but thefe came in fo {lowly,
that, had it not been for the affiftance of the French
under the prince de Soubife, the army would pro¬
bably have never been in a condition to a£t. The
Auftrians, in the mean time, made great preparations, p,7pa^
and railed 100,coo men in Bohemia, whom they com-irons a-
mitted to the care of Prince Charles of Lorrain, affifted gairft him
by M. Brown. The Czarina fent a body of 60,000
men under M. Apraxin, to invade the Ducal Pruffia 3
whilff a ftrong fleet was equipped in the Baltic, in
order to co-operate with that army. The king of
Sweden alfo acceded to the confederacy, in hopes of
recovering the poffefTions in Pomerania which his an-
ceftors had enjoyed 3 and the duke of Mecklenburg
took the fame party, promifing to join the Swedifh
army with 6oco men as foon as it fhould be ne-
ceflary. On the king of Pruffia’s fide appeared no¬
body excepting an army of between 30,000 and 40,000
Hanoverians commanded by the duke of Cumber¬
land 3 and thefe were outnumbered and forced to yield
to a fuperior army of French commanded by M.
d’Etrees.
In the
23
findincAIe invades
mean time, his Pruffian majefty,
that he muff depend for affiftance folely on his own
abilities, refolved to make the beft ufe of his time, de'eats the
Accordingly, in the fpring 1757, his armies poured in-Auftrian
to Bohemia from two different quarters, while the army,
king himfelf prepared to enter it from a third. M.
Schwerin entered from Silefia 3 the prince of Bevern
from Lufatia, where he defeated an army of 28,000
Aullrians that oppofed his paffage. As the intentions
of the king himfelf were not known, the Auftrians de¬
tached a body of 20,000 men from their main army to
obferve his motions. This was no fooner done than
the king cut oft' all communication between the detach¬
ment and the main body 3 and having joined his two
generals with incredible celerity, he engaged the Au¬
ftrians near Prague, totally defeated them, took their
camp, military cheft, and cannon ; but loft the brave
General Schwerin, who was killed at the age of 82,
with a colonel’s ftandard in his hand. On the x\tiftrian
fide, M. Brown was wounded, and died in a ftiort
time, though it is fuppofed more from the chagrin he
luffered, than from the dangerous nature of the wound
itfelf.
About 40,000 of the Auftrian army took refuge in Refieges
Prague, while the reft fled different ways. The city and bom-
was inftantly invefted by the king, and all fuccours werehaids
cut off. The great number of troops which it contain-1 laSUK'
ed rendered an attack unadvifable, but feemed to render
the reduction of it by famine inevitable 3 however, the
king, to accomplifh his purpofe the more fpeedily, pre¬
pared to bombard the town. On the 29th of May,
after a moft dreadful ftorm of thunder and lightning,
four batteries began to play on the city. From thefe
were thrown, every 24 hours, 288 bombs, befides a vaft
number of red-hot balls, fo that it was foon on fire in
every quarter. The garrifon made a vigorous defence,
and one well-conduffed fally 3 but had the misfortune
to be repulfed with great lofs. The magiftrates, burgh¬
ers, and clergy, feeing their city on the point of being
$ O 2 reduced
P R U
Pniflla
^ 25
Got! Tit
Daun takes
the com¬
mand of
the Au-
ftnan ar¬
my.
iS
reduced to an heap of rubbifh, fupplicated the command
er m the mod; earned manner to capitulate; but he was
d/eai to their intreaties, and drove I 2,000 of the mod
ulekfs mouths out of town, who were quickly driven in
again by the PruHiatts.
I bus the affairs of the emprefs queen feemed ver¬
ging to dedruftion, when Leopold count Daun took
upon him the command of the remains of M. Brown’s
army, 'j his general had arrived within a few miles of
Prague the day after the great battle. He immedi¬
ately colledded the fcattered fugitives with the greated
diligence, and retired with them to a drong pod in
the neighbourhood, from whence he gave the troops
in Prague hopes of a fpeedy relief. It was now the
king of Pruflia’s bufinefs, either to have attempted to
make himfelf mader of the city by one defperale effort,
or. entirely to have abandoned the enterprife, and
driven Count Daun from his pod before his troops had
recovered from the terror of their late defeat *, but, by
attempting to do both, he rendered himfelf incapable
Defeats die of doing either. Though the army of Count Daun
Sim at already amounted to 60,000 men, and though they
were drongly entrenched, and defended by a vad train
of artillery, his majedy thought proper to fend no
more than 32,000 men. This body made the ardu¬
ous attempt on the 18th of June ; but though they
did all that human courage and conduft could do, and
though the king himfelf at lad charged at the head of
his cavalry, the Pruflians were driven out of the field
with great lofs. This engagement was named the battle
of Colin.
The fird confequence of the battle of Colin was,
that the king of Pruffia was obliged to raife the fiege
of Prague ; foon after which, he was obliged to quit
Bohemia, and take refuge in Saxony. The Audrians
haraffed him as much as poffible ; but, notwithdand-
ing their great fuperiority, their armies were not in a
condition to make any decifive attempt upon him, as
the frontiers of Saxony abounded with fituations eafily
defended. In the mean time, the Ruffians, who had
hitherto been very dilatory in their motions, began to
exert themfelves, and entered Ducal Pruffia, under M.
Apraxin and Fermor, where they committed innu¬
merable cruelties and exceffes. A large body of
Audrians entered Silefia, and penetrated as far as
Breflau. ^Then they made a turn backwards, and be-
fieged Schweidnitz. Another body entered Lufatia,
and made themfelves maders of Zittau. An army of
22,000 Swedes entered Pruffian Pomerania, took the
towns of Anclam and Demmcin, and laid the whole
country under contribution. The French, too, being
freed from all redraint by the capitulation of the duke
of Cumberland at Cloder Seven *, made their way in-
Halbertdadt and the Old Marche of Brandenburg,
fiift exacting contributions, and then plundering the
towns. The army of the empire, being reinforced by
that of the prince de Soubife, after many delays, was
on. full march to enter Saxony, which left the Au¬
drians. at liberty to exert the greated part of their
force in the redudtion of Silefia. General Haddick
penetrated through Lufatia, palled by the Pruffian ar¬
mies, and fuddenly appeared before the gates of Ber¬
lin, which city he laid under contribution. He re¬
tired on the approach of a body of Pruffians j yet he
dill found means to keep fuch a pod as interrupted the
f 476 ]
P R U
27
Siege of
Prague
raifed.
$.See Bri¬
tain, n°
441.
28
Berlin laid
under con¬
tribution.
Pm ft’4.
*9
king’s communication with Silefia. The deflru&ion
of the king of Pruffia therefore now leemed inevitable.
Every exertion which he had made, though brave
and well-condu&ed, had been unfuccefsful. His general
Lehwald, who oppofed the Ruffians, had ordeis to
attack them at all events. He obeyed his orders 5 -y
and with 30,000 men attacked 60,000 of the enemyLehwa!d 1
ftrongly entrenched at a place called Norkitien. The^™.^" g<>
Pru.ffians. behaved with the greated valour j but afterdated by
having killed five times more of the enemy than they the Rut-
themfelves lod, they were obliged to retire, though^ans*
more formidable after their defeat than the Ruffians
after their viflory. The king, in the mean time, ex¬
erted himfelf on every fide, and his enemies fled every-
where before him ; but whild he purfued one body,
another gained upon him in fome other part, and the
winter came on fad, while his drength decayed, and
that of his adverfaries feemed to increafe on every
quarter.
The Pruffian monarch, however, though diftrelTed,
did not abandon himfelf to defpair, or lofe that won¬
derful prefence of mind which has fo eminently' didin^
gu.iffied him in all his military enterprifes. He indu-
Itrioufly delayed a decifive action till the approach ofrhe’king
winter j but at lad, after various movements, on No-gains a -
vember 5.. 1757, he met at Rofhach with the unitedSreat vic~
army of his enemies commanded by the prince of Saxe!?’'!31,
Plilburghaufen and the prince de Soubife. The allied L &f '
army amounted to 50,000 men complete; but mod of
the troops of the Circles were new raifed, and many
of them not well affedled to the caufe. The Pruf-
fians did not exceed 25,000 men j but they were fu-
perior to any troops in the world, and were infpired,
by. the prefence of their king, with the mod enthufi-
adic valour. The Audrians were defeated with the
lofs of 3000 killed, eight generals, 250 officers of dif¬
ferent ranks, and 6oco private feldiers, taken prifon-
ers, while night alone prevented the total dedrudlion o£
the army.
By this battle the king was fet free on one fide j
but this only gave him an opportunity of renewing
his labours on another. The Auilrians had a great
force, and now began to make a proportionable pro-
grefs in Silefia. After a fiege of 16 days, they had re¬
duced the drong fortrefs of Schweidnitz, and obliged
the Pruff m garrifon of 4000 men to furrender pri- ^
foners of war. Flearing then of the vi&ory at Rof-Schweid.
bach, and that the king of Pruffia was in full marchn-tz takeI1
to relieve .Silefia, they refolved to attack the prince Jy.t!'e Al-"
of Bevern in his drong camp under the walls of Bref- rianS*
lau. They attacked the Prince’s army on November
22d; but their attack was fufiained with the greated
resolution. The (laughter of the Audrians was pro-Battle with
digious. A great part of the enemy had retired from the prince"
the field of battle, and the red were preparing to retire,°f Bevern.
when all at once the Pruffian generals took the fame re-
folution. Their army had differed much in the engage¬
ment, and they became apprehenfive of a total defeat
in cafe their intrenchments firould be forced in any
part y for which reafon they quitted their drong pod,
and retired behind the Oder. Two days after, the
prince of Bevern, going to reconnoitre without effort,
attended only by a groom, was taken prifoner by an
advanced party of Croats, a fmall body of whom had
croffed the Oder,
Oa
/
P R U
[ 477 J
P R U
lutz reco¬
ver their
liberty.
35
Count
Daun de¬
feated by
the king
of Prudia
Pruflia. On tVis the town of Breflau immediately furrendered;
' where, as well as at Schweidnitz, the Auftrians found
Breflau ta- Sreat quantities of provifions, ammunition, and money,
ken by the All Silefia was on the point of falling into their hands,
Auftrians. and the Pruflian affairs were going into the utmoft di-
ftra&ion, when the king himfelf by a mod; rapid march
paffed through Thuringia, Mifnia, and Lufatia, in
fpite of the utmod efforts of the generals Haddick and
Marfhal, who were placed there to oppofe him; and,
entering Sileffa on the 2d of December, joined the
prince of Bevern’s corps, who repaffed the Oder to
meet him. The garrifon of Schweidnitz, who, as we
have already obferved, had been made prifoners of war,
alfo joined the king’s army unexpectedly ; and their
prefence contributed not a little, notwithdanding the
^ fmallnefs of their number, to raife the fpirits of the
Garrifon of whole army. They had fubmitted to the capitulation
Schweid- xvith the greated reluctance j but as the Audrians
were conducting them to prifon, they happened to re¬
ceive intelligence of the victory at Rofbach : on which
they immediately rofe on the efcort that conducted
them, and entirely difperfed it j and afterwards march¬
ing in fuch a direction as they thought might mod
readily lead them to their king, they accidentally fell
in with his army.
His Prudian majedy now approached Breffau; on
which the Audrians, confiding in their fuperiority,
(for they exceeded 70,000, while the Pruflians fcarce
amounted to 36,000), abandoned their drong camp,
at Leuthen. the fame which the prince of Bevern had formerly oc¬
cupied, and advanced to give him battle. The king
did not intend by any means to difappoint them, but
advanced on his part with the greated celerity. The
two armies met on December 5th, near the village of
Leuthen. Count Daun made the bed difpofitions pof-
fible. The ground occupied by his army was a plain,
with fmali eminences in fome parts. Thefe eminences
they furrounded with artillery •, and as the ground was
alfo interfperfed with thickets, they fought to turn
thefe likewife to their advantage. On their right and
left were hills, on which they planted batteries of can¬
non. The ground in their front was interfe&ed by
many caufeways ; and to make the whole more imprac¬
ticable, the Audrians had felled a great number of
trees, and fcaitered them in the way. It was almod
impoffible at the beginning of the engagement for the
Prudian cavalry to aft, on account of thefe impedi¬
ments; but, by a judicious difpofition made by the king
himfelf, all difficulties were overcome. His majedy had
placed four battalions behind the cavalry of his right
wing ; forefeeing that General Nadadi, who was pla¬
ced on the enemy’s left with a corps de referve, defign-
.cd to attack him in flank. It happened as he had fore-
feen : that general’s cavalry attacked the Pruflian right
wing with great fury ; but he was received with fuch a
fevere fire from the four battalions, that he was obli¬
ged to retire in diforder. The king’s flank then, well
covered and fupported, was enabled to afl; with fuch
order and vigour as repulfed the enemy. The Audrian
artillery wras alfo filenced by that of the Pruflians ;
however, the Audrians continued to make a gallant re-
fiflance during the whole battle. After having been
once thrown into diforder, they rallied all their forces
about Leuthen, which was defended on every fide by
entrenchments and redoubts. The Pruflians attacked
them with the utmod impetuofity, and at lad became Pruifia.
maders of the pod ; on which the enemy fled on allv-—-v"—"-'
fides, and a total rout enfued. In this battle the Au¬
drians lofl 6000 killed on the fpot, 15,000 taken pri¬
foners, and upwards of 2QO pieces of cannon. ^
The confequences of this victory were very great. Breflau re~
Breflau wTas immediately inveded, and furrendered on taken.
December 29th; the garrifon, amounting to 13,000
men, were made prifoners of war. The blockade of
Schweidnitz was formed as clofely as the feafon of the
year would permit; while detached Pruffian parties
overran the whole country of Silefia, and reduced every
place of lefs importance. The Ruffians, who had ra¬
vaged and dedroyed the country in fuch a manner that
they could not fubfid in it, thought proper to retire
out of the Pruflian dominions altogether. Thus Ge- gWfc^.s
neral Lehwald was left at liberty to act againd the driven out
Swedes ; and them he quickly drove out of Pruffian of Pomera-
Pomerania, the wffiole of which country he not onlyn^a*
recovered, but alfo fome part of Swedidi Pomerania.
Phus the duchy of Mecklenburg being left quite ex-
pofed, the king took ample vengeance on it by exa£L
ing the mod fevere contributions of men and money.
To complete this monarch’s good fortune alfo, the
French, who had retired after the battle of Refbach,
were noiv oppofed by the Hanoverians under Prince
Ferdinand, who kept them fo well employed, that, du¬
ring the red of the war, the king of Pruffia had no more
trouble from them. See Britain, N° 442.
The beginning of the year 1758 was favourable togchweid-
the arms of his Pruflian majedy. On the 3d of April nitz rttav
he commenced his operations againd Schiveidnitz, and ken.
puffied the fiege fo vigoroufly, that the place furren¬
dered in 13 clays. He then difpofed his forces in
fuch a manner as might bed guard his dominions
againd his numerous enemies. For this purpofe Count
Dolma commanded a body of troops on the fide of Po¬
merania ; another confiderable body was poded be¬
tween Wohlau and Glogau, in order to cover Silefia
from the Ruffians, in cafe they diould make their in¬
road that way. An army, in a little time after, was
formed in Saxony, commanded by the king’s brother
Prince Henry. This anny confided of 30 battalions
and 45 fquadrons, and was defigned to make head
againd the army of the empire; which, by great ef¬
forts made during the winter, and the jun&ion of a
large body of Andrians, was again in a condition to
a<d. Between all thefe armies a ready communication
was kept up by a proper choice of pods. After the
reduftion of Schweidnitz, the king having made a fhow
of invading Bohemia, fuddenly burd into Moravia,
where in a fhort time he made himfelf mader of the
whole country, and on the 27th of May laid fiege to
Olmutz the capital. Of this M. Daun was no fooner 39
informed, than he took his route to Moravia through ,T!le klrt®
Bohemia : and, though he was not in a condition to oim-ftz
rilk a battle, nor indeed would have done fo unlefs lie without
had had a very confiderable advantage; yet, by placingfuccefs.
himfelf in a drong fituation where he could not be at¬
tacked, by haraffing the king’s troops and cutting off
their convoys, he at lad obliged him to abandon the en¬
ter prife. The king, however, who frequently owed a
good part of his fuccefs to the impenetrable fecrecy
with which he covered all his defigns, gave not the
lead hint of his intention to raife the fiege of Olmutz,
Or.
/
P R U
40
The Ruf¬
fians be
fiege Cu-
flrin.
i,"uriia’ , 0_n contrary, the very day before the fiege was
raifed, the firing continued as brifik as ever ; but in the
night (July 1.) the whole army took the road to Bo¬
hemia in two columns, and gained an entire march up¬
on the Auftrians. J. hus, notwithflanding the utmoft
eiTorts of his enemies, the Pruflian army reached Bo¬
hemia with very little moleftation. Here he feized
upon a large magazine at Lieutomiffel j defeated fome
corps ot Andrians who had attempted to interrupt his
progrefs 5 and arrived at Konigfgratz, of which he took
poffeiTion, after driving from it 7000 Auftrians who
were intrenched there. 'Phis city and feveral other
dirtridds he laid under contribution : but foon after en¬
tered Silefia, and marched with the utmoft rapidity to
encounter the Ruffians, who had at that time united
their forces under generals Brown and Fermor, entered
the New Marche of Brandenburg, and laid fiege to
Cuftrin.
The king arrived at this city at a very critical period.
The Ruffians had laid fiege to it on the 1 ijth of Au-
gffif ; and though they were not well {killed in mana¬
ging artillery, yet, by furious and unremitting dif-
charges at random, they threw in fuch a number of
bombs and red-hot balls, that the town was foon on
fire in every quarter. Some of the wretched inhabi¬
tants were burned ; others buried in the ruins of their
houfes, or killed by the balls which fell like hail in the
ftreets ; while many of the furvivors abandoned their
habitations, and tied out of the town on that fide where
it was not invefted. The governor did every thing for
the defence of the place ; but as the walls were built
after the old manner, it was impoffible that the town
could have made a defence for any length of time,
efpecially as the principal magazine of the befieged
had been blown up. I he avenger of all thefe injuries,
however, v^as now at hand. The king came in fight
of the Ruffians on the 25th of Auguft, after a march
of 56 days, and beheld the country everywhere defo-
lated, and the villages in flames by the depredations
of his cruel enemy, who had raifeu the fiege at his ap¬
proach, and retired towards a neighbouring village na¬
med Zorndorff. At nine o’clock in the morning, a moft
te-irible fire of cannon and mortars poured deftrufb'on on
the right wing of the Ruffian army for two hours with¬
out intermiffion. The flaughter was fuch as might
have been expefted j but the Ruffians kept their ground
with aftonifliing refolution, new regiments ftill preffing
forward to fupply the places of thofe that fell. When
the Fn ft nne had fired away all their charges, they rufh-
ed forward on the Pruffians with their bayonets ; and
all at once thefe brave troops, though encouraged by
the prefence of their king, gave way and fled before an
enemy already half defeated. The Ruffian generals
ought now to have attacked with their cavalry the dif-
ordered infantry of their enemies, which would have
completed the defeat, and in all probability given the
finifhing ftreke to the king of Pruffia’s affairs. This
opportunity, however, they loft: but the king was not
fo negligent; for, by a very rapid and mafterly mo¬
tion, he brought all the cavalry of his right wing to
the centre, and falling on the Ruffian foot uncovered
by their horfe, and even difordered by their own fuc-
cefs, they pufhed them back with moft miferable flaugh¬
ter, at the fame time that the repulfed battalions of in¬
fantry, returning from the charge, and exafperated at
r 478 ]
P It u
41
But are de
feated at
Zorndorff.
their late difgrace, rendered the victory no longer Pruffia.
doubtful. The Ruffians were now thrown into the '—““v—-
moil dreadful confufion. The wind blew the dull and
fmoke into their faces, fo that they could not diftinguifh
friends from foes j they fired on each other, plundered
their own baggage which flood between the lines, and
intoxicated themfelves with brandy : the ranks fell in
upon one another j and, being thus crammed together
into a narrow fpace, the fire of the Pruffians had a full
and dreadful effeft, while their enemies kept up only a
fcattered and inefteflual fire, generally quite over their
heads. Yet even in this difmal fituation the Ruffians
did not fly ; but fuffered themfelves to be flaughtered
till feven at night, when their generals having caufed
an attack to be made on the Pruffian right wing, the
attention of the enemy was drawn to that quarter, and
they had time to retire a little from dhe field of battle
to recover their order.
In this engagement, which was called the battle of
Zorndorff, the Ruffians loft 21,529 men, while that of
the Pruffians did not exceed 2000. A vaft train of ar¬
tillery was taken, together with the military cheft, and
many officers of high rank. The confequenee was, that
the Ruffian army retreated as far as Landfperg on the
frontiers of Poland, and the king was left at liberty to
march with his ufual expedition to the relief of Prince
Henry of Saxony.
The prince was at this time forely preffed by M.Operations
Dmin. As foon as the king had left Bohemia in theofueum
manner already related, M. Daun, confidering that itDaun*
would have been to no purpofe to follow him, refolved
to turn his arms towards Saxony. Towards that coun¬
try, therefore, he took his route through Lufatia, by
Zittau, Gorlitz, and Bautzen. On the 3d of Septem¬
ber lie invefted the ftrong fortrefs of Sonneftein j which
unaccountably furrendered, after a fingle day’s refin¬
ance, to one of his generals named Macguire. He then
began to favour the operations of General Laudohn,
who had advanced through the Lower Lufatia to the
confines of Brandenburg •, and, by drawing the atten¬
tion of the Pruffian forces which were left in Silefia to
the northward of that duchy, he faciluated the pro¬
grefs of the generals Harfch and De Ville in the fouth-
ern parts. He then propofed that Prince Hemy fhould
he attacked by the army of the empire, while that of
the Auftrians ffiould pafs the Elbe, and, falling at the
fame time on the Pruffians, fecond the attack of the
Imperialifts, and cut off the retreat of their enemies
from Drefden. The fudden appearance of the king of, 43
Pruffia, however, put an end to his plan; General Lau- f)/
dohn abandoned all his conquefts in Lower Lufatia, and the king of
retired towards M. Daun, while that general himfelHruffia;
retired from the neighbourhood of Drefden as far as
Zittam The army of the empire only kept its ground }
poffeffing itfelf of the ftrong poft at Pirna, formerly
mentioned, but did not undertake any thing. As for
the Suedes, who had dire&ed their motions by tbofe
of the Ruffians, they no fooner heard of the vidfory »f
Zorndorff, than they retreated with much more expedi¬
tion than they had advanced.
Thus the king of Pruflia’s affairs feemrd to be pretty
well retrieved, when by one fatal piece of negligence he
was brought to the verge of ruin. M. Daun had pof-
feffed himfelf of an advantageous camp at Stolphen, by
by which he preferved a ccrrununicaticn with the army
of
R U [ 479 ]
other hand, the king of Prufiia, quilted
44
W h s Air
j;nfed and
defeated at
Hochkir-
chen.
P
Pfaffia. of the empire. On th
v having taken poffeilion of an important poll at Baut¬
zen, extended his right wing to the village of Hoch-
kirchen, by which he preferved a communication with
his brother Prince Henry, prote&ed Brandenburg, and
wTas better fituated than he could be anywhere tlfe for
throwing fuccours into Silefia. The two armies kept a
watchful eye on the motions of each oth.r 5 and as the
principal aim of M. Daun was to cut off the king’s
communication with Silefia, and of the king to cut off
M. Da un’s communication with Bohemia, a battle feem-
ed inevitable, though great danger feemed to awrait that
party who ihould begin the attack.
In this critical poffure of affairs, the Auftrian gene¬
ral formed a defign of attacking the Pruflian camp in
the night. In what manner he came to furpriie fuch
a vigilant enemy has never been accounted for ; but
that iuch a furprife was actually accomplifheol on the
14th of October, is certain. In the dead of the pre¬
ceding night, the Auftrian army began to march in
three columns towards the camp of the king of Prufiia :
and though the night was exceedingly dark, and they
Had a confiderable way to go, they all arrived at the
lame time, in fafety, without being difcovered, and
without the leaf! conlufion 5 and at five in the morn-
ing began a regular and well-condu&ed attack. The
Pruflians were in a moment thrown into confulion ;
Marfhal Keith, one of their beft generals, received two
mulket-balls, and fell dead on the fpot. Prince Francis
of Brunfvvick had his head fiiot off by a cannon-ball as-
he was mounting his horfe 5 and every thing feemed to
announce the total deftrudtion of the army. Still, howr-
ever, the king preferved his wonderful prefence of mind,
which indeed he never appears to have loft on any oc-
eafion. He ordered fome detachments from his left to
fupport his right wing 5 but the moment that thefe or¬
ders were received, the left itfelf was furioufly attack¬
ed. General Ketzow, who commanded in that quar¬
ter, repulfed the Auftrians with difficulty, and was not
able to afford any confiderable afliitance to the right >
which alone was obliged to fuftain the) weight of the
grand attack.. The AuftrianSj in the beginning of the
engagement, had driven the Pruffians out of the vil¬
lage of Hochkirchen; and as the fate of the day de¬
pended on the poffeflion of that poll, the hotteft dif-
pute was there. The Pruffians made three bloody and
unfuccefsful attacks on the village ; on the fourth they
carried it; but the Auftrians continually pouring in frefh
troops, at laft drove them out with prodigious daughter
on all tides. The king then ordered a retreat, which
was conduced in good order, without being purfued;
however, this bloody adlion coft him 7000 men, toge¬
ther with a great number of cannon. The Auftrians
computed their own lofs at 5000.
His Pruflian majefiy, having thus happily efcaped
fuch imminent danger, took every poftible meafure to
prevent the enemy from gaining any connderable ad¬
vantage from his defeat. Perceiving that the only ad¬
vantage they wiflied to derive from it was to cover the
operations of their armies in Silefia, and that lie had
now nothing to fear on the fide of Saxony, he largely
reinforced his own army from that of Prince Henry,
and haftened into Silefia, in order to raife the fiege of
Neifs, which had been completely invefted on the 4th
@£ Qclober. On the 24th of that month, therefore., he
P R U
Pr :ffia.
his camp, and, making a great compafs, to
avoid cbftrucficns from the enemy, arrived in the plains'
of Gorlitz. A body of the Auftrians had in vain at¬
tempted to fecure this poft before him, and fome who
arrived after him were defeated with the lofs of 800
men. From this place the king purfued his march with
tne utmoff diligence; but was followed by General
Laudohn, at the head of 24,000 men, who oonftantly
hung on his rear, and haraffed his army. The king,
however, knowing the importance of his expedition,
continued his march without interruption, and luftered
his antagoniff to obtain many little advantages without
moieftation. Daun, however, not content with the op-
pofition given by Laudohn, font a large body of horfe
and foot by another route to reinforce the gener als Karfch
and De Ville, who had formed the fiege of Neifs and
the blockade of Cofel, while he himfelf paffed the Elbe,
and advanced towards Drefden.
All thefe precautions, however, were of little avail.
The generals Karfch and De Ville, notwithfianding their
reinforcement, no fooner heard of the king of Pruffia’s
approach, than they railed the fiege of both places, and
retired, leaving behind them a confiderable quantity cf
military fiores. Xhe end of the Pruflian monarch’s march
being thus accompli fired, he inftantly returned by the
fame way he came, and haftened to the relief of Sax-
ony, the capital of which (Drelden) was in great dan¬
ger from Marfhal Daun. The place was but indiffe¬
rently fortified, and garrifoned only by 12,000 men j
fo that it could not promite to hold out long againft a
numerous and well-appointed army. It was befides
commanded by a large fuburb, of which, if once the
enemy got poffeffion, all defence of the city muft then
be vain. For this reafon M. Schmettau, the Pruflian <. j45.
governor, determined to fet thefe fuburbs on fire, which Drefden °
was actually done November 10th, with an incredible burnt,
lofs to the inhabitants, as in the fuburbs were carried on
mofi of thofe valuable manufadfures which render the ci¬
ty of Drefden remarkable. This difappointed the de-
figns of M. Daun ; but, though the action was agree¬
able to the laws of war, and had been executed with ail
the caution and humanity of which fuch an aefion was
capable,yet the Auftrians exclaimed againft: it as a piece
of the moft unprovoked and wanton cruelty recorded in
hiftory.
After the king of Pruflia had approached Drefden, allS4winy 0p-
the Auftnan armies retired into Bohemia, where they pielfid by
took up their winter-quarters, as the king of Pmflia,hc kinS
did in Saxony. This unhappy country he laid he would Fiufiii:
now confider as his own by right of conqueffo But in-
ftead of treating the conquered people as his lawful
fubje&s, he oppreffed them in all poflible ways, by le¬
vying the molt fevere and exorbitant contributions
furrounding the exchange with foldiers, and confining
the merchants in narrow lodgings on ftraw-beds, till
they drew upon their corrcfpondents for fuch foms as he-
wanted.
In 1759, as early as the 23d of February, the Pruf¬
fians commenced their military operations. General
Woberfow marched with a body of troops into Poland,
where he deftroyed feveral very large magazines be-
longing to the Ruffians, and returned into Silefia
without any lofs on the 18th of April. In the mean
time, by fome movements of the king of Pruffia him¬
felf, the greateft part of the Auftrian troops had been-
drawn
P R U
’Trii-Tia. drawn towards the frontiers of Silefia. Prince Henry
■ ~ immediately took advantage of this opening, and on
Bohemia April entered Eohemia with his army di-
invaded by vided into two columns. One, commanded by him
P R U
Priiffia.
Prince
Henry.
48
A body of
Auftrians
felf, marched towards Peterfwade; the other, under
General Hulfen, pafled by the towns of Pafberg and
Commottau. That commanded by Prince Henry him-
felf penetrated as far as Lobofchutz and Leitmeritz ;
the enemy flying everywhere before them, and burn¬
ing or abandoning the vaft magazines which they had
amaffed in thefe parts. The body under General Hul¬
fen had a more adtive employment. A flxong pafs at
Pafberg was defended by a conflderable body of Auf-
j ^ f trians. General Hulfen, having condudled his cavalry
General ' another way in fuch a manner as to fall directly on
Hulfen. their rear, attacked them in front with his infantry,
drove them out of their intrenchments, and totally de¬
feated them wdth the lofs of a great number killed, and
2000 taken prifoners, wdrile that of the Pruflians did
not exceed 70 in killed and wounded. After this ex¬
ploit they returned into Saxony, with hoftages for the
contributions which they had largely exadled during the
courfe of their expedition.
Some other fucceffes obtained by Prince Plenry, clear¬
ed the country of Franconia of his enemies ; but now
the approach of the Ruffians feemed once more to bring
the affairs of the king of Pruffia to a crifis. Notwdth-
ffanding the deftruftion of their magazines, they had
continued to advance into Silefia, where they were op-
pofed by Count Dohna j but as the troops he had with
him rvete very far inferior to his enemies, he found it
impoffible to do more, at leaft -with any appearance of
fuccefs, than to obferve their motions and harafs them
on their march. But this was fo difpleaflng to the
king, that he difgraced his general, and appointed We-
del to fucceed him, with orders to attack the Ruffians
at all events. To enable him, however, in fome mea-
fure to comply with this defperate order, he fent him
fome reinforcements, which brought his army up to
near 30,000. With thefe, on the 23d of July 1759,
General Wedel attacked 70,000 Ruffians polled in the
49 . molt advantageous manner at Zulichau, and defended
by a numerous artillery. Though the Pruffians march¬
ed on to certain dellruftion and dilgvace, they fuftained
the attack for a long time with unparalleled refolution.
At lalt, however, they gave wray, and were obliged to
retire with the lofs of 4700 killed or taken prifoners, and
3000 wounded,
The confequences of this viftory were, that the Ruf¬
fians penetrated into the king’s territories, and took
poffeffion of the towns of Croffen and Frankfort on the
Oder, which made it abfolutely neceffary for the king
to come in perfon to oppofe them. Accordingly, on
the 4th of Augult, he joined Wedel wdth a conflderable
body of forces, having left the greatell part of his army
in Saxony under Prince Henry. But as Marlhal Daun
had fent a body of 12,000 horfe and 8000 foot under
General Laudohn to the affiftance of the Ruffians, the
king llill found himfelf unable to fight them j as, with
this and fome other reinforcements, their army now
amounted to upwards of 90,000. He therefore re¬
called General Finck, whom he had fent into Saxony
with 9000 men ; but with all his reinforcements, it
was found impoffible to augment his army to 50,000
complete. His lituation, however, was now fo critical
3
Pruffiansde-
feated at
Zulichau.
5°
The Ruf¬
fians take
Frankfort
■ on the
Oder.
5r
480 ]
that a battle was unavoidable^ and therefore, on the
12th of Augult, with this inferiority of number, the
king attacked his enemies ftrongly intrenched, and de¬
fended by a prodigious number of cannon. In this ac¬
tion, his principal effort was againft the left wing of the
Ruflian army. He began the attack, according to cu-
ftom, with a heavy cannonade \ which having produced
the defired effeft, he attacked that wing with feveral .. -
battalions difpofed in columns. The Ruffian intrench- p/uj.^
ments were forced with great {laughter, and 72 piecesfeated by*
of cannon w-ere taken. But Hill there was a defile totheRuf.
be paffed, and feveral redoubts which covered the village,ians at
of Cunnerfdorf to be maftered. Thefe were attacked j„rfner*"
with the fame refolution, and taken one after another.
The enemy made another {land at the village, and en¬
deavoured to preferve their ground there by pufhing
forward feveral battalions of horfe and foot: but this
alfo proved unfuccefsful; they were driven from pcfl
to poll quite to the lafi: redoubts. For upwards of fix
hours the Pruffians were fuccefsful, and everywhere
broke the enemy with prodigious {laughter 5 drove
them from almoft all the ground they had occupied be¬
fore the battle, took more than half their artillery, and
fcarce any thing feemed Wanting to make the vidtPry
complete. In theie circumifances, the king wrote the
following billet to the queen : “ Madam, we have
beat the Ruffians from their intrenchments. In two
hours expedl to hear of a glorious viclory.” Of this vic¬
tory, however, he deprived himfelf, by an exceffive
eagernefs for conqueft. The enemy, defeated almoft
in every quarter, found their left wing, {battered as it
was, to be more entire than any other part of their
army. Count Soltikoff, the Ruffian general, therefore
affembled the remains of his right wing, and, gathering
as many as he could from his centre, reinforced the left,
and made a Hand at a redoubt which had been erefted
on an advantageous eminence in a place called the Jews
burywg-ground. All the king’s generals are faid to
have been of opinion, that he ought to allow the Ruf¬
fians the peaceable poffeffion of this poft. Their army
had already fuffered fo much, that it would have been
impoffible for them to have attempted any enterprife
of confequence after the battle ; but their artillery was
ftill numerous, the poft very ftrong, and the Pruffian
troops greatly fatigued. Thefe reafons for a few mo¬
ments had fome weight with the king 5 but the natu¬
ral impetuofity of his temper getting the better of
his reafon, he led on his wearied troops again and
again ; till at laft, when their ftrength was in a man¬
ner totally exhaufted, they were attacked and utterly
routed by the Auftrian and Ruflian cavalry, the former
of which had hitherto remained quite inaflive, and were
therefore quite freffi, and irrefiftible by the enfeebled
Pruffians. The night, and the prudent ufe of fome
eminences, prevented the total deftrudion of the ar¬
my j however, their lofs amounted to 20,000 men kil¬
led and wounded. The king, when he found the vic¬
tory totally loft, fent another billet to the queen, ex-
preffed in the following manner : “ Remove from Berlin
with the royal family 5 let the archives be carried to
Potfdam ; the town may make conditions with the
enemy.”
Immediately after this defeat, the king fet himfelf
about repairing his Ioffes with the utmoft diligence. In
a few days every thing was again put in order in his
camp.
p R u [ 481 ] P R u
52
General
to the rYu-
ftrtans.
Pruffia. camp. He replaced his artillery from Berlin 5 recalled
-“"V—General Klieft with 5000 men from Pomerania 5 de¬
tached 6ooo from his own army to the defence of Saxo¬
ny ; and with the remainder put himfelf between the
Ruffians and Great Glogau, covering that city which
had been the, chief object of their defigns; and in ffiort,
notwithftanding their victory, obliged them to return to
Poland without accompliffiing any thing befides the car¬
nage at Cunnerfdorff.
The mifortunes of the Pruffian monarch, however,
were not at an end. Prince Henry, indeed, by a moft
extraordinary and well-conduced march, entered Sax¬
ony, which was now totally overrun by the armies of
the enemy. At the fame time, tlrong detachments ha¬
ving been fent into that country under generals Finck
and Wunfch, the whole was in a ffiort time recovered
except Drefden. Towards this place Marffial Daun
retired, and in all probability would foon have been
obliged to leave Saxony entirely. But the king’s im¬
patience could not be fatisfied without cutting off his
retreat, and forcing him to a battle ; for which purpofe
he fent General Finck with upwards of 12,000 men
according to the Pruffian account, but 20,000 accord¬
ing to the Aurtrians, to feize fome paffes through which
M. Daun could only take his route towards Bohemia.
This commiffion was executed with great exa&nefs;
Finck with but the Pruffian general, having probably advanced too
Prurthns ^ar in!:0 denies, and neglefled to preferve a com-
furrenders munication with the main army, gave his enemy an op¬
portunity of furrounding him, and at laft forcing him
and his whole army to furrender prifoners of war. This
difailer was foon after followed by another. General
Durceke was poled at the right of the Elbe, oppofite
to Meffen •, but on the approach of a large body of Au-
llrians, they prepared to retreat over the river into a
place where they hoped to be more fecure. But having
been obliged by an hard froft to withdraw their bridge
of boats, a thaw' fupervened, when they attempted to
lay a bridge of pontoons, fo that they were again obli¬
ged to have recourfe to their boats. In this fituation,
their rear-guard was attacked with great fury by the
Auftrians, and all the foldiers who compofed it killed or
taken. The lofs of the Pruffians on this occafion was
computed at 3000 men.
The year 1760 ffiovved the Pruffian monarch in a more
dangerous fituation than he had ever yet experienced.
Indeed his affairs now feemed to be altogether del'perate.
His Ioffes w'ere not to be meafured by the number of
the killed or prifoners, but by armies deftroyed or ta¬
ken. Forty generals had died or been killed in his fer-
vice fince the beginning of Oftober 1796, exclufive of
tbiofe who were wounded or taken prifoners. This of
itfelf would have been an irreparable lofs, had not the
very wars which deftrbyed thefe furniffied others equal¬
ly capable of filling their places. But another deficien¬
cy, which could not be remedied, ftill remained.—The
king had, by his indefatigable induftry and exertions,
fupplied all the deficiencies of men in his armies, but
they were not the fame men as before. The hardy ve¬
terans, with whom he had originally taken the field,
were now no more, and their places were fupplied by
others who had neither the fame experience nor difci-
pline ; fo that now he was obliged to fupply this defi¬
ciency by his own genius and heroifm.
But whatever abilities the Pruffian monarch might
VOL. XVII. Part II.
S3
Defperate
Pruffia.
poffefs, and though he undoubtedly exerted them to the Pruffia.
utmoft, it leemed only to be contending agaiult fate, v——•
and his enemies gained ftill greater and greater advan- 54
tages. General Laudohn, with whom none but the^111^311*
king himlelf feems to have been able to cope, by a fe-'^^ at
ries of artful movements, drew into a diladvamageous
fituation M. bouquet, one of the Pruffian generals,
with a ftrong body of forces. Perceiving it impoffible
for them to efcape, Laudohn then made a violent at¬
tack on their intrenchments in the dead of the night
of June 23d. The Pruffians made a gallant defence,
but at lait were all killed or taken prifoners except
about 300. Of the Pruffians were killed 4000, and
7000 taken prifoners ; 58 pieces of cannon, and a great
number of colours, were alfo loft. The vidory, how¬
ever, was dear bought j for the Auftrians loft above
12,000 men in killed and wounded j whom, however,
they could better fpare than the Pruffians, on account
of their numbers.—This adion was called the battle of
Landjhut. f ^
Baron Laudohn failed not to improve this vidory Glatz ta-
to the utmoft. Fie inftantly turned back from Land- ^en b>' tllC
ffiut, and fell upon the city of Glatz 5 which he took Au^"ans.
in a very ffiort time, with the garrifon wffio defended
it, confifting of 2000 men. In this place were found
101 pieces of brafs cannon, with immenfe quantities
of provifions and military ftores. From thence he
marched againft Brefiau, and immediately inverted it.
But, in the mean time, the king of Pruffia, whofe mo¬
tions had been all this time counteraded by M. Daun
in Saxony, marched with his ufual rapidity towards
Silefia. By this means he drew M. Daun out of Sax¬
ony ; and indeed the Auttrian general ufed fuch ex¬
pedition, that he gained two full days on the king.
This was no fooner known to his Pruffian majefty,
than he returned with the fame expedition that he ^
had advanced, and fat down before Drefden. OfRreffienbe-
this M. Daun foon received intelligence, and returned but
alfo. In the mean time, however, the buildings
the city were terribly (battered by the king’s cannon theming of
and bombs which continually played 011 it. His en- Pruffia.
deavours, however, proved ineffedlual to reduce it
before the arrival of M. Daun. The fiege had
been begun on the 13 th of July, and on the 19th
M. Daun appeared within a league of Drefden. The
Pruffians then redoubled their efforts. They had that
day received reinforcements of heavy cannon and mor¬
tars, with which they battered the place inceffantly.
The cathedral church, New Square, feveral principal
ftreets, and fome palaces, and the noble manufactory
of porcelain, were entirely deftroyed. The fiege was
continued till the 22d : but, on the night of the 21ft,
M. Daun had thrown 16 battalions into the city;
which rendered it impoffible for the king to continue
longer before it with any profpeCt of fuccefs. He
therefore raifed the fiege, and retired without moleita-
tion, though there were three confiderable armies of
the enemy in the neighbourhood. Breflau was fiercely
bombarded by Laudohn, but the approach of Prince
Henry obliged him to defift from his enterprife on the
5th of Auguft.
But, in the mean time, the fortune of the king feem¬
ed likely to be terminated by one fatal ftroke. Find¬
ing it impoffible for him to carry on a defenfive war,
he marched towards Silefia with fuch aftonilhing ra-
3 ? Pidity>
him.
P R U [48
■pruflia. pidity, that before the middle of Auguft he had ad
v“—'_v ' vanced 200 miles, leaving Marfhal Daun with his army
Thr \u- ^ar behind him. This expedition he undertook in
ft nan ge. order to engage General Laudohn before he could
j.erals join have time to effedl a junction with Daun and Lacy,
their forces another Auftrian general j which triple union feemed
^ to threaten him with unavoidable deftruftion at once.
This, however, he found it impoflible to prevent: and
the three armies, when joined, formed a moft tre¬
mendous line of encampments, extending no lefs than
30 Englifh miles; at the fame time that every one of
their polls was llrong, and the communication be¬
tween them eafy. The king was llrongly encamped
at Lignitz ; and for feveral days employed all his mi¬
litary Ikill in attempting to induce one of the bodies
to detach itfelf from the reft, or to attack them at
fome difadvantage ; but without effedl. At laft, the
Auftrian generals, having maturely weighed all circum-
ftances, refolved to attack the king’s camp itfelf,
ftrong as it was ; and Marfhal Daun, remembering the
advantage he had gained at Hochkirchen by an at¬
tack in the night-time, refolved to follow the fame
plan now7. The plan therefore was laid in the follow¬
ing manner. The whole army, as foon as it ftiould
begin to grow7 dark, was to march from their feveral
polls to fuch fituations as w7ere marked out for each
corps: they w7ere to ftrike their tents, but yet to keep
up the fires in their camps, and to have the drums
beat the tattoo as ufual, by which means they had
a probability of furprifing the enemy; or if not, they
judged it abfolutely impoflible for him to efcape them,
though he fliould be ever fo much on his guard. In
wdiat manner the king of Pruflia became acquainted
with this plan, is not known. His friends attributed
it to his own penetration and knowledge of the ftra-
tagems of w7ar; the Auftrians, to intelligence given
him by deferters. But, in whatever way he became ac¬
quainted with this defign, it is certain that he took
the moft eftedtual methods of preventing it. As the
Auftrian plan was to furround his camp, and this
could not be done without the divifion of their army
which he had fo long defired, he refolved to intercept
one of the parties ; and if that ftiould be difabled from
a&ing, he could then more eafily deal with the other
two. Therefore, in the very evening calculated for
the decifive attack on his camp, he quitted it with
the utmoft privacy, and took an advantageous poll
on the road through which General Laudohn was to
pafs. The nature of this poll was fuch, that at the
fame time that it Hopped the progrefs of Laudohn in
front, Daun w7ould lie under great difficulties if he
Ihould attempt his rear ; at the fame time that, for his
further fecurity, the kirig ftrengthened the rear wnth
feveral batteries. As foon as his army w7as drawm up,
he divided it; leaving his right on the ground where
it had been formed, to obferve Marffial Daun, and to
maintain that poll ; whilft with his left he turned in or¬
der to fall on the corps under General Laudohn. In
the mean time, that commander, ignorant of the fate
which was awaiting him, advanced with the utmoft ex¬
pedition tow ards the place which had been affigned him,
in order to fhare in the glory of deftroying the Pruf-
fian monarch; when, at three in the morning, on the
15th of Auguft, a thick fog which covered the ground,
fuddenly clearing up, difeovered, like the opening of
2 ] P R U
a great feene, the dreadful front of the Pruffian army Pruffia.
regularly embattled, and advantageoufly polled. Lau- v
dohn, though furprifed, made the bell difpolitions that He ^fcats
circumftances would admit of, and an obftinate engage- General
merit enfued ; in which, however, he w7as at laft obliged Laudofan,
to yield to the fuperior Ikill of his adverfary, wdth the an(l intimi-
lofs of 10,000 killed, wmunded, and prifoners, 82 P^eces
of cannon, and 23 pair of colours.
The vi&ory, though complete, gave but a partial re¬
lief to the king of Pruffia. The moft elfential fervice
it did wras the preventing of the Ruffians from joining
thofe enemies which he already had. Count Czerni-
chew had been advancing with 24,000 men, and had
even paffed the Oder; but was fo intimidated by this
news, that he inftantly repaffed that river on the fame
bridges wffiich he had lately built, even though M. Daun
fent him a ftrong body of troops in order to encourage
him to advance. Soon after this battle, the king join¬
ed his brother Prince Henry at New Marche; and
marched againft Daun, who had begun to form the
blockade of Schweidnitz, fell upon a corps under Gene¬
ral Beck, made twro battalions of Croats prifoners, and
difperfed the reft, wffiich obliged the enemy to abandon
the enterprife they had juft undertaken. About the
fame time, General Hulfen gained a confiderable advan¬
tage over the Imperial army in Saxony, with very trifling
lofs on his part, by wffiich he effeftually prevented them
from cutting off his communication with the city of Tor-
ga».
By thefe fucceffes the affairs of his Pruffian majefty
feemed to revive : but there w7as no end of his enemies.
The late manoeuvres had draw n him fo far into Silefia,
that his communication w7ith Brandenburg was almoft
wholly cut off. The Ruffian army, which after it had
repaffed the Oder began to move out of Silefia, fent
forward a powerful detachment under Count Czerni-
chew towards the marche of Brandenburg. A body
of 15,000 Auftrians, under the generals Lacy and
Brentano, and the whole united body of Auftrians and
Imperialifts wffiich a£led in Saxony, began their march
in concert writh the Ruffians, and propofed to unite at
the gates of Berlin. Thefe armies amounted to
40,000 men. To oppofe this formidable power, Ge¬
neral Hulfen called to his affiftance General Werner,
who had been fent with a body of troops into Pome¬
rania ; but, after being joined by him, their united for¬
ces w7ere found not to exceed 15,000 or 16,000 men.
To attempt a defence of the capital with this force would
have been little fliort of madnefs : and therefore thefe
commanders were obliged to leave Berlin to its fate ; Berliifta-
which indeed, confidering the barbarity of the Ruffians ken by the
and the animofity of the Auftrians, feemed to be a Auftrians
dreadful one. However, by the powerful mediationan<*Ru*"
of feveral foreign minifters, the town obtained terms ^anS"
wffiich w7ere not altogether intolerable; but the maga¬
zines, arfenals, and founderies wrere deftroyed, and an
immenfe quantity of military ftores feized, with a num¬
ber of cannon and other arms. The city w as firft obli¬
ged to pay 800,000 guilders, after wffiich a contribution
of 1,900,000 crowns was laid on : yet, notwithftanding
this, many violences w7ere committed, and the king’s
palace w7as plundered and the furniture abufed in a fcan-
dalous manner.
The combined armies ftaid in Berlin only four days ;
dreading the fevere vengeance of the king of Pruffia,
who
P R U [ 483 ] P R U
. Fru{ria‘ . tHey heard was advancing towards that place with along the Andrian front. The Pruflians were thrice led Pruffia.
&reat expedition. But fo great were the embarrafs- on to the attack ; but were every time repulfed and bro~  v '
Extreme ments which now attended that monarch, that it feem- ken with terrible daughter. The king at length com-
embarrafT- ed almoft beyond^ human power to retrieve his af- manded a freih body of cavalry to advance which at
tnent°f fairs. The Impenalifts, on their return from Berlin, firft compelled the Aultrians to retire; but*new rein-
e ing- having no army to oppofe them, made themfelves ma- forcements continually coming in, this cavalry was in
fters of Leipfic, Torgau, Meiffen, and Wirtemberg ; its turn obliged to fall back, and the Pruflians main-
in which laft. city they found the grand magazine of tained themfelves with extreme difficulty, until General
the Pruflians immenfely ftored with provifions, ammu- Ziethen, with the right wing, attacked5 the enemy in
nition, &c. M. Stainville alfo, with a detachment from the rear, repulfed them, and poffefled himfelf of fome
Broglio the French general’s army, laid the city and eminences which commanded the whole Auftrian ar-
duchy of Halberftadt under contribution. In Eaftern my. Encouraged by this fuccefs, the Pruffian infantrv
Pomerania, the Ruffians had befieged Colberg by fea once more advanced, maftered feveral of the enemy’s
and land. In the Weftern Pomerania, the Swedes intrenchments, and made way for a new attack of their
advanced with great celerity, hoping to fliare in the cavalry, which broke in with irreflftible fury on the
plunder of Berlin. In Silefia, the king no fooner Auftrians, and threw feveral bodies of them into irrepa-
began his march to the northward, than Laudohn ad- rable diforder. It was now about 9 o’clock, and of con-
vanced, and laid fiege to the important fortrefs of Co- fequence both armies were involved in thick darknefs;
fel; and, to complete this diurefs and embarraffment, yet the fire continued without intermiflion, and the bat-
the king himfelf was attended at every ftep by Count talions with a blind rage difcharged at one another
Daun with a fuperior army well prepared to take every without diftinguifliing friend from foe. M. Daun re¬
advantage. _ ^ ceived a dangerous wound in the thigh, and wTas car-
. . In this defperate fituation the king, being joined by ried from the field, which probably haftened the defeat
his generals Hulfen and Prince Eugene of Wirtemberg of his troops. The command then devolved on Count
with the corps under their command, advanced up the p’Donnel; who, finding the greateft part of his troops
Elbe, while M. Daun fell back to cover Leipfic and in diforder, the night advanced, and the enemy poffeffed
1 organ, but the latter, finding that the Pruflians direc- of fome eminences which commanded his camp, and
ted their march towards the Elbe, encamped within from which it was in vain to think of driving them, or-
reach of Torgau; one part of his army extending to dered a retreat, which was condu&ed with wonderful
the Elbe, by which he was covered on that fide, whilft order and exa&nefs; none were loft in pafling the brid-
on the other he was covered by hills and woods, fo that ges, and by far the greater part of their artillery was pre-
it was impoflible to choofe a more advantageous fitua- ferved. The lofs of the Pruflians was eftimated at
tion. The Prufllan army did not amount to 50,000 10,000 killed and wounded, and 3000 taken prifoners.
men, whilft that of the Auftrians exceeded 86,000 : That of the Auftrians in killed and wounded is not
yet fuch were the unfortunate circumftances of the king, known; but 8000 were taken prifoners, with 216 offi-
that he was obliged to fight under all thefe difadvanta- cers, among whom were four generals,
ges; and therefore he caufed his army to be informed, The confequence of the vi£tory of Torgau was, that A[j
that he was now to lead them to a moft defperate at- the king recovered all Saxony except Drefden; and in0ny except
tempt, that his affairs required it, and that he was de- the mean time General Werner having marched intoDrei'den
termined to conquer or die. His foldiers unanimoufly Pomerania, the Ruffians ^raifed the fiege of Colberg,recovere^*
6l declared that they would die with him. and retired into Poland,' without having effe&ed any
He defeats The 3d of November 1760 was the day on which thing further than wafting the open country. Werner
Count this important affair Was decided. The king divided then flew to the affiftance of Weftern Pomerania, where
.Oaun at }fts forces into three columns. General Hulfen was to he defeated a body of Swedes, and at laft drove them
°r^ai1' take poll: with one in a wood that lay on the left of totally out of the country. General Laudohn too ab-
the Auftrian army, and had orders not to move until he ruptly raifed the blockade of Cofel; and afterwards
found the reft of the Pruffians engaged. General Zie- abandoning Landflmt, he retired into the Auftrian Si-
then was to charge on the right; and the great attack lefia, leaving the Pruffian part entirely in quiet. M.
in front was to be conduced by the king in perfon. Daun placed one part of his army in Drefden, and the
His forces were difpofed in fuch a manner, that either other in fome ftrong polls which lie to the fouth and
his right or left muff: take the enemy in rear and clofe weft of it, by which he commanded the Elbe, and pre-
them in, fo as to difable them from undertaking any ferved his communication with Bohemia. The army of
thing againft the part where he intended to effetft his the empire retired into Franconia, and placed its head-
principal attack. On the other hand, M. Daun per- quarters at Bamberg.
'ceiving the king to be ferious in his defign of fighting, Though thefe fucceffes had, to appearance, retrieved
to prevent confufion, fent all his baggage over the the king’s affairs in fome meafure, yet his ftrength
Elbe, acrofs which he threw three bridges in cafe a re- feemed now to be wholly exhaufted ; and in the cam-
treat fhould be neceffary. At the fame time he caufed p?-ign of 1761, he made no fuch vigorous efforts as he
Torgau to be evacuated ; and then, extending his firft had formerly done. The Ruffians, dividing themfelves
line to a village called 'Zinne on the left, he ftretched it into two bodies, invaded Silefia and Pomerania. In
to another called CroJkvitZ on the right; fupporting the the former country they laid liege to Breflau, and in the
right of his fecond line upon the Elbe. In this difpofi- latter to Colberg. Tottleben alfo, who had command-
tion he was found, when, about two o’clock in the after- ed the Ruffian armies, was now removed on a fufpicion
noon, the king began his attack. He was received by that he had correfponded with the king of Pruffia, and
the fire of 200 pieces of cannon, which were difpofed General Romanzow put in his place; by which it was
3 E 2 exne<ffed
Pruilia.
63
Scliweid-
nitz and
Colberg re¬
taken.
64
Empref' of
Ruffia dies.
«5
Peace be¬
tween Ruf-
fia, Swe¬
den, and
Prnllia.
66
SncceiTes
of the king
of Pruffia.
P H U [ 484 ] P R U
expelled tliat the Ruffian operations would be more brilk
this year than foimeily.
The king continued ftrongly encamped near Schweid-
nitz ; where he was io clolely watched by generals Daun
and Laudohn, that he could attempt nothing. How¬
ever, he defeated the defigns of the Ruffians again!! Ere-
flau, by fending General Platen to dellroy their maga¬
zines j which he accompliffied with great fuccefs, at the
fame time cutting off a body ot 4000 of their troops.
But this only brought the more fure deffrudhion upon
Colberg ; to which place that body of Rnffians imme¬
diately inarched, cruelly wafting the country as they
went along. The king of Pruffia could do nothing but
fend detachments of fmall parties, which, though they
could not oppofe their enemies in the field, yet he ho¬
ped, by cutting off the convoys of the enemy, might
diflrefs them to fuch a degree as to oblige them to
abandon the liege, or at leaf! protradl it till the feverity
of the winter ftiould render it impoffible for them to
carry on their operations. Thus he weakened his own
army fo much, that it was found requifite to draw
4000 men out of Schweidnitz in order to reinforce it }
and no fooner was this done, than General Laudohn
fuddenly attacked and took that fortrefs by a coup de
main. Colberg made a brave defence •, but the troops
fent to its relief being totally unable to cope with the
Ruffian army confifting of 50,000 men, it was obliged
to furrender on the 3d of December; and thus the
fate of the Pruffian monarch feemed to be decided, and
almoft every part of his dominions lay open to the inva¬
ders.
In the midft of thefe gloomy appearances the em-
prefs of Ruffia, the king’s moft inveterate and inflex¬
ible enemy, died on the 2d of January 1762. Her fuc-
ceffor, Peter III. inftead of being the king’s enemy,
was his moft fanguine friend. As early as the 23d of
February, in a memorial delivered to the minifters of
the allied courts, he declared, that, “ in order to the
eftablifhment of peace, he was ready to facrifice all the
conquefts made in this war hy the arms of Ruflia, in
hopes that the allied courts will on their parts equally
prefer the reftoration of peace and tranquillity, to the
advantages which they might expedl from the continu¬
ance of the war, but which they cannot obtain but by
a continuance of the effulion of human blood.”—This
addrefs was not fo well relifhed by the allies : however,
they were very willing to make peace, provided it was
for their own intereft; but they recommended to his
attention fidelity to treaties, which conftitutes a no lefs
valuable part of the royal charafter, than humanity and
difintereftednefs. This anfwer made no impreffion on
the czar; a fufpenfion of hoftilities took place on the
16th of March, which was followed by a treaty of alli¬
ance on the 5th of May. In this treaty the czar ftipu-
lated nothing in favour of his former confederates; on
the contrary, he agreed to join his troops to thofe of
the king of Pruffia, in order to a£I againft them. Swe¬
den, which had for a long time afted under the direc¬
tion of Ruffian counfels, now followed the example of
her miftrefs, and concluded a peace with Pruffia on the
22d of May.
It is not to be fuppofed that the king of Pruffia
would remain long inadlive after fuch an unexpefted
turn in his favour. His arms were now everywhere
attended with fuccefs. Prince Henry drove the Impe-
rialifts from fome important ports in Saxony, by which PruflTa..
he fecured all that part which the Pruffians peffeffed ; —v—
and though the Auftrians frequently attempted to re¬
cover theie pofts, they were conttantly repulfed with
great flaughter. The king was not joined by his new
allies till the latter end ot June ; after which he drove
M. Daun before him to the extremity of Silefia, leaving
the town of Schweidnitz entirely uncovered, and which
the king immediately prepared to inveft. In the mean
time, different detachments of Pruffians, fome on the
fide of Saxony, and others on that of Silefia, penetrated
deep into Bohemia, laid many parts of the country un¬
der contribution, and fpread an univerfal alarm. A con-
fiderable body of Ruffian irregulars alfo made au irrup¬
tion into Bohemia, where they pradlifed on the Auitri-
ans the fame cruellies which they had long been accuf-
tomed to praftife on the Pruffians. • ^
But w hile the king was thus making the bell ufe of A new re>-
his time, he w^as all at once threatened with a fatal re- volution in
verfe ot fortune by a new revolution in Ruffia. The^uhia'
emperor was depofed, and his depofition was foon after
followed by his death. The emprefs, who fucceeded
him, fufpefted that her hufband had been milled by the
counfels of his Pruffian majetty, againft whom, there¬
fore, (lie entertained a mortal enmity. She could not,
however, in the very beginning of her reign, undertake
again a war of fo much importance as that which had
been juft concluded. She therefore declared her inten¬
tion of obferving the peace concluded by the late em¬
peror ; but, at the fame time, of recalling her armies
from Silefia, Pruffia, and Pomerania ; which indeed the
unfettled flate of the kingdom now made in fome degree
neceffary. At the fame time a difeovery was made
with regard to the king of Pruffia himfelf, which turn¬
ed the fcale greatly in his favour. The Ruffian fenate,
flaming with relentment againft this monarch, and
againft their late unfortunate fovereign ; and the em¬
prefs, full of fulpicion that the conduit of the latter
might have been influenced by the councils of the for¬
mer, fearched eagerly amongft the papers of the late
emperor for an elucidation or proofs of this point.
They found indeed many letters from the Pruffian mo¬
narch, but in a ftrain abfolutely different from what
they had expeited. The king had, as far as prudence
would permit, kept a referve and diftance with regard
to the too rath advances of this unhappy ally ; and, in
particular, counfelled him to undertake nothing againft
the emprefs his confort. The hearing of theie letters
read is faid to have had fuch an effei! upon the emprefs,
that fire burft into tears, and expreffed her gratitude
towards the Pruffian monarch in the warmeft terms.
Still, howrever, the Ruffian army was ordered to feparate
from the Pruffians; but all the important places which
the former had taken during the whole war were faith¬
fully reftored.
The king, finding that the Ruffians rvere no more to
take an aftive part in his favour, refolved to profit by
their appearance in his camp ; and therefore, the very
day after the order for their retura had arrived, he at¬
tacked the Auftrian army, and drove their right wing
from fome eminences and villages where they were ad-
vantageoufly polled ; by which means he entirely cut
off their communication with Sclnveidnitz, fo that no¬
thing could be attempted for its relief. Prince Henry
kept them in continual alarms for Bohemia; and a
great
P R U
[ 485 ]
r r u
6S
Gpreral
Laud hn
utterly de¬
feated.
Pruflia. great part of their attention, and no fmall part of their
■““v- forces, were engaged on that fide. Marfhal Daun, now-
finding himfelf rendered almoft incapable of underta¬
king any thing, detached Geneaal Laudohn, with a
force very much fuperior, to attack the prince of Be-
vern, and drive him from the advantageous pott he oc¬
cupied. But the prince defended himlelf with lych re-
folution, that all the efforts of Laudohn could not fuc-
ceed before the king had time to come to his affdtance.
The Auftrians, being then put between two fires, were
routed and purfued with terrible daughter; after which,
the king met with no more difturbance in his prepara¬
tions for the fiege, and the trenches were opened on
the 18th of July. Marfhal Daun made no attempts
to relieve the place; but the garrifon being very llrong,
it held out for near two months from the opening of
the trenches. It is faid that the attack was conducted,
and the defence made, by two engineers who had writ¬
ten on the fubjeft of the attack and defence of forti¬
fied places ; and they were now praftically engaged to
prove the fuperiority of their fydems. At lalt, how¬
ever, the garrifon, to the number of 8000 men, furren-
dered prifoners of war ; and the whole body, except
nine, were foon after drowned at the mouth of the O-
der, on their paffage to their intended confinement in
Konigfberg.
The king of Pruftia, now become mafter of Schweid-
nitz, turned bis attention towards Saxony, where he
confiderably reinforced his brother’s army, and made
preparations for laying fiege to Drefden. In this coun¬
try the Auftrians had lately met with fome fuccefs, and
driven Prince Henry as far back as Freyberg ; but on
the 29th of Oftober, they w7ere attacked by the Pruf-
produees a fian army thus reinforced, and totally routed. Great
peace. numbers were ftain, and near 6000 taken prifoners.
This vidlory proved decifive : and the emprefs-queen,
finding herfelf deferted by all her allies, was glad to
conclude a treaty ; the fubftance of which was, that a
mutual reftitution and oblivion fhould take place, and
both parties fit down at the end of the war in the fame
fituation in which they began it. This treaty is called
the peace of Hubertjburg.
The war was no fooner concluded than the king of
Pruftia turned his attention to domeftic policy, and the
recovery of his dominions from thofe innumerable ca¬
lamities which had befallen them during the war. He
immediately diftributed lands to his difbanded foldiers,
and gave them the horfes of his artillery to •..flift them
in their cultivation. By his wife and prudent manage¬
ment, the horrors of war were foon forgotten ; and the
country w7as quickly in as flouriftiing a ftate as ever.
Notwithftanding this pacific difpofition, however, the
king never ftackencd his endeavours for the defence of
his country, by keeping a refpeflable army on foot;
which might be able to aft on the leaft emergency.
A new war In the year 1778, a new difference with the houfe of
Auftria took place, concerning the duchy of Bavaria,
ducts nothough the moft enormous warlike preparations
memorable were made on both fides, and immenfe armies brought
event. into the field, nothing of confequence w’as effefted.
What little advantage there was, feems to have been
on the Pruflian fide, fmee they made themfelves mafters
of feveral towns, and kept the war in the enemy’s coun¬
try. However, the emperor acted with fo much caution,
and fhowed fo much fkill in a defenfivc war, that all the
69 ,
The total
defeat of
the Auftri¬
ans at
Freyberg
commen¬
ces, but
manoeuvres of his Pruftian majefty could gain no mate- Praflla.
rial advantage ; as, on the other hand, his adverfary was
too w ife to venture an engagement. A peace therefore
was very foon concluded, and fince that time the hilxory
of Pruffia, during the remainder of the great Frederic’s
reign, affords no remarkable event which we have not
mentioned in the life of that hero, and in the article 7r
Poland. He left his crowm to his nephew7, wThofe The great
charafter w7as not then much developed ; and it w7as ea- Frederic
fily feen that a new kingdom, which had rifen hiddenly
to fuch unexampled powrer and greatnefs as to excite the ^ew.
jealoufy or apprehenfion of ail its neighbours, would
require great abilities to preferve it from difmember-
ment.
The late king had indeed bequeathed the moft effec- State of the
tual fecurities to his fuccelfor for the pi'efervation of nat‘on.> antl
his dominions, that human wifdom could provide or de-^^1”11^
vile ; by leaving him a full treafury, the fineit army in
the world, and a people enthuilallically attached to his
memory and government. The new monarch, with
thefe advantages, w7as not wanting to himfelf. The
late king’s predilefticn for the French language and
French literature were not grateful to his fubjefts.
The prefent fovereign began his raign with declaring
in council, “ Germans w7e are, and Germans I mean we
lhall continue;” giving direftions, at the fame time, that
their native language Ihould refume its natural rank and
ftation, from which for near half a century it had been
degraded by the French. This w7as a very popular
meafure, and it w7as followed by another ftill more fo.
Obferving that he had marked with great concern the
progrefs of impiety and profanenefs on the one hand,
and of enthufiafm on the other, he declared, that he
would not have his fuhjefts corrupted either by fanatics
or atheifts, and ftriftly prohibited all publications tend¬
ing to excite a contempt or indifference for religion.
Such, on his immediate acceflion to the throne, was
the pacific conduft of the monarch, which endeared
him to his fubjefts, and commanded the approbation - ^
of all good men. An opportunity foon occurred, in He aftifts
which he w7as thought to have difplayed fuch talents’he ^h-
in negotiation and in military arrangements, as proclaim-
ed him in every refpeft a w7orthy fucceflbr of his uncle. ft^s of e
The States of Holland, who had long been jealous of Holland,
the power of the ftadtholder, and inclined to a republi¬
can government without any permanent chief, had gain¬
ed fuch an afcendency in the ftates general, that in 1786
and 1787 they in effeft divefted the Prince of Orange
of all his prerogatives, (fee UNITED Provinces. They
proceeded even to the feizure and imprifonment of the
prinesfs, filler to the king of Pruffia ; and depending
upon fupport from France, treated with infolence every
power connefted with them in Europe. The ccurt of
Berlin did not witnefs thefe proceedings without indig¬
nation ; and the king formed his plan for reftoring the
power of the ftadtholder with fuch fecrecy and prudence,
that perhaps nothing could furpafs it but the bravery
and military Ikill of the duke of Brunfwick, by whom it
w7as carried into execution. In the fhort fpace of one
month, that accomplilhed general led 18,000 Pruflians
to Amfterdam, and reftored the juft prerogatives of the
prince of Orange.
The affairs of Pruffia during the early period of the
French revolution, and the aftive but unfuceefsful part
which that monarch took againft it, are interwoven with
the
P R tr r 4^ 1 P R u
Prv.iua. tKe liiftorical details of that period under the articles
-”-~y France and Britain, to which we refer our readers.
For a number of years he adted the prudent part of
Banding clear of hoftilities as much as poflible $ and
when he did at laft interfere^ we find little in his con¬
duit: which is intitled to the praife either of eonfiftency
or honour. Indeed it may perhaps be admitted, that on
many occafions he ailed rather from nOceflity than
choice 5 and finding that a conteft with France wras
both abfurd and ruinous, he ehofe to facrifice a lefs evil
to a greater good. Whether by confent or compulfion
is not certainly known, the king of Pruffia ceded to
France the duchies of Cleves and Berg, March i8o6j
which were to be governed by Prince Murat, the bro¬
ther-in-law of Bonaparte, under the title of Joachim,
duke of Cleves and Berg.
The king of Pruflya likewife took pofleflion of the*
Hanoverian Bates 30th Oilober 1806, at the time when
Great Britain had no reafon to apprehend any fucll
myflerious conduit from that quarter. He entered into
a fecret treaty with France for the purpofe of Bmtting
the northern ports; a meafure which gave fuch ofi'ence
to this country, that the Britifii miniBer thought proper
to take his leave of Berlin. At one period he came to a
final determination to make no feparate treaty wnth the
French government, and propofed a treaty of peace and
alliance between his court and that of Britain. To
give this as much effeit as poflible, the Pruflian princes
of the blood began to raife volunteer regiments in Po¬
land and Silefia, the loyalty of the peafantry in thefe
countries far exceeding the mofi fanguine expeilations.
So low, however, were the king of Pruflia’s finances
at the time of Lord Hutchinfon’s arrival at Memel,
March 1807, that his lordfliip found it neceffary to ad¬
vance 8o,oqo1. for the fupport of his family and domef-
tic houfehold. This being intimated to the Britifii mi-
niflers, his majefiy recommended it to parliament to en¬
able him to implement the agreement. Yet not long
after this period he adlually entered into a treaty of
peace with the emperor of France, by virtue of which
his territories were fo dreadfully mutilated, as to leave
him little more of a fovereign than the name. He was
required to renounce the whole of his dominions fituated
between the Rhine and the Elbe •, the circle of Rothus,
in Lower Lufatia •, all the provinces which formerly
conflituted part of the kingdom of Poland 5 the city of
.Dantzic ; and he was laid under the ..eceflity of (hut¬
ting all the ports and harbours in his whole dominions
againfi the trade and navigation of Great Britain. Not
above 18 months prior to this treaty, the king of Pruf¬
fia might have been faid to hold the fate of Europe in
his hands ; but by means of it he was reduced to the
very lowefi rank among the powers of Europe. Had
he taken a decided part againfi France before the battle
of Auflerlitz, he might have been able to fecure the inde¬
pendence of Europe ; but, having fuffered this aufpici-
ous moment to pafs unimproved, the confequences were
exactly fuch as might have been predi&ed, without any
pretenfions to uncommon fagacity.
The king of Pruflia being thus degraded by means of
his own imprudence and want of found policy, endea¬
voured to eafe the burdens of his remaining fubjedls by
reducing his civil and military efiablifhments. The
army was reduced to 24,000 men, and General Kno-
-bfcsdorf was fent to Paris to procure a diminution of the
1
contributions exa&ed from him, or to crave that pay- Prufila.
ments might be accepted of by inflalments 5 and, in the ——y-™*
mean time, the troops belonging to France were not to
be withdrawn from the impoverilhed kingdom of Pruf-
fia. Every decree iffued in Holland againfi the com¬
merce of Great Britain, this humbled monarch was obli¬
ged to adopt, and to order the publication of them in
every part of his mutilated dominions. This Bate of in-
fignificance may be expedted to continue as it is, till
fuch a revolution takes place in the fentiments of the
mofi powerful European monarchs as fliall induce them
to throw off the tyrannical yoke of Bonaparte, and op-
pofe to him a force which all his military ffrength fliall
not be able to refifi j and annihilate his power and in¬
fluence in Europe. The united farces of Ruflia, Pruf»
fia, and Aufiria, feconded by the operations of the tri¬
umphant navy of Great Britain, might find it poflible
to accomplifh this 5 and furely it is not only the caufe of
Europe, blit of humanity at large, and calls for the in¬
terference of every empire and kingdom capable of af¬
fording any effedtive aid.
The total lofs fuflained by the king of Pruflia in con-
fequence of the peace of Tilfit, has been efiimated at
10,coo fquare miles in extent, containing a population of
more than 4,000,000 a lofs which muff be very feri-
oufly felt, but which at one period, we believe, he had
it in his pOwTer to have prevented j and it is very uncer¬
tain if ever the time Brail arrive vrhen it will be In Iris
power to redeem it.
The air of Pruflia is wholefome, artd the foil fruitful Air, ioi!,
in grain 5 affording, befides, plenty of piteoal and other and popu«
fuel. The rivers and lakes are well ftored with fiflr j and latIoni °f
amber is found on its coaft towards the Baltic. The prin- ^>ru^a,
cipal rivers are the Vifiula, Bregel, Memel, the Paffarge,
and the Elbe; all of which frequently do damage by their
inundations.
The inhabitants of this country were, by Dr Bufching,
computed at 635,998 perfons capable of bearing arms j
and by another German author, at 450,000. Since the
year 1719 it is computed that about 34,000 colonifls
have removed hither from France, Switzerland, and Ger¬
many 5 of which number one half were Saltzburgers Thele
emigrants have built 400 fmall villages, 11 towns, 50 new
churches, and founded 1000 village-fchools. The man¬
ners of the people differ but little from thofe of the Ger¬
mans. The eflabliihed religions are thofe of Luther and
Calvin, but chiefly the former 5 though almoft all other
lefts are tslerated.
The late king of Pruflia, by the afliftance of an ex-Commerce
cellent police, brought the commerce and manufaftures antl manu-
of this country to a very flourilhing Bate, which during faftures>
his life were daily improving. The manufaftures of
Pruflia confifl: in glafs, iron-work, paper, gunpowder,
copper and brafs-mills, manufaftures of cloth, catnblet,
linen, filk, gold and filver lace, flockings, and other ar¬
ticles. The inhabitants export variety of naval Bores,
amber, lint-feed and hemp feed, oat-meal, fiflr, mead,
tallow, and caviar ; and it is faid that 500 Blips are
loaded with thofe commodities every year, chiefly from
Koningflrerg.
His Pruflian majefty is abfolute through all his do- Conftitu-
minions •, but the late king was too v/ife to opprefs histIon-
fubjefts, though he availed himfelf to the full of his
power. The government of this kingdom is by a re¬
gency of four chancellors of Bate, viz. 1. The great-ma-
fler 5
PRY [ ,
PrujHa fter 5 2. The great-burgrave j 3. The great-chancellor j
Prynne an<^> 4’ The great-marlhal. There are alfo feme other
councils, and 37 bailiwicks. The dates confift, 1. Of
counfellors of date ; 2. Of deputies from the nobility ;
and, 3. From the commons. Belides thefe inftitutions,
the late king ereiled a board for commerce and naviga-
yj tion.
Revenues. ^ His Pruflian majefty, by means of the happy fitua-
tion of his country, its inland navigation, and the ex¬
cellent regulations of his predeceflor, derives an amazing
revenue from this country, which, about a century and
a half ago, was the feat of boors and barbarifm. It is
faid, tl> t amber alone brings him in 26,000 dollars an¬
nually. His other revenues arife from his demefnes, his
duties of cudoms and tolls, and the fubfidies yearly
granted by the feveral dates •, but the exaft fum is not
known, though we may conclude that it is very confider-
78 able, from the immenfe charges of the late war.
Military The military regulations introduced by the late king
ftrength. Had a wonderfully quick operation in forming his troops
and recruiting his armies. Every regiment has a par¬
ticular didrift adigned it, where the young men proper
for bearing arms are regidered ; and when occafion of¬
fers, they join their regiment, and being incorporated
with veterans they foon become w^ell difeiplined troops.
The Prudian army, in the time of peace, confids of
l75,0°o of the bed difeiplined troops in the world ;
and during the lad war, that force was augmented to
300,000 men.
As the Prudian army formerly depended chiedy upon
the cantons of the different regiments for their recruit¬
ing, it mud differ in proportion with the lofs of territory
a diminution of at lead 80,000 men, and be thus redu¬
ced to 170,000, which was nearly its drength as far back
as the year 1772. We are informed that it is to be dill
farther reduced to 150,000 regular troops, the whole of
them to be natives of the country, one-third of whom are
to do duty for one year, fo that every man will have a
furlough of two.years in time of peace, and be in aftual
Service every third year. Beddes this regular army, a
militia is to be organized of 380,000 men, who are to
do garrifon duty in time of war, which will enable the
whole 150,000 regular troops to take the field againd
yg any enemy, when necefiity requires it.
Royal he royal arms of Prudia are argent, an eagle dif¬
arms, &c. played fable, crowned or, for Prudia : azure, the Im¬
perial feeptre, or, for Courland : argent, an eagle dif-
played, gules, with femicircular wreaths, for the mar-
quifate of Brandenburg : to thefe are added the refpec-
tive arms of the feveral provinces fubjeft to the Prudian
crown.
There are two orders of knighthood ; the fird, that
of the Black Eagle, indituted by Frederic I. on the
day of his coronation at Koningfberg, with this motto,
Suum cuique. The fovereign is always grand-mader $
and the number of knights, exclufive of the royal fami¬
ly, is limited to 30. Next to this is the order of Me¬
rit, indituted by his late majedy ; the motto is, Pour le
merite.
PRUSSIAN blue. See Prussiate of iron, Che¬
mistry Index.
PRUSSIC acid. See Chemistry Index.
PRYNNE., William, an Englidi lawyer, much
didinguidied in the civil commotions under Charles I.
was born at Swainfwick in Somerfetdiire in 1 6qq. His
87 1 PSA
Hijlriomq/lix, written againd dage-plays in 1632, con- Prynne
taming fome redeftiens that offended the court, he was II
fentenced.by the dar-chamber to pay a fine of 5000I. praImana-
to dand in the pillory, to lofe his ears, and to perpe- Z^r‘
tual impriionment. During his confinement, he wTote
leveral more books ; particularly, in 1637, one entitled
News from Ipfivich, which refiefting*- feverely on the
bidiops, he was again fentenced by the dar-chamber to
another fine of 5000I. to lofe the remainder of his ears
in the pillory, to be branded on both cheeks with S. L.
for feditious libeller, and to be perpetually imprifoned
in Caernarvon cadle. Nothing but cutting off his hands
could have, prevented Prynne from writing : he wrote
dill 3 and in 1640, being fet at liberty by the houfe of
commons, he entered London in a kind of triumph,
was elefted into parliament for Newport in Cornwall’
and oppofed the bithops with great vigour, being the
chief manager of Archbithop Laud’s trial. In the long
parliament he was zealous in the Prefbyterian caufe 3
but when the Independents gained the afcendency, he
oppofed them warmly, and promoted an agreement
with the king. When the army garbled the houfe
and refufed him entrance, he became a bitter enemy to
them and their leader Cromwell, and attacked them with
his pen fo feverely, that he was again imprifoned : but
he pleaded the liberty of the fubjeft fo fuccefsfully,
that he was enlarged, to write more controverfial books!
Being redored to his feat after Cromwell’s death, with
the other deluded members, he adided in promoting
the redoration, and was appointed keeper of the Tower
records 3 a place excellently well calculated for him,
and where he was very ufeful by the colleftions he pub!
lidied from them. He prefented 40 volumes of his ■
works, in. folio and 4^0» to Lincoln’s-inn library, of
which fociety he was a member 5 and, dying in 1660
was buried under the chapel.
PR\' TANES, in Grecian antiquity, were the pre-
fidents of the fenate, whofe authority confided chiefly
in affembling the fenate 5 which, for the mod part, was
done once every day.
The fenate confided of 500, 50 fenators being elefted
out of each tribe : after which, lots were cad to de¬
termine in what order the fenators of each tribe diould
prefide 5. which they did by turns, and during their pre-
fidentdiip were called prytanes. However, all the 50
prytanes of the tribes did not govern at once, but one
at a time, viz. for feven days 3 and after 35 days, ano¬
ther tribe came into play, and prefided for other five
weeks ; and fo of the red.
PSALM, a divine fong or hymn; but chiefly appro¬
priated to the 150 Pfalms of David, a canonical book
of the Old Tedament.
Mod of the pfalms have a particular title, fignifying
either the name of the author, the perfon who was to
fet it to mufic or fing it, the indrument that was to be
ufed, or the fubjeft and occafion of it. Some have ima¬
gined that David was the foie author of the Book of
Pfalms 3 but the titles of many of them prove the con¬
trary, as pfalm xix. which appears to have been written
by Mofes. Many of the pfalms are inferibed with the
names Koroh^ Ieduthun^ &c. from the perlons who were
to fing them.
PSALMANAZAR, George, the fiftitious name
of a . pretended Formofan, a perfon of learning and in¬
genuity. He was born in France, and educated in a
free-
PSA , I
Pfalmana- free fchool, and afterwards in a college of Jefuits, in
zar- an archiepifcopal city, the name of which, as likewife
thofe of his birth-place, and of his parents, are unknown.
Upon leaving the college, he was recommended as a
tutor to a young gentleman •, but foon fell into a mean
rambling life, that involved him in difappointments and
misfortunes. His firft pretence was that of being a
fufferer for religion. He procured a certificate that he
was of Iriih extraftion, that he left that country for the
hike of the Catholic faith, and was going on a pilgri¬
mage to Rome. Being unable to purchafe a pilgrim’s
garb, and obferving one in a chapel, dedicated to a mi¬
raculous faint, which had been fet up as a monument
of gratitude by fome wanderipg pilgrim, he contrived
to take both the Half and cloak away j and, being thus
accoutred, begged his way in fluent Latin, accofting
only clergymen or perfons of figure 5 whom he found fo
generous and credulous, that, before he had gone 20
miles, he might eafily have faved money, and put him-
felf in a much better drefs : but as foon as he had got
what he thought was fufficient, he begged no more •,
but viewed every thing worth feeing, and then retired
to fome inn, where he fpent his money as freely as he
had obtained it. Having heard the Jefuits fpeak much
of China and Japan, he ftarted the wild fcheme, when
he was in Germany, of paffing for a native of the
ifland of Formofa ; and what he wanted in knowledge,
he fupplied by a pregnant invention. He formed a
new charadler and language on grammatical principles,
which, like other oriental languages, he wrote from
right to left with great readinefs j and planned a new
religion, and a divifion of the year into 20 months,
with other novelties, to credit his pretenfions. He was
now a Japanefe convert to Chriftianity, travelling for
inftruftion with an appearance more wretched than
even that of common beggars. He then entered as a
foldier in the Dutch fervice : but, ftill defirous of palling
'for a Japanefe, he altered his plan to that of being an
unconverted heathen ■, and at Sluys, Brigadier Lauder,
a Scots colonel, introduced him to the chaplain, who,
with the view of recommending himfelf to the bilhop of
London, refolved to carry him over to England. At
Rotterdam, fome perfons having put flirewd queftions
to him, that carried the air of doubt, he took one
more whimfical ftep, which wras to live upon raw flefh,
roots, and herbs •, which ftrange food he thought
would remove all fcruples. The bifliop of London pa¬
tronized him Tvith credulous humanity ; and Pfalma-
nazar found a large circle of friends, who extolled him
as a prodigy. Yet were there fome wdro entertained a
juft opinion of him, particularly the Drs Halley, Mead,
and Woodward •, but their endeavours to expofe him-as
a cheat only made others think the better of him, efpe-
cially as thofe gentlemen verf efteemed no great admi¬
rers of revelation. But in this inftance at leaft, eafinefs
of belief was no great evidence of penetration. He
wTas employed to tranflate the church-catechifm into
the Formofan language, which was examined, approved,
and laid up as a valuable MS ; and the author, after
writing his well-known Hi/lory of Formofa, wTas reward¬
ed and fent to Oxford to ftudy what he liked, wdiile
his patron? and opponents were learnedly difputing at
London on the merits of his w’ork. The learned
members of the univerfity were no better agreed in
their opinions than thofe at London j but at length
Pfatyrians.
4S8 ] PSA
the fceptics triumphed. Some abfurdities were difco- Pfalmar.a-
vered in his hiftory, of fuch a natuie as to difcredit
the whole narration, and faved him the trouble of an
open declaration of his impofture •, which however he
owmed at length to his private friends. For the remain¬
der of his life, his learning and ingenuity enabled him to
procure a comfortable fupport by his pen ; he being con¬
cerned in feveral works of credit, particularly The Uni-
verfal Hijlory. Fie lived irreproachably for many years,
and died in 1763.
PSALMIST, in the church of Rome, one of the
leffer eccleiiaftical orders ; the fame with what among
us is called clerk, precentor, or finger.
PSALMODY, the art or act of linging pfakm. See
Psalm.
Pfalmody was always efteemed a confiderable part of
devotion, and ufually performed in the Handing pofture:
and as to the manner of pronunciation, the plain fdng
was lometimes ufed, being a gentle infledion of the voice,
not much different from reading, like the chant in ca¬
thedrals; at other times more artificial compofitions were
ufed, like our anthems.
As to the perfons concerned in finging, fometimes a
fingle perfon fung along •, lometimes the wThole affembly
joined together, wdiich was the moft ancient and general
pradice. At other times, the pfalms were fung alter¬
nately, the congregation dividing themfelves into twro
parts, and finging verfe about, in their turns. There
was alfo a fourth way of linging pretty common in the
fourth century, which w7as, w'hen a fingle perfon began
the verfe, and the people joined with him in the clofe :
this wras often ufed for variety, in the fame fervice with
alternate pfalmody.
The ufe of mufical inftruments in the finging of
pfalms, feem to be as ancient as pfalmody itfelfj the
firft pfalm we read of beifig fung to the timbrel, viz.
that of Mofes and Mitiam, after the deliverance of the
Ifraelies from Egypt •, and afterwards, mufical inftru¬
ments w7ere in conftant ufe in the temple of Jerufalem.
See Organ.
PSALTER, the fame with the book of pfalms. See
the article Psalm.
Among the religious in the Popifti countries, the
term pfalter is alfo given to a large chaplet or rofary,
confifting of 150 beads, according to the number of
■pfalms in the pfalter.
PSALTERY, a mufical inftrument, much in ufe
among the ancient Hebrews, who called it nebel.
We know little or nothing of the precife form of the
ancient pfaltery. That now in ufe is a flat inftniment,
in form of a trapezium or triangle truncated at top : it
is ft rung with 13 wire-chords, fet to unifon or odave,
and mounted on two bridges, on the two fidcs: it is
ftruck with a pledrum, or little iron rod, and fometimes
with a crooked flick. Its cheft or body refembles that
of a fpinnet.
PSAMMETICUS, or Psammitichus, a renown¬
ed conqueror, who fubduirg 1 r other petty kings of
Egypt, became the founder of the kingdom of Egypt,
about 670 B. C. He is memorable likewife for taking
the city of Azot, after a fiege of 29 years 5 and for
difeovering the fources of the river Nile. See Egypt,
N° 10.
PSATYRIANS, a fed of Arians, who, in the
council of Antioch, held in the year 360, maintained
that
P S E
Pfellus,
Pfeudo.
that the Son was not like the Father as to will; that
he was taken from nothing, or made of nothing ; and
that in God, generation was not to be diftinguilhed from
creation.
Enfield's PSELLUS, Michael, a learned Chriftian of the
pFvT °{ 11 th century> was> bX birth» a Conftantinopolitan of
philojophy. confular rank, and flouri{hed under the emperor Con-
ftantine Monomachus. His genius and induftry raifed
him far above the level of his cotemporaries j aud the
female hiftorian Anna Comnena fpeaks of him as one
who had been more indebted for his attainments to his
own excellent talent than to the inftrudlions of his pre¬
ceptors ; adding, that having, made himfelf mailer of all
the wifdom of the Greeks and the Chaldeans, he was
juftly efteemed the molt learned man of the age. Thus
furnilhed, he became the chief inltruftor of the Con¬
ftantinopolitan youth. He was at the fame time the
companion and the preceptor of the emperor, who was
fo captivated by the Itudies and amufements in wdiich
Pfellus engaged him, that, according to Zonaras, he ne¬
glected the concerns of the empire. The Byzantine
hiltorians complain, that the emperor, deluded by the
head of the philofophers (the title with which Pfellus
Was honoured), loll the world. Meeting, towards the
clofe of this life, with fomc difappointment, Pfellus re¬
tired into a monaltery, and foon afterwards died j the
time of his death is uncertain. His works, which have
been much celebrated, are, Commentaries upon Arilto-
tle’s Logic and Phyfics; a Compendium of Queltions
and Anfwers; and an Explanation of the Chaldean Ora¬
cles. The two latter works prove him to have been
converfant, not only with Grecian, but with Oriental,
philofophy.
PSEUDO, from ij/iiidof, a Greek term ufed in the
compolition of many words to denote falfe or Jpurious .* as
the pfeudo-acacia, or baltard acacia j pfeuoo-fumaria, or
baltard-fumitory 5 pfeudo-ruta, or baltard-rue, &c.
We alfo fay, a pfeudo-apoltle or falfe apoltle; a pfeudo-
prophet, or falfe prophet, &c.
PsEUDO-China. See Smilax.
PsEuno-Galena. or Black Jack. See Zinc, Ores of,
Mineralogy Index.
PSEUDO Tinea, in NaturalHi/lory, the name of a very
remarkable fpecies of infeCt defcribed by M. Reaumur,
approaching to the nature of the tinea, or clothes moth,
while in the worm-ltate, but not making themfelves
coats of the fubltance of leaves, cloth, &c. though they
form a fort of cafes for their defence againlt a very ter¬
rible enemy.
Thefe creatures are of the caterpillar kind, and have,
in the manner of many of thefe infeCts, 16 legs. They
feed on wax, and for food enter the bee-hives ; where
they boldly engage the bees, and are not to be prevent¬
ed by them from feeding, though at the expence of their
habitations and the cells of their refervoirs of honey:
fo that it is no uncommon thing for a fwarm of bees to
be forced to change their place of habitation, and make
new combs elfewhere 5 leaving the old ones to this con¬
temptible victor, whom they know not how to drive out
or difpoffefs.
Virgil and Ariftotle, and all the authors who have
written on bees, have complained of this deltruftive
animal. It never eats the honey, but feeds only on the
wax; attacking principally thofe waxy cells where the
female bee depofites her eggs for the future progeny.
Vol. XVII. Part II.
[ 489 1
P S E
The bees, who are a match for molt other creatures Pfeudo,
by means of their dings, would eafily deltroy thefe pfeiulony-
weak creatures, were it not for the impervious armour inus' ,
they were covered with. They form themfelves a coat V
of armour of a double matter. The firft, which imme¬
diately covers the body, is of a kind of filk of their own
fpmning; and the outer covering over this is of the
bees-wax : this is laid confiderably thick $ and the crea¬
ture, juft thrufting out its head to feed, goes on devour¬
ing the cells undiiturbed, while a whole army of the
inhabitants are in vain buzzing about him, and attempt¬
ing to pierce him with their ftings. He never forfakes
his covering, but lengthens and enlarges it as he goes ;
and gnawing down the Tides of the cells in his march,
without flaying to eat them one by one, the havock and
deftrudtion he occafions are fcarcely to be conceived.
When the time of the change of this creature approaches,
it contrafts its body within its double covering, and
there changes into the nymph date j whence, after a
proper time, it comes forth in form of a moth, with gra¬
nulated horns and a crooked probofcis.
The bees have cunning enough to know their de-
drudtive enemy in this new form ; and as this is a weak
and defencelefs date, they attack and deftroy all the
moths of this fpecies they meet with. They fel*
dom are fo fortunate, however, as to kill the whole
race as foon as produced j and if only one efcapes, it
is able to lay a foundation of revenge for the death of
its brethren. All the flies of the moth kind lay a vad
number of eggs, and this is behind hand with none of
them in that particular : the young ones produced from
the eggs of one furviving female of this fpecies are fuf-
ficient to dedroy many honey-combs; nay, many hives
of them. The moth produced by this caterpillar flies
but little j yet it is very nimble in avoiding danger, by
running, which it does with great ftviftnefs.
There is a fpecies of thefe pfeudo-tineoe, or wax-eating
caterpillars, which infed the fubterraneous hives of
wafps and other creatures which make wrax : the man¬
ner of living, feeding, and defending themfelves from
their enemies, is the fame in all the fpecies. Thefe lad,
if they are at any time didreffed for food, will eat their
own dung;, the wax having pafled almod unaltered
through their bodies, and being dill wax, and capable
of affording them more nouriftiment on a fecond digef-
tion. Thefe fpecies, though they naturally live on this
foft food, yet if by any accident they meet with harder
only, they know how to live upon it; and can eat a wray
into the covers and leaves of books, and make themfelves
cafes and coverings of the fragments of thefe fubdances.
The accurate author f of thefe obfervations defcribes al-, p
fo a kind oi fifeudo tmea which feeds on wool, and ano-
ther that eats leather ; both making themfelves houfes ry of In.
alfo of the materials they feed on. feels.
There is alfo another kind very deftruftive to corn:
thefe make themfelves a covering by fadening together
a great number or the grains, and there living and eat¬
ing in fecret. All thefe creatures, whatever be their
food or habitation, finally become phalence, or moths ;
and may be diflinguifhed, even in this date, from the
other fpecies, by having granulated horns of a remark¬
able drufture, and all of them a probofcis, or trunk,
more or lefs incurvated.
PSEUDONYMUS, among critics, an author who
publiihes a book under a falfe or feigned name; as cryp~
3 Q tonymu*
VST [ 49° ] P S Y
PfiJium tonymus is given to him who publithes one under a dif-
p-'lC g^hed name, and anonymous to him who publifhes with-
:iy' *' , out any name at all.
PSIDIUM, the GUAVA ; a genus of plants belonging
to the icofandria clafs, and in the natural method rank¬
ing under the 19th order, Ilefperidex. See Botany
Index.
A deception of the roots of guava is employed with
fuccefs in dyfenteries: a bath of a decodtion of the
leaves is laid to cure the itch and other cutaneous erup¬
tions. Guayava, or guava, is diftinguilhed from the colour
of the pulp into two fpecies, the white and the red •, and,
from the figure of the fruit, into the round, and the pear-
fafhioned or perfumed guava. The latter has a thicker
rind, and a more delicate talle than the other. The
fruit is about the bignefs of a large tennis-ball j the rind
or Ikin generally of a ruffet ftained with red. The pulp
within the thick rind is of an agreeable flavour, and inter-
Iperfed with a number of fmall white feeds. The rind,
when flevred, is eaten with milk, and preferred to any
other hewed fruit. From the fame part is made marma¬
lade ; and from the whole fruit is prepared the fineft jelly
in the world. The fruit is very aUringent* and nearly
of the fame quality with the pomegranate. The feeds
are fo hard as to refill the eftefts of the ftopiachs of
animals j fo that when voided with the excren «• nts, they
take root, germinate, and produce thriving trees. Whole
meadows in the Weft Indies are covered with guavas,
which have been propagated in this manner.
PSHTACUS, or Parrot, a genus of birds be¬
longing to the order of picte. See Ornithology
Index.
PSOAS, in Anatomy. See there, Table of the Muf-
cles.
PSOPHIA, a genus of birds belonging to the order
of Ga/linee. See ORNITHOLOGY Index.
PSORALEA, a genus of plants belonging to the
diadelphia clafs, and in the natural method ranking un¬
der the 32d order, Papilionaccce. See Botany Index.
PSYCHO! RIA, a genus of plants belonging to the
pentandria clafs, and in the natural method ranking un¬
der the 47th order, Stc/latee. See Botany Index.
PSYLLI, (Strabo, Ptolemy): a people in the fouth
of Cyrenaica, fo called from King Pfyllus, (Agathar-
gides, quoted by Pliny) : almoft all ovenvhelmed by
firnd driven by n fouth wind (Herodotus.) They had
fomething in their bodies fatal to ferpents, and their very
fmell proved a charm againft them, according to Pliny,
Lucan, &.c.
Though wre may juftly look upon it as fabulous,
that thefe people had any thing in their bodies diffe¬
rent from others •, it is, however, certain that there are
in Egypt at this day fome perfons who have a me¬
thod of handling the moft poifonous ferpents without
any hurt. Of thefe Mr Halfelquift gives the following
account:
“ They take the rnoft: poifonous vipers with their
bare hands, play with them, put them in their bo-
foms, and pfe a g;eat many mqre tricks with them,
as I have often feen. I have frequently feen them
handle thore that were three or four feet long, and of
the moft horrid fort. I inquired and examined whe¬
ther they had cut out the vipers poifonous teeth ; but
I have wish my own eyes feen they do not. We may
therefore conclude, that there are to this day Pfylli in
Egypt 5 but what art they ufe is not eafily known.
Some people are very fuperftitious, and the generality
believe this to be done by fome fupernatural art which
they obtain from invifible beings. I do not know whe¬
ther their power is to be aferibed to good or evil; but
I am perfuaded that tliofe who undertake it ufe many
fupcrftitions.
“ Tire art of fafeinating ferpents is a fecret amongft
the Egyptians. It is worthy the endeavours ofallnatu-
ralifts, and the attention of every traveller, to learn fome¬
thing deciiive as to this affair. How ancient this art
is among the Africans, may be concluded from the an¬
cient Marii and Pfylli, who were from Africa, and daily
fliowed proofs of it at Rome. It is very remarkable
that this fliould be kept a fecret for more than 2000
years, being known only to a few, when we have feen
how many other fecrels have within that time been re¬
vealed. The circumftances relating to the fafcinalion
of ferpents in Egypt, related to me, were principally,
1. That the art is only known to certain families, who
propagate it to their offspring. 2. 'The perfon who
knows hpw7 to fafeinate ferpents, never meddles with
other poifonous animals, fuch as feerpions, lizards,
&c. There are different perfons who know7 how to
fafeinate thefe animals j and they again never meddle
with ferpents. 3. Thofe that fafeinate ferpents, eat
them both raw and boiled, and even make broth of
them, which they eat very commonly amongft them j
but in particular, they eat fuch a diflr when they go
out to catch them. I have been told, that ferpents
fried or boiled are frequently eaten by the Arabians both
in Egypt and Arabia, though they know not how to
fafeinate them, but catch them either alive or dead.
4. After they have eaten their foup, they procure a blef-
fing from their fcheik (prieft or lawyer), who ufes fome
fuperftitious ceremonies, and amongft; others, fpits on
them feveral times with certain geftures. This man¬
ner of getting a blefling from the prieft: is pure fuperfti-
tion, and certainly cannot in the leaft help to fafeinate
ferpents ; but they believe, or will at leaft perfuade
others, that the power of fafeinating ferpents depends
upon this circumftance.,,
Noiwithftanding this teftlmony of Haflelquift, the
flory of the incantation of ferpents, though frequently
alluded to in Scripture, has been generally treated as
a fable. It is, however, affirmed as a certain truth,
both by Mr Bruce and M. Savary. “ There is no
doubt (fays the former of thefe travellers) of its reali¬
ty. The Scriptures are full of it. All that have been
in Egypt have feen as many different inftances as they
chofe. Some have doubted that it was a trick ; and
that the animals thus handled had been firft trained,
and then deprived of their power of hurting j and fond
of the difeovery, they have refted themielves upon it,
without experiment, in the face of all antiquity. But
I will not hefitate to aver, that I have feen at Cairo
(and this may be feen daily without any trouble or ex¬
pence), a man who came from the catacombs, where
the pits of the mummy birds are kept, who has taken a
ceraftes with his naked hand from a number of others
lying at the bottom of a tub, has put it upon his bare
bead, covered it with the common red cap he wears,
then taken it out, put it in his bread, and tied it about
his neck like a necklace \ after which it has been ap¬
plied to a hen, and bit it, which died in a few minutes j
P s Y [ 491 ] PTE
Pfylli. and, to complete the experiment, the man has taken it
by the neck, and beginning at his tail, has ate it as one
would do a carrot or ftoek of celery, without any feem-
ing repugnance.
“ We know from hiflory, that where any country has
been remarkably infelled with ferpents, there the people
have been fcreened by this fecret.
“ To leave ancient hiftory, I can myfelf vouch, that
all the black people in the kingdom of Sennaar, whe¬
ther Funge or Nuba, are perteblly armed againif the
bite of either fcorpion or viper. They take the cera-
ftes in their hands at all times, put them in their bofoms,
and throw them to one another as children do apples or
balls, without having irritated them by this ufage io
much as to bite. The Arabs have not this fecret na¬
turally, but from their infancy they acquire an exemp¬
tion from the mortal confequences attending the bite
of thefe animals, by chewing a Certain root, and walh-
ing themfelves ("it is not anointing) with an infulion of
certain plants in w'ater.”
From this account we fhould be apt to think, that
thefe vipers really would not bite any who were thus
armed againft their poifon 5 especially as he adds, that
he “ conftantly obferved, that the viper, however live¬
ly before, upon being feized by any of thefe barbarians,
feemed as if taken with licknefs and feeblenefs, frequent¬
ly (hut his eyes, and never turned his mouth towards the
arm of the perfon who held him.” Yet in another
place, fpeaking of the activity of the ceraftes, he fays,
44 I faw. one of them at Cairo, in the houfe of Julian
and Rofa, crawl up the fide of a box in which there
were many, and there lie ftill, as if hiding bimfelf, till
one of the people who brought them to us came near
him ; and though in a very difadvantageous poflure,
flicking as it were perpendicularly to the fide of the box,
he leaped near the diftance of three feet, and faftened
between the man’s forefinger and thumb, fo as to bring
the blood. The fellow (bowed no figns of either pain
or fear, and even kept him with us full four hours, with¬
out his applying any fort of remedy, or feeming inclined
to do fo.”
It is difficult to fee how thefe two accounts can be
reconciled. If thofe who catch vipers are in danger of
being bit by them after they arc catched, certainly they
muft be fo before, and then the whole relation becomes
contradictory. Our author tells us, that thefe feats
were performed for a feafon, by thofe who were artifi¬
cially armed againft the viper’s poifon, as well as thofe
who had the exemption naturally ; but though put in
poffeflion of the drugs, he never had the courage to
make the experiment. That he (hould have made fuch
a dreadful experiment on himfelf no perfon in his fenfes
would expeft ; but it is indeed very furprifing, that he
did not attempt by means of thefe medicines to arm
fome of the brute creatures, of the lives of which he was
fufficiently prodigal, againft the effefts of that deadly
poifon by which fo many of them periffied. As fur¬
prifing it is, that he did not try what effefl the root or
its decoflion would have upon the ferpents themfelves 5
or that, though he fays he had a fmall quantity of this
extraordinary root by him, he gave neither drawing nor
defeription of it.
Though it is impoffible to reconcile the particulars
of this account to one another, the general faft of the
incantation is confirmed by the teftimony of M. Savary.
This writer tells us, that he faw at the feaft of 3idi PTyllr
Ibrahim, a troop of people, feemingly poflefled, with II
naked arms and a fierce look, holding in their hands pte™scai*'
enormous ferpents, which twined round their body, and 1
endeavoured to eicape. Thefe Pfylli, grafping them
ftrongly by the neck, avoided the bite ; and notwith-
ftanding their hiding, tore them with their teeth, and
ate them alive, while the blood ftreamed from their
mouth.
PTARMIGAN. See Tetrad, Ornithology In¬
dex.
PTELEA, SHRUB-TREFOIL j a genus of plants be¬
longing to the tetrandria clafs ; and in the natural me¬
thod i-anking with thofe of which the order is doubtful.
See Botany Index.
PTERIS, a genus of plants belonging to the order
of filices, and to the cryptogamia clafs. See Botany
Index. The fruCifications are in lines under the mar¬
gin. There aie 19 (pecies 5 the moft remarkable is the
aquilina, or common female fern. The root of this is
vifeid, naufeous, and bitterifh ; and like all the reft of
the fern tribe, has a fait, mucilaginous tafte. It creeps
under the ground in fome rich foils to the depth of
five or fix feet, and is very difficult to be deftroyed.
Frequent mowing in pafture-grounds, plentiful dung¬
ing in arable lands, but, above all, pouring urine up¬
on it, are the moft approved methods of killing it. It
has, however, many good qualities to counterbalance
the few bad ones. Fern cut while green, and left to
rot upon the ground, is a good improver of land ; for
its affies, if burnt, will yield the double quantity of
fait that moft other vegetables will. Fern is alio an
excellent manure for potatoes 5 for if buried beneath
their roots, it never fails to produce a good crop.—
Its aftringency is fo great, that it is ufed in many places
abroad in dreffing and preparing kid and chamois lea¬
ther.—In feveral places in the north, the inhabitants
mow it green, and, burning it to aihes, make thofe
aihes up into balls, with a little water, which they dry
in the fun, and make ufe of them to wa(h their linen
with inftead of foap. In many of the Weftern Ifles the
people gain a very confiderable profit from the lale of
the allies to foap and glafs makers. In Glen Elg in
Invernefslhire, and other places, the people thatch their
houfes with the (talks of this fern, and fallen them down
with ropes made either of birk-bark or heath. Some¬
times they ufe the whole plant for the fame purpofe,
but that does not make fo durable a covering. Swine
are fond of the roots, efpecially if boiled in their walh.
In fome parts of Normandy we read that the poor have ■
been reduced to the miferable neceffity of mixing them
with their bread. And in Siberia, and fome other north¬
ern countries, the inhabitants brew them in their ale,
mixing one-third of the roots to two-thirds of malt.
The ancients ufed the root of this fern, and the whole
plant, in decoftions and diet-drinks, in chronic diforders
of all kinds, arifing from obftruftions of the vifeera and
the fpleen. Some of the moderns have given it a high
charafler in the fame intentions, but it is rarely ufed in
the prefent praflice. The country people, however,
ftill continue to retain fome of its ancient ufes ; for they
give the powder of it to deftroy worms, and look upon
a bed of the green plant as a fovereign cure for the ric¬
kets in children.
PTEROCARPUS, a genus of plants belonging to
3 Q. 2 the
P T O [ 492 ]
Pterocarpus the diadelphia clafs ; and in the natural method rank- Another,
PtoleLa-s ^n§unc^er32<i order, Papilionacece. See Botany In-
< dex. There are four fpecies, viz. i. Draco; 2. Ecajia-
phyllum ; 3. Lunatus ; and, 4. Santa/inus. This laft is
by fome referred to the genus Sant alum. It is called
red founders ; and the wood is brought from the Eaft
Indies, in large billets, of a compact texture, a dull red
almolt blackilh colour on the outfide, and a deep bright¬
er red within. This wood has no manifeft fmell, and
little or no talle. It has been commended as a mild
aftringent, and a corroborant of the nervous fyllem;
but thele are qualities that belong only to the yellow
fort.
The principal ufe of red faunders is as a colouring
drug ; with which intention it is employed in fome for¬
mulae, particularly in the tin&ura lavendulae compofta.
It communicates a deep red to reftified fpirit, but gives
no tinge to aqueous liquors 5 a fmall quantity of the relin,
extrafted by means of fpirit, tinges a large one of frefli
fpirit of an elegant blood-red. There is fcarcely any
oil, that of lavender excepted, to which it communi¬
cates its colour. Geoffrey and others take notice, that
the Brazil woods are fometimes fubftituted for red faun¬
ders ; and the college of Brulfels are in doubt whether
all that is fold among them for faunders be not really a
wood of that kind. According to the account which
they have given, their faunders is certainly the Brazil
wood 5 the diftinguilhing character of which is, that it
imparts its colour to water.
P PEROCOCEUS, is a fpecies of plant belonging to
the genus Calligonum. See Calligonum, Botany
Index.
P PERONIA, a genus of plants belonging to the
monodelphia clafs 5 and in the natural method ranking
under the 37^ order Columniferce. See Botany In-
> . dex.
PTINUS, a genus of infefts belonging to the order
of coleoptera. See Entomology Index.
PI IS AN, is properly barley decorticated, or de¬
prived of its hulls, by beating in a mortar, as was the
ancient practice ; though the cooling potion obtained
by boiling fuch barley in water, and afterwards fweet-
ening the liquor with liquorice-root, is what at prefent
goes by the name of ptifan ; and to render it laxative,
lome add a little fena or other ingredient of the fame in¬
tention.
PTOLEMAIC SijJlem of Afronomy, is that in¬
vented by Claudius Ptolemseus. See Ptolemy, Clau¬
dius.
PTOLEMAIS, in Ancient Geography ; the port of
Arlinoe, fituated on the weft branch of the Nile, which
concurs to form the ifland called Nomos Herac/eetes, to
to the fouth of the vertex of the Delta.
Ptolemais, (Strabo) ; the largeft and moft confi-
derable town of the Thebais, or Higher Egypt, and in
nothing fhort of Memphis •, governed in the manner of
a Greek republic } fituated on the weft fide of the Nile,
almoft oppofite to Coptos. This town, which was built
by Ptolemy Phiiadelphus, is now known by the name
of Ptolometa. The walls and gates are ftill entire, and
there are a vaft number of Greek infcriptions, but only
a few columns of the portico remain. There is like-
wife an Ionic temple, done in the moft ancient manner
of executing that order, of which Mr Bruce took a
drawing, which is preferved in the king’s colicdion.
PUB
Publican.
, of Cyrenaica, anciently called Barce. A Ptolemais
third of the Troglodytica, furnamed Epitheras, from
the chace of wild beafts, as elephants 5 lying in the
fame parallel with Meroe (Strabo) j on the Arabian
gulf (Pliny) ; 4820 ftadia to the fouth of Berenice. A
fourth, of Galilee, anciently called Aca, or Aeon ; made
a Roman colony under the emperor Claudius (Pliny).
A fifth of Pamphyliaj fituated near the river Melas, on
the borders of Cilicia Afpera.
PTOLEMY Soter, or Lagus, king of Egypt, a
renowned warrior, and an excellent prince : he eltablifti-
ed an academy at Alexandria, and was himfelf a man
of letters. Died 284 B. C. aged 92.
Ptolemy Phiiadelphus^ his fecond fon, fucceeded
him to the exclufion of Ptolemy Ceraunus. He was re¬
nowned as a conqueror, but more revered for his great
virtues and political abilities. He eftabliflaed and aug¬
mented the famous Alexandrian library, which had been
begun by his father. He greatly increafed the com¬
merce of Egypt, and granted confiderable privileges to
the Jews, from whom he obtained a copy of the Old
Teftament, which he caufed to be tranflated into Greek,
and depofited in his library. This is fuppofed to have
been the verfion called the Septuagint. He died 246
years B. C. aged 64.
Ptolemy Ceraunus, the elder brother, fled to Se-
leucus king of Macedon, who received him hofpitably j
in return for which he aflaffinated him, and ufurped his
crown. He then invited Arfinoe, who was his widow
and his own After, to lhare the government with him j
but as foon as he got her in his power, he murdered her
and her children. He was at length defeated, killed,
and torn limb from limb by the Gauls, 279 B. C.
Ptolemy, Claudius, a celebrated mathematician and
aftrologer, was born at Pelufium, and furnamed by the
Greeks Mof Divine and Mof Wife. He flouriftied at
Alexandria in the fecond century, under the reigns of
Adrian and Marcus Aurelius, about the 138th year be¬
fore the Chriftian era. There are ftill extant his Geo¬
graphy, and feveral learned works on aftronomy. The
principal of which are, 1. The Almageft ; 2. De Judi-
ciis Afrologicis ; 3. Planifphcerium. His fyftem of the
world was for many years adopted by the philofophers
and aftronomers 5 but tire learned have rejefted it for
the fyftem of Copernicus. See Astronomy, n° 16.
PTYALISM, in Medicine, a falivation, or frequent
and copious difeharge of faliva. The word is Greek,
formed from tctou “ to fpit.”
PUBERTY, denotes the age at which a perfon is
capable of procreating or begetting children. See
Man.
Puberty, in Lave, is fixed at the age of 12 in
females, and 14 in males ; after which they are reck¬
oned to be fit for marriage. But as to crimes and
puniftiments, the age of puberty is fixed at 14 in both
fexes.
PUBES, in Anatomy, denotes the middle part of the
hypogaftric region in men or women, lying between the
two inguina or groins.
Seciion af the Pubes. See Midwifery and Si~
GAVLTJAN Operation.
Pubes, in Botany, the hair or down on the leaves of
fome plants. See Hair.
PUBLICAN, among the Romans, one who farmed
the taxes and public revenues.
PUBLICATION,
P U F
C 493 1
PUG
PufFendorf.
Publication PUBLICATION, the art of making a thing known
to the world ; the fame with promulgation.
PUBLIUS Syrus, a Syrian mimic poet, who flou-
rifhed about 44 years before Chrilt. He was original¬
ly a Have fold to a Roman patrician, called DGmitius,
who brought him up with great attention, and gave
him his freedom when of age. He gained the elteem of
the molt powerful men at Rome, and reckoned Julius
Csefar among his patrons. He foon eclipfed the poet
Laberius, whofe burlefque compofitions were in general
efteem. There remains of Publius a colleftion of mo¬
ral fentences, written in iambics, and placed in alphabe¬
tical order.
Oak PUCERON, a name given by naturalifts to a
very remarkable fpecies of animal of the puceron kind.
They bury themfelves in the clefts of the oak and fome
other trees, and getting into the crevices, where the bark
is a little Separated from the wood, they there live at
eafe, and feed to their fill, wdthout being expofed to their
common enemies. They are larger than the other pu-
cerons, the winged ones being nearly as large as a com¬
mon houfe fly •, and thofe without wings are alfo larger
than any other fpecies of the fame genus. The wing¬
ed ones are black, and the others of a coffee colour.
Their trunk is twice the length of their bodies, and,
when walking, it is carried ftraight along the belly, trail¬
ing behind it with the point up. When the creature
has a mind to fuck a part of the tree that is juft before
it, it draws up and fliortens the trunk, till it brings it
to a proper length and d’re£Hon ; but when it fucks in
the common way, it crawls upon the inner furface of the
bark, and the turned up end of the trunk, which re-
fembles a tail, fixes itfelf againft the wood that is be¬
hind it, or contiguous to its back, and fucks there. The
extremity of this trunk holds fo faft by the wood, that
when it is pulled away, it frequently brings a fmall piece
of the wood away with it.
The ants are as fond of thefe as of the other fpecies
of pucerons, and that for the fame reafon, not feeding
upon them, but on their dung, which is a liquid mat¬
ter of a fweet tafte, and is the natural juice of the tree,
very little altered. Thefe creatures are the fureft guides
where to find this fpecies of puceron ; for if we at any
time fee a number of thefe crawling up an oak to a cer¬
tain part, and there creeping into the clefts of the bark,
we may be aflured that in that place there are quanti¬
ties of thefe oak pucerons. The ants are fo extremely
fond of the juices of the tree, when prepared for them
by pafling through the body of this animal, that when
the puceron has a drop not yet evacuated, but hanging
only in part out at the paffage, an ant will often feize
on it there.
Pucerons, Vine fretters, or Plant lice. See Aphis.
PUDENDA, the parts of generation in both fexes.
See Anatomy, n° 107 and 108.
PUERILITY, in difcourfe, is defined by Longinus
to be a thought which, by being too far fetched, be¬
comes flat and infipid. Puerility, he adds, is the com¬
mon fault of thofe who affedt to fay nothing but what is
brilliant and extraordinary.
PUFFENDORF, Samuel de, was bom in 1631
at Fleh, a little village in Mifnia, a province in Upper
Saxony ■, and was fon of Elias Puffendorf, minifter of
that place. After having made great progrefs in the
fciences at Leipfic, he turned his thoughts to the ftudy
Puget.
 T—
of the public law, which in Germany confifts of the Puffendorf
knowledge of the rights of the empire over the princes
and ftates of which it is compofed, and thofe of the ,,
princes and ftates with refpsdt to each other. But
though he ufed his utmoft efforts to diftinguifh himfelf, he
defpifed thofe pompous titles which are fo much fought
for at univerfities, and never would take the degree of
dodtor. He accepted the place of governor to the fon
of M. Coyet, a Swedifti nobleman, who was then am-
baffador from Sweden to the court of Denmark. For
this purpofe he went to Copenhagen, but continued not
long at eafe there ; for the war being renewed fome
time after between Denmark and Sweden, he was feiz-
ed with the whole family of the ambaffador. During his
confinement, which lafted eight months, as he had no
books, and was allowed to fee no perfon, he amufed
himfelf by meditating on what he read in Grotius’s trea-
tife De Jure Belli et Pads, and the political writings of
Mr Hobbes. Out of thefe he drew up a ftiort fyltem,
to which he added fome thoughts of his own, and pub-
lifhed it at the Hague in 1660, under the title of E/e-
menta Jurifprudentice Univerfalis. This recommended
him to the eledtor Palatine, who invited him to the uni-
verfity of Heidelberg, where he founded in his favour a
prefefforftiip of the law of nature and nations, which was
the firft of that kind eftablifhed in Germany. Puffen¬
dorf remained at Heidelberg till 1673, when Charles
XL of Sweden gave him an invitation to be profeffor of
the law of nature and nations at Lunden ; which place
the eledtor Palatine reludtantly allowed him to accept.
He went thither the fame year; and after that time his
reputation greatly increafed. Some years after, the king
of Sweden fent for him to Stockholm, and made him
his hiftoriographer, and one of his counfellors. In 1688,
the eledtor of Brandenburg obtained the confent of his
Swedifti majefty, that he (hould come to Berlin, in or¬
der to write the hiftory of the eledtor William the
Great; and in 1694 mac^e a baron. But he died
that fame year of an inflammation in his feet, occafion-
ed by cutting his nails ; having attained his grand cli-
madteric. Of his works, which are numerous, the fol¬
lowing are the principal: 1. A Treatife on the Law of
Nature and Nations, written in German ; of which
there is an Englifti tranflation with Barbeyrac’s Notes..
2. An Introdudtion to the Hiftory of the Principal
States which at prefent fubfift in Europe ; written in
German ; which has been alfo tranflated into Englifti.
3. The Hiftory of Sweden, from Guftavus Adolphus’s*
expedition into Germany to the abdication of Queen
Chriftina. 4. The Hiftory of Charles Guftavus, two
volumes folio, &c.
PUFFIN. See Alca, Ornithology Index.
PUGET, Peter Paul, one of the greateft painters
and fculptors France ever produced, though but little
noticed by their own writers, was born at Marfeilles*
in 1623. In his youth he was the difciple of Roman,
an able fculptor ; and then went to Italy, where he
ftudied painting and architedlure. In painting he fo
well imitated the manner of Peter de Cortona, that this
painter defired to fee him, and entered into a friend-
ftiip with him. In 1657, a dangerous diforder obliged
him to renounce the peneil, and devote himfelf to fculp-
ture ; and his reputation caufing him to be invited to
Paris, he enjoyed a penfion of 1 200 crowns, as fculp¬
tor and dire6lor of the works relating to veffels and
galleyai
PUL
galleys. He died at Marfeilles in 1695, and has left a
number of admirable ftatues behind him both in France
and Italy.
PUGIL, in Phyjic, &c. fuch a quantity of flowers,
feeds, or the like, as may be taken up between the thumb
and two fore-fingers. It is reckoned the eighth part of
the manipulus or handful.
PULEGIUM, ox Pennt-Roijo/. See Mentha, Bo¬
tany Index.
PULEX, the Flea, in Zoology, a genus of infedls
belonging to the order of aptera. See Entomology
Index.
By keeping fleas in a glafs tube corked up at both
ends, but lb as to admit frefh air, their actions and man¬
ners may be obferved. They are thus feen to lay their
eggs, not all at once, but ten or twelve in a day, for fe-
veral days fucceflively ; which eggs will be afterwards
found to hatch fucceffively in the fame order. The flea
may eafily be differed in a drop of water ; and by this
fneans the ftornach and bowels, with their periftaltic mo¬
tion, may be difcovered very plainly, as alfo their teftes
and penis, with the veins and arteries, though minute
beyond all conception. Mr Leuwenhoek affirms alfo,
that he has feen innumerable animalcules, fhaped like
ferpents, in the femen mafculinum of a flea. This blood-
thirfly infedl, which fattens at the expence of the human
fpecics, prefers the more delicate Ikin of women ; but
Barbut's Pre^s rie^t^er uPon epileptic perfons, nor upon the dead
Ge’ji^ra *0/ or dyiHg- It loves to neftle in the fur of dogs, cats, and
Infetts, rats. The nefts of river-fwallows are fometimes plenti-
P' 330, 5c fully ftored with them.
Fleas are apterous ; walk but little, but leap to a
height equal to 200 times that of their own body.
This amazing motion is performed by means of the ela-
fticity of their feet, the articulations of which are fo
many fprings. Thus it eludes, with furprifing agility,
the purfuit of the perfon on whom it riots. Among the
memorabilia of fleas, one, they fay, has been feen to
draw a fmall filver piece of ordnance to which it -was
fattened, the firing of the gun nowife daunting its intre¬
pidity. The owner carried it about in a little box lin¬
ed with velvet, every now and then placing it on her
arm to let it feed ; but wdnter put an end to the being
of this martial flea. Another flea that became Have to
an Engliffiman, had, for its daily and eafy talk, to drag
its golden chain and padlock, of the weight of one
grain. A third flea ferved as a thrill-horfe to an Eng-
llfli artift, who had made an ivory coach and fix, that
carried a coachman and his dog between his legs, a po-
ftilion, twro footmen, and four infide riders. At Surat
fleas, bugs, and other voracious vermin, are in fo great
veneration, that they have an hofpital endowed,, where
every night a poor fellow, for hire, fuffers himfelf to be
preyed upon. He is fattened naked on a bed, when the
feaft begins at his expence. In Turkey there is a fimi-
lar foundation for decayed dogs ; an inftitution lefs ri¬
diculous than the other. Mercurial ointment, brim-
ftone, a fumigation with the leaves of pennyroyal, or
frefh-gathered leaves of that plant fewed up in a bag,
and laid in the bed, are remedies pointed out as deftruc-
tive of fleas.
PULEX Arboreus, in Natural Hiftory, the name given
by Mr Reaumur to a very large genus of fmall animals.
They are a kind of half-winged creatures : they have
granulated antennae ; and fome of them, in their moil
r 494 1
P U L
perfect ttate, have complete wings. Thefe are dittin-
guithed from the others by the name of tnufca-pulex or
the wingedpulex. See Coccus, Entomology Index. .
PULEX Aquations audiorum (monoculus pulex of Lin-
naeus) is a fpecies of the genus Monocugus ; which fee,
under Entomology Index.
PULEX-Eaters, a name given by naturalifts to a fort
of worms frequently found on the leaves of trees, where
they devour the animals called pulices arborei.
Of thefe there are feveral fpecies, which owe their
origin to the eggs of different creatures ; for there are
none of them in their ultimate ftate in this their time
of feeding. According to the different animals whofe
eggs they are hatched from, thefe are of different form
and ftrubture. Some are hexapodes, or endued with fix
feet; thefe belong to the beetle-tribe, and finally change
into beetles like the parent animal from whofe eggs
they fprung. Others have no legs, and are produced
from the eggs of flies of various kinds. And, finally,
others are genuine caterpillars, though fmall; but thefe
are the moil rare of all.
The two general kinds are the hexapodes, or beetle-
worms ; and the apodes, or fly-worms. The fly which
gives origin to the latt of thefe is a four-winged one ;
and takes care always to depofit her eggs in a place
where there are plenty of the pulices, ufually on the
ttalk or young branches of a tree in the midft of large
families of them. The worm, as foon as hatched, finds
itfelf in the midft of abundance of food, preying at
pleafure on thefe animals, which are wholly defence-
lefs. The ftalks of the elder and woodbine are fre¬
quently found covered over with thefe pulices 5 and
among them there may ufually be found one or more
of thefe deftroyers feeding at will, fucking in the juices
from their bodies, and then throwing away the dry
fldns. Befides the worms of this four-winged fly, there
is one of a two-winged wafp-fly, very deftruttive of thele
animals.
PULLEY, in Mechanics, one of the five mechanical
powers. See Mechanics.
PULMO, the Lungs, in Anatomy. See Anato¬
my Index. —
PULMONARIA, Lungwort, a genus of plants
belonging to the pentandria clafs, and in the natural
method ranking under the 41ft order, Afperifolicc. See
Botany Index.
PULO, the name of feveral Afiatic iflands, in the
Indian ocean, the principal of which only, it is faid, is
inhabited. It is denominated
PuLO-Condore, ah ifland about 13 miles long and three
broad, which was vifited by Loid Macartney on his way
to China. It has convenient anchoring places during ei¬
ther monfoon. Here his lordflup’s fquadron came to
anchor on the 17th of May. The bay is formed by four
fmall iflands approaching fo near to each other, as to ex¬
hibit the appearance of meeting together in different
points. They all feem to be the rude fragments of pri¬
mitive mountains, vrhich have been detached from the
great continent in the lapfe of ages. Condore lies in
8° 40' North Lat. and 105° 55' E. Long.
The Englith at one period had a fettlement here, but
being driven from it by fome Malay foldiers in their
pay, probably for fome unjuftifiable treatment, no Euro¬
peans it is faid, have refided in it ever fince. When
a party went on thore from Lord Macgrtney’s fquadron.
they
Pulex
H
Puio.
—Y—
PUL
Pulo
.11
Pulpitum
they were welcomed by the natives with much urbanity
of manners, and conduced to the houfe of their chief.
^ 1 heir drefs confided chiefly of blue cotton garments
hanging loofely about them ; and their flat faces and no-
ies feemed to denote that they were defcended from the
Chinefe. miflionary being of the party, could not
underiiand their language as they fpoke it { but as foon
as committed to writing it was perfe&ly intelligible to
him. This led to the conclufion, that^ the inhabitants
of Pulo-Condore were originally Cochin Chinefe, who
fled from their own country in confequence of their at¬
tachment to one of its fovereigns who had been dethro¬
ned by a number of his own fubje£ls.
Here the fquadron was to purchafe provifions, and the
people promifed to have the propofed quantity in readi-
nefs, if poflible, at the appointed time. Next morning, a
party of pleafure went from the Hindoftan to a fmall
ifland near Pulo-Condore; but being apprehenfive of
an approaching ftorm, they made towards the fiiip with
all convenient fpeed. The weather again becoming fa¬
vourable, they let oft for the ifland again, and were
aftonilhed, on their arrival, to find it wholly abandoned.
In the principal cabin a letter was found, written in the
Chinefe language, exprefling their terror at the arrival
of fuch great (hips and powerful perfons 3 not being able
to fatisfy their demands as to cattle and other provi¬
fions, the poor inhabitants of Pulo-Condore having
fcarcely any to fupply, they therefore fled to preferve
their lives ; declared themfelves to be few in number,
and very poor, but honeft ; and concluded with re¬
queuing the great people to have pity on them, as
they had left their ail behind, and earneftly implored
them not to burn their cabins.
ihe generous Englilh left them an intimation that they
called merely for refrefliment on fair and equitable
terms, without harbouring againft them any evil de-
figns. They claimed a connection to a civilized nation,
actuated by principles of humanity, by which they were
prohibited from plundering or doing injury to others,
who might have the misfortune to be fewer or weaker
than themfelves. No doubt the poor terrified inhabi¬
tants would be agreeably furprifed to find, on their re¬
turn, not only that all their tents were in perfect fafety,
but that nothing was either difturbed or removed, and a
fmall prelent left to their chief in the principal dwelling.
-PUL0-Lingeti, another ifland of the clutter mentioned
above, is of fome extent, though inferior in fize to
Pulo Condore. It is chiefly remarkable for a mountain
in its centre, terminating in a fork like Parnaffus, but
denominated by mariners the ajfcs cars. The people of
Lord Macartney’s fquadron were conftantly difeovering
new iflands, many of which were clothed with verdure;
fome had lofty trees growing upon them ; others were
nothing but naked rocks, the refort of innumerable
birds, and whitened with their dung.
PULO PENANG. See PRINCE, of Wales's IJland.
PULP, in 'Pharmacy, the flefliy and fucculent parts
of fruits extra&ed by infufion or boiling, and pafied
through a fieve.
PULPI 1 , an elevated place in a church, whence
fermons are delivered. The French give the fame name
to a reading delk.
PULPI 1 UM, in the Grecian and Roman theatres,
was a place where the players performed their parts. It
was lower than the feena, and higher than the -orcheftra.
[ 495 1
PUL
It nearly anfwered to what we call the 11 age, as dillin- Pulpitum,
guilhed from the pit and galleries. Pulpitum was alfo Plllfe-
a moveable delk or pulpit, from which difputants pro- J’ v ' J
nounced tneir differtations, and authors recited their
works.
PULSE, in the animal economy, denotes the beat¬
ing or throbbing of the heart and arteries.
No doefrine has been involved in more difficulties
than that or pulles ; fince, in giving a phyfiological ac¬
count of them, phyficians have efpouled quite oppofite
fentiments; whilft fome doubt whether the pulfe is ow¬
ing to the fyftole or diaftole ; as alfo, whether the mo¬
tion of the heart and arteries is one and the fame, for a
moment of time.
With regard to motion, the pulfes are reckoned
only four ; great and little, quick and flow. When
quicknefs and greatnefs are joined together, it becomes
violent; and when it is little and flow it is called a weak
pulfe. They are alfo faid to be frequent and rare, equal
and unequal; but thefe are not the eflential affe&ions
of motion. Frequency and quicknefs are often con¬
founded with each other. A pulfe is faid to be hard
or fffii with regard to the artery, according as it is
tenie, renitent, and hard, or flaccid, foft, and lax : for
the difpolition of the arteries contributes greatly to the
change of the pulfe; wherefore it fometimes happens,
that the pulfe in both arms is not alike, which is very
common in a hemiplexy. Add to thefe a convulfive
pulfe, which does not proceed from the blood, bu-t
from the Hate of the artery ; and is known by a tre¬
mulous fubultory motion, and the artery feems to be
drawn upwards : this, in acute fevers, is the fign of
death ;. and is faid to be the pulfe in dying perfons,
which is like wife generally unequal and intermitting.
A great pulfe fhows a more copious afflux of the blood
to the heart, and from thence into the arteries : a little
pulfe the contrary.
The pulfes of perfons differ according to the large-
nefs of the heart and veffels, the quantity and tempe-
ries of the blood, the elaftic force of the canals; as al¬
fo with regard to the fex, age, feafon, air, motion, food,
fleep, watchings, and pafflons of the mind. The pulfe
is larger and more quick in men than in women ; in
the bilious and fanguineo-bilious, than in the phlegma¬
tic and melancholic. Thofe who are lean, with tenfe
fibres, and large vefiels, have a greater and a fLonger
pulfe, than thofe that are obefe, with lax fibres and
fmall vefiels ; whence they are more healthy, robuft,
ana apt for labour. In children, the pulfe is quick and
foft; in adults greater and more violent. In the old,
it is commonly great, hard, and flow. Labour, mo¬
tion, and exercife of the body, increafe the circulation*
of the blood, the excretions, and particularly refpira-
tion ; reft renders the circulation flow and weak ; in-
tenfe fpeaking increafes the circulation, and confequent-,
ly renders the pulfe large and quick. In watching, the
pulfe is more evident; in fleep, more flow and languid.
After drinking hot things, fuch as coffee and tea, or
hot bath-waters, as well as after meals, the pulfe vi¬
brates more quick. But nothing produces a greater
change in the pulfe than affeftions of the mind : in
terror, it is unequal, fmall, and contradled : in joy, fre¬
quent and great ; in anger, quick and hard ; in fadnefs,
flow, fmall, deep, and weak ; and in intenfe ftudy, lan¬
guid and weak. With regard to the air, when, after th<»
predominancy
PUL [ 496 ] P U M
Pulfe, predommancy of a weft or fouth wind, it becomes north
Pulteney. or ea^ ^he pulfe is ftronger and larger j as alfo when
the quickfilver rifes in the barometer. But when the
atmolphere is denfe, humid, rainy, with a long fouth
wind} as alfo where the life is fedentary, the deep
long, and the feafon autumnal, the pulfe is languid and
fmall, and the perfpiration decreafed. In May it is
great, and fometimes violent j in the middle of fummer,
quick but weak ; in the autumn, flow, foft, and weak j
in the winter, hard and great. A draftic purge and an
emetic render the pulfe hard, quick, and weak, with
lofs of ftrength *, chalybeates, and the bark, render it
great and robult, and the complexion lively j volatiles
amplify and increafe the pulfe $ acids and nitrous re¬
medies refrigerate the body, and appeafe the pulfe j
opiates and the like render it fmall and weak, and
decreafe the eiafticity of the folids •, and poifons render
it fmall, contrafted, and hard. When the quantity of
the blood is too great, bleeding raifes the pulfe.
Pulse, is alfo ufed for the ftroke with which any
medium is affefted by the motion of light, found, &c.
through it.
Sir Ifaac Newton demonftrates, that the velocities of
the pulfes in an elaftic fluid medium (whofe eiafticity is
proportionable to its denfity) are in a ratio compounded
of half the ratio of the elaftic force direftly, and half
the ratio of the denfity inverfely •, fo that in a medium
whofe eiafticity is equal to its denfity, all pulfes will be
-equally fwift.
Pulse, in Botany, a term applied to all thofe grains
or feeds w'hich are gathered wnth the hand j in contra-
■diftinftion to corn, &c. wThich are reaped, or mowed :
or, It is the feed of the leguminous kind of plants, as
beans, vetches, &c. j but is by fome ufed for artichokes,
afparagus, &c.
PULTENEY, William, the famous oppofer of Sir
Robert Walpole in parliament, and afterward earl of
Bath, wras defeended from one of the moft ancient fa¬
milies in the kingdom, and wTas born in 1682. Being
well qualified in fortune, he early procured a feat in the
houfe of commons, and diftinguiftied himfelf as a wTarm
partifan againft Queen Anne’s miniftry •, whofe errors
he had fagacity to deteft, and fpirited eloquence to ex-
pofe. When King George I. came to the throne, Mr
Pulteney was made fecretary at war, and foon after
cofferer to the king’s houfehold ; but the good under-
ftanding between this gentleman and Sir Robert Wal¬
pole, who then afred as prime minifter, was interrupted
in 1725, on a fufpicion that Walpole was defirous of
extending the limits of prerogative, and of promoting
the interefts of Hanover, to the prejudice of thofe of
Britain. His oppofition to Sir Robert was indeed car¬
ried to fuch ind’fcriminate lengths, that fome have been
of opinion he often afted againft meafures beneficial to
the public, merely from perional motives. It wrould be
impraflicable here to trace his parliamentary conduft :
fo it muft fuffice to obferve in general, that he became
fo obnoxious to the crown, that in 173 1 the king called
for the council-book, and with his own hand ftruck out
his name from the lift of privy-counfellors 5 a proceed¬
ing that only ferved to inflame his refentment and in- Puhenet
creafe his popularity. Thus he ftill continued to at- p I'
tack the minifter with a feverity of eloquence and far- ,
cafm that wmrfted every-antagonift j fo that Sir Robert
was heard to declare, he dreaded that man’s tongue
more than another man’s fword. At length, when
Walpole found the place of prime minifter no longer
tenable, and refigned in 1741, among other promotions
Mr Pulteney refumed his place in the privy-council, and
was created earl of Bath j a title purchafed at the ex¬
pence of that popularity which afterward he naturally
enough afFe&ed to contemn. In 1766, toward the clofe
of the war, he publiftied A Letter to two Great Men,
recommending proper articles to be infilled on in a treaty
of peace j which, though the writer was then unknown,
was greatly applauded, and went through feveral im-
preflions. He died in 1764 j and as his only fon died
before him, the title became extiu£l.
PULVERIZATION, the art of pulverizing, or
reducing a dry body into a fine powder 5 which is per¬
formed in friable bodies by pounding or beating them
into a mortar, &c. j but to pulverize malleable ones,
other methods muft be taken. To pulvelize lead, or
tin, the method is this : Rub a round wooden box all
over the infide with chalk •, pour a little of the melted
metal nimbly into the box ; when Ihutting the lid, and
lhaking the box brilkly, the metal will be reduced to
powder.
PUMEX, the Pumice-stone. See Mineralogy
Index.
Pumice-ftone is ufed in fome mechanical arts j as
for rubbing and fmoothing the furface of metals, wood,
pafteboard, and ftone; for which it is well fitted by
reafon of its harfh and brittle texture •, thus fcouring
and carrying off the little inequalities from the furfa-
ces juft mentioned.
PUMICE-stone. See Mineralogy Index.
PUMP, an hydraulic machine for raifing water by
means of the preffure of the atmofphere.
It would be an entertaining and not an uninftruc-of ^
tive piece of information to learn the progreflive fteps vention of
by which the ingenuity of man has invented the various pumps,
methods of raifing water. A pump muft be confidered
as the laft ftep of this progrefs. Common as it is, and
overlooked even by the curious, it is a very abftrufe and
refined invention. Nothing like it has been found in
any of the rude nations whom the reftlefs fpirit of the
Europeans has difeovered, either in the new continent
of America, or the iflands of the Pacific ocean. Nay,
it was unknown in the cultivated empire of China at
the time of our arrival there by fea j and it is ftill a ra¬
rity every where in Afia, in places unfrequented by the
Europeans. It does not appear to have been known to
the Greeks and Romans in early times ; and perhaps it
came from Alexandria, where phyfical and mathemati-
cal|fcience was much cultivated by the Greek fchool un¬
der the proteftion of the Ptolemies. The performances
of Ctefibius and Hero are fpoken of by Pliny and Vitru¬
vius as curious novelties (a). It is perhaps not difficult
to trace the fteps by which thofe mechanicians were led
to
(a) In the early Greek writings, it does not appear that the words avrAeo, uvr^ist, &c. were ufed to ex-
prefs any thing like what we call a pump. In all thefe palfages the wrords either exprefs generally the drawing of
4 water,
P U M
Plate
CCCOXLIX.
Fig. i.
2
Ctefibius’s
pump.
Pump, to tLe invention. The Egyptian wheel was a com-
^ men machine all over Afia, and is ilill in ufe in the re-
moteft corners, and was brought by the Saracens into
Spain, where it is Hill very common under its ancient
name NOR I A. The Danifli miffionaries found in a re¬
mote village in the kingdom of Siam the immediate off-
fpring of the noria (Lettres Edifiantes et Curieufes). It
was a wheel turned by an afs, and carrying round, not
a ft ring of earthen pots, but a ftring of wifps of hay,
which it drew through a wooden trunk. This rude
chain-pump was in frequent ufe for watering the rice
fields. It is highly probable that it is of great antiqui¬
ty, although we do not recolleft its being mentioned by
any of the Greek or Roman writers. The Arabs and
Indians were nothing lefs than innovators ; and we may
fuppofe with great fafety, that what arts we now find
among them they pofteffed in very remote periods.
Now the ftep from this to the pump is but ftiort, though
it is nice and refined \ and the forcing pump of Ctefibi-
us is the eafieft and moil natural.
Let AB (fig. i.) be the furface of the water in the
well, and D the height where it is to be delivered. Let
DC be a long wooden trunk, reaching as deep under
water as poffible. Let the rope EF be fitted with its
knot of hay F. When it is drawn up through the
trunk, it will bring up along with it all the water lying
between C and A, which will begin to run out by the
fpout D as foon as the knot gets to G, as far below D
as C is below A. All this is very obvious ; and it re¬
quired but little refleefion to be allured, that if F was
let down again, or puflied down, by a rod inftead of a
rope, it w'ould again perform the fame office. Here is
a very fimple pump. And if it was ever put in prac¬
tice, it behoved to Iho.w the fupporting pow’er of the at-
mofphere, becaufe the w^aier would not only be lifted
by the knot, but wrould even follow’ it. The imper-
feflion of this pump behoved to appear at firft fight,
and to fuggeft its remedy. By puffiing dowm the knot
F, which w’e ffiall henceforth call the pifton, all the
force expended in lifting up the water between A and
G is thrown away, becaufe it is again let dowm. A
valve G, at the bottom, would prevent this. But then
there muft be a paflage made for the water by a lateral
Fig a. tube KBD (fig. 2.). And if this be alfo fumilhed with
a valve H, to prevent its lofing the water, wre have the
pump of Ctefibius, as IketchAl in fig. 2. The valve is
the great refinement : but perhaps even this had made
its appearance before in the noria. For, in the more
perfefl kinds of thefe machines, the pots have a flop
or valve in their bottom, which hangs open wdiile the
pot defeends with its mouth downwards, and then allows
it to fill readily in the ciftern : wdiereas, without the
valve, it would occafion a double load to the wheel. If
we fiippofe that the valve had made its appearance fo
Vol. XVII. Part II.
[ 497 1
P U M
early, it is not improbable that the common pump Pump.
Iketched in fig. 3. was as old as that of Ctefibius. In this '~v 1
place jwe fliall firft give a Ihort deferiplion of the chief Fig. 5.
varieties of thefe engines, confidering them in their fim-
pleft form, and we ftiall explain in very general terms
their mode of operation. We ffiall then give a concile .
and popular theory of their operation, furnilhing princi¬
ples to direft us in their conftruftion; and we (hall con¬
clude with the defeription of a few peculiarities which
may contribute to their improvement or perfedlion.
_ There are but twm forts of pumps which eftentially
difter; and all the varieties that we fee are only modifi¬
cations of thefe. One of thefe original pumps has a fo~
lid pifton ; the other has a pifton with a perforation and
a valve. We ufually call the firft: a forcing pump, and
the fecond a lifting ©r sucking pump.
Fig. 2. is a Iketch of the forcing pump in its moft Forcing
fimple form and fituation. It confifts of a hollow cylin- PumP dc-
der AC ca, called the working Barrel, open at both
ends, and having a valve G at the bottom, opening up- Z‘
w'ards. This cylinder is filled by a folid pifton EF, co¬
vered externally with leather or tow, by which means it
fits the box of the cylinder exactly, and allows no water
to efcape by its fides. There is a pipe KHD, which com¬
municates laterally with this cylinder, and has a valve at
fome convenient place H, as near as poffible to its junc¬
tion with the cylinder. This valve alfo opens upwards.
This pipe, ufually called the rising pipe, or main, ter¬
minates at the place D, where the water muft; be deli¬
vered.
Now fuppofe this apparatus fet into the wrater, jts m^cj.. 0f
that the upper end of the cylinder may be under or even operation,
with the furface of the water AB ; the water will open
the valve G, and after filling the barrel and > lateral
pipe, will alio open the valve H, and at laft ftand at an
equal height within and without. Now let the pifton
be put in at the top of the working barrel, and thruft
down to K. It will puffi the wrater before it. This
will Unit the valve G, and the water will make its wray
through the valve H, and fill a part B £ of the rifing
pipe, equal to the internal capacity of the working bar¬
rel. When this downward motion of the pifton ceafcs,
the valve H will fall down by its own weight and {hut
this paflage. Now let the pifton be drawn up again :
The valve H hinders the water in the rifing pipe from
returning into the working barrel. But now the valve
G is opened by the preflure of the external water, and
the water enters and fills the cylinder as the pifton rifes.
When the pifton has got to the top, let it be thruft
down again : 1 he valve G will again be (hut, and the
water will be forced through the paflage at H, and rife
along the main, pufliing before it the water already
there, and will now have its furface at L. Repeating
this operation, the water muft at laft arrive at D, how-
3 R ever
water, or, more particularly, the drawing it with a bucket or fomething fimilar. ’AvrXeg, which is the primitive,
is a drain, fink, or receptacle for collefting fcattered water, either for ufe, or to get rid of it ; hence it came to fig-
nify the fink or well of a ffiip ; and uvrteiv ivas fynonymous with our verb “ to bale the boat.” (OdyJ/l O. 476 M,
411. Eurip. Hecuba, 1023). ’Av-rToov is the veffelor bucket with which water is drawn. 'AvrXicc is the fervice (ge¬
nerally a punilhment) of drawing water. ’Aurterj “ to draw water with a buckethence the force of Ariftotle’s
expreffion (Oecon. 1.) y«£g sjfysw cJvrAziv tout’ er<. See even the late authority of the New Teftament, John ii. 8. •
iv. 7. 11. Here unMpet is evidently fomething which the woman brought along with her ; probably a bucket and
rope.
P U M
Pump.
S
Lifting
pump.
Its mods cf
derating.
ever remote, and the next ftroke would raife it to e ;
' fo that during the next rife of the piilon the water in
eD will be running off by the fpout.
The effedf is the fame whatever be the pofition
of the working barrel, provided only that it be under
water. It may lie horizontally or Hoping, or it may
be with its mouth and pifton rod undermoft. It is Hill
the fame forcing pump, and operates in the fame manner
and by the lame means, viz. the preffure of the fur¬
rounding water.
The external force which muff be applied to produce
this effect is oppofed by the preffure exerted by the wa¬
ter on the oppolite face of the pifton. It is evident,
from the common laws of hydroftatics, that this oppo-
ling preffure is equal to the weight of a pillar of water,
having the face of the pifton for its bafe, and the per¬
pendicular height </A of the place of delivery above
the furface of the water AB in the ciftern for its height.
The form and dimenfions of the rifing pipe are indiffer¬
ent in this relpedt, becaufe heavy fluids prefs only in the
proportion of their perpendicular height. Obferve that
it is not </F, but z/A, which meafures this preffure,
which the moving force muff balance and furmount.
The whole preffure on the under furface F_/ of the pi¬
fton is indeed equal to the weight of the pillar r/F
but part of this is balanced by the water AF fa. If in¬
deed the water does not get into the upper part of the
working barrel, this compenfation does not obtain.
While we draw up the pifton, this preffure is removed,
becaufe all communication is cut off by the valve H, which
now bears the whole preffure of the water in the main.
Nay, the afeent of the pifton is even aftifted by the pref-
fure of the furrounding water. It is only during the defeent
of the pifton therefore that the external force is neceffary.
Obierve that the meafure now given of the external
force is only what is neceffary for balancing the preffure
of the water in the rifing pipe. But in order that the
pump may perform work, it mvSS. furmount this preffure,
and caufe the water to iffue at I) with fuch a velocity
that the required quantity of water may be delivered in
a given time. This requires force, even although there
were no oppofing preffure } which would be the cafe if
the main were horizontal. The water fills it, but it is
at reft. In order that a gallon, for inftance, may be
delivered in a fecond, the whole water in the horizontal
main muft be put in motion with a certain velocity.
This requires force. We muft therefore always diftin-
guhh between the ftate of equilibrium and the ftate of
adlual working. It is the equilibrium only that we con-
fider at prefent} and no more is neceffary for under-
itanding the operation of the different fpecies of pumps.
The other force is of much more intricate inveltigation,
and will be confidered by itfelf.
The fimpleft form and fituation of the lifting pump
is reprefented by the {ketch fig. 3. The pump is im-
merfed in the ciftern till both the valve G and pifton F
are under the furface AB of the furrounding water. By
this means the water enters the pump, opening both
valves, and finally Hands on a level within and without.
Now draw up the pifton to the furfaee A. It muft
lift up the water which is above it (becaufe the valve in
the pifton remains fhut by its own weight) ; fo that its
furface will now be at Art being made equal to AF.
In the mean time, the preffure of the furrounding water
forces it into the working barrel? through the valve G j
[ 498 1
P U M
and the barrel is now filled with water. Now, let the Pump,
pifton be puflied down again j the valve G immediately —v~—
ftmts by its own weight, and in oppolition to the endea¬
vours which the water in the barrel makes to efcape this
way. This attempt to comprefs the water in the barrel
caufes it to open the valve F in the pifton ; or rather,
this valve yields to our endeavour to puftr the pifton
down through the water in the working barrel. By
this means we get the pifton to the bottom of the bar¬
rel j and it has now above it the whole pillar of water
reaching to the height a. Drawing up the pifton to
the furlace A a fecond time, rauft lift this double co¬
lumn along with it, and its furface now will be at b.
The pifton may again be thruft down through the water
in the barrel, and again drawn up to the furface ; which
will raife the water to c. Another repetition will raife
it to d; and it will now (how itfelf at the intended
place of delivery. Another icpetition will raife it to e ;
and while the pifton is now delcending to make another
ftroke, the water in e d will be running oft' through the
{pout D; and thus a ftream will be produced, in fome
degree continual, but very unequal. This is inconveni¬
ent in many cafes : thus, in a pump for domeftic ufes,
fuch a hobbling ftream would make it very troublefome
to fill a bucket. It is therefore ufual to terminate the
main by a ciftern LMNO, and to make the fpout fmall.
By this means the water brought up by the fucceflive
ftrokes of the pifton rifes to fuch a height in this ciftern,
as to produce an efflux by the fpout nearly equable.
The fmaller we make the fpout I) the more equable
will be the ftream ; for when the pifton brings up more
water than can be difeharged during its defeent, fome
of it remains in the ciftern. This, added to the fupply
of next ftroke, makes the water rife higher in the ciftern
than it did by the preceding ftroke. This will caufe
the efflux to be quicker during the defeent of the pifton,
but perhaps not yet fufficiently quick to difeharge the
whole fupply. It therefore rifes higher next ftroke j
and at laft it rifes fo high, that the increafed velocity of
efflux makes the difeharge precifely balance the fupply.
Now, the quantity fupplied in each ftvoke is the fame,
and occupies the fame room in the ciftern at top 5 and
the iurface will fink the fame number of inches during
the defeent of the pifton, whether that furface has been
high or low at the beginning. But becaufe the veloci¬
ties of the efflux are as the'fquare roots of the heights of
the water above the fpout, it is evident that a fink of
two or three inches will make a fmaller change in the
velocity of efflux when this height and velocity are
great. This feems but a trifling obfervation ; but it ferves
to illuftrate a thing to be confidered afterwards, which
is important and abftrufe, but perfeftly fimilar to this.
It is evident, that the force neceffary for this opera¬
tion muft; be equal to the weight of the pillar of water
A d D, if the pipe be perpendicular. If the pump be
Handing allope, the preffure which is to he balanced is
ftill equal to the weight of a pillar of water of this per¬
pendicular height, and having the furface of the pifton
for its bafe.
Such is the fimpleft, and, we may add, by far the
beft, form of the forcing and lifting pumps ; but it is
not the moft ufual. Circumftances of convenience, eco¬
nomy, and more frequently of fancy and habit, have
caufed the pump-makers to deviate greatly from this
form. It is not ufual to have the working barrel in
the
P U M
Punp.
7
EfFeft of
giving the
pifton a
longer
ftroke
inconveni-
tlie water j tKis, efpecially in deep wells, makes it of
difficult accefs for repairs, and requires long pifton rods.
This would not do in a forcing pump, becaufe they
would bend.
We have fuppofed, in our account of the lifting pump,
that the rife of the pifton always terminated at the fur-
face of the water in the ciftern. This we did in order
that the barrel might always be filled by the preflure of
the furrounding water. But let us fuppofe that the rife
of the pifton does not end here, and that it is gradually
drawn up to the very top : it is plain that the preflure
of the atmofphere is by this means taken off from the
water in the pipe (fee Pneumatics), while it remains
preffing on the water of the ciftern. It will therefore
caufe the water to follow the pifton as it rifes through
the pipe, and it wall raife it in this way 33 feet at a me¬
dium. If, therefore, the fpout D is not more than 33
feet above the furface of the water in the ciftern, the
pipe will be full of water when the pifton is at D. Let
it be pufhed down to the bottom ; the water will remain
in the pipe, becaufe the valve G will Ihut : and thus
we may give the pifton a ftroke of any length not ex¬
ceeding 33 feet. If we raife it higher than this, the
water will not follow ; but it will remain in the pipe,
to be lifted by the pifton, after it has been puffied down
through it to the bottom.
But it is not neceflary, and would be very inconve-
ent and un-nient, to give the pifton fo lo’.g a ftroke. The great •
nece ary. upe 0p a pump ;s to rencier effe&ual the reciprocation
of a fhort ftroke which we can command, while fuch a
long ftroke is generally out of our power. Suppofe
that the pifton is pufhed down only to b ; it will then
have a column b f incumbent on it, and it will lift this
column when again drawn up. And this operation may
be repeated like the former, when the pifton was always
under water *, for the preffure of the atmofphere will al¬
ways caufe the water to follow the pifton to the height
of 3 3 feet.
Nor is it neceflary that the fixed valve G be placed
at the lower orifice of the pipe, nor even under water.
For, while things are in the ftate now defcribed, the
pifton drawm up to f, and the wffiole pipe full of wa¬
ter •, if we fuppofe another valve placed at b above the
furface of the ciftern, this valve can do no harm. Now
let the pifton defcend, both valves G and b will ftiut.
G may now be removed, and the water will remain fup-
ported in the fpace b G by the air; and now7 the alter¬
nate motions of the pifton wdll produce the fame effeft
^ as before.
Effedt of We found in the former cafe that the pifton was car-
the weight rying a load equal to the weight of a pillar of water of
ofthewa- the height AD, becaufe the furrounding water could
only fupport it at its own level. Let us fee what change
is produced by the affiftance of the preflure of the at¬
mofphere. Let the under furface of the pifton be at b ;
when the pifton w^as atj^ 33 feet above the furface of
the ciftern, the water w-as raifed to that height by the
preffure of the atmofphere. Suppofe a partition made
at £ by a thin plate, and all the water above it taken
away. Now prerce a hole in this plate. The preflure
of the atmofphere wras able to carry the wffiole column
fa. Part of this column is now removed, and the re¬
mainder is not a balance for the air’s preffure. This
will therefore caufe the water to fpout up through this
hole and rife to f. Therefore the under furface of this
C 499 1
P U M
ter and
preflitre of
the atmo¬
sphere.
plate is preffed up by the contiguous wrafer with a force Pump,
equal to the wreight of that pillar of water which it for- v “
merly fupported j that is, with a force equal to the
weight of the pillar fb. Nowr the under iurface of the
pifton, when at b, is in the fame fituation. It is prefled
upwards by the water below it, with a force equal to the
weight of the column f b : But it is prefled downwards
by the whole preffure of the atmofphere, which preffes
on all bodies ; that is, with the weight of the pillar fa.
On the whole, therefore, it is preffed downwards by a
force equal to the difference of the weights of the pillars
fa and fb ; that is, by a force equal to the weight of
the pillar b a.
It may be conceived better perhaps in this way.
When the pifton was under the furface of the water in
the ciftern, it was equally preffed on both fides, both by
the water and atmofphere. The atmofphere exerted its'
preffure on it by the intervention of the water 5 which
being, to all fenfe, a perfedt fluid, propagates every ex¬
ternal preflure undiminiftied. When tire pifton is drawn
up above the furface of the pit-water, the atmofphere
continues to prefs on its upper furface with its whole
weight, through the intervention of the water which
lies above it; and its preffure muft therefore be added
to that of the incumbent water. It alfo continues to
prefs on the under furface of the pifton by the interven¬
tion of the water ; that is, it prefles this water to the
pifton. But, in doing this, it carries the weight of
this water which it is preffing on the pifton. The pref¬
fure on the pifton therefore is only the excefs of the
whole preflure of the atmofphere above the weight of
the column of water which it is fupporting. There¬
fore the difference of atmofpheric preflure on the upper
and under furfaces of the pifton is precifely equal to the
weight of the column of water fupported in the pipe by
the air. It is not, however, the individual weight of
this column that loads the pifton ; it is the part of the
preflure of the atmofphere on its upper furface, which is
not balanced by its preffure on the under furface.
In attempting, therefore, to draw up the pifton, we
have to furmount this unbalanced part of the preflure of
the atmofphere, and alfo the weight of the water
which lies above the pifton, and muft be lifted by it :
and thus the whole oppofing preflure is the fame as be¬
fore, namely, the weight of the whole vertical pillar
reaching from the furface of the water in the ciftern to
the place of delivery. Part of this weight is immediate¬
ly carried by the preflure of the atmofphere ; but, in
lieu of it, there is an equal part of this preflure of the
atmofphere abftraffed from the under furface of the
pifton, while its upper furface fuftains its whole preflure. j-,
So far, then, thele two ftates of the pump agree.— Other cir-
But they differ exceedingly in their mode of operation ; cumftances
and there are fome circumftances not very obvious which
muft be attended to, in order that the pump may deli¬
ver any water at the fpout D. This requires, therefore,
a ferious examination.
Let the fixed valve G (fig. 4.) be fuppofed at thepig. 4,
furface of the ciftern water. Let M m be the loweft,
and N« the higheft, pofitions of the pifton, and let
HA—/z be the height of a column of water equiponde¬
rant with the atmofphere.
When the pump is filled, not with water, but with
air, and the pifton is in its loweft pofition, and all in
equilibrio, the internal air has the fame denfity and
3 R 2- ‘ elafticity
P U M
[
Pump, elafticity with the external. The fpace there-
lore, contains air of the common deniity and el alt icily.
Thefe may be meafured by h, or the weight of a co¬
lumn of water whofe height is h. Now, let the pilton
be drawn up to N//. The air which occupied the fpace
Mxi a in now occupies the fpace NAtf«, and its deniity
M A a m .
js now   . Its elauicity is now dimmifhed, be-
NA an J ’
ing proportionable to its deniity (fee Pneumatics), and
no longer balances the prelfure of the atmofphere. The
valve G will therefore be forced up by the water, which
will rife to fome height SA. Now let the pifton again
defcend to M m. It cannot do this with its valve Ihut;
for when it comes down fo far as to reduce the air again
to its common denfity, it is not yet at M, becaufe the
ipace below it has been diminiihed by the water which
got into the pipe, and is retained there by the valve G.
The pifton valve, therefore, opens by the air which we
thus attempt to comprefs, and the fuperiluous air
elcapes. When the pifton has got to M, the air is
again of the common denfity, and occupies the fpace
MS s m. Now draw the pifton up to N. This air will
expand into the fpace NS r w, and its denfity will be re-
MS s m
duced to
NS,
-, and its elafticity will no longer ba¬
lance the prefl'ure of the atmofphere, and more water
will enter, and it will rife higher. This will go on
continually. But it may happen that the water will
never rife fo high, as to reach the pifton, even though
not 33 feet above the water in the ciftern : For the fuc-
ceflive diminutions of denfity and elafticity are a feries
of quantities that decreafe geometrically, and therefore
will have a limit. Let us lee what determines this li¬
mit.
At whatever height the water (lands in the lower
part of the pipe, the weight of the column of water
SA a r, together with the remaining elafticity of the air
above it, exactly balances the preflure of the atmofphere
(fee Pneumatics, N° 108.). Now the elafticity of the
air in the fpace NS rw is equal to h Xnjvw—There-
NS s n
fore, in the cafe where the limit obtains, and the water
rifes no farther, we muft have A—AS 4-// or.
‘ NS j-« ’
becaufe the column is of the fame diameter throughout,
//=AS-{->5j^, and —AS, =: HS, and NS :
MS=HA : HS, and NS — MS : NS = HA — HS :
HA, or NM : NS=AS : AH, and NM X AHzrrNS
X AS. Therefore, if AN, the diftance of the pifton
in its higheft pofition from the water in the ciftern, and
NM the length of its ftroke, be given, there is a cer¬
tain determined height AS to which the water can be
raifed by the preffure of the air : For AH is a conftant
quantity •, and therefore when MN is given, the rec¬
tangle AS X SN is given. If this height AS be lefs
than that of the pifton in its loweft pofition, the pump
will raife no water, although AN may be lefs than AH.
Yet the fame pump will raife water very effe&ually, if
it be firft of all filled with water ; and we have feen
profeffional engineers much puzzled by this capricious
failure of their pumps. A little knowledge of the prin¬
ciples would have prevented their difappointment.
To infure the delivery of water by the pump, the
00 ] P u M
ftroke muft be fuch that the re61 angle MN X AH may Pump;
be greater than any reftangle that can be made of the —-v—
parts of AN, that is, greater than the fquare of half n
AN. Or, if the length of the ftroke be already fixed Mode of in*
by other circumftances, which is a common cafe, we mutt ^■^r,hef.
make AN fo ftiort that the fquare of its half, meaiured ^ater/ °
in feet, (hall be lefs than 33 times the ftroke of the pi-
ft on.
Suppofe that the fixed valve, inftead of being at the
fur face of the water in the ciftern, is at S, or anywhere
between S and A, the performance of the pump will
be the fame as before : But if it be placed anywhere
above S, it will be very different. Let it be at T. It
is plain that when the pifton is puflied down from N to
M, the valve at T prevents any air from getting down j
and therefore, when the pifton is drawn up again, the
air contained in the fpace MT t m will expand ixto the
fpace NT t n, and its denfity will be This is lefs-
MS
than , which expreffes the denfity of the air which
was left in the fpace TSr/ by the former operations.—.
I he air, therefore, in FS r t will alio expand, will open
the valve, and now the water will rife above S. The
proportion of NS to NT may evidently be fuch that the
water will even get above the valve T. This diminifties
the Ipace N T t n ; and therefore, when the pitton has
been puttied down to M, and again drawn up to N, the
air will be ftill more rarefied, and the water will rife ft ill
higher. The foregoing reafoning, however, is fuffici-
ent to ftiow that there may ftill be a height which the
water will not pafs, and that this height depends on the
proportion between the ftroke of the pifton and its dif¬
tance from the water in the ciftern. We need not give
the determination, becaufe it will come in afterwards in
combination with other circumftances. It is enough
that the reader fees the phyfical caufes of this limitation;
And, laftly, we fee plainly that the utmoft fecurity will
be given for the performance of the pump, when the
fixed valve is fo placed that the pifton, when in its low-
eft pofition, ftiall come into contadb with it. In this Valves not
cafe, the rarefablion of the air will be the completeft eafily
poflible ; and, if there were no fpace left between the m-tigh-
pifton and valve, and all were perfe&ly air-tight, the
rarefadtion would be complete, and the valve might be
any thing lefs than 33 feet from the furface of the water
in the ciftern.
But this perfedl contact and tightnefs is unattainable ^
and though the pump may be full of water, its conti¬
nual downward preffure caufes it to filtrate flowly
through every crevice, and the air enters through every
pore, and even difengages itfelf from the water, with
which a confiderable portion had been chemically com¬
bined. The pump by this means lofes water, and it
requires feveral ftrokes of brilk working to fill it again :
and if the leathers have become dry, fo much admiffion
may be given to the air, that the pump will not fill it¬
felf with water by any working. It is then neceffary to
pour water into it, which ftiuts up ibefe paffages, and
foon fets all to rights again. For thefe reafons, it is al¬
ways prudent to place the fixed valve as low as other
circumftances will permit, and to make the pifton rod
of fuch a length, that when it is at the bottom of its
ftroke it ftiall be almoft in contadl with the valve. When
we
P U M
[ 5°
,3
Defcrip-
tioa of the
fucking-
pump.
F>S- 5-
Pamp. we are not limited by oilier circusnftances, it is evident
that the bell podible form is to have both the pifton and
the fixed valve under the furface of the water of the cif-
tern. In this fituatibn they are always wret and air¬
tight. The chief objection is, that by this difpolition
tlity are not eafily come at wdien needing repair, fj'his
is a rr. .'erial objection in deep mines, in fuch fituations,
therefore, we mutt make the belt compenfation of differ¬
ent circumstances that we can. It is ufual to place the
fixed valve at a moderate diltance from the furface of
the water, and to have a hole in the fide of the pipe, by
which it may be got out. This is carefully Ihut up by
a plate firmly ferewed on, with leather or cement be¬
tween the parts. This is called the c/ac& door. It
would, in every cafe, be very proper to have a fixed
valve in the lower end of the pipe. This would com¬
bine all advantages. Being always tight, the pipe would
retain the water, and it would leave to the valve above
it its full effebl of increafing the rarefadlion. A fimilar
hole is made in the working barrel, a little above the
higheft pofition of the pilton. When this needs repair,
it can be got at through this hole, without the immenfe
trouble of drawing up the whole rods.
Thus we have conducted the reader Hep by flep, from
the fimplell form of the pump to that which long expe¬
rience has at laft felefted as the moil generally conve¬
nient. This we Ihall now deferibe in lome detail.
The Sucking Pump confifts of two pipes DCCD,
BAAB (fig. 5.) ; of which the former is called the Bar¬
rel, or the Working Barrel, and the other is called the
SuSiwn-plpe, and is commonly of a fmaller diameter.—
Thefe are joined by means of Handles E, F, pierced
with holes to receive ferewed bolts. A ring of lea¬
ther, or of lead, covered with a proper cement, is put
between them 5 which, being Ifrongly compreffed by
the ferew-bolts, renders the joint perfedly air-tight.—
The lower end A of the fudion-pipe is commonly fpread
out a little to facilitate the entry of the w7ater, and fre¬
quently has a grating acrofs it at A A to keep out filth
or gravel. This is immerged in the Handing water YZ.
The working barrel is cylindrical, as evenly and fmooth-
ly bored as poflible, that the piflon may fill it exactly
through its whole length, and move along it with as
little friction as may be confifient wfith air-tightnefs.
The pifion is a fort of truncated cone OPKL, gene¬
rally made of wood not apt to fplit, fuch as elm or
beech. The fmall end of it is cut off at the fides, fo
as to form a fort of arch OQ(P, by w’hich it is fatt¬
ened to the iron rod or fpear. It is exhibited in differ-
Fig, 6. and ent petitions in figures 6, 7. which will give a more di-
7- Hind notion of it than any defeription. The two ends
of the conical part may be hooped with brafs. This
cone has its larger end furrounded with a ring or band
of ftrong leather fattened with nails, or by a copper
hoop, w'hich is driven on it at the fmaller end. This
band ffiould reach to feme diHance beyond the bafe of
the cone ; the farther the better : and the whole mufl
be of uniform thicknefs all round, fo as to fuffer equal
14 compreffion between the cone and the working barrel.
Ncceinty ol Xhe feam or joint of the two ends of this band muH
a^ughf- macje very dote^ but not fewed or Hitched together,
prcpeily at- This would occafion bumps or inequalities, which would
tended to. fpoH its tightnefs •, and no harm can refult from the want
of it, becaufe the two edges will be fqueezed clofe to¬
gether by the compreffion in the barrel. It is by no
Pump.
15
I ] P U M
means neceffary that this comprefiion be great. This
is a very detrimental error of the pump-makers. It
occafions enormous friftion, and deHroys the very pur-
pofe which they have in view, viz. rendering thfc piiion
air-tight ; for it caufes the leather to wear through very
loon at the edge of the cone, and it alfo wears the
working barrel. This very toon becomes wide in that
part which is continually paffed over by the pifion, while
the mouth remains of its original diameter, and it be¬
comes impoffible to thruft in a piflon which thall com¬
pletely fill the worn part. Now, a very moderate pref- An eafy
fare is fufficient for rendering the pump perfectly tight, m(X*e ot~
and a piece of glove leather would be fuflicient for this’tn^er^n2
purpofe, if loote or detached from the folid cone 5 for
fuppofe fuch a loofe and flexible, but impervious, band
of leather put round the piflon, and put into the barrel j
and let it even be fuppoted that the cone does not com-
prefs it in the fmallelt degree to its internal furface.—
Pour a little water carefully into the infide of this fort
of cup or diih ; it will caufe it to fvvell out« little,
and apply itfelf clofe to the barrel all round, and even
adjufi itfelf to all its inequalities. Let us fuppofe it to
touch the barrel in a ring ol an inch broad all round.
We can eafily compute the force with which it is prel-
fed. It is half the weight of a ring of water an inch
deep and an inch broad. This is a trifle, and the fric¬
tion occafioned by it not worth regarding j yet this
trifling preffure is fuflicient to make the paffage per-
ftclly impervious, even by the molt enormous preflure
of a high column of incumbent water : for let this
preffure be ever fo great, the preffure by which the lea¬
ther adheres to the barrel always exceeds it, becaufe the
incumbent fluid has no preponderating power by which
it can force its way between them, and it mufi inlinuate
itfelf precifely fo far, that its preffure on the inflde of
the leather fhall Hill exceed, and only exceed, the pref¬
fure by which it endeavours to infinuate itfelf; and thus
the pilton becomes perfe<ffly tight with the fmallefi pof-
fible fri£lion. This reafoning is perhaps too refined for
the uninflrufted artifl, and probably will not perfuade
him. To fuch we would recommend an examination pr()Veel to
of the piflons and valves contrived and executed by that he pra&ica.
artifi, whofe fkill far furpaffes our highefl conceptions,})le fr°m
the all-wife Creator of this world. The valves which
ihut up the paffages of the veins, and this in places
where an extravafation would be followed by inflant
death, are cups of thin membrane, which adhere to
the fides of the channel about half way round, and
are detached in the refl of their circumference. When
the blood comes in the oppofite direftion, it puflies the
membrane afide, and has a paffage perfecliy free. But
a Hagnation of motion allows the tone of the mufcular
(perhaps) membrane, to reflore it to its natural ihape, and
the leafl motion in the oppofite direftion caufes it inflanf-
ly to clap clofe to the fides of the vein, and then no
preffure whatever can force a paffage. We (hall recur
to this again, when deferibing the various contrivances
of valves, &c. What we have faid is enough for fup- Befi form
porting our directions for conflruCting a tight piflon. of a pifton
But we recommended thick and flrong leather, whilerecon-'
our prefent reafoning feems to render thin leather pre- men^ct'*
ferable. If the leather be thin, and the folid piflon in
any part does not prefs it gently to the barrel, there
will be in this part an unbalanced preffhre of the incum¬
bent column of water, which would mfiantly built even
the human
frame.
V U M
Pump.
the fuck-
ing-pump
Fig. 8.
Fig. 9.
Fig. to.
r a ftrong leather bag •, but when the folid pifton, cover
v—w e[j ]eatjler^ exa(^iy fins barrel, and is even pref¬
led a little to it, there is no fuch rifle ; and now that
part of the leather band which reaches beyond the folid
pifton performs its office in the completeft manner. We
do not hefitate, therefore, to recommend this form of a
pifton, which is the moft common and Ample of all, as
preferable, when well executed, to any of thofe more
artificial, and frequently very ingenious, conltruftions,
which we have met with in the works of the firft engi¬
neers. Io proceed, then, with our defeription of the
13 fucking-pump.
Further de- . At the joining of the working barrel with the fuc-
the'fuck °f .tJon'Pffie there is a llole H, covered with a valve open-
ing. upwards. This hole H is either made in a plate
which makes a part of the fudftion-pipe, being caft along
with it, or it is made in a feparate plate. This laft is
the moft convenient, being eafily removed and replaced.
Different views are given of this valve in figs. 8, 9, 10.
.I he diameter EF (fig. 10.) of this plate is the fame
with tnat of the flanches, and it has holes correfpoiid-
ing to them, through wffiich their bolts pafs which keep
all together. A ring of thick leather NKL is applied
to this plate, having a part cut out between N and L,
to make room for another piece of ftrong leather NR
(fig. 9.) which compofes the valve. The circular part
of this valve is broader than the hole in the middle of
fig. 10. but not quite fo broad as to fill up the infide
oi the ring of leather OQP of this fig. ■which is the
lame with GKI of fig. 10. The middle of this leather
valve is ftiengthened by two brafs (not iron) plates, the
uppermoft of which is feen at R of fig. 9.: the one on
ns underfide is a little fmaller than the hole m the valve-
plate, that it may go freely in ; and the upper plate R is
larger than this hole, that it may comprefs the leather to
its brim all round. It is evident, that when this plate
with its leathers is put between the joint flanches, and
aR is ferewed together, the tail of leather N of fig. 9.
will be compreffed between the plates, and form a hinge,
on which the valve can turn, rifing and falling. There’
is a fimilar valve faftened to the upper fide, or broadeft
bafe of the pifton. This defeription ferves for both valves,
and in general for moft valves which are to be found in
any parts of a pump.
will now underftand, without any repoti-
tion, the procefs of the whole operation of a fucking-
pump. The pifton rarefies the air in the working bar¬
rel, and that in the fu£lion-pipe expands through the
valve into the barrel 5 and, being no longer a balance
for the atmofpheric preffure, the water rifes into the fuc-
tion-pipe ; another ftroke of the pifton produces a fimi-
iar effedl, and the water rifes farther, but by a fmaller
ftep than by the preceeding ftroke : by repeating the
ftrokes of the pifton, the water gets into the barrel • and
when the pifton is now puffied down through it, it gets
above the pifton, and muft now be lifted up to any
eight. I he fuftion-pipe is commonly of fmaller fize
than the working barrel, for the-fake of economy. It
isnot neceffary that it be fo wide j but it may be, and
often is, made too fmall. It ffiould be of fuch a fize,
that the preffure of the atmofphere may be able to fill
the barrel with w’ater as faft as the pifton rifes. If a
void is left below the pifton, it is evident that the pi-
fton muft be carrying the whole weight of the atmo-
iphere, befides the water which is lying above it.
C 502 ]
P U M
19
Its mode
of opera¬
tion.
ii the pipe ce only fo wide, that the barrels fliall fill
precifely as faft as the pifton rifes, it muft fuftain all
this preffure. The fu&ion-pipe ffiould be wider than
this, that all the preffure ol the atmolphere which ex¬
ceeds the weight of the pillar in the fu&ion-pipe may
be employed m preffmg it on the under furface of the
pifton, and thus dimmifti the load. It cannot be made
too wide 3 and too ltri& an economy in this refpe& may
very fenfibly diminiffi the performance of the pump
and more than defeat its own purpofe. This is molt
likely when the fu&ion-pipe is long, becaufe there the
length of the pillar of water nearly balances the air’s
pieflure, and leaves very little accelerating force ; fo
that water will rife but flowly even in the wideft pipe.
AH tliefe things will be made the fubie&s of computa¬
tion afterwards.
It is plain that there will be limitations to the rife of
the water in the fu&ion-pipe, fimilar to what we found
when the whole pump was an uniform cylinder. Let a
be the height of the fixed valve above the water in the
ciftern : let B and b be the fpaces in cubic meafure be¬
tween this valve and the pifton in its higheft and loweft
pofitions, and therefore exprefs the bulks of the air which
may occupy thefe fpaces : let y be the diftance between
the fixed valve and the water in the fu&ion-pipe, wffien
it has attained its greateft height by the rarefa&ion of the
air above it: let h be the height of a column of water in
equilibrio, with the whole preffure of the atmofphere,
and therefore having its weight in equilibrio with the
elafticity of common air ; and let # be the height of the
column whofe weight balances the elafticity of the air
in the fu&ion-pipe, when rarefied as much as it can be
by the a&ion of the pifton, the water Handing ai the
height a—y.
Then, becaufe this elafticity, together with the
column a—y in the fu&ion-pipe, muft balance the
whole preffure of the atmofphere, (fee Pneumatics
N° 108.), we muff have h — x + a~y, y — a +
x—h. " ■
When the pifton was in its loweft pofition, the bulk
of the air between it and the fixed valve was b. Sup-
pofe the valve kept ffiut, and the pifton raifed to its
higheft pofition, the bulk will be B, and its denfity
b J
and itS'&afticity, or the height of the column whofe
weight will balance it, will be h If the air in the
X)
fu&ion-pipe be denfer than this, and confequently more
elaftic, it will lift the valve, and fome will come in ^
therefore, when the pump has rarefied the air as much
as it can, fo that none does, in fa&, come in, the ela¬
fticity of the air in the fu&ion-pipe my/? be the fame.
Therefore x rz b
We had y — a x — b. Therefore y ~ a b ^
b — B
~b> — a  
Therefore when
b, — a
B—b
B — b
B
B
B
b is lefs than
the water_
But when
will flop before it reaches the fixed valve.
(i is lefs than tt b, the water will get above the
B
fixed valve, y becoming negative.
Put-ip.
But,
P U M
[ 503 ]
P U M
Pump.
20
The fame
pump is
ufed in an
inverted
pofition;
Fig. 11.
21
and is cal¬
led a lift¬
ing pump.
22
Forcing-
pump de-
fcribed.
Fig. 12.
Eut it does not follow that the water will reach the
pifton, that is, will rife fo high that the pifton will pafs
through it in its defcent. Things now come into the
condition of a pump of uniform dimenfions from top to
bottom ) and this point will be determined by what was
laid when treating of fuch a pump.
There is another form of the fucking pump which is
much ufed in great water works, and is of equal effi¬
cacy with the one now defcribed. It is indeed the
famd pump in an inverted pofition. It is reprefented
in fig. 11. where ABCD is the working barrel, im-
merfed, with its mouth downwards, in the water of the
ciltern. It is joined by means of tlanches to the riling
pipe or main.
This ufually confifls of two parts. The firft, BEFC,
is bent to one fide, that it may give room for the iron
frame TXYV, which carries the rod NO of the pifton
M, attached to the traverfes RS, TOY of this frame.
The other part, EGHF, is ufually of a lefs diameter,
and is continued to the place of delivery. The pifton
frame XTVY hangs by the rod Z, at the arm of a lever
or working beam, not brought into the figure. The
pifton is perforated like the former, and is furrounded
like it with a band of leather in form of a taper-difti.
It has a valve K on its broad or upper bafe, opening
when preffed from below. The upper end of the work¬
ing barrel is pierced with a hole, covered with a valve
1, alfo opening upwards.
Now fuppofe this apparatus immerfed into the ci-
ftern till the water is above it, as marked by the line
2, 3, and the pifton drawn up till it touch the end of
the barrel. When the pifton is allowed to defeend by its
own weight, the water rifes up through its valve K,
and fills the barrel. If the pifton be now drawn up by
the moving power of the machinery with which it is
conneffed, the valve K fhuts, and the pifton puthes the
water before it through the valve I into the main-pipe
EFGH. When the pifton is again let down, the
valve I fhuts by its own weight and the preftiire of the
water incumbent on it, and the barrel is again filled by
the water of the ciftern. Drawing up the pifton pufhes
this water into the main pipe, &c. and then the water
is at length delivered at the place required.
This pump is ufually called the lifting pump ; perhaps
the fimpleft of all in its principle and operation.—
It needs no farther explanation : and we proceed to de-
feribe
The Forcing Pump, reprefented in fig. 12. It
confifts of a working barrel ABCD, a fuftion-pipe
CDEF, and a main or rifing pipe. This laft is ufually
in three joints. The firft GHKI may be confidered as
making part of the working barrel, and is commonly
caft in one piece with it. The fccond IKLM is join¬
ed to it by flanches, and forms the elbow which this
pipe muft generally have. The third LNOM is pro¬
perly the beginning of the main, and is continued to
the place• of delivery. At the joint IK there is a
hanging valve or clack S ; and there is a valve R on the
top of the fuftion-pipe.
The pifton PQTV is folid, and is faftened to a flout
iron rod which goes through it, and is fixed by a key
drawn through its end. The body of the pifton is a
fort of double cone, widening from the middle to each
end, and is covered with two bands of very ftrong lea¬
ther, fitted to it in the manner already deferibed.
The operation^ of this pump is abundantly fimple. Pump.
When the pifton is thruft into the pump, it puflies the v—-1
air before it through the valve S, for the valve R re- 23
mains ftmt by its own weight. When it has reached ^ mode
near the bottom, and is drawn up again, the air which
filled the fmall fpace between the pifton and the valve
S now expands into the barrel ; for as foon as the air
begins to expand, it ceafes to balance the preffure of
the atmofphere, which therefore ftiuts the valve S. By
the expanfion of the air in the barrel the equilibrium at
the valve R is deftroyed, and the air in the lu&ion-pipe
lifts the valve, and expands into the barrel ; confequent-
ly it ceafes to be a balance for the preffure of the atmo¬
fphere, and the water is forced into the fuftion-pipe.
Puftiing the pifton down again forces the air in the bar¬
rel through the valve S, the valve R in the mean time
{hutting. When the pifton is again drawn up, S {huts,
R opens, the air in the fudlion pipe dilates anew, and the
water riles higher in it. Repeating thefe operations, the
water gets at laft into the xvorking barrel, and is forced
into the main by puftiing down the pifton, and is puflied
along to the place of delivery.
The operation of this pump is therefore two-fold, is twafolt?,
fucking and forcing. In the firft operation, the fame
force muft be employed as in the fucking-pump, name¬
ly, a force equal to the weight of a column of water
having the feftion of the pifton for its bafe, and the
height of the pifton above the water in the ciftern for
its height. It is for the fake of this part of the opera¬
tion that the upper cone is added to the pifton. The
air and water would pafs by the fides of the lower cone
while the pifton is drawn up; but the leather of the
upper cone applies to the furface of the barrel, and pre¬
vents this. The fpace contained between the barrel
and the valve S is a great obftruftion to this part of
the operation, becaufe this air cannot be rarefied to a
very great degree. For this reafon, the fueftion-pipe of
a forcing-pump muft^ not be made long. It is not in¬
deed neceflary 5 for by placing the pump a few feet lower,
the water wall rife into it without difficulty, and the
labour of fuftion is as much diminiftied as that of im-
pulfion is increafed. However, an intelligent artift;
will always endeavour to make this fpace between the
valve S and the loweft place of the pifton as fmall as
poftible.
The power employed in forcing muft evidently fur-
mount the preflure of the whole water in the rifing
pipe, and (independent of what is neceffary for giving
the water the required velocity, fo that the proper
quantity per hour may be delivered), the pifton has to
withftand a force equal to the weight of a column of
water having the feffion of the pifton for its bafe, and
the perpendicular altitude of the place of delivery above
the lower furface of the pifton for its height. It is
quite indifferent in this refpeft what is the diameter of
the rifing pipe; becaufe the preffure on the pifton de¬
pends on the altitude of the water only, independent
of its quantity. We {hall even fee that a fmall rifing
pipe will require a greater force to convey the water
along it to any given height or diftance.
When w’e would employ a pump to raife water in
a crooked pipe, or in any pipe of moderate dimenfions,
this form of pump, or fomething equivalent, muft be
ufed. In bringing up great quantities of water from
mines, the common fucking-pump is generally employ¬
ed,.
Pnmn.
~S
Meafure of
the quanti¬
ty of water
delivered
by any
pump.
16
The opera¬
tion of
pumps not
equable;
•27
andithe
mode of
making
them fo.
&£■ 13-
P U M [5
eel, as really the beft of them all; but it is the moft ex¬
pensive, becaufe it requires the pipe to be perpendicular,
Straight, and of great dimenlions, that it may contain
the pifton rods. Eut this is impracticable when the pipe
is crooked.
If the forcing pump, conftrufted in the manner now
deferibed, be employed, we cannot ufe forcers with long
rods. ’Iheie would bend wiien puthed down by their
further extremity. In this cafe, it is ufual to employ
only a fhort and ftiff rod, and to hang it by a chain,
and load it with a weight fupenor to the weight of wa¬
ter to be raifed by it. The machinery therefore is em¬
ployed, not in forcing the water along the rifing-pipe,
but in railing the weight which is to produce this effect
by its fubfequent defeent.
In this cale, it would be much better to employ the
lifting-pump of fig. 11. For as the load on the forcers
muff be greater than the refiftances which it muff fur-
mount, the force exerted by the machine muff in like
manner be greater than this load. This double excefs
■would be avoided by ufing the lifting-pump.
It will readily occur to the reader that the quantity
of water delivered by any pump will be in the joint pro¬
portion of the furface or bafe of the pifton and its veloci¬
ty : for this meafures the capacity of that part of the
working barrel which the pifton paffes over. The velo¬
city of the water in the conduit pipe, and in its paffage
through every valve, will be greater or lefs than the ve¬
locity of the pifton, in the fame proportion that the area
oi the pifton or working barrel is greater or lefs than the
area of the conduit or valve. For whatever quantity of
water paffes through any feclion of the wrorking-barrel
in a fecond, the fame quantity muft go through any one
of thefe pallages. This enables us to modify the velocity
of the water as we pleafe : rve can increafe it to any de¬
gree at the place of delivery by diminilhing the aperture
through which it paffes, provided we apply fufficient
force to the pifton.
It is evident that the operation of a pump is by ftarts,
and that the water in the main remains at reft, prefling
on the valve during the time that the pifton is withdrawn
from the bottom of the working barrel. It is in moft
cafes definable to have tins motion equable, and in fome
cafes it is abfolutely neceffary. Thus, in the engine for
extinguifhing fires, the fpout of water going by jerks
could never be dire&ed with a certain aim, and half of
the water would be loft by the way; becaufe a body at
reft cannot in an inftant be put in rapid motion, and the
firft portion of every jerk of water would have but a
fmall velocity. A very ingenious contrivance has been
fallen upon for obviating this inconvenience, and pro¬
curing a ftream nearly equable. We have not been able
to difeover the author. At any convenient part of the
fifing pipe beyond the valve S there is annexed a capa¬
cious veffel VZ (fig. 13. N° 1 and 2.) clofe a-top, and
of great ftrength. When the water is forced along this
pipe, part of it gets into this veffel, keeping the air con¬
fined above it, and it fills it to fuch a height V, that the
elafticity of the confined air balances a column reaching
to T, we {hall fuppofe, in the rifing pipe. The next
ffroke of the pifton fends forward more water, which
would fill the rifing pipe to fome height above T. Eut
the preffure of this additional column caufes fome mere
of it to go into the air veffel, and comprefs its air fo
much more that its elafticity now balances a longer co-
2
=4 ] P U M
lumn. Every fuccceding ftroke of the pifton produces a Pump.
like efteft. ihe water riles higher in the main pipe, but  v~~
lome more of it goes into the air-veffel. At laft tire wa¬
ter appears at the place of delivery j and the air in the
air-veffel is now fo much compreffed that its elafticity
balances the preffure ol tne wliole column. 1 fie next
ftroke of the pifton fends forward fome more water. If
the diameter of the orifice of the main be fufficient to let
the water flow out with a velocity equal to .that of the
pifton, it will fo flow out, rifing no higher, and* pro¬
ducing no lenfible addition to the compreffion in the
air-veflel. Eut it the orifice of the main be contract¬
ed to_ half its dimenflons, the water fent forward by
the pifton cannot How out in the time of the ftroke
without a greater velocity, and therefore a greater
force. Part of it, therefore, goes into the air-veffel,
and increafes the compreffion. When the pifton has
ended its ftroke, and no more water comes forward,
the compreffion of the air in the air-veffel being great¬
er than what was fufficient to balance the prellure of
the water in the main pipe, now forces out fome of
the water which is lying below it. This cannot return
towards the pump, becaufe the valve S is now {hut.
It therefore goes forward along the main, and produces
an efflux during the time of the pifton’s rifing in or¬
der to make another ftroke. In order that this efflux
may be very equable, the air-veflel muft be very large.
If it be. fmall, the quantity of water that is difeharged
by it during the return of the pifton makes fo great a por¬
tion of its capacity, that the elafticity of the confined air
is too much diminifhed by this enlargement of its bulk,
and the rate of efflux muft diminiih accordingly. The
capacity of the air-veffel ftiould be fo great that the
change of bulk of the comprefled air during the inac¬
tion of the pifton may be inconfiderable. It muft there¬
fore be very ftrong.
It is pretty indifferent in what way this air-veflel is
connefted with the rifing pipe. It may join it lateral¬
ly, as in fig. 13. N° 1. and the main pipe go on with¬
out interruption} or it may be made to furround an
interruption of the main pipe, as in fig. 13. N° 2. It
may alfo be in any part of the main-pipe. If the foie ef¬
fect intended by it is to produce an equable jet, as in
ornamental water-works, it may be near the end of the
main. This will require much lefs ftrength, becaufe
there remains but a fliort column of water to comprefs
the air in it. But it is, on the whole, more advanta¬
geous to place it as near the pump as poffible, that it
may pioduce an equable motion m the whole main-pipe.
1 his is of confiderable advantage : when a column of
water feveral hundred feet long is at reft in the main-
pipe, and the pifton at one end of it put at once into
motion, even with a moderate velocity, the ftrain on
the pipe would be very great. Indeed if it were poffible
to put the pifton inftantaneoufty into motion with a finite
velocity, the ftrain on the pipe, tending to burft it,
would be next to infinite. But this feems impoflible in
nature ; all changes of motion which we obferve are gra-
dual, .becaufe all impelling bodies have lome elafticity tion o}°~
or foftnefs by which they yield to compreffion. And,the piftons
in the way in which piftons are commonly moved, vrz.
by cranks, or fomething analogous to them, the motion
is v -nj fLnfebhj' gradual. But ftiil the air-veffel tends to
make the motion along the main-pipe lefs deffiltorv, and
therefore diminifties thofe ftrains which would really take
place
28
The deful-
Pump.
■“~v—
P U M [ 505 ]
place in the mum pipe. It a£ls like the fprings of a foot high
29
Corrected
30
But on a
wrong prin
ciple.
Thefe'equa-
bie pumps
deliver very
tittle more
water than
the others.
travelling-carriage, whofe jolts are incomparably lefs
than thole of a cart j, and by this means really enables a
given force to propel a greater quantity of water in the
lame time.
We may here by the way obferve, that the attempts
of mecnamcians to correct this unequal motion of the
pikon-rod are mifplaced, and it it could be done, would
greatly hurt a pump. One of the bell methods of pro¬
ducing this effeft is to make the pifton-rod confift of tivo
parallel bars, having teeth in the lides which front each
otner. Let a toothed wheel be placed between them,
having only the half of its circumference furnilhed with,
teetn. It is evident, without any farther delcription,
that if this wheel be turned uniformly round its axis, the
pifton-rod will be moved uniformly up and down with¬
out intermiftion. 1 his has often been put in practice ;
but the machine always went by jolts, and feldom lafted
a few' days, tlnfldlled mechanicians attributed this to
defect in the_ execution: but the fault is effential, and
lies in the principle.
3 he machine could not perform one ftroke, if the
in ft mover did not flacken a little, or the different parts
Ci the machine did not yield by bending or by compref-
fion ; and no ftrength of materials could withftand the
violence of the ftrains at every reciprocation of the mo¬
tion. This is chiefly experienced in great works which
aie put m motion by a water-wheel, or fome other
equal power exerted on the mafs of matter of which
the machine confifts. The water-wheel being of great
weight, moves with confiderable fteadinefs or unifor¬
mity ; and when an additional refiftance is oppofed to
it by the beginning of a new ftroke of the pifton, its
great quantity of motion is but little affected by this
addition, and it proceeds very little retarded ; and the
machine rnuft either yield a little by bending and com-
preiTun, or go to pieces, which is the common event.
Cranks are free from this inconvenience, becaufe they
accelerate the pifton gradually, and bring it gradually
to reft, while the water-wheel moves round with almoft
perfect uniformity. The only inconvenience (and it
may be confiderable) attending this flow motion of the
pftton at the beginning of its ftroke is, that the valves
do not flint with rapidity, fo that fome water gets back
through them. But wflien they are properly formed and
loaded, this is but trifling.
We muft not imagine, that becaufe the ftream pro¬
duced by the afliftance of an air barrel is almoft per¬
fectly equable, and becaufe as much water runs out du¬
ring the returning of the pifton as during its a&ive
ftroke, it therefore doubles the quantity of water. No
more water can run out than what is fent forward by
the pifton during its effective ftroke. The continued
ftream is produced only by preventing the whole of
this water from being difeharged during this time, and
by providing a propelling force to act during the pifton’s
return. Nor does it enable the moving force of the pi¬
fton to produce a double effect: for the compreflion
which is produced in the air-veffel, more than what is
necefary for merely balancing the quiefeent column of
water, reacts on the pifton, refifting its compreflion juft
as much as the column of water would do which pro¬
duces a velocity equal to that of the efflux,' Thus if the
water is made to fpout with the velocity of eight feet per
fgcond, this would require an additional column of one
Vox.. XVII. Part II.
PuniB,
P U M
and this would juft balance the compreftion
in me air-veffel, which maintains this velocity during
tne noa-a£tion of the pifton. It is, however, a matter
of iadt, that a pump furniftied with an air-veffel delivers
a little more water than it would do without it. But
the difference depends on the combination of many very
diflimilar circumftances, which it is extremely difficult
to bring into calculation. Some of thefe will be men¬
tioned afterwards.
To deferibe, or even to enumerate, the immenfe va¬
riety of combinations of thefe three Ample pumps would
fill a volume. We ftiall feledt a few, which are more
deferving of notice.
. f- common fucking-pump may, by a fmall ad-The fuck-
dition, be converted into a lifting-pump, fitted for pro-’ngPump
pelling the water to any diftance, and with any Velo-converted
City, J into a lift¬
ing pump.
Fig. 14.
Fig. 14. is a fucking-pump, whofe working-barrel
ACDB has a lateral pipe AEGHF connected with it
clofe to the top. This terminates in a itiain or rifing
pipe IK, furniftied or not with a valve L. The lop
of the barrel is ftmt up by a ftrong plate MN, having a
hollow neck terminating in a fmall flanch. The pifton
rod QR paffes through this neck, and is nicely turned
and polifhed. A number of rings of leather are put
over the rod, and ftrongly compreffed round it by ano¬
ther flanch and feveral ferewed bolts, as is reprefented
at OP. By this contrivance the rod is clofely grafped
by the leathers, but may be eafily drawn up and down,
while all pafiage of air or water is effectually pre¬
vented.
The pifton S is perforated, and furniftied with a
valve opening upwards. There is alfo a valve T on
the top of the fu&ion-pipe YX j and it will be of ad¬
vantage, though not abfolutely neceffary, to put a valve
L at the bottom of the rifing pipe. Now fuppofe the
pxfton at the bottom of the working-barrel. When it
Is drawn up, it tends to comprefs the air above it, be¬
caufe the valve in the pifton remains fimt by its own
weight. The air therefore is driven through the valve
L into the. rifing pipe, and efcapes. In the mean time,
the air which occupied the fmall fpace between the pi¬
fton and the valve T expands into the upper part of
the working barrel j and its elafticity is fo much dimi-
nilhed thereby, that the atmofphere preffes the water of
the ciftem into the fu&ion-pipe, where it will rife till
an equilibrium is again produced. The next down¬
ward ftroke of the pifton allows the air, which had
come fiom the fu&ion-pipe into the barrel during the
afeent of the pifton, to get through its valve. Upon
drawing up the pifton, this air is alfo drawn off through
the rifing pipe. Repeating this procefs brings the wa¬
ter at laft into the working-barrel, and it is then driven
along the rifing-pipe by the pifton.
This is one of the bed forms of a pomp. The ra-AJv"ta
rera&ion may be very perfe&, becaufe the pifton canof this con-
be brought fo near to the bottom of the working-verfian.
barrel: and, for forcing water in oppofition to great
preffures, it appears preferable to the common forcing-
pump ; becaufe in that the pifton rods are compreffed
and expofed to bending, which greatly hurts the pump
by wearing the pifton and barrel on one fide. This
foon renders it lefs tight, and much water fquirts out
by the fides of the pifton. But in this pump the piften
rod is always drawn or pulled, which keeps it ftraight}
3 $ and
33
P U ,M [ 506 ] P U M
nations.
Pump, and rods exert a much greater force in oppolition to a
J pull than in oppolition to compreffion. The collar of
leather round the pifton-rods is found by experience to
need very little repairs, and is very impervious to water.
The whole is very acceffible for repairs j and in this re-
fpefl much preferable to the common pump in deep
mines, where every fault of the pifton obliges us to
draw up fome hundred feet of pifton-rods. By this
addition, too, any common pump for the fervice of a
houfe is converted into an engine for extinguilhing fire,
or may be made to convey the water to every part of
the houfe ; and this without hurting or obftructing its
common ufes. All that is neceffary is to have a large
cock on the upper part of the working barrel oppo-
fite to the lateral pipe in this figure. This cock ferves
for a fpout when the pump is ufed for common pur-
pofes : and the merely Ihutting this cock converts the
whole into an engine for extinguilhing fire or for fup-
plying diftant places with water. It is fcarcely necef¬
fary to add, that for thefe fervices it will be proper to
conned! an air-velfel with fome convenient part of the
* riling pipe, in order that the current of the water may
34 be continual.
Equable We have frequently fpoken of the advantages of a
ftreamspro- continued current in the main pipe. In all great works
^reat^worksa con^<ierable degree of uniformity is produced by the
by combi- manner of difpoling the adtions of the different pumps;
for it is very rarely that a machine works but one
pump. In order to maintain fome uniformity in the
refillance, that it may not all be oppofed at once to the
moving power, with intervals of total inadtion, which
would produce a very hobbling motion, it is ufual to
diftribute the work into portions, which fucceed alter¬
nately j and thus both diminilh the ftrain, and give
greater uniformity of adtion, and frequently enable a
natural power which we can command, to perform a
piece of work, which would be impoflible if the whole
refiftance were oppofed at once. In all pump ma¬
chines therefore we are obvioufty diredted to conftrudl
them fo that they may give motion to at leaft two pumps,
which work alternately. By this means a much greater
uniformity of current is produced in the main pipe. It
will be rendered Hill more uniform if four are employed,
fucceeding each other at the interval of one quarter of
the time of a complete ftroke.
But ingenious men have attempted the fame thing
with a Angle pump, and many different conftrudtions
defcnbed* ^or purpofe have been propofed and executed.
The thing is not of much importance, or of great re-
fearch. We lhall content ourfelves therefore with the
defcription of one that appears to us the moll perfedl,
both in refpedt of fimplicity and effedl.
II. It conlifts of a working-barrel AB (fig. 1 ^.)
clofe at both ends. The pifton C is folid, and the rod
OP palfes through a collar of leathers in the plate,
which clofes the upper end of the working-barrel. This
barrel cofnmunicates laterally with tw7o pipes H, K ; the
communications m and n being as near to the top and
bottom of the barrel as poflible. Adjoining to the
palfage m are two valves F and G opening upwards.
Similar valves accompany the palfage n. The two pipes
H and K unite in a larger riling pipe L. They are all
reprefented as in the fame plane j but the upper ends
muft be bent backwards, to give room for the motion of
the pifton-rod OP.
35
A fingle
pump for
tig- 15-
Suppofe the pifton clofe to the entry of the lateral Pump.
pipe n, and that it is drawn up : it comprelfes the air  v -J
above it, and drives it through the valve G, where it
efcapes along the rifmg pipe; at the fame time it
rarefies the air in the fpace below it. Therefore the
weight of the atmofphere Hurts the valve E, and caufes
the water of the cittern to rife through the valve D,
and fill the lower part of the pump. When the pifton
is pulhed down again, this water is firft driven through
the valve E, becaufe D immediately Ihuts; and then
moft of the air which was in this part of the pump at
the beginning goes up through it, fome of the water
coming back in its Head. In the mean time, the air
which remained in the upper part of the pump after the
afcent of the pifton is rarefied by its defcent j becaufe
the valve G Ihuts as foon as the pifton begins to de-
fcend, the valve F opens, the air in this fudtion pipe
F y* expands into the barrel, and the w7ater rifes in¬
to the pipes by the preffure of the atmofphere. The
next rife of the pifton muft bring more -water into the
lower part of the barrel, and muft drive a little more
air through the valve G, namely, part of that which
had come out of the futtion-pipe F/; and the next
defcent of the pifton muft drive more water into the
riling pipe H, and along with it moft if not all of the
air which remained below the pifton, and muft rarefy
ftill more the air remaining above the pifton j and more
water will come in through the pipe ¥y, and get into
the barrel. It is evident, that a few repetitions will at
laft fill the barrel on both tides of the pifton with water.
When this is accomplilhed, there is no difficulty in per¬
ceiving how, at every rile of the pifton, the water of
the ciftern will come in by the valve D, and the water
in the upper part of the barrel will be driven through
the valve G j and, in every defcent of the pifton, the
water of the ciftern will come into the barrel by the
valve F, and the water below the pifton will be driven
through the valve E : and thus there will be a continu¬
al influx into the barrel through the valves D and F,
and a continual difeharge along the riling pipe L through
the valves E and G.
This machine is, to be fure, equivalent to two forcing jt js eqUiva-,
pumps, although it has but one barrel and one pifton •, lent to two
but it has no fort of fuperiority. It is not even more forcing-
economical in moft cafes; becaufe we apprehend tbatl3uml3S*
the additional workman {hip will fully compenfate for
the barrel and pifton that is faved. There is indeed a
faving in the reft of the machinery, becaufe one lever
produces both motions. We cannot therefore fay that
it is inferior to two pumps; and we acknowledge that
there is forae ingenuity in the contrivance.
We recommend to our readers the perufal of Bell- Authors re»
dor’s ArchitcBure Hydraulique -where is to be found a commend-
great variety of combinations and forms of the fimpleed.
pumps; but we muft caution them with refpeft to his
theories, which in this article are extremely defedlive.
Alfo in Leupold’s Theatrum Machinarum Hydraulica-
i'um, there is a prodigious variety of all kinds of pumps,
many of them very fingular and ingenious, and many
which have particular advantages, which may fuit local
circumftances, and give them a preference. But it
would be improper to fwell a work of this kind with fo
many peculiarities ; and a perfon who makes himfelf
mailer of the principles delivered here in fufficient de- /
tail, can be at no lofs to fait a pump to his particular
views,
P U M [ 507 J P U M
CCCCL.
Fig. 16.
Pump, views, or to judge of the merit of fuch as may be pro-
pofcd to him.
We muft now take notice of fome very confiderable
and important varieties in the form and contrivance of
the eifential parts of a pump.
The forcing III. The forcing pump is fometimes of a very diffe-
pump diffe- rent form from that already defcribed. Inftead of a
reBta A°n~ pih°n) which applies itfelf to the infide of the barrel,
r^laete' and Hides up and down in it, there is a long cylinder
PO£) (fig. 16.) nicely turned and polifhed on the out-
fide, and of a diameter fomewhat lefs than the infide of
the barrel. This cylinder (called a plunger) Hides
through a collar of leathers on the top of the working-
barrel, and is conftrufted as follows. The top of the
barrel terminates in a flanch a b, pierced with four holes
for receiving fcrew-bolts. There are two rings of me¬
tal, c d, ef, of the fame diameter, and having holes cor-
refponding to thofe in the flanch. Four rings of foft
leather, of the fame fize, and fimilarly pierced with
holes, are well foaked in a mixture of oil, tallow, and a
little rofin. Two of thefe leather rings are laid on the
pump flanch, and one of the metal rings above them.
The plunger is then thruft down through them, by
which it turns their inner edges downwards. The other
two rings are then flipped on at the top of the plun¬
ger, and the fecond metal ring is put over them, and
then the whole are Hid down to the metal ring. By
this the inner edges of the lafi: leather rings are turned
upwards. The three metal rings are now forced to¬
gether by the fcrewed bolts j and thus the leathern
rings are firongly compreffed between them, and made
to grafp the plunger fo clofely that no preffure can
force the water through between. The upper metal
ring juft allows the plunger to pafs through it, but
without any play j fo that the turned-up edges of the
leathern rings do not come up between the plunger and
the upper metal ring, but are lodged in a little conical
taper, which is given to the inner edge of the upper
plate, its hole being wider below than above. It is on
this trifling circumftance that the great tightnefs of the
collar depends. To prevent the leathers from ftirinking
by drought, there is ufually a little ciftern formed
round the head of the pump, and kept full of water.
The plunger is either forced down by a rod from a
working beam, or by a fet of metal-weights laid on it,
as is reprefented in the figure.
It is hardly neceffary to be particular in explaining
the operation of this pump. When the plunger is at
the bottom of the barrel, touching the fixed valve M
with its lower extremity, it almoft completely fills it.
That it may do it completely, there is fometimes a fmall
pipe RSZ branching out from the top of the barrel,
and fitted with a cock at S. Water is admitted till the
barrel is completely filled, and the cock is then {hut.
Now when the plunger is drawn up, the valve N in the
riling pipe muft remain {hut by the prefiure of the at-
mofphere, and a void muft be made in the barrel. There¬
fore the valve M on the top of the fudlion-pipe muft
be opened by the elafticity of the air in this pipe, and
the air muft expand into the barrel j and being no longer
a balance for the atmofphere, the water in the ciftern
muft be forced into the fuftion-pipe, and rife in it to a
certain height. When the plunger defcends, it muft
drive the water through the valve N (for the valve M
will immediately ftiut), and along with it moft of the
39
Its mode of
operation.
air which had come into the barrel. And as this air Pump.
occupied the upper part of the barrel, part of it -will re-  
main when the plunger has reached the bottom ; but
a ftroke or two wall expel it all, and then every fucceed-
ing ftroke of the defcending pifton will drive the waleis
along the rifing pipe, and every afcent of the plunger
will be followed by the water from the ciftern.
The advantage propofed by this form of pifton is
that it may be more accurately made and poliftied than
the infide of a v/orking barrel, and it is of much eafier
repair. Yet we do not find that it is much ufed, al¬
though an invention of the 17th century (we think by
Sir Samuel Morland), and much praifed by the winters
on thefe fubje£!s.
It is eafy to fee that the fucking-pump may be vari- sucktng-
ed in the fame way. Suppofe this plunger to be open pump fimi*
both at top and bottom, but the bottom filled with a Uirly va*
valve opening upward. When this is puflied to thened’
bottom of the barrel, the air w^hich it tends to com-
prefs lifts the valve (the lateral pipe FIK being taken
awray and the paffage {hut up), and efcapes through the
plunger. When it is drawn up, it makes the fame ra-
refaftion as the folid plunger, becaufe the valve at O
{huts, and the wrater will come up from the ciftern as in
the former cafe. If the plunger be now thruft dowrn
again, the valve M {huts, the valve O is forced open,
and the plunger is filled with water. This will be lifted
by it during its next afcent; and when it is puftied
dowm again, the wfater which filled it muft now be puflr-
ed out, and will flow over its Hides into the ciftern at the
head of the barrel. Inftead of making the valve at the
bottom of the pifton, it may be made at the top ; but
this difpofition is much inferior, becaufe it cannot rare¬
fy the air in the barrel one half. This is evident; for
the capacity of the barrel and plunger together cannot
be twice the capacity of the barrel.
IV. It may be made after a ftill different form, as Another
reprefented in fig. 17. Here the fu£fion-pipe CO form of the
comes up through a ciftern KMNL deeper or longer fucking“
than the intended ftroke of the pifton, and has a valve
C at top. The pifton, or what afts in lieu of it, is a lg' I7’
tube AHGB, open at both ends, and of a diameter
fomervhat larger than that of the fu£tion-pipe. The
interval between them is filled up at HG by a ring or
belt of foft leather, wftfich is faftened to the outer tube,
and moves up and down with it, Hiding along the
fmoothly poliflied furface of the fuftion-pipe with very
little fridlion. There is a valve I on the top of this
pifton, opening upwards. Water is poured into the
outer ciftern.
The outer cylinder or pifton being draivn up from and its
the bottom, there is a great rarefaction of the air which mode of
was between them, and the atmofphere preffes the wa- operation,
ter up through the fudtion-pipe to a certain height;
for the valve I keeps Hmt by the preflure of the atmo¬
fphere and its own weight. Pufhing down the pifton
caufes the air, which had expanded from the fuCtion-
pipe into the pifton, to efcape through the valve I \
drawing it up a fecond time, allows the atmofphere to
prefs more water into the faClion-pipe, to fill it, and al-
fo part of the pifton. When this is puftied down again,
the water which had come through the valve C is now
forced out through the valve I into the ciftem KMNL,
and nowr the whole is full of water. When, therefore,
the pifton is drawn up, the water follows, and fills it, if
3 5 2 not
Pump.
43
The pifton
cylinder
differently
formed.
44
Pumps
without
fridlion
not of im¬
portant uie,
45
Example
©f a fimple
pump with¬
out fric¬
tion.
Fig;. I 8.
P U M [ 5c8
not 33 feet above the water.in the ciflern • and when it
is pufhed down again, the water which filled the pifton
is all thrown out into the cittern; and after this it deli¬
vers its full contents of -water every ftroke. The water
in the cittern KMNL effectually prevents the entry of
any air between the two pipes ; lo that a very model ate
compreffion of the belt of toft leather at the mouth of
the pifton cylinder is fufficient to make all perfectly
tight.
It might be made differently. The ring of leather
might be faftened round the top of the inner cylinder
at DE, and Aide on the infide of the pifton cylinder;
but the firft form is moft eafily executed. Mufchen-
broeck has given a figure of this pump in his large
fyftem of natural philofophy, and fpeaks very highly of
its performance. But we do not fee any advantage
which it poffeffes over the common fucking-pump. He
indeed fays that it is without fridlion, and makes no
mention of the ring of leather between the two cy¬
linders. Such a pump will raife water extremely well
to a fmall height, and it feerns to have been a model
only which he had examined : But if the luclion pipe is
long, it will by no means do without the leather ; for
on drawing up the pifton, the water of the upper ci-
ftern will rife between the pipes, and fill the pifton, and
none will come up through the fuel ion-pipe.
We may take this opportunity of obferving, that the
many ingenious contrivances of pumps without fridlion
are of little importance in great works ; becaufe the
fridlion which is completely fufficient to prevent all
efcape of water in a well conftrudled pump is but a
very trifling part of the whole force. In the great
pumps which are ufed in mines, and are worked by
a fleam-engine, it is very ufual to make the piftons and
valves without any leather whatever. The working bar¬
rel is bored truly cylindrical, and the pifton is made of
metal of a fize that will juft pafs along it without flick¬
ing. When this is drawn up with the velocity compe¬
tent to a properly loaded machine, the quantity of wa¬
ter which efcapes round the pifton is infignifieant. The
pifton is made without leathers, not to avoid fridlion,
which is alfo infignificant in fuch works ; but to avoid
the neceflity of frequently drawing it up for repairs
through fuch a length of pipes.
V. If a pump abfolutely without fridlion be wanted,
the following feems preferable for fimnlicity and per¬
formance to any wre have feen, when made ufe of in
proper fituations. Let NO (fig. 18.) be the furface
of the water in the pit, and K the place of delivery.
The pit mull be as deep in water as from K to NO.
ABCD is a wooden trunk, round or fquare, open at
both ends, and having a valve P at the bottom. The
top of this trunk muft be on a level with K, and has a
fmall ciftern EADF. It alfo communicates laterally
with a rifing pipe GHK, furniftied with a valve at H
opening upwards. LM is a beam of timber fo fitted
to the trunk as to fill it without flicking, and is of at
leaft equal length. It hangs by a chain from a work¬
ing beam, and is loaded on the top with weights ex:-
ceeding that of the column of water which it difplaces.
Now fuppofe this beam allowed to defeend from the
pofition in which it is drawn in the figure ; the wa¬
ter muft rife all around it, in the crevice which is be¬
tween it and the trunk, and alfo in the rifing pipe ; be¬
caufe the valve P fhuts, and H opens 3 fo that when the
] P U M
plunger has got to the bottom, the water will Hand at Pump,
the level of K. When the plunger is again drawn up v ~~'
to the top by the aflion ot the moving power, the wa¬
ter links again in the trunk, but not in the rifing pipe,
becaufe it is flopped by the valve H. Then allowing
the plunger to defeend again, the water muft again rife
in the trunk to the level of K, and it muft now flow
out at K ; and the quantity difeharged will be equal to
the part of the beam below the furface of the pit-
water, deducing the quantity which fills the fmall fpace
between the beam and the trunk. This quantity may
be reduced almoft to nothing ; for if the infide of the
trunk and the outfide of the beam be made tapering,
the beam may be let down till they exactly fit 3 and as
this may be done in fquare work, a good workman can
make it exceedingly accurate. But in this cafe, the
lower half of the beam and trunk muft not taper : and
this part of the trunk muft be of fufficient width round _
the beam to allow free paflage int© the rifing pipe.
Or, which is better, the rifing pipe muft branch off from
the bottom of the trunk. A difeharge may be made
from the ciftern EADF, fo that as little water as
poffible may defeend along the trunk when the pifton is
ra;^d- , .... 4 <5
One great excellence of this pump is, that it is per- Its excet-
feflly free from all the deficiencies which in common are
pumps refult from want of being air-tight. Another ^Kler*
is, that the quantity of water railed is precifely equal ‘ J‘ ’
to the power expended 3 for any want of accuracy in
the work, while it occafions a diminution of the quan¬
tity of water difeharged, makes an equal diminution in
the weight which is necefla y for puihing down the
plunger. We have Been a machine conliiling of two
fuch pumps fufpended from the arms of a long beam,
the upper fide of which was formed into a walk with
a rail on each fide. A man flood on one end till it
got to the bottom, and then walked foberly up to
the other end, the inclination being about twenty-
five degrees at fir'i, but gradually diminifhed as be went
along, and changed the load of the beam. By this
means he made the other end go to the bottom, and fo
on alternately, with the eafieft of all exertions, and
what we are moft fitted for by our ftrufiure. With tins
machine, a very feeble old man, weighing 1 to pounds,
raifed 7 cubic feet of water 114 ieet high in a minute,
and continued working 8 or 10 hours every day. A
flout young man, weighing nearly 133 pounds, raifed
8-f to the fame height •, and when he carried 30 pounds,
conveniently flung about him, he raifed g 'x feet to this
height, working 10 hours a-day without fatiguing
himfelf. This exceeds Defagulier’s maximum of a
hogfhead of water 10 feet high in a minute, in the pro¬
portion of 9 to 7 nearly. It is limited to very mode- ,n.( ^
rate heights 3 but in fuch fituations it is very effedlual. n-jlte(i.
It was the contrivance of an untaught labouring man,
poffeffed of uncommon mechanical genius. We fhall
have occafion to mention, with refpedl, forae other con¬
trivances of the fame perfon, in the article IVATER-
Works. 1 g
VI. The moft ingenious contrivance of a pump with- Hufkin’s
out fridlion is that of Mr Halkins, deferibed by Defagu- pump de.
Tiers, and called by him the Quicksilver Puvp. Itsfcribtd-
conftrudlion and mode of operation are pretty compli¬
cated 3 but the following preliminary obfervations will,
■we hope, reader it abundantly plain.
Let
P U M
[ 509 ]
P U M
Pump.
Fig. 19.
49
Its mode
of opera¬
tion.
Let i l m k (fig. 19.) be a cylindrical iron pipe, about
fix feet long, open at top. Let e g hf bt another cy¬
linder, connected with it at the bottom, and of fmaller
diameter. It may either be folid, or, it hollow, it
mult be clofe at top. Let a c d b be a third iron
cylinder, of an intermediate diameter, to that it may
move up and dowrn between the other two wfithout
touching either, but with as little interval as poifxble.
Let this middle cylinder communicate, by means of the
pipe AB, with the upright pipe FE, having valves C
and D (both opening upwards) adjoining to the pipe
of communication. Suppofe the outer cylinder fui-
pended by chains from the end of a working beam, and
let mercury be poured into the interval between the
three cylinders till it fills the fpace to 0 p, about 4 of
their height. Alio tuppofe that the lower end of the
pipe FE is imrherfed into a ciltern of water, and that
the valve D is lefs than 33 feet above the furface of this
water.
Now fuppofe a petforation made fomewhere in the
pipe AB, and a, communication made with an air-pump.
When the air-pump is worked, the air contained in CE,
in AB, and in the fpace between the inner and middle
cylinders, is rarefied, and is abfhacted by the air-pump
for the valve D immediately thuts. The preflure of
the atmofphere will caufe the wrater to rife in the pipe
CE, and will caufe the mercury to rife between the
inner and middle cylinders, and fink between the outer
and middle cylinders. Let us fuppofe mercury 12
times heavier than water: Then for every foot that
the wrater rifes in EC, the level between the outfide and
infide mercury will vary an inch and if we fuppofe
DE to be 30 feet, then if wTe can rarefy the air fo as to
raife the w'ater to D, the outiide mercury will be de-
preffed to y, r, and the infide mercury wall have rifen to
j, t, s q and t r, being about 30 inches. In this ftate of
things, the water will run over by the pipe BA, and
every thing will remain nearly in this petition. The
columns of w7ater and mercury balance each other, and
balance the preffure of the atmofphere.
While things are in this ttate of equilibrium, if we
allow7 the cylinders to defeend a little, the wTater wiii
rife in the pipe FE, w'hich we may now confider as a
fuftion-pipe •, for by this motion the capacity of the
whole is enlarged, and therefore the preffure of the at¬
mofphere will ftill keep it full, and the fituation of the
mercury will again be fuch that all thall be in equilibrio.
It will be a little lower in the infide fpace and higher in
the outfide.
Taking this view of things, we fee clearly how7 the
water is fupported by the atmofphere at a very confi-
derable height. The apparatus is analogous to a fy-
phon w'hich has one leg filled with w7ater and the other
with mercury. But it was not neceffary to employ an
air-pump to ’fill it. Suppofe it again empty, and all
the valves (hut by their own weight. Let the cylinders
defeend a little. The capacity of the fpaces below the
valve D is enlarged, and therefore the included air is
rarefied, and fome of the air in the pipe CE muft dif-
fufe itfelf into the fpace quitted by the inner cylinder.
Therefore the atmofphere wall prefs fome w'ater up the
pipe FE, and fome mercury into the inner fpace be¬
tween the cylinders. When the cylinders are raifed
again, the air w'hich came from the pipe CE would re¬
turn into it again, but is prevented by the valve C.—
Pump.1
Fig. 20.
Raifing the cylinders to their former height would com-
prefs this air; it therefore lifts the valve D, and efcapes. ;
Another depreffion of the cylinders will have a fimilar
effect. The water will rife higher in EC, and the mer¬
cury in the inner fpace; and then, after repeated itrokes,
the water will pafs the valve C, and fill the whole ap¬
paratus, as the air-pump had cauled it to do before.—
The poiition of the cylinders, when things are in this
fituation, is reprefented in fig. 20. the outer hud inner
cylinders in their loweft pofiiion having defeended about
30 inches. The mercury in the outer fpace Hands
at y, r, a little above the middle of the cylinders, and
the mercury in the inner fpace is near the top / j- of the
inner cylinder. Now let the cylinders be drawn up.
The w7ater above the mercury cannot get back again
through the valve C, which flints by its own weight.
We therefore attempt to comprefs it ; but the mercury
yields, and defeends in the inner fpace, and rifes, in
the outer till both are quickly on a level, about the
height v v. If we continue to raise the cylinders, tha
eompreffion forces out more mercury, and it now7 Hands
lower in the inner than in the outer fpace. But that
there may be fornething to balance this inequality of
the mercurial columns, the water goes through the
valve D, and the equilibrium is reflored when the
height of the wmcer in the pipe ED above the furface
of the internal mercury is 12 times the difference of
the mercurial columns (on the former fuppofition of
fpecific gravity.) If the quantity of water is fuch as
to rile two feet in the pipe ED, the mercury in the
outer fpace will he tw7o inches higher than that in the
inner fpace. Another depreffion of the cylinders will
again enlarge the fpace within the apparatus, the mer¬
cury will take the pofition of fig. 19. and more w7ater
will come in. Raifing the cylinders wall fend this
water four feet up the pipe ED, and the mercury will
be four inches higher in the inner than in the outer
fpace. Repeating this operation, the water wall bs
raifed ftill higher in DE ; and this will go on till the
mercury in the outer fpace reaches the top of the cy¬
linder ; and this is the limit of the performance. The
dimenfions with which we fet out wall enable the ma¬
chine to raife the water about 30 feel in the pipe ED ;
which, added to the 30 feet of CF, makes the w'hole
height above the pit-water 60 feet. By making the
cylinders longer, w'e increafe the height of ED. This
machine muft be worked wfilh great attention, and but
flowly; for at the beginning of the forcing ftroke the
mercury very rapidly finks in the inner fpace and rifes
in the outer, and will dalli out and be loft. To pre¬
vent this as much as poflible, the outer cylinder termi¬
nates in a fort of cup or difh, and the inner cylinder
ftiould be tapered atop.
The machine is exceedingly ingenious and refined ; Ingenuity
and there is no doubt but that its performance will ex- of the con-
ceed that of any other pump which raifes the water totrivance
the fame height, becaufe friction is completely avoided,^ieat’
and there can be no wrant of tightnefs of the pifton —
But this is all its advantage ; and, from what has been, ^ ^ ^
obferved, it is but trifling. The expence wrould be e-rvantar,e
normous ; for with whatever care the cylinders are made, trilling,
the interval between the inner and outer cylinders muft
contain a very great quantity of mercury. The middle
cylinder muft be made of iron plate, and muft be without
a Team, for the mercury w’ould diffolve every folder. For
fuchi
So
P U M [ 510 ] p u M
Pump, fucli reafons, it has never come Into general ufe. But
..' wouy have been unpardonable to have omitted the
defcription of an invention which is fo original and in¬
genious; and there are fome occafions where it may be
of great ufe, as in nice experiments for illuftrating the
theory of hydraulics, it would give the fined; pitlons for
mealuring the preffures of water in pipes, &c. It is
on precifely the fame principle, that the cylinder bel¬
lows, defcribed in the article Pneumatics, are con-
^ ftrufted.
Defcription We beg leave to conclude this part of the fubjeft
of another with the defcription of a pump without fridtion, which
"H- may be conftrufted in a variety of ways by any common
tion. carpenter, without the affiftance of the pump-maker or
plumber, and will be very effeftive for railing a great
quantity of water to fmall heights, as in draining
marlhes, marl pits, quarries, &c. or even for the fervice
of a houfe.
;Fig. 2r. VII. ABCD (fig. 21.) is a fquare trunk of carpen¬
ter’s w'ork open at both ends, and having a little ci-
itern and fpout at top. Near the bottom there is a
partition made of board, perforated wdth a hole E,
and covered wdth a clack, ffff reprefents a long cy¬
lindrical bag or pudding, made of leather or of double
canvas, with a fold of thin leather fuch as flieepfkin be¬
tween the canvas bags. This is firmly nailed to the
board E with foft leather between. The upper end of
this bag is fixed on a round board, having a hole and
valve F. This board may be turned in the lathe with
a groove round its edge, and the bag fattened to it by
a cord bound tight round it. The fork of the pifton-
rod FG is firmly fixed into this board; the bag is kept
diftended by a number of wrooden hoops or rings of
ftrong xvixe ff ff ff &c. put into it at a few inches
diftance from each other. It will be proper to conneft
thefe hoops before putting them in, by three or four
cords from top to bottom, which will keep them at
their proper diftances. Thus will the bag have the
form of a barber’s bellows powder-puff. The diftance
between the hoops fhould be about twice the breadth of
the rim of the wooden ring to which the upper valve
C3 and pirton-rod are fixed.
Its mode Now let this trunk be immerfed in the water. It is
of opera- evident that if the bag be ftretched from the compref-
l0n> c- fecj form which its own weight will give it by drawing
up the pifton-rod, its capacity will be enlarged, the
valve F will be (hut by its own wreight, the air in the
bag will be rarefied, and the atmofphere will prefs the
water into the bag. When the rod is thruft down
again, this water will come out by the valve F, and
fill part of the trunk. A repetition of the operation will
have a fimilar effed ; the trunk will be filled, and the
water will at laft be difcharged by the fpout.
Here is a pump without fri&ion, and perfectly tight.
For the leather between the folds of canvas renders the
bag impervious both to air and water. And the can¬
vas has very confiderable ftrength. We know from
experience that a bag of fix inches diameter, made of
fail-cloth N° 3. with a fheep (kin between, will bear a
column of 15 feet of water, and ftand fix hours work
per day for a month without failure, and that the pump
is confiderably fuperior in effeft to a common pump
of the fame dimenfions. We mutt only obferve, that the
length of the bag mutt be three times the intended
length of the ftroke; fo that when the pifton-rod is in
its higheft pofition, the angles or ridges of the bag may Pump.
be pretty acute. If the bag be more ftretched than' r—4
this, the force which mult be exerted by the labourer
becomes much greater than the weight of the column
of water which he is railing. If the pump be laid
aflope, which is very ufual in thefe occafional and hafty
drawings, it is neceffary to make a guide for the pifton-
rod within the trunk, that the bag may play up and
down wulhout rubbing on the fides, wdiich would quick¬
ly wear it out.
The experienced reader will fee that this pump is
very like that of Goffet and De la Deuille, defcribed by
Belidor, vol. ii. p. 120. and moll writers on hydraulics.
It wmuld be ftill more like it, if the bag w^ere on the
under fide of the partition E, and a valve placed farther
down the trunk. But we think that our form is great¬
ly preferable in point of flrength. When in the other
fituation, the column of water lifted by the pifton
tends to burjl the bag, and this with a great force, as
the intelligent reader well knows. But in the form re¬
commended here, the bag is comprejfed, and the ftrain
on each part may be made much lefs than that which
tends to burft a bag of fix inches diameter. The nearer
the rings are placed to each other the fmaller will the
ftrain be.
The fame bag-pifton may be employed for a forcing
pump, by placing it below the partition, and inverting
the valve ; and it will then be equally ftrong, becaule
the refiftance in this cafe too will aft by compreflion.
We now come naturally to the confideration of the
different forms which may be given to the pifton s and
valves of a pump. A good deal of what we have been
defcribing already is reducible to this head; but, having
a more general appearance, changing as it were the
whole form and ftrufture of the pump, it wras not im¬
proper to keep thefe things together.
The great defideratum in a pifton is, that it be aspifto^
tight as. poflible, and have as little friftion as is confiftent fhoutd have*
with this indifpenfable quality. We have already faid, little fric-
that the common form, when carefully executed, hasti<,n-
thefe properties in an'eminent degree. And according¬
ly this form has kept its ground amidft all the improve¬
ment which ingenious artifts have made. Mr Belidor,
an author of the firfi: reputation, has given the defcrip¬
tion of a pifton which he highly extols, and is undoubt¬
edly a very good one, conftrufted from principle, and
extremely well compofed.
. It confifts of a hollow cylinder of metal g h (fig. 22.) An impro-
pierced wdth a number of holes, and having at top av<?done by
flanch AB, whofe diameter is nearly equal to that ofBeildor-
the wTorking-barrel of the pump. This flanch has a Flg’ 22,
groove round it. There is another flanch IK below, by
which this hollow7 cylinder is fattened with bolts to the
low7er end of the pifton, reprefented in fig. 23. This Fig. 23.
confifts of a plate CD, with a grooved edge fimilar to
AB, and an intermediate plate which forms the feat of
the valve. The compofition of this part is better undcr-
ftood by infpefting the figure than by any defcrip¬
tion. The pifton-rod HL is fixed to the upper plate
by bolts through its different branches at G, G, This
metal body is then covered with a cylindrical bag of
leather, fattened on it by cords bound round it, filling up
the grooves in the upper and lower plates. The opera¬
tion of the pifton is as follows.
A little water is poured into the pump, which gets
pa ft;
P U M [5
Pump. paft the fides of the pifton, and lodges below in the
1 ~ v ' fixed valve. The pifton being puftied down dips into
this water, and it gets into it by the valve. But as the
pifton in defcending comprefles the air below it, this
compreffed air alfo gets into the infide of the pifton,
fwells out the bag which furrounds it, and comprefles it
to the fides of the working-barrel. When the pifton is
drawn up again, it muft remain tight, becaufe the valve
will ftiut and keep in the air in its moft compreffed
ftate ; therefore the pifton muft perform well during the
fuftion. It muft aft equally well when puftred down
again, and afting as a forcer j for however great the
refiftance may be, it will affeft the air within the pifton
to the fame degree, and keep the leather clofe applied
to the barrel. There can be no doubt therefore of the
pifton’s performing both its offices completely j but we
imagine that the adhefion to the barrel will be greater
than is neceflary : it will extend over the whole fur-
face of the pifton, and be equally great in every part of
its furface; and we fufpeft that the friftion will there¬
fore be very great. We have very high authority for
fuppofing that the adhefion of a pifton of the common
form, carefully made, will be fuch as will make it per¬
ils defeats, fe&ly tight j and it is evident that the adhefion of Beli-
dor’s pifton will be much greater, and it will be produc¬
tive of worfe confequences. If the leather bag be worn
through in any one place, the air efcapes, and the pifton
ceafes to be comprefled altogether ; whereas in the com¬
mon pifton there will very little harm refult from the lea¬
ther being worn through in one place, efpecially if it pro-
jefl a good way beyond the bafe of the cone. We ftill
think the common pifton preferable. Belidor’s pifton
would do much better inverted as the pifton of a fuck¬
ing pump and in this fituation it would be equal, but
not fuperior, to the common.
Another by Belidor defcribes another forcing pifton, which he
the fame had executed with fuccefs, and prefers to the common
wooden forcer. It confifts of a metal cylinder or cone,
having a broad fianch united to it at one end, and a fi-
milar flanch which is fcrewed on the other end. Be¬
tween thefe two plates are a number of rings of leather
ftrongly compreffed by the two flanches, .J then turn¬
ed in a lathe like a block of wood, till the whole fits
tight, when dry, into the barrel. It will fweil, fays he,
and foften with the water, and withftand the greateft
preflures. We cannot help thinking this but an indif¬
ferent pifton. When it wears, there is nothing to
fqueeze it to the barrel. It may indeed be taken out
and another ring or two of leather put in, or the flanches
may be more ftrongly fcrewed together : but all this
may be done with any kind of pifton j and this has
therefore no peculiar merit.
The following will, we prefume, appear vaftly pre¬
ferable. ABCD (fig. 24.) is the folid wooden or metal
block of the pifton ; EF is a metal plate, which is turn¬
ed hollow or difh-like below, fo as to receive within it
the folid block. The pifton rod goes through the
whole, and has a fhoulder above the plate EF, and a
nut H below. Four fcrew-bolts, fuch as i k, l jn, alfo go
through the whole, have their heads k, m funk into
the block, and nuts above at z, /. The packing or fluf¬
fing, as it is termed by the workmen, is reprefented at
NO. This it made as folid as poflible, and generally
confifts of foft hempen twffne well foaked in a mixture
of oil, tallow, and rofin. The plate EF is gently fcrew-
author.
.58
Objections
to it.
59
Another
recom¬
mended as
preferable.
Fig. 24.
n ] P U M
ed dowm, and the tvhole is then put into the barrel, Pump,
fitting it as tight as may be thought proper. When it ' * *
wears loofe, it may be tightened at any time by fcrew-
ing down the nuts 1 /, which caufe the edges of the difti
to fqueeze out the packing, and comprefs it againft the
barrel to any degree. £0
The greateft difficulty in the conftruftion of a pifton Difficulties
is to give a fuficient paifage through it for the water,10 conftruCj'
and yet allow a firm fupport for the valve, and fixture^ pi1'
for the pifton rod. We fhall fee prefently that it oc- ° *
cafions a confiderable expence of the moving power to
force a pifton with a narrow perforation through the
water lodged in the wmrking barrel. When we are
raifing water to a fmall height, fuch as 10 or 20 feet,
the power fo expended amounts to a fourth part of the
whole, if the water-way in' the pifton is lefs than one-
half of the feSion of the barrel, and the velocity of the
pifton tw'o feet per fecond, which is very moderate.
There can be no doubt, therefore, that metal piftons are
preferable, becaufe their greater ftrength allows much
wider apertures.
The following pifton, defcribed and recommended byconfider-
Belidor, feems as perfect in thele refpedts as the nature ably remo-
of things will allow. We fhall therefore defcribe it inve^ one;
the author’s own words as a model, which may be adopt-
ed with confidence in the greateft works.
“ The body of the pifton is a truncated metal cone Plate
(fig. 25.), having a linall fillet at the greater end. CCCCLI.
Fig. 26. Ihows the profile, and fig. 27. the plan of its pi*'
upper bafe \ where appears a croft bar DD, pierced 27*
with an oblong mortife E for receiving the tail of the Fig. 18.
pifton-rod. A band of thick and uniform leather AA
(fig. 26. and 28.) is put round this cone, and fecured
by a braft hoop BB firmly driven on its fmaller end,
where it is previoufty made thinner to give room for the
hoop.
“ This pifton is covered with a leather valve, fortified
with metal plates GG ("fig. 290* Thefe plates are Fig. 29,
wider than the hole of the pifton, fo as to reft on its
rim. There are fimilar plates below the leather of a
fmaller fize, that they may go into the hollow of the
pifton ; and the leather is firmly held between the metal
plates by fcrews H, H, which go through all. This
is reprefented by the dotted circle I K. Thus the pref-
fure of the incumbent column of water is fupported by
the plates G G, whofe circular edges reft on the brim
of the water-way, and their ftraight edges reft on the
croft bar DD of fig. 26. and 27. This valve is laid
on the top of the conical box in fuch a manner that its
middle FF refts on the croft bar. To bind all together,
the end of the pifton-rod is formed like a croft, and the
arms MN (fig. 30.) are made to reft on the diameter p.^
FF of the valve, the tail EP going through the hole E ^
in the middle of the leather, and through the mortife E
of the croft bar of the box 3 and alfo through another
bar QR (fig. 28. and 29.) which is notched into the
lower brim of the box. A key V is then driven into
the hole T in the pifton-rod 3 and this wedges all faff.
The bar QIl is made ftrong; and its extremities projeft
a little, fo as to fupport the braft hoop BB which binds
the leather band to the pifton-box. The adjoining fcale
gives the dimenfions of all the parts, as they were exe¬
cuted for a fteam-engine near Conde, where the pifton
gave complete fatisfadlion.”
This pifton has every advantage of ftrength, tightnefs,
and >
Pump.
6j
Advanta¬
ges of tins
piiton.
63
Another
ingenious
and ufeful
pifton de-
icribed.
Fig- 31-
64
Another on
a different
principle.
Fig. 32.
6S
Its advan¬
tages.
p u m r 5
and large water-way. The form of the valve (which
has given it the name of the butterfly-valve) is extreme¬
ly favourable to the paffage of the water 5 and as it has
but half the motion of a complete circular valve, lefs wa¬
ter goes back while it is (hutting.
The following pifton is alio ingenious, and has a
good deal of merit. OPPO (fig. 31.) is the box of
the pifton, having a perforation covered above with
a flat valve K, which refts in a metal plate that forms
the top of the box. ABC BA is a ftirrup of iron to
which the box is fixed by ferews c, a, a, a, whofe heads
are funk in the wood. This ftirrup is perforated at C,
to receive the end of the pifton-rod, and a nut H is
fere wed on below to keep it fart. DEFED is another
ftirrup, whofe lower part at DD forms a hoop like the
foie of a ftirrup, which embraces a fmall part of the top
of the wooden box. The lower end of the pifton-rod
is ferewed 5 and before it is put into the holes of the
two ftirrups (through which holes it Hides freely) a
broad nut G is fcrew'ed on it. It is then put into the
holes, and the nut H firmly fevewed up. The packing
RR is then wound about the pifton as tight as pofiible
till it completely fills the working barrel of the pump.
When long ule has rendered it in any degree loofe, it
may be tightened again by ferewing down the nut G.
This caufes the ring DD to comprefs the packing be¬
tween it and the projediing (boulder of the box at PP;
and thus caufes it to fwell out, and apply itfelf clofely
to the barrel.
We (hall add only another form of a perforated pifton;
which being on a principle different trom all the prece¬
ding, will fuggeft many others; each of which will have
its peculiar advantages. GO in fig. 3 2. reprefents the
box of this pifton, fitted to the working barrel in any
of the preceding ways as may be thought beft. AB
is a crofs bar of four arms, which is fixed to the top of
the box. CF is the pifton-rod going through a hole in
the middle of AB, and reaching a little way beyond
the bottom of the box. It has a (boulder D, which
prevents its going too far through. On the lower end
th ere is a thick metal plate, turned conical on its upper
fide, fo as to fit a conical feat PP in the bottom of the
pifton-box.
When the pifton-rod is pufhed down, the friftion on
the barrel prevents the box from immediately yielding.
The rod therefore (lips through the hole of the crofs
bar AB. The plate E, therefore, detaches itfelf from
the box. When the (boulder D preffes on the bar
AB, the box muft yield, and be puffed down the bar¬
rels, and the water gets up through the perforation.
When the pifton rod is drawn up again, the box does
not move till the plate E lodge in the feat PP, and
thus (huts the water-way ; and then the pifton lifts the
water which is above it, and afts as the pifton of a
fucking pump.
1 his is a very fimple and effedlive conftruclion, and
makes a very tight valve. It has been much recom¬
mended by engineers of the firft reputation, and is
frequently uled ; and from its fimplicity, and the great
folidity of which it is capable, it feems very fit for
great works. But it is evident that the water-way is
limited to lefs than one-half of the area of the workinrr-
barrel. For if the perforation of the pifton be one-half
of the area, the diameter of the plate or ball EF muft
12] P u M
be greater; and therefore lefs than half the area will Pump,
be left for the paflage of the water by its ndes. ' v—
WTe come now to confider the ierms which may be {r
given to the valves of a hydraulic engine. tioiisoa"
The requilites of a valve are, that it (hall be tight, valves,
of fufficient ftrength to refill the great 'preffures to
which it is expoied, that it afford a (ufticient paflage
for the water, and that it do not allow much to go back
while it is (hutting.
Wre have not much to add to what has been faid al- c!ar£7
ready on this fubjecl. The valves which accompany valves,
the pump of fig. 5. are called clack valves, and are of all
the moft obvious and common 5 and the conli rudtion
deferibed on that occafion is as perfedl as any. We on¬
ly add, that as the leather is at laft deftroyed at the
hinge by fuch inceffant motion, and it is troublefome,
efpecially in deep mines, and under water,' to undo the
joint of the pump in order to put in a new valve, it is
frequently annexed to a box like that of a pifton, made
a little conical on the outfide, (o as to (it a conical feat
made for it in the pipe, as reprefented in fig. 33. and it pj
has an iron handle like that of a balkct, by which it can ^
be laid hold of by means of a long grappling-hook let
down from above. Thus it is drawn up ; and being
very gently tapered on the (ides, it (licks very fail in its
place.
The only defect of this valve is, that by opening Defea itt
very wide when puflied up by the ftream of water, it them,
allows a good deal to go back during its (hutting again.
In fome great machines which are worked by a (low
turning crank, the return of the pifton is fo very (low,
that a fenfible lofs is incurred by this; but it is nothing
like what Dr Delaguliers fays, one-half of a cylinder
whofe height is equal to the diameter of the valve 
For in fuch machines, the laft part of the upward
ftroke is equally flow, and the velocity of the water
through the valve exceedingly fmall, fo that the valve
is at this time almoft (hut. ^
rJ he butterfly-valve reprefented in figures 29, &c. is Utility of
free from mott of thofe inconveniences, and items the tlK bmter-
moft perfect of the clack valves. Some engineers make %-vaIve‘
their great valves of a pyramidal form, confiding of four
clacks, whofe hinges are in the circumference of the
water-way, and which meet with their points in the
middle, and are fupporied by four ribs which rife up
from the (ides, and unite in the middle. This is an ex¬
cellent form, affording the moft fpacious water-way,
and (hutting very readily. It feems to be the beft pof-
fible for a pifton. The rod of the pifton is branched
out on four fides, and the brandies go through the pi¬
fton-box, and are faftened below with ferews. Thefe
branches- form the fupport for the four clacks. We
have feen a valve of this form in a pump of fix feet di¬
ameter, which difeharged 20 hogffeads of water every
ftroke, and made 12 ftrokes in a minute, railing the wa¬
ter above 22 feet.
There is another form of valve, called the button or Button
tail valve. It confifts of a plate of metal AB (fig. 34.) valves,
turned conical, fo as exaftly to fit the conical cavity a b Fig. 34.
of its box. A tail CD projecls from the under Vide,
which paffes through a crofs bar EF in the bottom of
the box, and has a little knob at the end, to hinder the
valve from rifing too high.
This valve, when nicely made, is unexceptionable.
It
2
Pump.
Though
fomewhat
imperfedl
iii the wa
ter-way.
73
A very fim
pie valve
defcribed.
FiS- 35-
74
A valve
by Belidor
uniting e-
very requi-
iite.
75
Another
valve on
the fame
principle.
% 3 k
P U M [ 5
It has great ftrength, and is therefore proper for all fe-
' vere (trains, and it may be made perfectly tight by
grinding. ^ Accordingly it is ufed in all cafes where this
is of indifpenfable conference. It is moft durable,
and the only kind that will do for paflages where (team
or hot water is to go through. Its only imperfection
is a fmall water-way; which, from what has been faid,
cannot exceed, or indeed equal, one^half of the area of
the pipe.
If we endeavour to enlarge the water-way, by giving
the cone very little taper, the valve frequently (ticks
fo fait in the feat that *no force can detach them.—
And this fometimes happens during the working of the
machine ; and the jolts and blows given to the machine
in taking it to pieces, in order to difcover what has
been the reafon that it has dilcharged no water, fre¬
quently detach the valve, and we find it quite loofe,
and cannot tell what has deranged the pump. When
this is guarded againft, and the diminution of the water-
way is not of very great eonfequence, this is the bed
form of a valve.
Analogous to this is the fimplefl: of all valves, repre-
fented in fig. 35. It is nothing more than a fphere of
metal A, to which is fitted a feat with a fmall portion
EC of a fpherical cavity. Nothing can be more effec¬
tual than this valve ; it always falls into its proper
place, and in every pofition fits it exaftly. Its only
imperfeffion is the great diminution of the water-way.
If the diameter of the fphere does not confiderably ex¬
ceed that of the hole, the touching parts have very
little taper, and it is very apt to (lick faft. It oppofes
much lefs refiftance to the paffage of the water than the
flat under-furface of the button-valve. N. B. It would
be an improvement of that valve to give it a taper-fhape
below like a boy’s top. The fpherical valve mult not
be made too light, otherwife it will be hurried up by
the water, and much may go back while it is returning
to its place.
Belidor defcribes with great minutenefs (vol. ii. p.
22i, &c.) a valve which unites every requifite. But
it is of fuch nice and delicate coriftruftion, and its de¬
fers are fo great when this exa&nefs is not attained, or
is impaired by ufe, that we think it hazardous to in¬
troduce it into a machine in a fituation where an intel¬
ligent and accurate artifl is not at hand. For this
reafon we have omitted the defcription, which cannot
be given in few words, nor without many figures; and
defire our curious readers to confult that author, or per-
ufe Dr Defagulier’s tranflation of this paffage. Its
principle is precifely the fame with the following rude
contrivance, with which we fliall conclude the defcrip-
tive part of this article.
Suppoie ABCD (fig. 36.) to be a fquare wooden
trunk. EF is a piece of oak-board, exactly fitted to
the trunk in an oblique pofition, and fupported by an
iron pm which goes through it at I, one-third of its
length from its lower extremity E. The two ends of
this board are bevelled, fo as to apply exactly to the
fides of the trunk. It is evident, that if a ftream of
water come in the direaion BA, its preffure on the
part IF of this board will be greater than that upon
El. It will therefore force it up and rufli through,
making it Hand almoil parallel to the fides of the trunk.
To prevent its rifing fo far, a pin mufl be put in its
way. When this current of water changes its direc-
Vol. XVII. Part IE
13 ] P U M
tion, the preffure on the upper fide of th'e board being Pump,
again greateft on the portion IF, it is forced back again —“*
to its former fituation , and its two extremities retting
on the onpofite Tides of the trunk, the paffage is com¬
pletely (lopped. 1 his board therefore performs the
office of a valve ; and this valve is the moft perfeft that
can be, becaufe it offers the freed paffage to the water,
and it allows very little to get back while it is fhuttingj
for the part IE brings up half as much water as IF al¬
lows to go down. It may be made extremely tight,
by fixing two thin fillets H and G to the fides of the
trunk, and covering thofe parts of the board with lea¬
ther which applies to them 3 and in this (late it perfect¬
ly refembles Belidor’s fine valve.
And this conftrudtion of the valve fuggefts, by the Defcription
way, a form of an occafional pump, which may beof^noc-
quickly fet up by any common carpenter, and will be c‘u,Jna'
very effectual in fmall heights. Let ab c de (fig. 36.) 1,7^0^
be a fquare box made to Hide along this wooden trunk ftnnfteu.
without (hake, having two of its fides projecting up- Gg- in¬
wards, terminating like the gable-ends of a houie. A
piece of wood e is mortifed into thefe two (ides, and to
this the pifton-rod is fixed. This box being furniffied
with a valve fimilar to the one below', will perform the
office of a pifton. If this pump be immerfed fo deep in
the water that the pifton fliall alio be under water, we
fcruple not to fay that its performance will be equal to
any. The pifton may be made abundantly tight by co¬
vering its outfide neatly with foft leather. And as no
pipe can be bored with greater accuracy than a very or¬
dinary workman can make a fquare trunk, we prefume
that thfs pump will not be very deficient even for a con-
(iderable futftion. ^
We now7 proceed to the laft part of the fubjetft, to The mo-
conflder the motion of water in pumps, in reference to t^on.°^ wa"
the force which muft be employed. What we have1:61 m
hitherto faid with refpect to the force which muft be 1 " ^
applied to a pifton, related only to the fuftaining the
water at a certain height : but in aftual fervice we
muft not only do this, but we muft difeharge it at the
place of delivery in a certain quantity \ and this muft
require a force fuperadded to what is neceflary for its
mere fupport at this height. _g
This is an extremely intricate and difficult fubjeft, an intri-
and very imperfectly underftood even by profelfed en-cate Gb-
gineers. The principles on which this knowledge muft-i:C^
be founded are of a much more abftrufe nature than the
ordinary law's of hydroftatics ; and all the genius of
New'ton was employed in laying the foundation of this
part of phyfical fcience. It has been much cultivated
in the courfe of this century by the firft: mathematicians
of Europe. Daniel and John Bernoulli have written
very elaborate treatifes on the fubject, under the very
appafite name of Hydrodynamics ; in which, although The theory
they have added little or nothing to the fundamental dtnomina-
propofitions eftabliffied in fome iort by Newton, and te(1 Hydr0‘
acquiefced in by them, yet they have greatly contribu- dynamics*
ted to' our progrefs in it by the methods which they
have purfued in making application of thofe fundamen¬
tal propofitions to the moft important cafes. It muft
be acknowledged, however, that both thefe propofi¬
tions, and the extenfions given them by thefe authors
are fupported by a train of argunYnt that is by no
means unexceptionable \ and that they proceed on af-
fumptions or poftulaies which are but nearly true in
ft F an y
Pump.
So
though
imperfect
is very ufe-
ful.
Si
Fundamen.
tal propoli-
tion.
8z
?ts utility.
P U M [ 51
any cafe, and in many are inadmiflibfe : and it remains
to this hour a wonder or puzzle how thefe propofitions
and their refults correfpond with the phenomena which
we obferve.
But fortunately this correfpondence does obtain to
a certain extent. And it feems to be this correfpond¬
ence chiefly which has given thefe authors, with New¬
ton at their head, the confidence which they place in
their refpeftive principles and methods: for there are
confiderable differences among them in thofe refpedfs 5
and each feems convinced that the others are in a miitake.
Meflieurs d’Alembert and De la Grange have greatly
corredled the theories of their predeceflbrs, and have
proceeded on poftulates w'hich come much nearer to the
real hate of the cafe. But their inveftigations involve
us in fuch an inextricable maze of analytical invefuga-
tion, that even when we arc again conduced to the
light of day by the clue w'hich they have given us, we
can make no ufe of what we there difeovered.
But this theory, imperfedl as it is, is of great fervice.
It generalizes our obfervations and experiments, and en¬
ables us to compofe a praBicaldoBrine from a heap of
fa&s which otherwife muft have remained folitary and
unconnected, and as cumberfome in their application as
the charadters of the Chinefe writing.
The fundamental propofition of this practical hydro¬
dynamics is, that wTater or any fluid contained in an
open veffel of indefinite magnitude, and impelled by its
weight only, will flow through a fmall orifice with the
velocity which a heavy body would acquire by falling
from the horizontal furface of the fluid. 'Thus, if the
orifice is 16 feet under the furface of the w'ater, it will
iffue w ith the velocity of 32 feet in a fecond.
Its velocity correfponding to any other depth h of
the orifice under the furface, will be had by this eafy
proportion : “ As the fquare root of 16 is to the fquare
root of h; fo is 32 feet to the velocity required: or,
alternately, 16 : 32= V ^ : and v— ^
^ -v///, = h: that is, multiply the fquare root of
^ •>.
the height in feet by eight, and the produdl is the re¬
quired velocity.
On the other hand, it frequently occurs, that wre
want to difeover the depth under the furface which will
V
produce a known velocity v. Therefore, h =1
Pump.
and h
64
that is, divide the fquare of the velo¬
city by 64, and the quotient is the depth wanted in
feet.
This propofition is fufficient for all our purpofes.
For fince water is nearly a perfeft fluid, and propagates
all impreffions undiminifhed, we can, in place of any
preffure of a pifton or other caufe, fubflitute a perpen¬
dicular column of w7ater wBofe wreight is equal to this
preffure, and will therefore produce the fame efflux.—
Thus, if the furface of a pifton is half a fquare foot, and
it be preffed down with the weight of 500 pounds, and
we would wifh to know with wfflat velocity it would
caufe the water to flow through a fmall hole, we know
that a column of water of this weight, and of half a
foot bafe, would be 16 feet high. And this propofition
§3
4 ] P U M
teaches us, that a veffel of this depth will have a velo¬
city of efflux equal to 32 feet in a iecond.
If theretore our preffing powTer be oi Inch a kind that
it can continue to prefs forward the pilion with the force
of 500 pounds, the w'ater will flow with this velocity,
whatever be the fize of the hole. All that remains is,
to determine what change «f aBualprejjure on the pifton
refults from the motion of the pifton itlelf, and to change
the velocity of efflux in the fubduplicate ratio of the
change of aftual preffure.
But before we can apply this knowledge to the cir- Remark
cumftances wfflich take place in the motion of water in previous
pumps, wTe muft take notice of an important modifica-toyts aP”
tion of the fundamental propofttion, w’hich is but very l)*!caUun‘
obfeurely pointed out by any good theory, but is efta-
bliftied on the moft regular and unexceptionable obfer-
vation.
If the efflux is made through a hole in a thin plate,
and the velocity is computed as above, we ftiall difeover
the quantity of wTater which iffues in a fecond by obfer-
ving, that it is a prifm or cylinder of the length indica¬
ted by the velocity, and having its tranfverfe feftion
equal to that of the orifice. Thus, in the example al¬
ready given, fuppofing the hole to be a fquare inch, the
folid contents of this prifm, or the quantity of wTater if-
fuing in a fecond, is iXfl^X 12 cubic inches, or 384
cubic inches. This wTe can eafily meafure by receiving
it in a veffel of known dimenfions. Taking this me¬
thod, wTe uniformly find a deficiency of nearly 38 parts
in 100 ; that is, if w'e ftiould obtain 100 gallons in any
number of feconds, we (hall in fact get only 62. This
is a moft regular facl, whether the velocities are great
or fmall, and w-hatever be the fize and form of the ori¬
fice. The deficiency increafes indeed in a very minute
degree wdth the velocities. If, for inftance, the depth
of the orifice be one foot, the difeharge is T0V0V i ^ it
be 15 feet, the difeharge is -/oVoV
This deficiency is not owing to a diminution of velo¬
city ; for the velocity may be eafily and accurately mea-
fured by the diftance to which the jet will go, if direft-
ed horizontally. This is found to correfpond very near¬
ly wdth the propofition, making a very fmall allowance
for fri&ion at the border of the hole, and for the refin¬
ance of the air. Sir Ifaac Newton aferibed the defici¬
ency with great juftice to this, that the lateral columns
of W'ater, furrounding the column which is incumbent
on the orifice, prefs towards the orifice, and contribute
to the expence equally with that column. Thefe lateral
filaments, therefore, iflue obliquely, crofting the motion
of the central ftream, and produce a contra&ion of the
jet; and the whole ftream does not acquire a parallel
motion and its ultimate velocity till it has got to fome
diftance from the orifice. Careful obfervation {bowed
him that this was really the cafe. But even his genius
could not enable him to afeertain the motion of the la¬
teral filaments by theory, and he W'as obliged to mea¬
fure every thing as he faw it. He found the diameter
of the jet at the place of the greateft contraftion to be
precifely fuch as accounted for the deficiency. His ex¬
plication has been unanimouily acquiefced in •, and expe¬
riments have been multiplied to afeertain all thofe cir-
cumftances w'hich our theory cannot determine a priori.
The moft complete fet of experiments are thofe of Mi-
chelotti, made at Turin at the expence of the prince of
Piedmont.
P U M [515] P U M
Pa;np. Piedmont. Here jets were made of I, 2, 3, and 4
—■v ' inches diameter j and the water received into ciiterns
mod accurately formed of brick, and lined with ftucco.
It is the refult of thefe experiments which we have ta¬
ken for a meafure of the deficiency.
We may therefore confider the water as flowing
through a hole of this contracted dimenfion, or fubftitute
this for the real orifice in all calculations. For it is evi¬
dent that if a mouth-piece (fo to call it) were made,
whofe internal fhape precifely tallied with the form which
the jet airtimes, and if this mouth-piece be applied to
the orifice, the water will flow out without any obftruc-
tion. The veffel may therefore be confidered as really
having this mouth-piece.
Nay, from this we derive a very important obferva-
tion, “ that if, inftead of allowing the water to flow
through a hole of an inch area made in a thin plate, we
make it flow through a hole in a thick plank, fo formed
that the external orifice fhall have an inch area, but be
widened internally agreeably to the fhape which nature
forms, both the velocity and quantity will be that which
the fundamental propofition determines. Michelotti
meafured with great care the form of the great jets of
three and four inches diameter, and found that the
bounding curve rvas an elongated trochoid. He then
made a mouth-piece of this form for his jet of one inch,
and another for his jet of two inches *, and he found the
difcharges to be -r9c-7c9o aHd -rofe 5 a"d he, with juftice,
afcribed the trifling deficiency which flill remained,
partly to friftion and partly to his not having exaflly
fuited his mouth-piece to the natural form. We imagine
that this laft circumifance was the foie caufe : For, in
the fidt place, the water in his experiments, before get¬
ting at his jet-holes, had to pafs along a tube of eight
inches diameter. Now a jet of four inches bears too
great a proportion to this pipe j and its narrownefs un¬
doubtedly hindered the lateral columns from contribut¬
ing to the efflux in their due proportion, and therefore
rendered the jet lefs convergent. And, in the next
place, there can be no doubt (and the obfervations of
Daniel Bernoulli confirm it) but that this convergency
begins within the veffel, and perhaps at a very confider-
able diflance from the orifice. And we imagine, that
if accurate obfervations could be made on the motion of
the remote lateral particles within the veffel, and an in¬
ternal mouth-piece were fhaped according to the curve
which is defcribed by the remoteft particle that we can
obferve, the efflux of water would almoft perfedfly tally
with the theory. But indeed the coincidence is already
fufficiently near for giving us very valuable informa¬
tion. We learn that the quantity of rvater which flows
through a hole, in confequence of its own weight, or
by the adlion of any force, may be increafed one half
by properly fhaping the paffage to this hole ; for we fee
that it may be increafed from 62 to near 99.
But there is another modification of the efflux, which
we confefs our total incapacity to explain. If the w?ater
iffues through a hole made in a plate whofe thicknefs is
about twice the diameter of the hole, or, to exprefs it
tetter, if it iffues through a pipe whofe length is about
twice its diameter, the quantity difcharged is nearly
°f what refults from the propofition. If the pipe
be longer than this, the quantity is diminifhed by fric¬
tion, which increafes as the length of the pipe increafes.
If the pipe be fhorter, the water will not fill it, but de¬
taches itfelf at the very entry of the pipe, and flaw-s jPurng.
with a contra£!ed jet. When the pipe is of this length,
and the extremity is flopped with the finger, fo that it
begins to flow with a full mouth, no fubfequent contrac¬
tion is obferved ; but merely ftriking on the pipe with a
key or the knuckle is generally fufficient to detach the
water in an inftant from the tides of the pip£, and re¬
duce the efflux to
This effcft is mod unaccountable. It certainly arifes
from the mutual adhefion or attraflion between the wa¬
ter and the tides of the pipe ; but how this, afting at
right angles to the motion, fflould produce an increafe
from 62 to 82, nearly -j, we cannot explain. It fhows,
however, the prodigious force of this attraftion, wdiieh
in the fpace of two or three inches is able to communi¬
cate a great velocity to a very great body of water. In¬
deed the experiments on capillary tubes fhowr that the
mutual attraffion of the parts of water is fome thoufands
of times greater than their wxight.
We have only further to add, that every increafe of
pipe beyond two diameters is accompanied with a dimi¬
nution of the difeharge ■, but in what ratio this is dimi-
nithed it is very difflcult to determine. We fhall only
obferve at prefent that the diminution is very great.
A pipe of 2 inches diameter and 30 feet long has its
difeharge only -fA of what it wmuld be if only 4 inches
long. If its length be 60 feet, its difeharge will he no
more than T?A-. A pipe of 1 inch diameter would have
a difeharge of A^, and T-A, in t'ne fame lituation.
Hence we may conclude that the difeharge of a 4-inch
pipe of 30 feet long will not exceed -j of what it would
he if only 8 inches long. This will fuihce for our pre¬
fent purpofes 5 and the determination of the velocities
and difeharges in long conduits from pump-machines
muff be referred to the article IVjTER-lVorks. At pre¬
fent we {ball confine our attention to the pump itfelf,
and to what will contribute to its improvement.
Before we can proceed to apply this fundamental
propofition to our purpofe, we muff anticipate in a loofe
way a propofition of continual ufe in the conffrudlion of
water works.
Let water be fuppofed ftagnant in a veffel EFGFI*’^^’
(fig. 37.), and let it be allowed to flow out by a cylin¬
drical pipe HIKL, divided by any number of partitions
B, C, I), &c. Whatever be the areas B, C, D, of
thefe orifices, the velocity in the intermediate parts of
the pipe will be the fame *, for as much paffes through
any one orifice in a fecond as paffes through any other
in the fame time, or through any feefion of the inter¬
vening pipe. Let this velocity in the pipe be V, and
let the area of the pipe be A. The velocity in the ori¬
fices B, C, D, mull be
VA VA VA
“B-’ C ’ D > &C
Let g
be the velocity acquired in a fecond by a heavy body.
Then, by the general propofition, the height of water
* . . VA.
in the veffel which will produce the velocity in
B
V»A*
the firft orifice alone, is . After this pufage the
velocity is again reduced to V in the middle of th^.
fpace between the firft and fecond orifices. In the fe-
VA
cond orifice this velocity is changed to . This
3 T 2 alone
Pump.
S4
To deter-
srdne the
motion of
water, 5tc.
P U M
alone would have required a height of water
£ 51
V* A*
^Cx"
But the water is already moving with the velocity V,
which would have refulted from a height of water in
the veffel (which we lhall, in the language of the art, call
V*
the HEAD OF water) equal to —. Therefore there
V1 A* V1
is only required a head of water  — , or
    2^’
V* Az
~X Qi — 1 • Therefore the whole height neceffary
for producing the efflux through both orifices, fo as
flill to preferve the velocity V in the intervening pipe,
V* A* A1
is — X-n + T^ — 1 • 1° like manner the third orifice
2g is* 1 C*
V* A*
D would alone require a head of water — X w 1 ;
2g JD*
V* A* A*
and all the three would require a head —X-vr, -b -rm-f-
2g B* ' C '
— 2.
By this indudlion may eafily be feen what
A*
D*
head is neceffary for producing the efflux through any
number of orifices.
Let the expence or quantity of water difcharged in
an unit of time (fuppofe a fecond) be expreffed by the
fymbol Q. This is meafured by the product of the ve¬
locity by the area of the orifice, and is therefore irVA,
VA VA O*
— XB, or~xC, &c. and V* = ^
There¬
fore we may compute the head of water (which we
fhall exprefs by H) in reference to the quantity of wa¬
ter difcharged, becaufe this is generally the interefting
circumftance. In this view we have H
A* A* A*
wi-rri +
2gA
X
SS
fn the fuck¬
ing-pump,
-2: which {hows that the head of water
neceffary for producing the difcharge increafes in the
proportion of the Iquare of the quantity of water winch
is difcharged.
Thefe things being premifed, it is an eafy matter to
determine the motion of water in a pump, and the quan¬
tity difcharged, refulting from the aftion of any force
on the pifton, or the force which muff be applied to
the pifton in order to produce any required motion or
quantity difcharged. We have only to fuppofe that the
force employed is the preffure of a column of water of
the diameter of the working barrel 5 and this is over
and above the force which is neceffary for merely fup-
porting the water at the height of the place of delivery.
The motion of the water will be the fame in both
cafes.
Let us, firft of all, ccnfider a fucking-pump. The
motion here depends on the preffure of the air, and will
be the fame as if the pump were lying horizontally, and
communicated with a refervoir, in which is a head of
water fufficient to overcome all the obftru&ions to the
motion, and produce a velocity of efflux fuch as we de¬
fire. And here it muft be noted that there is a limit.
No velocity of the pifton can make the water rife in the
luftion-pipe with a greater velocity than w7hat would
6 ] P U M
be produced by the preffure of a column of water 33
feet high j that is, about 46 feet per fecond.
Let the velocity of the pifton be V, and the area of
the working barrel be A. Then, if the water fills the
barrel as fait as the pifton is drawn up, the difcharge
during the rife of the pifton, or the number of cubic
feet of water per fecond, muft be rz: VxA. This is
always fuppofed, and wn have already afcertained the
circumftances which enfure this to happen. If, there¬
fore, the water arrived with perfect freedom to the pi¬
fton, the force neceffary for giving it this velocity, or
for difcharging the quantity VxA in a fecond, would
be equal to the wnight of the pillar of wTater whofe height
. V*
is —, and bafe A.
2g
It does not appear at firft: fight that the force ne¬
ceffary for producing this difcharge has any thing to do
with the obftrudlions to the afcent of the wrater into the
pump, becaufe this is produced by the preffure of the
atmofphere, and it is the aftion of this preffure which
is meafured by the head of wrater neceffary for produ¬
cing the internal motion in the pump. But w7e muft al¬
ways recollecl that the pifton, before bringing up any
water, and fupporting it at a certain height, was preffed
on both fides by the atmofphere. While the air fup-
ports the column below the pifton, all the preffure ex¬
pended in this fupport is abftrafted from its preffure on
the under part of the pifton, while its upper part ftil!
fupports the whole preffure. The atmofphere continues
to prefs on the under furface of the pifton, through the
intermedium of the water in the fudlion-pipe, with the
difference of thefe two forces. Now, while the piftou
is drawn up with the velocity V, more of the atmofphe-
ric preffure muft be expended in caufing the water to
follow the pifton ; and it is only with the remainder of
its whole preflure that it continues to prefs on the under
furface of the pifton. Therefore, in order that the pifton
may be raifed with the velocity V, a force muft be ap¬
plied to it, over and above the force neceffary for mere¬
ly fupporting the column of water, equal to that part of
the atmofpheric preffure thus employed ; that is, equal
to the weight of the head of water neceffary for forcing
the water up through the fu&ion-pipe, and producing
the velocity V in the working barrel.
Therefore let B be the area of the mouth of the
fu&ion-pipe, and C the area of the fixed valve, and let
the fu£lion-pipe be of equal diameter with the working
barrel. The head neceflary for producing the velocity
V* /A2 A* \
V on the working barrel is —1 )• If
d exprefs the denfity of water j that is, if d be the.
V2
number of pounds in a cubic foot of water, then d A —
2g
will exprefs the weight of a column whofe bafe is A
V*
and height—, all being reckoned in feet. Therefore
2g
the force which muft be applied, when eftimated m
d A V* / A* A* \
pounds, will be A -f --x ).
The firft general obfervation to be made on what has
been faid is, that the power which muft be employed
to produce the neceffary motion, in oppofition to all the
obftacles, is in the proportion of the fquare of the. velo¬
city
Pump,
P U M [5
mp. city wliich we would produce, or the fquare of the quan-
r'—"' ty of water ■we would dilcharge.
We have hitherto proceeded on the fuppofition, that
there is no contraction of the jet in palling through thefe
twyo orifices. This ive know would be very far from the
truth. We muft therefore accommodate things to thefe
circumftances, by diminilhing B and C in the ratio of
the contraction, and calling the diminilhed areas b and
, , KdY* (A? A3 \
c; then we have p — { -7 ( 1 ).
Kb' 1 c* J
What this diminution may be, depends on the form
of the parts. If the fixed valve, and the entry into
the pump, are Amply holes in thin plates, then b— •y(W- B
and c—The entry is commonly widened or
trumpet-fhaped, which diminilhes greatly the contrac¬
tion : but there are other obitacles in the way, ariling
from the Itrainer ufually put round it to keep out filth.
The valve may have its contraCHon greatly diminifbed
alfo by its box being made bell-thaped internally j nay,
even giving it a cylindrical box, in the manner of fig.
33. is better than no box at all, as in fig. 5. j for fuch a
cylindrical box will have the unaccountable effeCl of the
the Ihort tube, and make b— B, inftead of B.
Thus we fee that circumftances feemingly very trifling
may produce great effeCts in the performance of a pump.
We Ihould have obferved that the valve itfelf prefents
an obftacle which diminifhes the motion, and requires
an increafe of power j and it would feem that in this re-
fpeCl the clack or butterfly valve is preferable to the
button valve.
Example. Suppofe the velocity of the pifton to be
2 feet or 24 inches per fecond, and that the two con¬
tracted areas are each £ of the area of the pump, which
2s not much lefs than what obtains in ordinary pumps.
Vs / A1 A3 \
We have “(jr + 71 —i) = 4i4(25 + 25—1)
— 36,75 inches, and the force which we muft add to
what will merely fupport the column is the rveight of a
pillar of water incumbent on the pifton, and fomething
more than three feet high. This would be a fenfible
portion of the whole force in railing water to fmall
heights.
We have fuppofed the fuCHon-pipe to be of the fame
diameter with the working barrel; but it is ufual to
make it of fmaller diameter, generally equal to the wa¬
ter way of the fixed valve. This makes a conuderable
change in the force neceffary to be applied to the pi¬
fton. Let a be the area of the fuCtion-pipe, the area of
the entry being liill B ; and the equivalent entry with¬
out contraction being Itill b, we have the velocity at
AV
the entrance ~ —r-, and the producing head of water—
b
AV
After this the velocity is changed to in
A2W
2g bl
the fu&ion-pipe, with which the water arrives at the
A V
valve, where it is again changed to , and requires for
A2 VJ
this change a head of water eoual to  -. But
1 aye
the velocity retained in the fuClion-pipe is equivalent to
A2 V2
the efteCI of a head of water ——. Therefore the
2^ a2
heaxl neceftiry tor producing fuch a current through the
17 ] p u M
fixed valve, that the water may follow the pifton with Pump.
the velocity V, is
A2 V
2g b-
A2>
+
A2 V2 A2 V2
- 1 ——
2g c* 2g ax
This is evidently lefs than
A*
a is lefs than A, and therefore
YlfAL
2g\bz c2
before, becaufe
is greater than unity, which was the laft term of the
former formula. I here is fome advantage, therefore,
derived from making the diameter of the fuClion-pipe
lefs than that of the working barrel: but this is only be¬
caufe the paffage of the fixed valve is fmaller, and the
infpeCtion of the formula plainly points out that the area
of the fuCHon-pipe thould be equal to that of the fixed
valve. When it is larger, the water muft be accelerated
in its paffage through the valve; which is an ufelefs ex¬
pence of force, becaufe this velocity is to be immediate¬
ly reduced to V in the working-barrel. If the forego¬
ing example be computed with a equal to -2- of A, we
lhall find the head H equal to 29 inches inftead of 37.
But this advantage of a fmaller fuClion -pipe is in all
cafes very moderate 5 and the pump is always inferior to
one of uniform dimenfions throughout, having the ori¬
fice at the fixed valve of the fame area. And if thefe
orifices are confiderably diminilhed in any proportion,
the head neceflary for overcoming the obftacles, fo that
the required velocity V may ftill be produced in the
working barrel, is greatly increafed. If we fuppofe the
area a ^ of A, which is frequently done in houfe pumps,
where the diameter of the iuction-pipe does feldom ex¬
ceed \ of that of the working-barrel ; and fuppofe every
thing made in proportion to this, which is alio ufual,
becaufe the unikilled pump-makers ftudy a fymmefcry
which fatisfies the eye ; we fhall find that the pump
taken as an example will require a head of water —
13 feet and upwards. Befides, it muft be obferved
that the friftion of the fuction-pipe itfelf has not been
taken into the account. This alone is greater, in moil
cafes, than all the obftruftions we have been fpeaking
of; for if this pipe is three inches diameter, and that of
the working-barrel is fix, which is reckoned a liberal al¬
lowance for a fuflion-pipe, and if the fixed valve is 25
feet above the furface of the pit-water ; the frieftion of
this pipe will amount to one-third of the whole propel¬
ling force.
Thus we have enabled the reader to afeertain the
force neceflary for producing any required difeharge of
water from a pump of known dimenfions : and the con-
verfe of this determination gives us the difeharge which
will be produced by any given force. Tor making:
A2 A2 A2 ^ .. , . \
_ _j_ ~ (which is a known quantity, refulting.
b~ ‘ c‘ a
from the dimenfions of the pump)
V2 2 pH
— M, and V2 — -fr-, and V
2g ’ M ’
:M, *.e have H
2^H
M '
Now H
is that part of the natural power which we have at com¬
mand which exceeds what is neceflary for merely fup-
porting the column of water. Thus, if we have a
pump whofe pifton has an area of i of a fquare foot,
its diameter being 61- inches and we have to raife the
water 32 feet, and can apply a power of 525 pounds to
the pifton • we wifti to know at what rale the pifton
will be moved, and the quantity of water difeharged ?•
P U M [ si
Pump. Merely to fupport tire column of water of this height
aRct diameter, requires 500 pounds. Therefore the re¬
maining power, which is to produce the motion, is 25
pounds. This is the weight of a column 1 foot 4 inches
high, and H = 1,333 ^eet* ^et us fuPP°fe ^ diame¬
ter of the fuction-pipe \ of that of the working-barrel,
A
fo that -- = 4. We may luppofe it executed in the
beft manner, having its lower extremity trumpet-fhaped,
formed by the revolution of the proper trochoid. The
contraftion at the entry may therefore be confidered
8 ]
P U M
A
A1
as nothing, and ~ 4, and — 16. We may
fuppofe the orifice of the fixed valve equal to
A1
area of the fu£Hon-pipe, fo that — is alfo =:
and there is no contraftion here j and therefore
is alfo 16.
A2 A2
b1 c1
And laftly, —
A2
is alfo 16. Therefore
  or
M, = 16-f- 16 — 16,
16.
We have alfo 2g ~ 64.
Now
= J?±
=^,309
feet, and the pifton wrill
Vs/A —* Pump.
quires for its produiftion a head of water l } '
This is the height of a column of water whofe bafe is
not A but A—a. Calling the denfity of water </, w©
have for the weight of this column, and the force p in
d'x A-
V2 </V*(A—aX-
/ ; — 1* • lhis»
b J 2g 2gbx
wre fee again, is proportional to the fquare of the velo¬
city of the pitton in its defcent, and has no relation to
the height to which the water is raifed.
If the piilon has a button valve, its furface is at lead:
equal to a ; and therefore the preffure is exerted on the
water by the whole furface of the pifton. In this cafe
d\Tl A5
we fliall have /> — confiderably greater than
before. We cannot afcertain this value with great pre-
cifion, becaufe it is extremely difficult, if poffible, to
determine the refiftance in fo complicated a cafe. But
the formula is exaft, if b can be given exactly $ and
we know within very moderate limits what it may
amount to. In a pump of the very beft conftruflion,
with a button valve, b cannot exceed one-half of A ;
A3
and therefore —— cannot be lefs than 8. In this
b1
V2 A3 . V*
cafe, T— will be--^-. In a good fteam-engme pump
2 go* 8 0
V*
V is about three feet per fecond, and -r- is about i-|
o
feet, which is but a fmall matter.
We have hitherto been confidering the fucking-pump an^ 1( ^
alone : but the forcing pump is of more importance, forring-
and apparently more difficult of inveftigation.—Here pump,
we have to overcome the obftruftions in long pipes,
with many bends, contraftions, and other obftruftions.
But the confideration of what relates merely to the
pump is abundantly limple. In moft cafes we have
only to force the water into an air-veffel, in oppofition to
the elafticity of the air compreffed in it, and to fend it
thither with a certain velocity, regulated by the quan¬
tity of water difcharged in a given time. The elafticity
of the air in the air-veflel propels it along the Main.
We are not now fpeaking of the force neceffary for
counterbalancing this preffure of the air in the air-veffel,
which is equivalent to all the fubfequent ob/iru&ions, but
only of the force neceflary for propelling the water out
of the pump with the proper velocity.
We have in a manner determined this already. The
pifton is folid, and the water which it forces has to
pafs through a valve in the lateral pipe, and then to
move in the direction of the main. The change of di-
reffion requires an addition of force to what is necef¬
fary for merely impelling the water through the valve.
Its quantity is not eafily determined by any theory,
and it varies according to the abi'uptnefs of the turn.
It appears from experiment, that when a pipe is bent
to a right angle, without any curvature or rounding,
the velocity is diminiftied about At- This would aug¬
ment the head of water about This may be added
to the contra6Hon of the valve hole. Let c be its na¬
tural aiea, and whatever is the contraftion competent
to its form increafe it X'T, and call the contra&ed area
V1 A*
c. Then this will require a head of water =   — .
2g c
This
move with the velocity of 2 feet 4 inches nearly. Its
velocity will be lefs than this, on account both of the
fri£lion of the pifton and the friftion of the water in
the fu£tion-pipe. Thefe two circumftances will pro¬
bably reduce it to one foot eight inches j and it can
hardly be lefs than this.
We have taken no notice of the friction of the rvater
in the working-barrel, or in the fpace above the pifton \
becaufe it is in all cafes quite infignificant. The longeft
pipes employed in our deep mines do not require more
than a few inches of head to overcome it.
But there is another circumftance which muft not be
omitted. This is the refiftance given to the pifton in
its defcent. The piftons of an engine for drawing wra-
ter from deep mines muft defcend again by their own
weight in order to repeat their ftroke. This muft re¬
quire a preponderance on that end of the working-beam
to which they are attached, and this muft be overcome
by the moving power during the efteclive ftroke. It
makes, therefore, part of the wffiole wmrk to be done,
and muft: be added to the weight of the column of wa¬
ter wffiich muft be raifed.
This is very eafily afcertained. Let the velocity of
the pifton in its defcent be V, the area of the pump-
barrel A, and the area of the pifton-valve a. It is
evident, that while the pifton defcends with the velo¬
city V, the w’ater wffiich is difplaced by the pifton in a
fecond is (A—#) V. This muft pafs though the hole
of the pifton, in order to occupy the fpace above, which
is left by the pifton. If there were no contrafliarr, the
water would go through with the velocity V j but
as there will always be fome contradlion, let the dimi¬
niftied area of the hole (to be difcovered by experiment)
be bt the velocity therefore will be V • This re-
P U M [ 519 ] P U M
Pump.
* 87
Ufe of ex¬
periments.
d AVVAa
2g
. This muft be added to the head —, neceffary for mere-
2 g J
ly giving the velocity V to the water. Therefore the
V2 / A2 \
whole is — ^ ^ 1 j \ and the power p neceflary for
for this purpofe is
It cannot efcape the obiervation of the reader, that
in all theie formulae, expreffing the height of the co¬
lumn 01 water which would produce the velocity V in
the working barrel of the pump the quantity which
multiplies the conflant fadlor  — depends on the
2 g 2
con trailed paflages which are in different parts of the
pump, and increafes in the duplicate proportion of the
fum of thofe contrailions. It is therefore of the utmoft
confequence to avoid all fuch, and to make the main
which leads from the forcing-pump equal to the working
barrel. It it be only of half the diameter, it has but
one-fourth of the area, the velocity in the main is four
times greater than that of the pifton, and the force ne-
ceffary for difcharging tne fame quantity of water is 16
times greater.
It is not, however, poffible to avoid thefe contrac¬
tions altogether, without making the main pipe wider
tnan the barrel. For if only fo wide, with an entry of
the fame fize, the valve makes a confiderable obtlruc-
tion.. Unfkilful engineers endeavour to obviate this by
making an enlargement in that part of the main which
contains the valve. This is feen in fig. 14. at the valve
L. If this be not done with great judgement, it will
increafe the obftruclions. lor if this enlargement is full
of water, the water mull move in the direction of its
axis with a dimmifhed velocity ; and when it comes iu-
to the main, it muff again be accelerated. In fhort,
any abrupt enlargement which is to be afterwards con-
tracfed, does as much harm as a contradtion, unlefs it
be fo fiiort that the water in the axis keeps its velocity
till it reaches the contradtion. Nothing would do more
fervice to an artift, who is not well founded in the
theory ot hydrodynamics, than to make a few' fimple
and cheap experiments with a veffel like that of fig. 37.
Let the horizontal pipe be about three inches diameter,
and made in joints which can be added to each other.
Let the joints be about fix inches long, and the holes
from one-fourth to a whole inch in diameter. Fill the
veffel with water, and obferve the time of its finking
three or four inches. Each joint fliould have a final!
hole in its upper fide to let out the air ; and when the
water runs out by it, let it be flopped by a peg. He
will fee that the larger the pipe is in proportion to the
orifices made in the partitions, the efflux is more dirni-
nifhed. We believe that no perfon would fufpedt this
who has not confidered the fubjedf minutely.
_ -A’l angular enlargements, all boxes, into which the
pipes from different working barrels, unite their water
before it goes into a main, muff therefore be avoided
by an artiil who would execute a good machine ; and
the different contractions which are unavoidable at the
feats of valves and the perforations of pifions, &c.
fhould be diminifhed by giving the parts a trumpet-
fhape.
In the air-veffels reprefented in fig. 13. this is of very
great confequence. Xhe throat O, through which the
water is forced by the expanfion of the confined air, Famp.
fflould always be formed in this manner. For it is this y-“—^
which produces the motion during the returning part of
the ilroke in the pump conftruCled like fig. 13. N° 1.
and during the whole llroke in N° 2. NegleCting this
leemingly trilling circumftance will diminiih the per¬
formance at leafl one-fifth. The conftruaion of N° 1.
is the bed, for it is hardly poffible to make the paffage
of the other fo free from the effcCls of contraction. The
motion of the water during the returning ilroke is very
much contorted. ^
There is one circumilance that we have not taken any Accekra-
notice of, viz. the gradual acceleration of the motion oftion of ihe
water in pumps. When a force is applied to the pifton,motionot'
it does not in an inftant communicate all the velocitywater in
which it acquires. It aCls as gravity afts on heavy bo-pUmF*
dies ; and it the refinances remained the fame, it would
produce, like gravity, an uniformly accelerated motion.
But we have feen that the refinances (which are always
meafured by tile force which juft overcomes them) in¬
creafe as the fquare of the velocity increafes. They
therefore quickly balance the adlion of the moving-
power, and the motion becomes uniform, in a time lb
Ihort that we commit no error of any confequence by
fuppofing it uniform from the beginning. It would
have prodigioufly embarrafftd our inveftigations to have
introduced this circumftance } and it is a matter of mere
fpeculative curiofity : for moll of our moving pow-ers
are unequal in their exertions, and thefe exertions are
regulated by other laws. The preffure on a pillon mo¬
ved by a crank is as variable as its velocity, and in mcft
cafes is nearly in the inverfe proportion of its velocity,
as any mechanician will readily difcover. The only
cafe in which we could confider this matter with any de¬
gree of comprehenfibility is that of a lleam-engine, or of
a pifton which forces by means of a wTeight lying on it.
In both, the velocity becomes uniform in a very fmall
fraction of a fecond.
We have been very minute on this fubjefl. For al- Deficiency
though it is the only view of a pump which is of any of elemen-
importance, it is hardly ever underflcod even by profef-tary k00^5
fed engineers. And this is not peculiar to hydraulics, ?n'his fu,?"
but is feen m all the brancncs q£ practical mechanics.^
The elementary knowledge to be met with in fuch
books as are generally perufed by them, goes no farther
than to ftate the forces which are in equilibrio by the in¬
tervention of a machine, or the proportion of the parts
of a machine which will fet two known forces in equili¬
brio. But when this equilibrium is deftroyed by the fu-
periority of one of the forces, the machine muft move j
and the only interefting queftion is, what will be ihe
tnotion I- 1 ill this is an fivered with fome precifion, we
have learned nothing of any importance. Few enffl-
neers are able to anfiver this queftion even in the fimpleft
cafes 5 and they cannot, from any confident fcience, fay
what w-ill be the performance of an untried machine.
They guefs at it with a fuccefs proportioned to the mul¬
tiplicity of their experience and their own fagacity.
Yet this part of mechanics is as fufceptible of accurate
computation as the cafes of equilibrium.—We therefore
thought it our duty to point out the manner of proceed¬
ing fo circumftantially, that every Hep fhould be plain
and eafy, and that convidlion fliould always accompany
our progrefs. This we think it has been in our power
to do, by the very Ample method of fubftituting a co-
ligsm
PUN [ 520 ] PUN
Pim lumn of water afting by its weight in lieu of any natu-
ich“on ra^ Power which we may chance to employ.
- To fuch as wifli to profecute the ftudy of this impor¬
tant part of hydraulics in its moft abifrufe parts, we re¬
commend the perufal of the diflertations of Mr Pitot
and Mr Boffut, in the Memoirs of the Academy of Pa¬
ris •, alfo the differtations of the Chevalier de la Borda,
1766 and 17675 alfo the Hydrauliqne of the Chevalier
De Buat. We lhall have occafion to confider the mo¬
tion of the water in the mains of forcing or lifting
pumps which fend the water to a diftance, in the article
WATER-Works ; where the reader will fee how fmall is
the performance of all hydraulic machines, in compari-
fon of what the ufual theories, founded on equilibrium
only, would make him expeft.
PUN, or PuxN, an expreflion where a word has at
once different meanings. The praftice of punning is
the miferable refuge of thofe who with to pafs for wits,
without having a grain of wit in their compofition.
James the I. of England delighted in punning 5 and
the tafte of the fovereign was ftudied by the courtiers,
and even by the clergy. Hence the fermons of that
age abound with this fpecies of falfe wit. It continued
'to be more or lefs fafhionable till the reign of Queen
Anne, when Addifon, Swift, Pope, and Arbuthnot,
■with the other real wits of that claffical age, united
their efforts to banifh punning from polite compofition.
It is (till admitted fparingly in converfation 5 and no one
' rvill deny that a happy pun, when it comes unfought,
contributes to excite mirth in a company. A profeffed
J>unj}er, however, who is always pouring forth his fenfe-
lefs quibbles, as Sancho Pan^a poured forth his pro¬
verbs, is fuch an 'intolerable nuifance in fociety, that
we do not wonder at Pope or Srvift having written a
pamphlet with the title of God^s Revenge again/} Pun¬
ning.
PUNCH, an inftrument of iron or fteel, ufed in fe-
veral arts, for the piercing or ftamping holes in plates of
metals, &c. being fo contrived as not only to perforate,
But to cut out and take away the piece. The punch is
a principal inftrument of the metal-button makers, fhoe-
jnakers, &c.
Punch is alfo a name for a fort of compound drink,
much ufed here, and in many parts abroad, particu¬
larly in Jamaica, and feveral other parts of the Weft
Indies.
Its bafts is fpring-water 5 which being rendered cool¬
er, brifker, and more acid, with lemon or lime juice,
and fweetened again to the palate with fine fugar, makes
what they call JJjerbet; to which a proper quantity of
fpirituous liquor, as brandy, rum, or arrack, being add¬
ed, the liquor commences punch.
PUNCHEON, PuNCHlN, or Punc/iion, a little
block or piece of fteel, on one end whereof is feme
figure, letter, or mark, engraven either in creux or
relievo, impreflions whereof are taken on metal, or
fome other matter, by ftriking it with a hammer on
the end not engraved. There are various kinds of
thefe puncheons ufed in the mechanical arts 5 fuch, for
inftance, are thofe of the goldfmiths, cutlers, pewte-
rers, &c.
The puncheon, in coining, is a piece of iron fteeled,
whereon the engraver has cut in relievo the feveral
figures, arms, effigy, infeription, &c. that there are
to be in the matiices, wherewith the fpecies are to Pvrch^n
be marked. Minters diftinguiffi three kinds of pun-
cheons, according to the three kinds of matrices f>un.d*ua'
to be made ; that of the effigy, that of the crofs or  '0J~ ,
arms, and that of the legend or infeription. The
firft includes the whole portrait in relievo 5 the fecond
are fmall, fuch only containing a piece of the crofs or
arms 5 for inftance, a fleur-de-lis, an harp, a coronet, &c.
by the affemblage of all which the entire matrice is
formed. The puncheons of the legend only contain
each one letter, and ferve equally for the legend on the
effigy fide and the crofs fide. See the article Coin¬
age.
For the puncheons ufed in ftamping the matrices
wherein the types of printing charafters are call, fee
LETTER-Foundery.
Puncheon is alfo ufed for feveral iron tools, of va¬
rious fizes and figures, ufed by the engravers en creux
on metals. Seal-engravers particularly ufe a great num¬
ber for the feveral pieces of arms, &c. to be engra¬
ven, and many ftamp the whole feal from a Angle pun¬
cheon.
Puncheon is alio a common name for all thofe iron
inftruments ufed by ftone-cutters, fculptors, blackfmiths,
&c. for the cutting, bidding, or piercing their feveral
matters.
Thofe of fculptors and ftatuaries ferve for the re¬
pairing of ftatues when taken out of the moulds. The
lockfmiths ufe the greateft variety of puncheons 5 fome
for piercing hot, others for piercing cold ; fome flat,
fome fquare, fome round, others oval, each to pierce
holes of its refpeftive figure in the feveral parts of
locks.
Puncheon, in Carpentry, is a piece of timber pla¬
ced upright between two polls, wffiofe bearing is too
great 5 ferving, together with them, to fuftain fome
large weights.
This term is alfo ufed for a piece of timber raifed up ¬
right, under the ridge of a building, wherein the legs or
a couple, &c. are jointed.
PuNCHEON, is alfo the name of a meafure for li¬
quids. Rum is brought from the colonies in pun¬
cheons, which are large calks containing about 130
gallons.
PUNCTUATION, in Grammar, the art of point¬
ing, or of dividing a difeourfe into periods, by points
exprefling the paufes to be made therein.
The points ufed are four, viz. the period, colon, femi-
Colon, and comma. See the particular ule of each under
its proper article, Comma, Colon, Period, and Semi¬
colon.
In general, we (hall only here obferve, that the
comma is to diftinguith nouns from nouns, verbs from
verbs, and fuch other parts of a period as are not necef-
farily joined together. The femi-colon ferves to fufpend
and fuftain the period when too long.: the colon, to add
fome new fupernumerary realbn, or confequence, to
what is already laid : and the period, to clofe up the
fenfe and conftrufticn, and releafe the voice.
It has been afferted, that punttuation is a modern art,
and that the ancients were entirely unacquainted with
the ufe of our commas, colons, &c. and wrote not ot*ly
without any diftinciion of numbers and periods, but al¬
fo without diftinftion of words : which cuftom, Lip-
ftus obferves, continued till the hundred and fourth O-
lympiad 5
4
P U N T 52
Y’lmchn- lympiad j during which time the i’enfe alone divided the
non. difcouvfe.
  What within our own knowledge at this day puts this
beyond difpute, is the Alexandrian manufcript, which is
at prefent in the king’s library, at the Britith Mufreum.
Whoever examines this, wall find that the whole is writ¬
ten continuo duEtu, without diilindlion of words or fen-
tences. How the ancients read their works written in
this manner, it is not eafy to conceive.
After the praftice of joining words together ceafed,
notes of diilinction were placed at the end of every
word. In all the editions of the Fajli Capitohm thefe
points occur. The fame are to be feen on the Cohimna
Rqflrata. For want of thefe, we find much confufion
in the Chronicon Mannoreutn, and the covenant between
the Smyrnseans and Magnefians, which are both nowT at
Oxford. In Salmafius’s edition of Dcdicatio Jiatuce n-
gillce Herodis, the like confufion occurs, where we find
AETPITE and uri.
Of thefe marks of diftindlion, the Walcote inferip-
tion found near Bath may ferve as a fpecimen :
IVLIUSv VITAL I Sv FABRI
CESISv LEGv XXVv Vv V
STIPENDlORUMv &c.
After every word here, except at the end of a line, we
fee this mark v. There is an infeription in Montfau-
con, which has a capital letter laid in an horizontal po-
fition, by way of interftitial mark, which makes one apt
to think that this way of pointing was fometimes accor¬
ding to the fancy of the graver.
P. FERRARIVS HERMES
CAECINIAE H DIGNAE
CONIVGI H KARISSIMAE
NVMERIAE H &c.
Here we obferve after the words a T laid horizontally,
but not after each word, which proves this to be of a
much later age than the former.
As the improvement of flops appears not to have ta¬
ken place while manuferipts and monumental inferip-
tions were the only known methods to convey know¬
ledge, it is conjectured that it was introduced with the
art of printing. The 14th century, to which we are
fuppofed to be indebted for this invention, did not, how¬
ever, beftow thofe appendages we c&WJlopx: whoever
will be at the pains of examining the firft printed books,
will difeover no flops of any kind ; but arbitrary marks
here and there, according to the humour of the printer.
In the 16 h century, We obferve their firft appearance.
We find, from the’books of this age, that they were
not all produced at the fame time } thofe we meet with
there in ufe, being only the comma, the parenthefis, the
interrogation, and the full point. i o prove this, we
need but look into Bale’s A&s of Englifti Votaries,
black letter, printed 1550. Indeed, in the dedication
of this book, which is to Edward VI. we difeover a co¬
lon : but, as this is the only one of the kind throughout
the work, it is plain this flop was not eftablilhed at this
time, and fo warily put in bv the printer $ or if it was,
that it was not in common ufe. Thirty years after this
time, in that fenfible and judicious performance of Sir
Thomas Elyot, entitled The Covernour, imprinted
■1 ij8o, we fee the colon as frequently introduced as any
other flop ; but the femicolon and the admiration were
Vol. XVII. Part 11.
1 ] PUN"
ftill Wanting, neither of thefe being vifible in this book. Purdlua-
In Hackluyt’s Voyages, printed 1599, we fee the femi- tl0n’ ,
colon : and, as if the editors did not fully apprehend the v
propriety of its general admiflion, it is but fparingly
introduced. It has been faid, indeed, that the femicolon
w'as brought into ufe at a much earlier period ; but it
appears that it was only for the purpofe of an abbrevi¬
ation, as in (namq;) {ncq;') for namque, neque, and not in
the fenfe in which it is now employed, Month. Mag. v.
411;
The femicolon, indeed, as well as all the ordinary
points, is ufed in a work entitled “ Imagines Deorum,”
printed at Leyden, in the year 1581, in Roman charac¬
ters. We likewife meet with them in the tranflation of
a juftly celebrated book, written in French by that wife
and good man, Philip Mornay, lord of Pleflis ; in the
“ Schoolmafter” of Roger Afcham, printed in 1570,
with the exception of the femicolon j and in ihe
“ Trewneffe of the Chriftian Religion,” by Sir Philip
Sidney, publithed in 15S7, in which we find the afte-
rilk, brackets, the interrogation, the comma and the fe¬
micolon, all as we now ufe them; and the colon and
period are fquare dots.
In an alchemical manufcript of the date of 1572, the
femicolon is faid to be met with, as well as the other
three points which are in common ufe. The colon and
period are abundant in a work entitled “ Dionifius de
Situ Orbis,” printed at Venice in 1498, but none of the
other flops or points. The Angle point (.) appears to
be the moft ancient. Since the year 1485 the colon
tvas introduced j the comma is firft feen about the year
J 521 ; and the more refined femicolon was brought into
ufe about the year 1570.
The invention of the femicolon is moft probably due
to the Englith j for from the Leyden edition of Pliny,
I5i;3, it is evident that the Dutch printers were not
then in the practice of ufing it ; and if in 1570, they
were, Roger Afcham would probably have employed it;
for the Dutch were the principal claflical printers in his
time ; but we find that fome Englifti books were mark¬
ed with it at that period.
The admiration was the laft flop that was invented,
and feems to have been added to the reft in a period not
fo far diftant from our own time.
Thus we fee that thefe notes of diftinciion came into
ufe as learning was gradually advanced and improved ;
one invention indeed, but enlarged by feveral additions.
But notwithftanding what has been faid relative to
the ufe of flops as being a modern invention, we fhall
find reafon to be fatisfied that the ancients were not un¬
acquainted with the method of making paufes in fpeak-
ing and writing, if we attend to the following elaborate
inveftigation of Mr Warburton, which we {hall lay be¬
fore our readers in the words of the author.
“ Some fpecies of paufes and divifions of fentences in
fpeaking and writing muft have been coeval with the
knowledge of communicating ideas by found or by fym-
bols.
“ Suidas * fays, that the period and the colon were * Tie Three-
difeovered and explained by Thrafymachus, about
years before the Chriftian tera. Cicero f fays, thatf Cicero
Thrafymachus was the firft who fludied oratorical num- 0rat- § 33-
bers, which entirely confifted in the artificial ftrufture of
periods and colons. It appears from a paffage in Ari-
ftotle i, that punctuation was known in his time. The „
3 U learned U1,C-S?
Paii (filia¬
tion.
* Bern. Or-
bis erud.
Literat.
tab 30.
edit. 1689.
f Cie.de
Orat. lib.
iii § 26.
Ibid. 7.
Orat. pro
Muraena,
§ 2 5-
| Sen. E-
pifi. 40.
PUN t 52
learned Dr Edward Bernard * refers tlie knotvledge of
pointing to the time ot that phiiofopher, and lays, that
it con filled in the different polition of one fmgle point.
At the bottom of a letter $ thus, (A.) it was equivalent
to a comma } in the middle (A*J it was equal to a colon;
at the top (A’) it denoted a period, or the concluiion oi
a lenience.
“ This mode was eauly praciifed in Greek manu-
i'eripts, while they were written in capitals. But when
the fmall letters were adopted, that is, about the ninth
century, this diftinction could not be oblerved j a change
was therefore made in the fcheme of puncluation. Xhi-
dales lileras hodierno ufu didmus eas in vetujhs codici-
btis, qua; prjcatn formam fervant, ac folutce funt, nec
niHtub coliigantur. Hujus midi liter re unc tales objervan-
tur in libris omnibus ad nonutn ufquefeeculum. Monti.
.Palseog. Recens. p. xii.
According to Cicero, the ancient Romans as well
as the Greeks made ule of points. He mentions them
under the appellation of librariorum notce; and in leveral
parts of his works he fpeaks of ‘ inierpuncice claufuLe
in orationibus\ of ‘ claufuLe atque interpunBce verboruni',
oi mterpunBiones verborum, is’c f.
“ Seneca, who died A. D. 65, exprefsly fays, that
Latin writers in his time, had been ufed to punctuation.
‘ Nos 4, cum fcnbinms interpungere confucvimusl Mu-
retus and Lipfius imagined that thefe words alluded to
tlie infertion of a point after each word ; but they cer¬
tainly were mlftaken, for they mud neceffarily refer to
marks of pun&uation in the divifion of fentences, becaufe
in the paflage in which thefe ivords occur, Seneca is fpeak-
ing of one Haterius, who made no paufes in his ora¬
tions.
“ According to Suetonius in his Mud. Gram. Valerius
Probus procured copies of many old books, and employ¬
ed him lei f in correcting, pointing and illudrating them 5
devoting his time to this and no other part of grammar.
Multa exemplaria contraBa emend arc, ac diftinguere et ad-
no tare cur avit ; folihuic, nec ulh preeterea, grammatices
parti deditus.
“ It appears from hence that in the time of Probus, or
about the year 68, that Latin manuferipts had not been
ufually pointed 5 and that grammarians made it their bu-
finefs to fupply this deficiency.
“ Quintilian, who wrote his celebrated treatife on
Oratory, about the year 88, fpeaks of commas, colons,
and periods 5 but it mud be obferved, that by thefe terms
he means claufes, members, and complete fentences, and
not the marks of pundualion
“ CElius Donatus |j publiihed a treatife on Grammar
A.D.340. jn tpie four!-’n C£ntuiy, in which he explains the diflinBio,
the media dfinBio, and the fubdiJlinBio : that is, the
ufe of a Angle point in the various pofitions already men¬
tioned.
“ Jerom *, who had been the pupil of Donatus, in
his Latin Verfion of the feriptures, made ule of certain
didindions or dividons, which he calls cola and com-
mata. It has however been thought probable, that thefe
divilions were not made by the addition of any points or
Hops ; but were formed by writing, in one line, as many
words as conftituted a claufe, equivalent to what w>e di-
dingnilli by a comma or a colon. Ihefe divifions were
called trrrfctn or foustr* •, and had the appearance of diort
irregular verfes in poetry. There are feme Greek ma-
lib. nu('(?r;pts ftpi extant, which are written in this manner f.
§ QuinSl
kb. ix. c. 4
^ Hieron.
Pisef. m
PJaiam.
Vide ttiam
Preef. in
yofuarn,
See. tom.iii.
p. 26.
I Vide
Montf.
Palceog.
2 J PUN
“ The bed treatife upon punduatton I have feen, and Pundum
from which thefe authorities are partly taken, was pub- II
lilhed fame years fmee and dedicated to Sir Clifton uu"J!neA;
Wintringbam, Bart, the name of the author I know ^ Moi!{h
iiot _ > Mag. vi,
PUNCTUM sapiens, in Anatomy, the fird rudi-jsb'.
meats of the heart in the formation of the foetus, rvhere
a throbbing motion is perceived. This is faid to be ea-
fily obferved with a microfcope in a brood-egg, wherein
after conception, we fee a little fpeck or cloud, in the
middle whereof is a fpot that appears to beat or leap a
confiderable time before the foetus is formed for hatching.
See the articles Foetus and Anatomy.
PliNCTUMjlans, a phrafe by which the fchoolmen
vainly attempt to bring within the reach of human
comprehenfion the pofitive eternity of God. Thofe
fubtile reafoners feem to have difeovered that nothing,
which is made up of parts, whether continuous or dif-
crete, can be ablblutely infinite, and that therefore eter¬
nity cannot confilt of a boundlefs feries of fucceffive
moments. Yet, as if fuch a feries bad always exided,
and were commenfurate in duiation with the fupreme
Being, they compared his eternity to one of the mo¬
ments which compofe the flux of time arrefted in its
courfe : and to this eternal moment they gave the name
of punBnm fans, becaufe it was fuppofed to Hand dill,
whild the red followed each other in fuccefiion, all va-
nifhing as foon as they appeared. We need not wade
time or room m expofing the abfurdity of this conceit,
as we have elfewhere endeavouied, in the bed manner
we can, to afeertain the meaning of the words eternity
and infinity, and to fhow that they cannot be predicated
of time or fpace, of points or moments, whether flowing
or Handing dill. See METAPHYSICS, Part II. chap. 7.
8. and Part III. chap. 6.
PUNCTURE, in Surgery, any wound made by a
fRarp-pointed indrument.
PUNDITS, or Pendits, learned Bramins devoted
to the fludy of the Sanfcrit language, and to the ancient
fcience, laws, and religion cf Hindodan. See Philoso¬
phy, no° 4—12.
PUNICA, the pomegranate tree, a genus of
plants belonging to the icofandria clafs, and in the natural
method ranking under the 36th order, Pomacece. See
Botany Index.
PUNISHMENT, in Law, the penalty which a per-
fon incurs on the commiflion of a crime. See the article
Crime and Punifhment.
The ingenuity" of men has been much exerted to tor¬
ment each other ^ but the following are the punifhments
that have been ufually adopted in the different countries
of the world. The capital punifhments have been be¬
heading,' crucifixion, burning, reading, drowning, fcal-
ping, hanging by the neck, the arm, or the leg, ftar-
ving, fawing, expofing to wild beads, rending afunder
by horfes drawing oppofite ways, burying alive, fhoot-
ing, blowing from the mouth of a cannon, compulfory
deprivation of deep, rolling in a barrel duck with nails
pointed inwards, poifoning, preffing flowly to death by
a weight laid on the bread, cading headlong from a
rock, tearing out the bowels, pulling to pieces with red-
hot pincers, the rack, the wheel, impaling, flaying alive,
&c. &c.
The punidiments fuort of death have been fine, pillo¬
ry, imprifonment, compulfory labour at the mines, gal-
kys,
PUR [ 523 ] PUR
Punning leys, highways, or corredion houfe } whipping, baftina-
II ding) mutilation by cutting away the ears, the nofe,
Purflew. ^le t-ongUej breafts of women, the foot, the hand;
fqueezing the marrow from the bones with fcrews or
wedges, caftration, putting out the eyes, banifhment,
running the gauntlet, drumming, {having oft' the hair,
burning on the hand or forehead, &c.
PUNNING. See Pun.
PUPIL, in the Civil Law, a boy or girl not yet arri¬
ved at the age of puberty ; i. e. the boy under 14 years,
the girl under 12.
Pupil, is alfo ufed in univerfities, &c. for a youth un¬
der the education or difcipline of any perfon.
Pupil, in Anatomij, a little aperture in the middle of
the uvea and iris of the eye, through which the rays of
light pafs to the cryftalline humour, in order to be
painted on the retina, and caufe vifion. See Anatomy
Index.
PURCELL, Henry, a juftly celebrated mailer of
mufic, began early to diftinguiih himfelf. As his ge¬
nius was original, it wanted but little forming, and he
rofe to the height of his profeffion with more eafe than
others pafs through their rudiments. He was made or-
ganift to Weftminfter abbey in the latter end of the
reign of Charles II. In that of William, he fet feveral
longs for Dryden’s Amphijtrion and his King Arthur,
which were received with juft applaufe. His notes in
his operas were admirably adapted to his words, and fo
echoed to the fenfe, that the founds alone feemed ca¬
pable of exciting thofe paflions which they never failed
to do in conjundlion. His mufic was very different
from the Italian. It was entirely Englilh, and perfecl-
]y mafeuline. His principal works have been publhhed
under the title of Orpheus Britannicus. He died in 1695,
in the 37 th year of his age, and was interred in Weft¬
minfter abbey, where a monument is eredled to his me¬
mory,
PURCHAS, Samuel, an Englifh divine, famous for
compiling a valuable coiledlion of voyages, was born in
I ijyy, at Thackfted in Effex. After ft tidying at Cam¬
bridge, he obtained the vicarage of Eaftwood in his na¬
tive county ; but leaving that cure to his brother, he fet¬
tled in London, in order to carry on the great work in
which he was engaged. He publiftied the firft volume
in folio 1613, and the four laft, 12 years after, under
the title of Purchas his Pilgrimage, or Relations oj the
world, and the Religions ohferved in all ages and places.
Meanwhile he was collated to the redory of St Mar¬
tin’s, Ludgate, in London, and made chaplain to Dr
Abbot, archbithop of Canterbury. His Pilgrimage, and
the learned Hackluyt’s Voyages, led the way to all the
other colledions of that kind, and have been juftly valued
and eftcemed. But unhappily, by his publifhing, he in¬
volved himfelf in debt: he did not, however, die in p«-
fon, as forae have afferted ; but at his own houfe, about
the year 1628.
PURCHASE, in Law, the buying or acquiring of
lands, &c. with money, by deed or agreement, and not
by defeent or right of inheritance.
Purchase, in the fea-language, is the fame as draw
in : thus, when they fay, the capftan purchafes a-pace,
they only mean it draws in the cable a-pace.
PURE, fomething free from any admixture of fo¬
reign or heterogeneous matters.
PURFLEW, a term In heraldry, expreffing errains,
Purgatoryv
peans, or any of the furs, when they compofe a bordure Purgatiom
round a coat of arms : thus they fay, He beareth gules,
a bordure, parflew, vairy 3 meaning, that the bordure is
vairy.
PURGATION, the art of purging, fcouring, or
purifying a thing, by feparating, or carrying off any
impurities found therein. Thus,
In pharmacy, purgation is the cleanfing of a medicine
by retrenching its fuperftuities. In chemiftry, it is ufed
for the feveral preparations of metals and minerals in¬
tended to clear them of their impurities, more ufually
called purification and refining.
In medicine, purgation is an excretory motion arifing
from a quick and orderly contrablion of the flelhy fibres
of the ilomach and inteftines, whereby the chyle, cor¬
rupted humours, and excrements lodged therein, are pro¬
truded further and further, and at length quite excluded
the body by ftool. See Materia Medica.
Purgation, in Law, figuifies the clearing a perfon’s
felt of a crime of which he is fufpedtod and aceufed be¬
fore a judge. This purgation is either canonical or vul¬
gar. Canonical purgation is preferibed by the canon-
law, and the form thereof in the fpiritual court is ufual¬
ly thus : The perfon lufpeifted takes his oath that he is
innocent of the crime charged againft him 3 and at the
fame time brings Ibrae of his neighbours to make oath
that they believe he {'wears truly. Vulgar purgation
was anciently by fire or water, or elfe by combat, and
was practifed here till abolilhed by our canons. See
Battel, in law ; Ordeal, Sec.
PURGATIVE, or PURGING Medicines, medica¬
ments, which evacuate the impurities of the body by ftool,
called alfo cathartics,
PURGATORY, a place in which the juft, who de¬
part out of this life, are fuppofed to expiate certain of¬
fences which do not merit eternal damnation. Brough¬
ton has endeavoured,to prove, that this notion has been
held by Pagans, Jews, and Mahometans, as well as by
Chriftians 3 and that in the days ol the Maccabees the
.hews believed that fin might be expiated by facrifice
after the death of the ftnner, cannot be queftioned.
Much abufe has been poured upon the church oiPapiJl mif-
Rome for her dodlrine of purgatory, and many falfe re- reprefented
prefentations have been made ol the dodlrine itfelf. The V1',1 el‘,e~
following view of it is taken from a work which is ccn-
lidered as a ftandard by the Eritifh Catholics. 1. Every
fin, how flight foever, though no more than an idle
word, as it is an offence to God, deferves puniihment
from him, and will be punilhed by him hereafter, if not
cancelled by repentance here. 2. Such fmall fins do
not deferve eternal puniihment. 3. Few depart this life
fo pure as to be totally exempt from fpots of this na¬
ture, and from every kind of debt due to God’s juftice.
4. Therefore few will efcape without fuffering fome¬
thing from his juftice for fuch debts as they have carried
with them out of this world 3 according to that rule
of divine juftice, by which he treats every foul hereafter
according to its works, and according to the ftate in
which he finds it in death. From thefe propofitions,
which the Papift confiders as fo many felf-evident truths,
he infers that there mull be fome third place of punifh-
ment 3 for, fince the infinite goodneis of God can ad¬
mit nothing into heaven which is not clean and pure
from all fin both great and fmall 3 and his infinite ju¬
ftice can petmit none to receive the reward of blifs,
3 U 2 whq
PUR [ 524 ] PUR
Purgatory who as yet are not out of debt, but have fomething in
^ juftice to fuffer ; there muft of neceffity be fome place
, “ ' " 'or ilate, where fouls, departing this lile, pardoned as to
the eternal guilt or pain, yet obnoxious to fome tempo¬
ral penalty, or with the guilt of fome venial faults, are
purged and purilied before their admittance into hea¬
ven. And this is what he is taught concerning purga¬
tory. Which, though he knows not where it is, of
what nature the pains are, or how long each foul is de¬
tained there ; yet he believes, that thofe that are in
this place, being the living members of Jefus Chritl, are
relieved by the prayers of their fellow members here on
earth, as alfo by alms and maffes offered up to God for
their fouls. And as for fuch as have no relations or
friends to pray for them, or give alms, or procure maf-
ies for their relief', they are not neglected by the church,
which makes a general commemoration of ail tire faith¬
ful departed in every mafs, and in every one of the cano¬
nical hours of the divine office.
Such is the Popifh dodtrine of purgatory, which is
built chiefly upon 2 Macc. xii. 43, 44, 45 ; St Matth.
xii. 31, 32; and 1 Cor. hi. 13. By Proteftants the
books of Maccabees are not acknowledged to be in-
fpired fcripture j but if they were, the texts referred to
would rather prove that theie is no fuch place as pur¬
gatory, fince Judas did not expect the fouls departed to
reap any benefit from his fin-offering till the refurrec-
tion. Our Saviour, in St Luke, fpeaks of remilfion in
this world, and in the world to come ; but furely neither
of thefe is purgatory. The world to come is the Hate
after the refuneftion, and the remiffion fpoken of is
the fentence of abfolution to be pronounced on the
penitent from the feat of general judgement. In the
abfcure verfe referred to in the epiftle to the Corin¬
thians, the apolfle is, by the belt interpreters, thought
to fpeak of the difficulty with which Chriftians ffiould
be faved from the dellrudlion of Jerufalem. Of the
Hate of fouls departed he cannot well be fuppofed to
fpeak, as upon difembodied fpirits fire could make no
impreffion. We cannot help, therefore, thinking with
the church of England, that “ the Romifh do£trine of
purgatory is a fond thing, vainly invented, and ground¬
ed on no warranty of fcripture but we muft confefs at
the fame time, that it appears to us to be a very harmlefs
error, neither hoftile to virtue nor dangerous to fociety.
See Resurrection.
PURIFICATION, in matters of religion, a cei'e-
mony which confifts in cleanfing any thing from a fup¬
pofed pollution or defilement.
The Pagans, before they facrificed, ufually bathed or
waffied themfelves in water; and they were particularly
careful to waffi their hands, becaufe with thefe they were
to touch the vidtims confecrated to the gods. It was alfo
cuftomary to wralh the veflel with which they made their
libations. The Mahometans alfo ufe purifications pre¬
vious to the duty of prayer ; which are alfo of two kinds,
either bathing, or only waffiing the fare, hands, and feet.
The firft is required only in extraordinary cafes, as after
having lain with a wmtnan, touched a dead body, &c.
But left fo neceffary a preparation for their devotions
ffiould be omitted, either where water cannot be had, or
when it may be of prejudice to a perfon’s health, they are
allowed in fuch cafes to make ufe of fine fand, or duft, in-
ftead of it} and then they perform this duty by clapping
their open hands on the fand, and paffing them over
the parts, in the fame manner as if they were dipped
in water.
There were alfo many legal purifications among the
Hebrews. When a woman was brought to bed of a
male child, lire was efteemed impure for 40 days } and
when of a female, for 60 : at tup end of which time {he
carried a lamb to the door of the temple to be offered
for a burnt-offering, and a young pigeon or turtle for a
fin-offering j and by this ceremony the was cleanfed or
purified.
PURIM, or The YEAST of Lots, a folemn feflival
of the JewTs, inftituted in memory of the deliverance they
received, by means of Mordecai and Either, from Pla-
man’s wicked attempt to deftroy them.
PURITAN, a name formerly given in derifion to:
the diffenters from the church of England, on account
of the profeflion to follow the pure word of God, in
oppofition to all traditions and human conflitutions. It
was likewife given in the primitive church to the No-
vatian fchifmalics, becaufe they would never admit to-
communion any one who from dread of death had apo-
ftatized from the faith.
PURITY, the freedom of any thing from foreign ad¬
mixture.
PuRITT of St/j/e. See Oratory, p. 4ii,&c.
PURLIEU, lignifies all that ground near any foreft,
which being made foreft by King Henry II. Richard I.
and King .lohn, was afterwards by perambulations ami
grants of Henry III. fevered again from the fame, and
made purlieu ; that is to fay, pure and free from the
laws of the foreft.—The word is derived from the French,
pur “ pure,” and lieu “ place.”
PURLINS, in building, thofe pieces of timber that
lie acrofs the rafters on the infide, to keep them from,
finking in the middle of their length.
By the a£l of parliament for rebuilding London,
it is provided, that all purlins from 15 feet 6 inches
to 18 feet 6 inches long, be in their fquare 9 inches,
and 8 inches ; and all in length from 18 feet 6 inches
to 21 feet 6 inches, be in their fquare 12 inches and
9 inches.
PURPLE, a colour compofed of a mixture of red
and blue. See COLO UR-Making, N° 29, and Dyeing,
Index.
PURPURA, in Natural Ilifery. See Murex, Con*
CHOLOGY Index. The Tyrian method of dyeing purple
was with a liquid extra&ed from this fifh. It has been
affirmed, however, that no fuch method was ever prac-
tifed. “ At Tyre (fays Mr Bruce) I engaged two fiffi-
ermen, at the expence of their nets, to drag in thofe
places where they faid ffiell-fifir might be caught, in
hopes to have brought out one of the famous purple-fifli.
I did not fuceed •, but in this I was, I believe as lucky as
the old fifiiers had ever been. The purple-fiffi at Tyre
feems to have been only a concealment of their know¬
ledge of cochinealas, had they depended upon the filh
for their dye, if the whole city of Tyre applied to no¬
thing elfe but fifhing, they would not have coloured 20
yards of cloth in a year.”
PURPURE, in Heraldry. The colour fo called,
which fignifies purple, is in engraving reprefented by
diagonal lines, from the left to the right. See Heral¬
dry.
It
PUS
r 525 ]
PUT
It may ferve to denote an adminiftrator of juflice, a
lawgiver, or a governor equal to a fovereign : and ac¬
cording to G. Leigh, if it is compounded with
Pas
Or,
Arg.
Gul.
Ax.
Ver.
Sab.
PUERE, or Perkin.
PURSER, an officer
Riches.
Quietnefc.
Politics.
Ji3 'j Fidelity,
j Cruelty.
^ Sadnefs.
See Agriculture Index.
aboard a man of war, who re¬
ceives her victuals from the victualler, fees that it be well
flowed, and keeps an account of what he every day de¬
livers to the Reward. He alfo keeps a lilt of the ihip’s
company, and fets down exactly the day ot each man’s
admiffion, in order to regulate the quantity of provihons
to be delivered out, and that the paymafter or treafurer
of the navy may iffue out the deburfements, and pay off
the men, according to his book.
PURSLAIN. See Portulaca, Botany Index.
PURVIEW, a term ufed by fame lawyers for the
body of an act of parliament, or that part which begins
with “ Be it ena£ted &c.” as contradiftinguiffied from
the preamble.
PURULENT, in Medicine, fomething mixed with,
or partaking of, pus or matter.
PUS, in Medicine, a white or yellowiffi matter defign-
ed by nature for the healing and cementing of wounds
and fores.
The origin and formation of pus is as much un¬
known as that of any other animal fluid. In an in¬
augural differtation publiffied at Edinburgh by Dr
Hendy, the author fuppofes pus to be a fecreted
fluid. It has been thought by many, that pus is ei¬
ther a fediment from ferum when beginning to putre¬
fy, or that it is the fame fluid infpiffated by the heat
of the body. But both thefe opinions are refuted by
fome experiments of our author, which fhow, that pus
is much lefs inclined to putrefaiffion than ferum, and
the putrefaction of both is haftened by an addition of
fome of the red part of the blood. Some other expe¬
riments were made in order to try whether pus could
be artificially produced. A thin piece of lamb’s fleffi,
applied to an ulcer difcharging laudable pus, and cover¬
ed over with lead, did not affume the appearance of
pus, but became fetid, and was much leffened. Serum,
in its inflammatory and in its ordinary Rate, and lymph
in different Rates, were applied to the fame ulcer,
which Rill difcharged good pus ; but none of thefe
were converted into pus j on the contrary, they became
very putrid.
In oppofition to thefe arguments of our author,
however, it may be alleged, that if pus was a fecreted
fluid, the veffels by which it was fecreted would cer¬
tainly be vifible •, but no fuch thing has ever been ob-
ferved : on the contrary, it is certain that pus cannot
be formed unlefs the air is excluded from the wound.
Thefe difputes, however, are of no great confequence :
but in fome cafes it becomes a matter of real import¬
ance to diRinguiih pus from mucus ; as thus we may
be enabled to know whether a cough is confumptive,
or merely catarrhous. See Mucus. Mr Home, in a
difl'ertation on the properties of pus, in which he avails
himfelf of the experiments of Mr Hunter, as delivered
in his Phyfiological Lettuces, fays, “ that the characleri-
flic of pus is its being compoled of globules; and he p
thinks that the prefence of globules feems to depend upon  j
the pus being in a perfedt Rale. It differs from the
blood in the colour of the globules •, in their not being
foluble in water, which thole of the blood are ; and
from the fluid in which they fwim being coagulable by
a folution of fal ammoniac, which ferum is not.” Re-
fpefting the formation of pus, our author adopts the idea
fuggefled by Mr Hunter, that the veffels of the part af¬
fume the nature of a gland, and fecrete a fluid which
becomes pus. Mr Home afcertains, by experiment,
that pus, at its formation, is not globular, but a tranf-
parent fluid, of a confiilence, in ibme fort, reiemblmg
jelly ; and that the globules are formed while lying up¬
on the furface of the fore j requiring, in fome inRances,
while the influence of the external air is excluded, fifteen
minutes for that purpoie.
PUSTULE, a pimple, or fmall eruption on the Ikin
full of pus •, fuch as the eruptions of the fmallpox.
PUTAMINE/E, (from putamen “ a (hell,”) the
name of the 25111 order of Linnaeus’s fragments of a
natural method j confiRing of a few genera of plants
allied in habit, whole fleihy feed-veffel or fruit is fre¬
quently covered with a hard woody ihell. See Bota¬
ny.
PUTEOLI, (Livy, Strabo) : a town of Campania ySwin-
fo caked either from its wells, there being many hot andbume'sTra-
cold fprings thereabouts j or from its flench, putor,
cauted by fulphureous exhalations, (Varro, Strabo).^
It is now called Pu%%uoli, and is pleafantly and advan-
tageoufly fituated for trade. In a very remote age, the
Cumeans made it their arfenal and dockyard 5 and to
this naval eflablifliment gave the fublime appellation of
Dicearchia or Juft Power.
The Romans were well aware of the utility of this
port, and took great pains to improve its natural ad¬
vantages. Nothing remains of their works but a line of
piers, built to break the force of a rolling fea : they are-
vulgarly called the bridge of Caligula, becaufe that mad¬
man is laid to have marched in triumph from Puzzuoli
to Baia on a bridge 5 but his was a bridge of boats.
The ruins of its ancient edifices are widely fpread
along the adjacent hills and Ihores. An amphitheatre
Rill exifls entire in mofl of its parts, and the temple of
Serapis offers many curious fubje&s of obfervation \
half of its buildings are Rill buried under the earth
thrown upon It by volcanical commotions, or accumu¬
lated by the Grumblings of the hill ; the inclolure is-
fquare, environed with buildings for priefls and baths
for votaries j in the centre remains a circular platform,
with four flights of Reps up to it, vafes for fire, a cen¬
trical altar, rings for viblims, and other appendages of
facrifice, entire and not difplaeed 5 but the columns that
held its roof have been removed to the new palace of
Carerta (Tee Caserta). Behind this round place of
worffiip Rand three pillars without capitals, part of the
pronaos of a large temple •, they are of cinoline marble,
and at the middle of their height are full of holes eaten
in them by the file fiffi *. * P^o^at
The prefent city contains near 10,000 inhabitants, P>a£lylut,
and occupies a fmall peninlula ; the cathedral was a pa ^ln!“
gan temple, dedicated to the divinities that prefided
over commerce and navigation. E. Long, j4. 40. N.
Let. 41, 15..
PUT [ 526 ] PUT
Yiiti In the neighbourhood of Puteoli are many relicks of
^ >’h _ ancient grandeur, of which none defervc.s more attention
tion ' i-han tlie Campanian way paved with lava, and lined on
——Y—»w each fide with venerable towers, the repofitories of the
dead, which are richly adorned with tlucco in the infide.
This road was made in a moft folid expenfive manner by
order of Domitkn, and is frequently the fubjedl of em
comium in the poems of Statius.
PUT! caraja, in Botany, is a genus of Indian
plants, of which the chara&ers, as given by Sir William
Jones in the Afiatic Refearches, vol. ii. p. 351. are
thefe. The calyx is five-cleft, the corolla has five equal
petals, the pericarpium a thorny legumen and two feeds,
the leaves oval and pinnated, and the Hem armed. “ The
feeds (fays the learned Prefident) are very bitter, and
perhaps tonic ; fince one of them, bruifed and given in
two dozes, will, as the Hindoos affert, cure an intermit¬
tent fever.”
PUTORIUS, See Mustela, Mammalia Index.
PUTREFACTION, is the natural procefs by which
Organized bodies are diffolved, and reduced to what may
be called their original elements.
Putrefaction differs from chemical folution 5 becaufe
in the latter, the diffolved bodies are kept in their ftate
of folution by being combined with a certain agent
from which they cannot eafily be feparated ; but in pu-
trefaftion, the agent which diffolves the body appears
not to combine with it in any manner of way, but mere¬
ly to feparate the parts from each other. It differs alfo
from the refolution of bodies by dittillation with violent
fire 5 becaufe, in diffillation new and permanent com¬
pounds are formed, but by putrefa&ion every thing feems
to be refolved into fubftances much more fimple and in-
deftruftible than thofe which are the refult of any che¬
mical procefs.
The bodies moft liable to putrefaction are thofe of
animals and vegetables, efpecially when full of juices.
Stones, though by the action of the weather they will
moulder into duft, yet feem not to be fubjecl to any
thing like a real putrefaction, as they are not refolved
into any other fubftance than fand, or fmall duft, which
Hill preferves its lapideous nature.' In like manner, ve¬
getables of any kind, when deprived of their juices by
drying, may be preferved for many ages without being
fubjefted to any thing like a putrefactive procefs. The
fame holds good with refpeCl to animals ; the parts of
which, by fimple drying, may be preferved in a found
ftate for a much longer time than they could be without
the previous exhalation of their juices.
PutrefaCfion is generally allowed to be a kind of fer¬
mentation, or rather to be the laft ftage of that procefs ;
which, beginning with the vinous fermentation, goes
on through the acetous, to the ftage of putridity, where
it flops. It is argued, however, and feemingly not
without a great deal of reafon, that if putrefa&ion be a
fermentation, it muft neceffarily be a kind diftincf from
either the vinous or acetous •, fince we frequently obferve
that it takes place where neither the vinous nor the ace¬
tous ftages have gone before •, of confequence, it muft be,
in fome cafes at leaft, entirely independent of and un-
connecled with them. In feveral other refpe&s it dif¬
fers fo much from thefe proceffes, that it feems in fome
degree doubtful whether it can with propriety be called
a fermentation or not. Both the vinous and acetous fer¬
mentations are attended with a confiderable degree of
3
heat : but in the putrefaction of animal matters efpeci- Pctrcfae-
ally, the heat is for the moft part fo fmall, that we can- , tIon'
not be certain whether there is any degree of it or not
produced by tire procefs. In cafes, indeed, where the
quantity of corrupting animal matter is very great, fome
heat may be perceived ; and accordingly JDr Monro
tells us, that he was fenfible of heat on thrufting his
hand into the fielli of a dead and corrupting whale.
But the moft remarkable difference between the putre¬
factive fermentation and that of the vinous and acetous
kinds is, that the end of both thefe proceffes is to pro¬
duce a new and permanent compound j but that of the
putrefaClive procefs is not to produce any new form,
but to deftroy, and refolve one which already exifts into
the original principles from wduch all things feem to
proceed. Thus, lire vinous fermentation produces ardent
fpirits ; the acetous, vinegar : but putrefaction produces
nothing but earth, and fome effluvia, which, though
moft difagreeable, and even poifonous to the human bo¬
dy, yet, being imbibed by the earth and vegetable crea¬
tion, give life to a new race of beings. It is commonly
fuppofed, indeed, that volatile alkali is a production of
the putrefaClive procefs : but this feems liable to dif-
pute. The vapour of pure volatile alkali is not hurtful
to the human frame, but that of putrefying fubftances is
exceedingly fo j and, excepting in the cale of urine, the
generation of volatile alkali in putrid fubftances is very
equivocal. This fubftance, which produces more alkali
than any other, is much lefs offenfive by its putrid fetor
than others •, and all animal fubftances produce a volatile
alkali on being expofed to the aCtion of fire, of quick¬
lime, or of alkaline falls. In thefe cafes the volatile al¬
kali is not fuppofed to be produced by the quicklime
or fixed fait, but only to be extricated from a kind of
ammoniacal fait pre-exiiling in the animal matters 5 the
probability is the fame in the other cafe, viz. that vola¬
tile alkali is not produced, but only extricated, from thefe
fubftances by putrefaClion.
The only thing in which the putrefaClive fermenta¬
tion agrees with the other kinds is, that in all the three
there is an extrication of fixed air. In the putrefaClive
procefs, it has been thought that this efcape of the fix¬
ed air deprives the body of its cohefion : and Dr Mac-
bride has written a treatife, in which he endeavours to
prove, that fixed air is the very pow-er of cohefion itfelf,
and that all bodies w'hen deprived of their fixed air en¬
tirely lofe their cohefion. According to this hypothefis,
the caufe of putrefaClion is the efcape of fixed air j but it
is impoflible to give a reafon why fixed air, after having
fo long remained in a body, and preferved its cohefion,
Ihould of a fudden begin to fly off without being aCled
upon by fomething elle. To a fimilar objeClion the
hypothefis of thofe is liable, who fuppofe putrefaClion
to be occafioned by the efcape of phlogifton ; for phlc-
gifton is now known to be a chimera : and though it
wrere a reality, it wTouid not fly off without fomething
to carry it oft', any more than fixed air. Animalcules
have been thought to be the caufe of putrefaClion : but
if animal fubftances are covered fo as to exclude the ac •
cels of flies or other infeCls, no fuch animalcules are to
be dilcovered though putrefaClion has taken place \ and
indeed it requires little prool to convince us, that ani¬
mals are produced in corrupted bodies only becaufe fuch
fubftances prove a proper nidus for the eggs of the pa¬
rent iufeCls.
To
PUT [ ;
Patrefac- To underftand the true caufe of putrefaction, we
ttoru muft take notice of the circumftances in which the pro-
1 cefs goes on molt rapidly. Thefe are, heat, a little
moifture, and confined air. Extreme cold prevents pu-
trefaftion, as well as perfeCt drynefs j and a free circu¬
lation of air carries off the putrid effluvia ; a ftagnation
of which feems to be neceffary for carrying on the pro-
cefs. It feems alfo to hold pretty generally, that pu¬
trefying bodies fwell and become fpecifically lighter;
for which reafon the carcafes of dead animals, after
having funk in water, rife to the top and float. This
laft phenomenon, as has been obferved under the article
Blood, n° 29. fhows that thefe bodies have received
a certain quantity of an elaftic principle from the air,
which thus fwells them up to fuch a fize. It may be
laid indeed, that this increafe of fize in putrefying bo¬
dies is owing only to the extrication of air within them-
felves: but this amounts to the fame thing •, for the air
which exifts internally in the body of any animal, is
entirely divefted of elallicity while it remains there,
and only fhows its elallic properties upon being extri¬
cated. The elaftic principle which combines with the
air fixed in the animal fubtlance, therefore, muft come
from the external atmofphere 5 and confequently the
agent in putrefaftion muft be the elaftic principle of the
atmofphere itfelf, probably the fame with elementary
fire.
But, granting this to he true, it is difficult to fhow
why putrefaction fhould not take place in a living body
as well as in a dead one •, feeing the one is as much ex-
pofed to the action of the air as the other. This dif¬
ficulty, however, is not peculiar to the prefent hypothe-
fis ; but will equally occur whatever we may fuppofe the
caufe of putrefaction to be. The difficulty feems to be
a little cleared up by Dr Prieltley, who (hows, that, by
means of refpiration, the body is freed from many nox¬
ious effluvia which would undoubtedly deftroy it •, and
by the retention of which, he thinks, a living body
would putrefy as foon as a dead one. The way in
v.-hich refpiration prevents the putrefaftion of the body,
is evidently the fame with that in which the wind pre¬
vents fifti or fieffi hung up in it from becoming putrid.
The conftant infpiration of the air is like a ftream of
that element continually blown upon, the body, and
that not only upon its furface, but into it 5 by which
means putrefaction is prevented in thofe parts that are
moft liable to become putrid. On tire other hand, the
*SeeBluo<! fiDftic principle received from the air by the blood*,
ii° 29. by invigorating the powers of life, quickening the cir¬
culation, and increasing perfpiration, enables the body
to expel noxious particles from other parts of the body
which cannot conveniently be expelled by the lungs.
This leads us to confider the reafon why a free ex-
pofure to the air prevents the coming on of putrefac¬
tion, or why the confining of the putrid effluvia ftiould
be fo necefiary to this procefs. Here it will be proper
to recolleft, that putrefaction is a fimple refolution of
the body into earth, air, &c. of which it feems original¬
ly to have been compofed. This refolution is evidently
performed by an expanfive power feemingly Situated in
every particle of the body. In confequcnce of this
principle, the body firft fwells, then burfts, flies off in
vapour, and its particles fall afunder from each other.
The atftion. of the putrefaClive procefs, then, is analo¬
gous to that of fire, Since thefe are the very properties
27 ] PUT
of fire, and the very effects which follow the aClion of Putrefae-
fire upon any combuftible body. It is therefore exceed- tI0r1,
ingly probable, that the agent in the air, which we have y "l"
all along confidered as the caufe of putrefaftion, is no
other than fire itfelf j that is, the ethereal fluid expand¬
ing itfelf everywhere, as from a centre to a circumference.
The force or the fiuid, indeed, is much lefs in putrefac¬
tion than in aCtual ignition j and therefore the effefts
alfo take place in a much fmaller degree, and require a
much longer time : neverthelefs, the fame circumftances
that are neceffary for keeping up the a&ion of fire, are
allb neceffary for keeping up the putrefacfive procefs.
One of thefe is a free accefs of air, yet without too vio¬
lent a blaft; for as fire cannot burn without air, neither
can it endure too much of it : thus a candle goes out
if put under a receiver, and the air exhaufted j and it
will do the fame if we blow violently upon it. In like
manner, putrefaction requires a certain quantity of air,
much lefs indeed than fire : and as it requires lei’s to fup-
port it, lb it can alfo endure much lefs air than fire ; for
a ftream of air which would not put out a fire, will ef¬
fectually prevent putrefaction. The caufe of this in
both is the fame. Fire cannot burn becaufe the vapour
is carried off too faft ; and thus the latent heat, which
ought to fupport the llAme, is entirely diiiipated. Iji
like manner putrefaction is as certainly attended with
an emiffion of azotic gas as fire is with an emiffion of
flame. Thefe gafes contain a great quantity of latent
heat, or of the expanfive principle already mentioned j
and if thefe are carried off with greater rapidity than the
heat of the atmofphere can produce them, the confc-
quence muft be, that an oppolite principle to that which
produces putrefaction, namely, a principle of cold, or
condenfation, inftead of expanfion, muft take place, and
the body cannot putrefy. That this muft be the cafe,
is evident from the property which all evaporations have
of producing cold ; and it is well known that a brilk
current of air promotes evaporation to a great degree.
Hence alio the reafon is evident why bodies are prefery-
ed uncorrupted by cold } for thus the abtion of the ex¬
panfive principle is totally overcome and fufpended, lb
that none of its elFefts can be perceived.
Thus we may fee, that one reafon why an animal
body does not putrefy while alive, is its ventilation, as
we may call it, by refpiration j and another is, the
continual acceffion of new particles, lefs difpofed to pu¬
trefy than itfelf, by the food and drink which is con-
ftantly taken in. But if either of thefe ways of pre¬
venting the commencement of this procefs are omitted,
then puti'efaCtion will take place as well in a living as
in a dead body. Of the truth of this laft faCt we have
innumerable inftances. When air is infeCted with the
putrid effluvia of matlhes, and thus the natural effluvia
are not carried off from the human body, but, on the
contrary, fome enter into it which are not natural to it,
the moft putrid difeafes are produced. The fame thing
happens from the putrid effluvia of dead bodies. Of
this >ve have a remarkable inftance in the fever which
took place in Germany in the war of 1755 : one rea¬
fon of which is faid to have been an infebtion of the
air by the vaft numbers of people killed in battle, to
which was added a calm in the atmofphere for a long
time ; the putrid effluvia being by this prevented from
flying off*. When Mr Howell with 145 others were * See Me-
imprifoned in the black-hole at Calcutta, after paffing ‘Heine, n°
PUT [52
Putrefac- a niglit in that difmal habitation, he found himfelf in
tlon- a high putrid fever. When failors in long voyages are
’ obliged to feed upon putrid aliments *, when, through
ilonny weather, they are much expofed to wet 3 in the
-one cafe the putrefcent effluvia being kept from flying
off, and in the other a greater quantity being thrown in¬
to the body than what it naturally contain', the fcurvy,
malignant fevers, &c. make their appearance (a). Nei¬
ther can thefe difeafes be removed without removing
every one of the caufes juft now mentioned : for as pu¬
trid difeafes will be the confequence of confined air,
naftinefs, &c. though the provifions be ever fo good 3
fo, on the other hand, if the provifions be bad, the belt
air, and moft exa£l cleanlinefs, nay, the belt medicines
in the world, -will be of no fervice 3 as hath been often
obferved in the fcurvy.
From this account of the nature, caufe, and method
of preventing putrefaction by means of a current of
air, we may eafily fee the reafon why it does not take
place in fome other cafes alfo. Bodies will not pu¬
trefy in vacuo, becaufe there the atmofphere has not
accefs to impart its elaftic principle 3 and though in
the vacuum itfelf the principle we fpeak of does un¬
doubtedly exift, yet its a&ion there is by far too weak
to decompofe the ftnuffure of an animal body. In ex¬
treme cold, the reafon why putrefaftion does not take
place has been already fflown. If the heat is extreme¬
ly great, the procefs of ignition or burning lakes place
inftead of putrefa&ion. If the body is very dry, pu¬
trefaction cannot take place, becaufe the texture is too
firm to be decompofed by the weak aCtion of the ela-
fiic principle. Putrefaftion may alfo be prevented by
the addition of certain fubftances 3 but they are all of
them fuch as either harden the texture of the body,
and thus render it proof againft the action of the ela-
ffic fluid, or, by diffolving its texture entirely, bring
it into a ftate fimilar to what it would be brought
by the utmoft power of putrefaCtion, fo that the procefs
cannot then take place. Thus various kinds of falls
8 ] PUT
and acids harden the texture of animal fubffances, and Punrfac-
thus are fuccefsfully ufied as antifeptics. The fame don.
thing may be laid of ardent fpirits ; while oils and gums y—»
of various kinds prove antifeptic by a total exclufion of
air, which is neceffary in lome degree for carrying on
the procefs of putrefaction. Many vegetables, by the
aftringent qualities they poffefs, harden the texture of
animal fubftances, and thus prove powerfully antifepti'c 3
while, on the other hand, fixed alkaline falls, quicklime,
and cauftic volatile alkali, though they prevent putre¬
faction, yet they do it by diffolving the fubftances in
fuch a manner that putrefaction could do no more
though it had exerted its utmoft force. There is only
one other antifeptic fubftance whofe effeCts deferve to
be confidered, and that is fugar. This, though neither
acid nor alkaline, is yet one of the moft effectual means
of preventing putrefaCtion : and this feems to be owing
to its great tendency to run into the vinous fermentation,
which is totally inconfiftent with that of putrefaCtion 3
and this tendency is fo great, that it can fcarce be coun¬
teracted, by the tendency of animal fubftances to putrefy
in any circumftances whatever.
Some kinds of air are remarkably antifeptic, though
this fubjeCt has not been fo fully inquired into as could
be wilhed. The moft powerful of them In this refpeCt
is the nitrous air 3 next to it, is fixed air 3 but the powers
of the other airs are not fo well known. It is probable
that the antifeptic properties of fixed and nitrous air, are
owing to their quality of extinguifhing fire, or at leaft
that the principle is the fame 3 but, till the nature of
thefe two kinds of air are better known, little can be
find with certainty on the fubjeft.
Sir John Pringle has made experiments to determine
the powers of certain fubftances to promote or to pre¬
vent putrefaftion. From tbefe experiments he has form¬
ed the following Table, fhowing the relative antifeptic
powrers of the faline fubftances mentioned. Having
found that two drams of beef put in a phial with two
ounces of water, and placed in a heat equal to 900 of
Fahrenheit’s
(a) This aeriform fluid, which is exhaled from animal bodies in a ftate of putrefaCtion, aCts at certain times
more powerfully than at others, and is indeed in one ftage of the procefs infinitely more noxious than any other
elaftic fluid yet difeovered. In the Gentleman’s Magazine for Auguft 1788, Dr St John, informs us, that he
knew a gentleman -who, by fligbtly touching the inteftines of a human body beginning to liberate this corrofive
gas, was affeCted with a violent inflammation, which in a very ftiort fpace of time extended up almoft the entire
length of his arm, producing an extenfive ulcer of the moft foul and frightful appearance, which continued for fe-
veral months, and reduced him to a miferable ftate of emaciation. The fame writer mentions a celebrated profef-
for who w’as attacked with a violent inflammation of the nerves and fauces, from which he with difficulty recover¬
ed, merely by ftooping for an inftant over a body which was beginning to give forth this deleterious fluid. Hence
he infers, that the fame gas modified or mixed, or united with others, may be the occafion of the plague, which has
fo often threatened to annihilate the human fpecies. It is happy, however, for mankind that this particular ftage
of putrefaClion continues but for a few hours 3 and, what may appear very remarkable, this deftruOive gas is not
very difagreeable in fmell, and has nothing of that abominable and loathfome fetor produced by dead bodies in a
lefs dangerous fta*e of corruption 3 but has a certain fmell totally peculiar to itfelf, by which it may he inftantly
difeovered by any one that ever fmelled it before. This is an objeft very worthy the attention of phyficians : it is
both extremely interefting, and very little known 3 but at the fame time it is a ftudv in the higheft degree unplea-
fant, from the deteftable fmell and naftinefs which attend the putrefadlion of animal bodies 3 and a man muft be
armed with uncommon philanthropy and refolution to attempt it.
Dr St John thinks it probable that there is a rapid fixation of the balls of vital air in dead bodies at a certain
-Hate of putrefadl'on, on account of the luminous appearance which they fomet me? make, and which exlfts but
fer a few hours : hut whether this luminous appearance takes place in every body, or whether it precedes or
fo”ows the exhalations of the corrofive gas above-mentioned, he had not, when he wrote his paper, been able to
dik-over.
2
PUT [ 529 ] P U T
Putrefac- F«hrenhelt’s thermometer, became putrid in 14 hours,
tl0n‘ and that 60 grains of fea-falt preferved a fimilar mixture
'' of beef and water more than 30 hours, he made the an-
tifeptic power of the fea-falt a itandard, to which he
compared the powers of the other falls. The algebraic
charafter -j- hgnifies, that the fubftance to which it is
annexed had a greater antifeptic power than is expreiied
by the numbers:
Sea-fait, or the ftandard - - 1
Sal-gem - - - - 1 -j-
Vitriolated tartar - - . 2
Spiritus Mindereri - - - 2
Soluble tartar - - - - 2
Sal diureticus - - - 2-j-
Crude fal ammoniac - - -3
Saline mixture - - - 3
Nitre - - - - - 44-
Salt of hart fhorn - •• - 44-
Salt of wormwood - - 44-
Borax - - - - 12
Salt of amber - - - 20
Alum - -30
N. B. The quantities of fpiritus Mindereri and of
the faline mixture were fuch, that each of them contain¬
ed as much alkaline fait as the other neutral falts.
Myrrh, aloes, afafcetida, and terra Japonica, were found
to have an antifeptic power 30 times greater than the
ffandard. Gum ammoniacum and fagapenum fhowcd
little antifeptic power.
Of all refinous fubftances, camphor was found to re¬
fill putrefaftion moft powerfully. Sir John Pringle be¬
lieves that its antifeptic power is 300 times greater than
that of fea-falt.
Chamomile flowers, Virginian fnake-voot, pepper,
ginger, faffron, contrayerva root, and galls, were found
to be 12 times more antifeptig than fea-lalt.
Infufions of large quantities of mint, angelica, ground-
svy, green tea, red-rofes, common wormwood, muftard,
and horfe-radifh, and alfo decoftions of poppy-heads,
were more antifeptic than fea-ialt.
Decoftions of wheat, barley, and other farinaceous
grains, checked the putrefaction by becoming fopr.
Chalk, and other abforbent pow’ders, accelerated the
putrefaftion, and refolved meat into a perfeCt mucus.
The fame pow'ders prevented an infufion of farinaceous
grains from becoming mucilaginous and four.
One dram of fea-falt w-as found to preferve two drams
of frefh beef in twm ounces of water, above 30 hours,
uncorrupted, in a heat equal to that of the human body,
or above 20 hours longer than meat is preferved in wra-
ter without fait: but half a dram of fait did not pre¬
ferve it more than two hours longer than pure water.
Twenty-five grains of fait had little or no antifeptic
quality. Twenty grains, 15 grains, but efpecially 10
grains only of fea-falt, were found to accelerate and
heighten the putrefaftion of two drams of fiefli. Thefe
fmall quantities of fea fait did alfo foften the flelh more
than pure wTater.
The fame learned and ingenious phyfician made ex¬
periments to difeover the effefts of mixing vegetable
with animal matters.
Two drams of raw beef, as much bread, and an
■ounce of water, being beat to the confiftence of pap,
VOL. XVII. Part II.
and expofed to oo0 of heat according to Fahrenheit’s Putratkc-
thermometer, began to ferment in a few hours, and , tl0ri'
continued in fermentation during Lwro days. When ^
it began to lerment and fvvell, the putrefaClion had be¬
gun ; and in a few hours afterwards, the fmell was of-
fenfive. Next day the putrid fmell ceafed, and an acid
tafte and fmell fucceeded. Frefh alimentary vegetables,
as fpinach, afparagus, feurvy-grafs, produced fimilar ef-
fefts as bread on tlelh, but in a weaker degree. From
feveral other experiments he found, that animal fub-
ftances excite the fermentation of vegetable fubftanceS,
and that the latter fubihances correcl the putrefcency
of the former.
By adding faliva to a fimilar mixture of tlefii, bread,
and water, the fermentation was retarded, moderated,
but rendered of twice the ufual duration, and the acid
produced at laid was weaker than when no faliva was
ufed.
By adding an oily fubftance to the common mixture
of ftefti, bread, and water, a ftronger fermentation was
produced, which could not be moderated by the quan¬
tity of laliva ufed in the former experiment, till fome
fixed alkaline fait was added j which fait was found,
without faliva, to flop fuddenly very high fermentations.
Fie did not find that fmall quantities of the following
falts, fal ammoniac, nitre, vitriolated taitar, fal diureti¬
cus, fait of hartfhorn, fait of wormwood, were feptic, as
fmall quantities of fea-falt were.
Sugar was found to refift putrefatflion at firfl, as other
falts do, and alfo to check the putrefaftion after it had
begun by its own fermentative quality, like bread and
other fermentative vegetables.
Lime-water made fome fmall refiftance to putrefac¬
tion.
Port-wine, fmall-beer, infufions of bitter vegetables,
of bark, and the juice of antifcorbutic plants, retarded
the fermentation of mixtures of fleih and bread. But
an unftrained decoftion of bark confiderably increafcd
that fermentation.
Crab-eves accelerated and increafed the fermentation
of a mixture of fieih and bread.
Lime-water neither retarded nor haftened the fer¬
mentation of fuch a mixture : but when the fermenta¬
tion ceafed, the liquor was neither putrid nor acid, but
fmelt agreeably.
Fiefh pounded in a mortar was found to ferment fooner
than that which had not been bruited.
The tough inflammatory cruft of blood was found to
be moft putrefeent: next to which the craflamentum, or
red coagulated mafs •, and laftly the ferum.
Dr Macbride’s experiments confirm many of tbofe
above related, efpecially tbofe which {how that the fer¬
mentation of vegetable fubftances is increafed by a mix¬
ture of animal or putrefeent mattery that the putref¬
cency of the latter is correfted by the fermentative
quality of the former 5 and that the putrefaftion and
fermentation of mixtures of animal and vegetable fub¬
ftances were accelerated by additions of abforbent earths
and of Peruvian bark. He alfo found, that although
unburnt calcareous earths were feptic, quicklime and
lime-water prevented putrefaftion, but that they de-
ftroyed or diflblved the texture of flefti.
The experiments of the author of the EJfaipourfer-
vir a IHiftoire de la PutrefaElion, {how that metallic
3 X ' falls,
P Y A t 53° 1 P Y L
Putrefac- falts, refinous powders, extracts of bark, and opium, are
uon very powerfully antifeptic, and that falts with earthy
Pyanepfia. ^a^es are le{'s antifeptic than any other falts.
1 v L PUTTOCK-Shrouds. See Puttock-SHROUDS.
PUTTY, in its popular fenfe, is a kind of pafle
compounded of whiting and lintfeed oil, beaten together
to the confidence of a thick dough.
It is ufed by glaziers for the faftening in the fquares
of glafs in fafh-windows, and by painters for Hopping
up the crevices and clefts in timber and wainfcots, &c.
Putty fometimes alfo denotes the powder of calci¬
ned tin, ufed in polilhing and giving the laft glofs to
works of iron and Heel.
Terra PUZZULANA, or Pozzolana, is a
grayilh kind of earth ufed in Italy for building under
water. The bed is found about Puteoli, Baiae, and
Cumae, in the kingdom of Naples, from the fird of
■which places it derives its name. It is a volcanic pro-
duft, compofed of heterogeneous fubdances, thrown
out from the burning mouths of volcanoes in the form
of adies; fometimes in fuch large quantities, and with
fo great violence, that whole provinces have been co¬
vered with it at a confiderable didance. In the year
79 of the common era, the cities of Herculaneum,
Pompeia, and Stabia, although at the didance of many
miles from Vefuvius, were, neverthelefs, buried under
the matters of thefe dreadful eruptions ; as Bergman
relates in his Treatife of the Volcanic Products. This
volcanic earth is of a gray, brown, or blackidi colour j
of a loofe, granular, or dudy and rough, porous or
fpongy texture, refembling a clay hardened by fire,
and then reduced to a grofs powder. It contains va¬
rious heterogeneous fubdances mixed with it. Its fpe-
cific gravity is from 2500 to 2800 •, and it is, in fome
degree, magnetic: it fcarcely effervefces with acids,
though partially foluble in them. It eafily melts per fe;
but its mod didinguilhing property is, that it hardens
very fuddenly when mixed with y of its weight of lime
and water 5 and forms a cement, which is more durable
in water than any other.
According to Bergman’s Analyfis, 100 parts of it
contain from 55 to 60 of filiceous earth, 20 of argil¬
laceous, five or fix of calcareous, and from 15 to 20
of iron. Its effedls, however, in cement may perhaps
depend only on the iron which has been reduced into
a particular fubdance by means of fubterraneous fires j
evident figns of which are obfervable in the places
where it is obtained. If the date in Henneberg, or
Kennekulle in the province of Wedergottland, diould
happen to get fire, the uppermod dratum, which now
confids of a mixture of iron and different kinds of
rocks, called graberg in the account given of them, they
might perhaps be changed partly into dag and partly
into terra pu’z'zolana.
It is evidently a martial argillaceous marl, that has
differed a moderate heat. Its hardening power arifes
from the dry date of the half-baked argillaceous par¬
ticles, which makes them imbibe water very rapidly,
and thus accelerates the deficcation of the calcareous
part; and alfo from the quantity and femiphlogidicated
date of the iron contained in it. It is found not only
in Italy hut in France, in the provinces of Auvergne
and Limoges ; and alfo in England and clfewhere.
PUZZUOLI. See Puteoli.
PYANEPSIA, in antiquity, an Athenian fedival
celebrated on the feventh day of the month Pyanepjlon ; Pyanepfia
which, according to the generality of critics, was the II
fame with our September. ,
Plutarch refers the inditution of this fead to The- ’’
feus, who, after the funeral of his father, on this day
paid his vows to Apollo, becaufe the youths who re¬
turned with him fafe from Crete then made their entry
into the city. On this occafion, thefe young men put¬
ting all that was left of their provifions into one kettle,
feaited together on it, and made great rejoicing. Hence
was derived the cudom of boiling pulfe on this fedival.
The Athenians likewife carried about an olive branch,
bound about with wood, and crowned with all forts
of fird-fruits, to fignify that fcarcity and barrennefs
were ceafed, finging in proceffion a fong. And when
the folemnity was over, it wras ufual to ereft the olive-
branch before their doors, as a prefervative againd
fcarcity and want.
PYCNOSTYLE, in the ancient architefture, is a
building wfhere the columns dand very clofe to each
other ; only one diameter and a half of the column be¬
ing allowed for the intercolumniations.
According to Mr Evelyn, the pycnodyle chiedy be¬
longed to the compofite order, and wras ufed in the mod
magnificent buildings j as at prefent in the peridyle at
St Peter’s at Rome, which confids of near 300 co¬
lumns j and in fuch as yet remain of the ancients, among
the ruins of Palmyra.
PYGARGUS, a fpecies of falco. See Ornitholo¬
gy Index.
PYGMALION, in fabulous hidory, a king of Cy¬
prus, who, being difguded at the difiblute lives of the
women of his ifiand, refolved to live in perpetual celi¬
bacy ; but making a datue of ivory, he fell fo paf-
fionately in love with it, that the high fedival of Ve¬
nus being come, he fell down before the altar of that
goddefs, and befought her to give him a wife like the
datue he loved. At his return home, he embraced, as
ufual, his ivory form, when he perceived that it became
fenfible by degrees, and was at lad a living maid, who
found herfelf in her lover’s arms the moment Ihe faw
the light. Venus bleffed their union ; and, at the end
of nine months, die was delivered of a boy, w7ho was
named Paphos. 4
PYGMY, a perfon not exceeding a cubit in height.
This appellation was given by the ancients to a fabu¬
lous nation inhabiting Thrace 5 who brought forth
young at five years of age, and wrere old at eight : thefe
were famous for the bloody war they waged with the
cranes. As to this dory, and for the natural hidory of
the true pygmy, fee Simia, Mammalia Index.
PYKAR, a broker in India, infericr to thofe called
da/la/s, w7ho tranfafts the bufinefs at fird hand with
the manufacturer, and fometimes carries goods about for
fale.
PYKE, a watchman in India, employed as a guard
at night. Likewufe a footman or runner on bufinefs.
They are generally armed with a fpear.
PYLADES, a fon of Strophius, king of Phocis,
by one of the fiders of Agamemnon. He was educa¬
ted together with his coufin Oredes, with whom he
formed the mod inviolable friendfhip, and whom he
afiided to revenge the murder of Agamemnon, by af-
fafiinating Clytemnedra and iEgydhus. He alfo ac¬
companied him into Taurica Cheifonefusj and for his fer-
vices
P Y R [ 531 ] P Y R
Pylorus vices Oreiles rewarded him, by giving him his lifter
p II .. Eledtra in marriage. Pylades had by her two fons,
» yl^r‘l Medon and Strophius. The friendlhip of Oreftes and
Pylades became proverbial.
PYLORUS, in Anatomy, the under orifice of the
ftomach. See Anatomy, N° pi.
PYLUS, in Ancient Geography, a towTn of Elis ; its
ruins to be feen on the road from Olympia to Elis, (Pau-
fanias) •, lituated between the mouths of the Peneus and
Selles, near Mount Scollis, (Strabo). Built by Pylas
of Megara, and deftroyed by Hercules, (Paufanias).
Another Pylus in Triphylia, (Strabo) ; by which the
Alpheus runs, (Paufanias) j on the confines of Arcadia,
and not in Arcadia itfelf, (id.)—A third in Meffenia,
(Strabo, Ptolemy) ; fituated at the foot of Mount ./Ega-
leus on the fea-coaft, over-againft the iftand Sphagea
or Sphadleria: built by Pylas, and fettled by a colony
of Leleges from Megara ; but thence expelled by Ne-
leus and the Pelafgi, and therefore called Nelea, (Ho¬
mer). A fandy territory. The royal refidence of Ne-
leus, and of Neftor his fon : the more ancient and more
excellent Pylus *, whence the proverb Py/us ante Pylutn,
(Ariftophanes, Plutarch), ufed when we want to re-
prefs the arrogance and pride of any one : faid to be
afterwards called ConjphaJium. It made a figure in the
Peloponnefian war •, for being rebuilt by the Athenians,
it proved of great benefit to them for the fpace of 15
years, and of much annoyance to the Lacedemonians,
(Thucydides). All the three Py/f were fubjeft to Ne¬
ftor, (Strabo).
PYRAMID, in Geometry, a folid Handing on a tri¬
angular, fquare, or polygonal bafts, and terminating in
a point at the top } or, according to Euclid, it is a fo¬
lid figure, confifting of feveral triangles, whofe bafes are
all in the fame plane, and have one common vertex.
Pyramids are fometimes ufed to preferve the memory
, of lingular events, and fometimes to tranfmit to pofte-
rity the glory and magnificence of princes. But as
they are efteemed a fymbol of immortality, they are
molt commonly ufed as funeral monuments and temples
to the gods. Such is that of Ceftius at Rome; the
pyramids of Dafhur drawn by Pocock : and thofe other
celebrated ones of Egypt, as famous for the enormity
of their fize as their antiquty. Of thefe the largeft are
the pyramids of Gee%a, fo called from a village of that
name on the banks of the Nile, diftant from them about
11 miles. The three which moft attract the attention
of travellers Hand near one another on the weft fide of
the river, almoft oppofite to Grand Cairo, and not far
from the place where the ancient Memphis flood. They
were vifited by M. Savary, of whofe defcription of them
rve lhall here give an abftracft.
He took his journey’' in the night-time, in order to
get up to the top of the great one by funrife. Having
got within fight of the two great ones, while the full
moon {hone upon them, he informs us, that they ap¬
peared, at the diftance of three leagues, like two points
of rock crowned by the clouds.
It is in the rich territory which furrounds them that
fable has placed the Elyfian fields. The canals which
iaterfecft them are the Styx and Lethe.
“ The afpecls of the pyramids, varied according to
the circuits he made in the plain, and the pofition of
the clouds, displayed thcmfclves more and more to view.
At half paft three in the morning rve arrived (fays he)
at the foot of the greateft. We left our clothes at the
gate of the palfage which leads to the infide, and de-
icended, carrying each of us a flambeau in his hand.
Towards the bottom you muft creep like ferpents to
get into the interior paffage, which correfponds with
the former. We mounted it on our knees, fupporting
ourfelves with our hands againft the fides. Without
this precaution one runs the rilk of flipping on the in¬
clined plane, where the flight notches are infufficient to
flop the foot, and one might fall to the bottom. To¬
wards the middle wre fired a piftol, the frightful noile
of which, repeated in the cavities of this immenfe edi¬
fice, continued a long time, and awakened thoufands of
bats, which flying round us, {truck againft our hands
and faces, and extinguifhed feveral of our wax candles.
They are much larger than the European bats. Ar¬
rived above, we entered a great hall, the gate of which
is very low. It is an oblong fquare, wholly compofed
of granite. Seven enormous Hones extend from one
wall to the other, and form the roof. A farcophagus
made of a Angle block of marble lies at one end of it.
It is empty $ and the lid of it has been wrenched off.
Some pieces of earthen vafes lie around it. Under this
beautiful hall is a chamber not fo large, where you find
the entrance to a conduit filled with rubbilh. After
examining thefe caves, where daylight never penetrated,
we defeended the fame way, taking care not to fall in¬
to a well, which is on the left, and goes to the very
foundations of the pyramid. Pliny makes mention of
this well, and fays it is 26 cubits deep. The internal
air of this edifice never being renewed, is fo hot and
mephitic that one is almoft fuffocated. When we came
out of it, we were dropping with fweat, and pale as
death. After refreftiing ourfelves with the external air,
we loft no time in afeending the pyramid. It is com¬
pofed of more than 200 layers of ftone. They overlap
each other in proportion to their elevation, which is
from two to four feet. It is neceflary to climb up all
thefe enormous fteps to reach the top. We undertook
it at the north-eaft angle, which is the leaft damaged.
It took us, however, half an hour with great pains and
many efforts to effeft it.
“ The fun was rifing, and we enjoyed a pure air,
with a moft delicious coolnefs. After admiring the
profpeft around us, and engraving our names on the
fummit of the pyramid, we defeended cautioufly, for we
had the abyfs before us. A piece of ftone detaching
itfelf under our feet or hands might .have fent us to the
bottom.
“ Arrived at the foot of the pyramid, we made the
tour of it, contemplating it with a fort of horror.
When viewed clofe, it feems to be made of maffes of
rocks j but at a hundred paces diftance, the largenefs of
the Hones is loft in the immenfity of the whole, and they
appear very fmall.
“ To determine its dimenfions isftilla problem. From
the time of Herodotus to our days it has been meafured
by a great number of travellers and learned men, and
their different calculations, far from clearing up doubts,
have only increafed the uncertainty. The following
table will ferve at leaft to prove how difficult it is to
come at the truth.
Pyramid-
X 3
Heigh:
Pyramid.
P Y U
£ ' 1>
Height of the great
Pyramid.
Ancients.
Herodotus
Strabo
Diodorus Siculus
Pliny
Moderns.
Le Bruyn
Profpcr Alpinus
Thevenot
Niebuhr
Greaves
Width of one of
its fides.
French Feet.
8co - 8co
6 25 - 600
6oo and a fradlion. 700
708
616 - 7°4
625 - - 750
520 - 682
443 - - 710
444 ' 648
'a
are
Number of layers of Stone which form it.
Greaves - - 207
Maillet - - 208
Albert L hr, vend tin - 260
Pncocke - - 212
Eelon - - 2jO
Thevenot - - 208
p appears that MeiTrs Greaves and Niebuhr have
prodigioudy deceived themfelves in meafuring the per¬
pendicular height of the great pyramid. All the tra¬
vellers allow that it has at kail 200 layers of done.
Thefe layers are from two to four feet high. Accord¬
ing to Pococke, they are from four feet and a half to
four feet high, being not fo high at the top as at the
bafe. Profper Alpinus informs us, that the elevation
of the fid layer is five feet, but it diminilhes infen-
fibly in proportion as one mounts. Thevenot men¬
tions 208 Heps of large Hones, the thicknefs of which
makes the height of them about two feet and a half
one with another : He meafured fome of them more
than three feet high. 1 have meafured feveral of them
which were more than three feet high, and I found
none lefs than two ; the lead height of them we can
take as a medium therefore is two feet and a hall,
which, even according to Mr Greaves’s calculation,
who reckons 207 layers, would make 517 feet 6 inches
perpendicular height. Meffrs Greaves, Maillet, Theve¬
not, and Pococke, who only differ in the number of the
layers from 207 to 212, ail mounted by the north-eaft
angle, as the had injured. I followed the fame route,
and counted only 208 Heps. But if we reriecl that
the pyramid has been open on the fide next the defert,
that the ftones on that fide have been thrown down,
that the fand which covers them has formed a confider-
able hill, we (hall not be adonifhed that Albert Liew-
endein, Belon, and Profper Alpinus, who mult have
mounted by the fouth-ead or fouth-vveft angle, which
are lefs expofed to the funds of Libya, diould have
found a greater number of Heps : fo that the calculation
of thefe travellers, agreeing with that of Diodorus Si¬
culus and Strabo, appears to be neared the true height
of the pyramid taken at its natural bafe ; whence we
may conclude with reafon that it is at lead 600 feet
high. Indeed this is authenticated by a paffage of
Strabo. Thefe are his words: : Towards the mi ddle
of the height of one of the fides is a done that may he
raifed up. It fhuls an oblique paffage which leads to a
coffin placed in the centre of the pyramid.1 This pad
] P Y H
fage, open in cur days, and which in the time of Strabo Pyramid,
was towards the middle of one face of the pyramid, is “-"v——
at prelent only 100 feet from the bafe. So that the
ruins of the covering ox the pyramid, and of the Hones
brought from within, buried by the fand, have formed
a hill in this place 200 feet high. Pliny confirms this
opinion. The great fphynx was in his time upwards
of 62 feet above the furtace of the ground. Its whole
body is at prefent buried under the land. Nothing
more appears of it than the neck and head, which
27 feet high. If even the Iphynx, though defended by
the pyramids againit the northerly winds, which bring
torrents of fand from Libya, be covered as high as 38
feet, what an immenfe quantity muff have been heaped
up to the northward of an edifice whole bafe is upwards
of 700 feet long ? It is to this we mud attribute the
prodigious difference between the accounts of the hi-
ftorians who have meafured the great pyramid at didant
periods, and at oppofite angles. Herodotus, who faw
it in the age neared to iis foundation, when its true
bafe was dill uncovered, makes it 800 feet fquare. This
opinion appears very probable. Pliny aifo fays that it
covered the fpace of eight acres.
“ Meffrs Shaw, Thevenot, and the other travellers
who pretend that this pyramid was never finithed, be-
caufe it is open and without coating, are in an error. It
is only neceffary to oblerve the remains of the mortar,
with the fplinters of white marble which are to be found
in many parts of the deps, to lee that it has been coated.
After reading attentively the defeription given of it by
the ancients, every doubt vanilhes, and the tiuth is as
clear as day-light. Herodotus tells us, ‘ The great py¬
ramid was covered with polidied Hones, perfectly well
jointed, the fmalled of which was 30 feet long. It
was built in the form of deps, on each of which were
placed wooden machines to raife the Hones from one to
another.’ According to Diodorus, ‘ The great pyra¬
mid is built of Hones, very difficult of workmanfhip,
but of an eternal duration. It is prefevved to our days
(towards the middle of the Augullan age) without be¬
ing in the lead injured. The marble was brought from
the quarries of Arabia.’ This hidorian thought that
the whole building was compofed of Hones, dmilar to
thofe of the coating, which were of very hard marble.
Had there been fome pieces torn off, he would have
perceived under that covering a calcareous done rather
foft. Pliny fays that it ‘ is formed of Hones brought
from the quarr’es of Arabia. It is not far from the vil¬
lage of Bufiris (which dill exids under tire name of
Bouft'), where thole perfons refide who are fo fkilful as
to climb up to the top.’
“ This paflage fhows that Pliny, deceived by the
appearance, was in the fame error with Diodorus
Siculus. It demondrates alfo that it was covered : for
what difficulty would there have been for the inhabi¬
tants of Bufiris to fcale a building raifed by deps ? but
it was really a prodigy for them to get up it when it
formed a mountain, the four inclined planes of which
prefented a furface covered with polilhed marble. It is
indeed an incontedable taT, that the gieat pyramid was
coated. It is as certain too that it has been ffiut, as
Strabo gives us to underdand; and that by removing a
done placed in the middle ot one of the fides, one found
a paffage which led to the tomb of the king. But I
fixall leave Mr Maillet, who vifited it 40 times with all
imaginable
Pyramid.
P Y R [ SJ3 1 P Y R
imaginable attention, the honour of relating the means
employed to open it. I have examined the in fide ot it
in two different journeys,: twice I have mounted it: and
I cannot help admiring the fagacity with which that
author has developed the mechaniim oi that aftouilhing
edifice.
Our author next proceeds to give a particular de-
fcription of the methods by which it is molt probable
that the pyramids were doled, and the immenle labour
requifite to open them. We muff remark, that the
final outlet to the workmen he fuppofes to have been the
well at the entrance formerly mentioned. This well de-
fcends towards the bottom of the pyramid by a line not
quite perpendicular to the horizon, but {lanting a little,
in fuch a manner as to referable the figure ot the He¬
brew letter Lamed. About 60 feet from the aperture
there is a fquare window in this paffage, from whence
we enter a fmall grotto hewn out of the mountain ;
which in this place is not a fclid itone, but a kind of
gravel concreted together. The grotto extends about
i 9 feet from call to weft, where there is another groove
hollowed likewife, but almoft perpendicular. It is two
feet four inches wide by two and a half in height. It
defcends through a (pace of I 23 feet, after which we
meet with nothing but land and ftoncs. M. Savary is
convinced that the only ivfe of this paffage was to lerve
as a retreat for the labourers who conftmcted the py¬
ramid ; and of this he looks upon the Hope of the con¬
duit, its winding road, its fmallnefs, and its depth, to be
certain proofs. The way out of it he fuppofes to have
been formed by a paffage over which hung a row of
Hones, which they had difcovered the fecret ot iufpend-
ing, and which falling down into the paffige by the
means of tome fpring they let in motion, ihut up the en¬
trance tor ever, as foon as the workmen were withdrawn
from the pyramid.
It feems to be an unqueftionable fa<ft, that this py¬
ramid was a maufoleum of one of the kings of Egvpt,
and it is very probable that all the reft antwered fmftlar
purpofes. We do not, however, think that this was
their primary ufe or the original defign of their build¬
ers. Mr Bryant is of opinion that they were temples
erected in honour of the Deity ; and a very ingenious
writer in the Gentleman’s Magazine for June 1794
has done much to prove that they were altars dedicated
to the fun, the nrft and greateft god in every pagan
kalendar.
“ Our Englifh word pyramid (fays he) is ditetftly
derived from the Latin pyra/his, and mediately from
the Greek ; all denoting the fame mathemati¬
cal figure. The original of the whole feems to be
the Egyptian word pyramoua, which, we are told by
Oriental fcholars, fignifes light, or a ray of light. From
this Coptic vocable the word in Greek, fignifying
fin, is probably def ended •, as the flames of fire afiume
that covical or pyramidal form which the folar rays
commonly difplay ; and as it is natural for the mind to
diftinguifli its objects rather by their external qualities,
and thofe obvious and interefting appearances wh ch
they exhibit to the fenfes, than by their conftituent and
infeparable properties.
“ The ancient Egyptians feem to have penetrated very
far into the myfteries of nature; and although iheir
fuperftition appears at firft fight to be extremely erofs
and abfurd, yet it is very probable that their deities
were only emblematical perfonages, reprefenting by Pyramid..
fenfible images the grand effects or prefiding principles -y—
which they iuppofed to exilt in the univerie. Thus
the moon was called Ijis, and the fun Ojiris; and to
the honour ot this laft deity, from whole vifible infiu-
ence and creative energy all things feem to fpring into
exiftence, it is not improbable that the Egyptians erect¬
ed thole ftupendous monuments, and dedicated them
to him as temples or altars. It was natural to build
them in that Ihape which the rays of the fun difplay
when ditcovered to the eye, and which they oi "erved to
be the fame in terreftrial flame, becaufe this circumftance
was combined in their imaginations with the attribute
which they adored. If they were temples dedicated to.
the lun, it leems a natural confequence that they ftiould
likewife be places of fepulture for kings and illuftrious
men, as the fpace which they covered would be confider-
ed as conftcrated ground. This bypothefis is common,
and is not contradicted by the prefent reafoning. But,
confidering them as altars, and as moll travellers agree
that they were never finilhed, but terminate in a fquare
horizontal iurface, it would not be refining too much
to venture an affertion that, in great and fiolemn acts of
adoration, the Egyptians conftrudled fires, the flames-
ol which Ihould terminate in the vertex of the pyramid,
and lo complete that emanation of their deity which
they admired and adored. As far, therefore, as we are
jollified in forming any conclufion on fo dark a fubjeef,
we may venture to fay, that the Egyptian pyramids were
temples or altars dedicated to the fun, as the material re-
prelentative of that invifible power which creates, go¬
verns, and pervades, the whole fyftern of nature.”
This reafoning has fome force ; and it certainly re¬
ceives additional llrength from the undoubted fa£l, that
the firft ftatues for idolatrous worfhip were erefted on the
tops of mountains, and of a pyramidal or conical form.
(See Polytheism, N° 13 and 21). It is likewfife cor¬
roborated by other circumftances difcovered by the mem¬
bers oi the Aftatic Society. In the fecond volume of
their tranfaclions we have an account of feveral large fta¬
tues of the gods SEEVA and McHEDEO, all of a conical
or pyramidal figure ; but it has been (hown in the arti¬
cle already referred to, that the idolatry of Kindoilam
was probably of Egyptian original.
It is not known in Europe when the pyramids were,
built ; but wTe have reafon to expecft a hitlory of them
foon from Shanfcrit records examined by Mr Wilford
lieutenant of engineers. It is as little known at what
time, or from wnat motive, the great pyramid was open¬
ed. Some think it was done by one of the khalifs about
the beginning of the eighth century, in expefilation of
finding a great treafure; but all he met with was the
king’s body, with fome golden idols which had been bu¬
ried along with it.— By others it is fuppofed- to have
been done by the celebrated Harun Al Hafchid khalif of
Bagdad; but all are agreed that this pyramid was open¬
ed in the time of the Arabs. The fecond pyramid
has likewife been opened ; and an attempt was made
not long ago upon the third by one of the Beys of
Cairo : but after removing a number of Hones at a con-
fiderable expence, he thought proper to defiH from the
enterprife.—My Bryant is of opinion that the pyramids,
at leait the three great ones, are not artificial Hru&urej,
of Hone and mortar, but folid rocks cut into a pyra¬
midal ftiape, and afterwards cafed with Hone; and to
1%,
P Y R [ 534 ] P Y R
Pyramid, this we find that Mr Bruce likewife afients. The rea-
1 ' fon given for this opinion is, that the paffages within
it feem rather to anfwer to the natural cavities and rents
in rocks than to the artificial ones in buildings. The
opinion, however, wTe think lufficiently confuted by
Savary and Maillet: and, as an acute critic obferves,
it is in itfelf as improbable as that the caverns inha¬
bited by the Troglodytes were dug by the hands of man.
See Troglodytes.
Oh the eafl fide of the fecond pyramid is the fphynx,
an enoi vous mafs of one folid tf one, but fo buried in the
fand that only the top of the back is vifible, which is 100
feet long. Its head rifes, as we have feen, 27 feet above the
fand ) and its face has been disfigured by the Arabs,
who hold all reprefentations of men and living animals in
.deteftation. Other travellers fay that this fphynx is a
huge mifhapen rock, by no means worthy of the atten¬
tion which has been bellowed upon it.
In the defert of Saccara there is a great number of
pyramids, which, in Mr Bruce’s opinion, are compofed
of clay. They terminate in what the inhabitants call
a dagiour or falfe pyramid, about two miles from the
Nile, between Suf and Woodan. This is no other than
a hill cut into the Ihape of a pyramid, or naturally fo
formed, for a confiderable height 3 on the top of which
is a pyramidal building of brick terminating in a point,
and having its bafis fo exactly adapted to the top of the
hill, that at a diftance the difference cannot be percei¬
ved 3 efpecially as the face of the flones refembles very
nearly the clay of which the pyramids of the Saccara are
compofed.
But a very different opinion concerning the purpofes
to which the great pyramid wras originally deflined, and
the period in which that extraordinary edifice was ereft-
ed, is held by Mr Gabb, who has not long fince pub-
liflied an elaborate treatife on this fubjeft. According
to this author not only the great pyramid, but alfo the
fmaller pyramids are of antediluvian origin 3 the im-
menfe accumulation of fand around thole ftupendous
ft{u6lures took place at the time of the deluge 3 the
height of this fand, when the waters fubfided, probably
reached the fummit of the pyramid, and the apex of
the great pyramid was torn off by the violent agita¬
tion of the waters. The author contends that the fand
round the pyramids could not have been colledled by
the force of the winds 3 and that it is equally improbable
that it could have been depofited from the waters of the
Nile during the inundations of that river 3 for the Nile
was never known to rife to fuch a height, and the or¬
ganized remains, fuch as fhells and petrified oyflers,
found in the fands about the pyramids, are quite differ-
-ent from any fhell-fifh that inhabit the Nile. From
all this the author concludes, that the great pyramid
was ere£!ed by the Antediluvians, that the remarkable
depofition of fand on the furface of the extenfive rock
on rvhich that immenfe fabric Hands can only be fatif-
faftorily accounted for from the effects of the univerfal
deluge or flood of Noah 3 and that the accumulation of
fand is diminifhing rather than increafing by the force
of the wind. The author fuppofes that the other py¬
ramids were alfo built before the flood, but at a later
period than that of the great pyramid, which latter he
thinks was the work of the immediate defcendants of
Seth. In proof of this, Jofephus is quoted, who notices
,a memorial of an ancient tradition preferved among the
I
Jews, that the direct defcendants of Seth were much em¬
ployed in aflronomical obfervations. The perfect: geome¬
trical figure of the pyramid, the oommenfurability of its
parts to the whole, the fcientific approach of the fide of
its bafe to a meridional degree of the circumference of the
earth, and the ufeful folutions of problems deducible
from it, lead to the fame inference.
But the molt curious part of this author’s •difquifition
concerning the pyramid relates to the purpofe for wdiich
that flupendous fabric was raifed 3 and here he is deci¬
dedly of opinion, that it was originally intended as a
ftandard of meafure, and not as has been more generally
fuppofed as a fepulchral momument 3 and farther that
the excavation of the celebrated granite cheft in the
interior of the pyramid was intended not for the repo-
fitory of a corpfe, but for a ftandard meafure of capa¬
city, as its length was for linear meafure. This is alfo
the opinion of the French f^avans who accompanied
the army of Bonaparte to Egypt, and very fuccefsfully
afcertained the dimenfions of that remarkable building.
The plan of the pyramid is a geometrical fquare, the
fide of which is equal to 400 cubits of Cairo, or the
great Egyptian ftadium. The length of the granite
cheil in the upper chamber of the pyramid is exa£Uy four
cubits, which is precifely one hundredth part of the
bafe of the fide of the pyramid. The commenfurabi-
lity of the component parts of the pyramid nowr men¬
tioned, as well as of others difcufied by the author, is
undoubtedly a curious circumftance. But we muft re¬
fer our readers to the WTork itfelf, and for farther infor¬
mation concerning the pyramids, to Denotes Travels,
&c.
PYRAMIDALES, in Anatomy, one of the muf-
cles of the abdomen. See Anatomy, Table of the
PYRAMIDOID, a term which is occafionally em¬
ployed to denote the parabolic fpindle, or the folid for¬
med by the rotation of a femiparabola about its bafe or
greateft ordinate.
PYRENEAN Mountains, or Pyrenees, are the
mountains which divide France from Spain, and are the
moft celebrated in Europe, except the Alps. They
reach from the Mediterranean fea as far as the ocean,
and are about 212 miles in length. They have differ¬
ent names, according to the different places wEerein
they Hand. Some think they are as high as the Alps 3
but the paffages over them are not fo difficult, what¬
ever fome travellers may think who have not croffed the
f ormer.
PYRITES, a metallic fubftance combined with ful-
phur, as iron pyprites, compofed of fulphur and iron 3
copper pyrites, of fulphur and copper. See Minera¬
logy Index.
PYRMONT, a town of Lippe in Germany, in the
circle of Weftphalia, and capital of a country of the
fame name. It has a caftle, kept by a governor, vffio is
under the counts of Waldeck. At a fmall diftance from
hence there are mineral waters, which are much efteem-
ed. The Proteftants have here the free exercife of their
religion. It is feated on the confines of the duchy of
Brunfwick, 40 miles fouth-weft of Hanover. E Long.
9. o. N. Eat. 52. o.
PYROLA, a genus of plants belonging to the de-
candria clafs, and in the natural method ranking under
the i8lh order, Bicornes. See Botany" Index.
PYROMANCY,
P Y R
[ 535 ]
P Y R
pyromancy, PYROMANCY, a kind of divination by means of
Pyrometer. gre< gee DIVINATION, N° 6.
‘■-r v „ ■ PYROMETER, an inftrument for meafuring the
expanfion of bodies by heat. See Chemistry Index.
Mufchenbroeck, who was the original inventor of this
machine, has given a table of the expanfion of the dif¬
ferent metals in the fame degree of heat. Having pre¬
pared cylindric rods of iron, fteel, copper, brafs, tin,
and lead, he expofed them firft to a pyrometer with
one flame in the middle 5 then with two flames ; and
fucceflively to one ivith three, four, and five flames.
Eut previous to this trial, he took care to cool them
equally, by expofing them fome time upon the fame
ftone, when it began to freeze, and Fahrenheit’s ther¬
mometer was at 32 degrees. The effefts of wdiich ex¬
periment are digefted in the following table, wdiere the
degrees of expanfion are marked in parts equal to the
fafoo Part °f an inch.
Expanfion of
By one flame
By twro flames
placed clofe
together.
By two flames
24 inches di-
ftant.
By three flames
placed clofe
together.
By four flames
placed clofe
together.
By five flames.
Iron.
80
117
109
142
211
230
Steel.
85
123
94
168
270
31°
Copper.
89
Brafs.
no
IJ5
92
220
I4I
m
275
270
361
3!° I 377
Tin.
I53
219
Lead.
^SS
274
263
It is to be obferved of tin, that it will eafily melt
when heated by two flames placed together. Lead com¬
monly melts with three flames placed together, efpecially
if they bum long.
From thefe experiments,. it appears at firft view that
iron is the leaft rarefied of any of thefe metalSj whether
it be heated by one or more flames } and therefore is moil
proper for making machines or inftruments which we
■would have free from any alterations by heat or cold,
as the rods of pendulums for clocks, 8cc. So likewife
the meafures of yards or feet Ihould be made of iron,
that their length may be as nearly as poflible the fame
fummer and winter.
The expanfion of lead and tin, by only- one flame,
is nearly the fame; that is, almofl: double of the ex¬
panfion of iron. It is likewafe obfervable, that the
flames placed together, caufe a greater rarefaflion than
when they have a fenfible interval between them ; iron
in the former cafe, being expanded 117 degrees, and
only 109 in the latter ; the reafon of which difference
is obvious.
By comparing the expanfions of the fame metal pro¬
duced by one, two, three, or more flames, it appears
that twro flames do not caufe double the expanfion of one.
nor three flames three times that expanfion, but always Pyrometer,
lets $ and thefe expanfions differ fo much the more from “v '
the ratio of the number of flames as there are more flames
a&ing at the fame time.
It is alfo obfervable, that metals are not expanded
equally at the time of their melting, but fome more
fome lefs. Thus tin began to run when rarefied 219
degrees ; whereas brafs was expanded 377 degrees, and
yet was far from melting.
Mr Ellicot found, upon a medium, that the expan¬
fion of bars of different metals, as nearly of the fame di-
menfions as poflible, by the fame degree of heat, w7ere
as follow :
Gold, Silver, Brafs, Copper, Iron, Steel, Lead,
73 l°3 95 89 60 56 149
The great diflerence between the expanfions of iron and
brafs has been applied with good fuccefs to remedy the
irregularities in pendulums arifing from heat. See Pen¬
dulum.
Mr Graham ufed to meafure the minute alterations,
in length, of metal bars, by advancing the point of a
micrometer-fcrew, till it fenfibly flopped againft the
end of the bar to be meafured. This fcrew, being
fmall and very lightly hung, was capable of agree¬
ment within the three or four-thoufandth part of an
inch. On this general principle Mr Smeaton contrived
his pyrometer, in which the meafures are determined by
the contaft of a piece of metal with the point of a mi-
crometer-fcrevv.
The following table fhows how much afoot in length
of each metal grovrs longer by an increafe of heat, cor-
refponding to 18o° of Fahrenheit’s thermometer, or to
the difference between freezing and boiling water, ex-
preffed in fuch parts of which the unit is equal to the
10,000th part of an inch.
1. White-glafs barometer tube,.
2. Martial regulus of antimony,
3. Bliflered fteel, - _ .
4. Hard fteel,
5. Iron,
6. Bifmuth,. - -
7. Copper hammered,
8. Copper eight parts, with tin one,
9. Caft brafs, - - . -
1 o. Brafs fixteen parts, with tin one, s
11. Brafs-wire, - - .
12. Speculum metal,
13. Spelter folder, viz. brafs twro parts, zinc one,
14. Fine pewter,
15. Grain tin, _ _ .
16. Soft folder, viz. lead two, tin one,
17. Zinc eight parts, with tin one, a little ham-"
mered, - - 323
18. Lead, — 344
19. Zinc or fpelter, - 353
20. Zinc hammered half an inch per foot, 373
We fliall clofe this article with a brief defcription
of a pyrometer invented by M. De Luc, in confe-
qmence of a hint fuggefted to him by Mr Ramfden.
The bafis of this inftrument is a rectangular piece of
deal-board two feet and a half long, 13 inches broad,
and one inch and a half thick; and to this all the
other parts are fixed. This is mounted in the manner
of a table, with four deal legs, each £ foot long and an
inch
100
130
*38
147
151
167
204
218
225'
229
232
232
247
274
298
301
P Y ft [ 536 ] P Y ft
•Pyrometer.inch and a half Fquare, well fitted near its four angles,
hr""‘v and kept together at the other ends by four firm crofs-
pieces. This fimall table is fufpended by a hook to a
fland •, the board being in a vertical fituation in the di-
rection of its grain, and bearing its legs forward in fuch
a manner as that the crofs-pieces which join them may
form a frame, placed vertically facing the obferver. This
frame fuifains a microfcope, which is firmly fixed in
another frame that moves in the former by means of
grooves, but with a very confiderable degree of tight-
nefs ; the friflion of which may be increafed by the
preffiire of four fcrews. The inner Hiding frame, which
is likewife of deal, keeps the tube of the microfcope in
a-,horizontal pofition, and in great part without the
frame, infomuch that the end which carries the lens is
but little within the fpace between the frame and the
board. This microfcope is conftrudled in fuch a man¬
ner as that the object obferved may be an inch dilfant
from the lens •, and it has a wire which is fituated in
the focus of the glalfes, in which the objects appear re-
verfed. At the top of the apparatus there is a piece of
deal, an inch and a half thick and two inches broad,
laid in a horizontal direction from the board to the top
of the frame. To this piece the rods of the different
fubifances, wrhofe expanfion by heat is to be meafured,
are fufpended : one end of it Aides into a focket, which
is cut in the thicknefs of the board •, and the other end,
which refts upon the frame, meets there with a fcrew,
which makes the piece move backward and forward,
to bring the objects to the focus of the microfcope.
There is a cork very ftrongly driven through a hole Pyrometer,
bored vertically through this piece ; and in another |broPtlollls;
vertical hole made through the cork, the rods are fix- v~
ed at the top fo that they hang only, and their dila¬
tation is not countera&ed by any preflure. In order to
heat the rods, a cylindrical bottle of thin glafs, about
21 inches high, and four inches in diameter, is placed
in the infide of the machine, upon a Hand indepen¬
dent of the reft of the apparatus. In this bottle the
rods are fufpended at a little lefs than an inch diftance
from one of the infides, in order to have them near the
microfcope. Into this bottle is poured wTater of dif¬
ferent degrees of heat, which mult be ftirred about, by
moving upwards and downwards, at one of the iides
of the bottle, a little piece of wood, faftened horizon¬
tally at the end of a flick : in this water is hung a
thermometer, the ball of which reaches to the middle
of the height cf the rods. During thefe operations
the water rifes to the cork, which thus determines the
length of the heated part; the bottle is covered, to
prevent the water from cooling too rapidly at the fur-
face 5 and a thin cafe of brafs prevents the vapour
from fixing upon the piece of deal to which the rods are
fixed.
PYROPHORUS, formed of vrv£, jrre, and I
bear, in chemiftry, the name ufually given to that fub-
ftance called by feme black phofphorus; a chemical pre¬
paration polTefting the fingulav property of kindling
fpontaneoufiy when expofed to the air. See Chemistry
Index.
PYROTECHNY,
definition. T ITEHALLY fignifies the art of fire, and is derived
J from “ fire,” and n-yj-ti, “ art.” The term is
now, however, generally confined to denote the art of
making artificial fire-works, which has become a par¬
ticular trade.
As this art depends chiefly on chemical principles,
and as the objedls about which it is employed afford
feme of the moil gratifying fpeflacles on occafions of
public rejoicing, w’e have not confidered it unworthy of
a place in our Encyclopaedia ; and we fhall endeavour to
give fuch an account of the operations and principles of
the art as may fatisfy thofe who wifli to praftife it by way
a of rational amufement.
Origin of Of the origin of artificial fire-works nothing certain
Che art un- appears to be recorded. We know that in Europe their
certain. invention is of a recent date, and appears due to the Ita¬
lians. The ufe of fire-works in China feems to have been
very general long before their invention in Europe, and
that ingenious people have carried thefe exhibitions to a
degree of perfedtion which European artifts have yet
fcarcely attained. The following defeription of a Chi-
nefe difplay of fire-works by one of the gentlemen who
accompanied Lord Macartney’s embaffy to Pekin, will
give our readers fome idea of the flate of the art among
that people.
Befcoption The fire-works in fome particulars, exceeded any
of Chinefe thing of the kind I had ever feen. In grandeur, mag-
ftre-works. nificence, and variety, they were, I own, inferior to the
Chinefe fire-works we had feen at Batavia, but infinitely
lupeiior in point of novelty, neatnefs, and ingenuity of
contrivance. One piece of machinery I greatly admir¬
ed ; a green cheft of five feet fquare was hoifted up by
a pulley to the height of 50 or 60 feet from the ground:
the bottom w’as fo conftrudted as then fuddenly to fall
out, and make way for 20 or 30 firings of lanterns en-
clofed in the box to defeend from it, unfolding them-
felves from one another by degrees, fo as at laft to form
a colledlion of at leaft 500, each having a light of a
beautifully coloured flame burning brightly within it.
This devolution and developement of lanterns (which ap¬
peared to me to be compofed of gauze and paper) were
feveral times repeated, and every time exhibited a differ¬
ence of colour and figure. On each fide was a corre-
fpondence of fmaller boxes, which opened in like man¬
ner as the others, and let down an immenfe net-work of
fire, with divifions and compartments of various forms
and dimenfions, round and fquare, hexagons, oftagons,
and lozenges, which flione like the brighteft burniflied
copper, and flatbed like prifmatic lightning, with every
impulie of the wind. The diverfity of colours indeed
with which the Chinefe have the fecret of cloathing fire
feems one of the chief merits of their pyrotechny. The
whole concluded with a volcano, or general explofion
and difeharge of funs and ftars, fquibs, bouncers, crack- # ^ ^
ers, rockets, and grenadoes, which involved the gar-
dens for above an hour after in a cloud of intolerable/^-^
fmoke.” *. ’ _ P- 206.
Till of late the French and Italian makers of fire- 4
✓ works
Chap. L P Y R O T
A|jp:u;itus, works muck excelled our Brit ilk artifts, and even now,
M n-vi.N, though the practice of the art is well underftood among
&c. or Fue- ;ts principles are almott entirely unknown ; and no
. . Englith work of any refpeftability has appeared on the
fubjedl. In France, the art has been more fortunate,
and feveral men of eminent literary abilities have conde-
fcended to make it an object of their attention. It will
be fufficient, in proof of this, to mention the names of
Ozanam and'Montucia. The following works are re¬
commended by the latter, as containing the belt account
of this amuling art •, viz.
Trnite des Feux d’’Artifice (Treatifeon Artificial Fire-
Works), by M. Frezier, a new edition of which appeared
in J745y
Trade des Feux d'Artifice pour le SpeBacle et pour la
Guerre, (Treatife on Artificial Fire-Works, employed in
Exhibitions and in War), by M. Perrinet d’Orval.
Manuel d'Artfcier, (Artificial Fire-Work-Maker’s
Manual), publifhed at Paris in 1757, by Father d’ln-
carville.
Indeed molt of the written information which wTe pof-
fefs on the making of fire-works, is derived from the
French ; and many of thefe produftions ftill retain French
names, fuch as gerbes, balloons, marroons, tourbillons,fau-
cififons, &c.
5 We flia1l divide this article into two chapters ; in the
firft of which we ihall confider the apparatus required for
forming the cafes or Ihells of artificial fire-works, and the
materials employed in their conftruftion ; and in the fe-
cond we Ihall defcribe the different kinds of fire-works
and the moll approved methods of conftrudling them.
Chap. I. Of the Apparatus and Materials employed
in making Fire-Works.
Sect. I. Of Apparatus.
6
Apparatus.
7
Roi ket
moulds.
Fig. r.
Plate
SCCCI.II.
The apparatus ufed in making fire-works confifls
chiefly of folid wooden cylinders, cdlltA. formers, for rol¬
ling the cafes on •, fimilar cylinders either of wood or
metal for ramming down the compofltion ; moulds for
holding the cafes while filling, a machine for cloaking
or contradfing the cavity of the cafes, another for grind¬
ing the materials, and a particular apparatus for boring
fome cafes after they are filled.
We flrall begin with defcribing tne moulds, as on the
fize of thefe depends that of the formers and rammers.
As the performance of rockets depends much on
their moulds, it is requifite to give a defcription of
them and their proportions : They are made and pro¬
portioned by the diameter of their orifice, which is di¬
vided into equal parts. Fig. x. reprefents a mould made
by its diameter AB : its height from C to D is fix dia¬
meters and two-thirds ; from D to E is the height of
the foot, which is one diameter and two-thirds ; F the
cloak or cylinder, whofe height is one diameter and
one-third ; it muft he made out of the fame piece as the
foot, and fit tight in the mould ; G is an iron pin that
goes through the cylinder to keep the foot fall ; H
the nipple, which is half a diameter high, and two-
thirds thick, and of the fame piece of metal as the pier¬
cer I, whofe height is three diameters and a half, and
at the bottom it is one-third of the diameter thick,
VOL. XVII. Part II.
E C H N Y. 537
from thence tapering to one-fixth of the diameter. The V'pnratw,
piercer is an iron pin riling from the nipple, and intend- ,/ aU-rja
ed to preferve a vacuity in the centre of the charge. ' ^-7,k-1'
The belt way to fix the piercer in the cylinder, is to -—v 1
make that part below the nipple long enough to go
quite through the foot, and rivet it at bottom. Fig. 2. is
a former or roller for the cafes, whofe length from the
handle is feven diameters and a half, and its diameter
two thirds of the bore. Fig. 3. is a part attached to p;„ 2i
the former, which is of the fame thicknefs, and one
diameter and two-thirds long 5 the fmall part, which
fits into the hole in the end of the roller when the cafe F‘g- 3*
is pinching is one-fixth, and one half of the mould’s
diameter thick. Fig. 4. the firlt drift or rammer,
which mull be fix diameters from the handle ; and this,
as well as all other rammers, mull be a little thinner
than the former, to prevent the facking of the paper Gg 4.
when driving in the charge. In the end of this ram¬
mer is a hole to fit over the piercer : the line K marked
on this is two diameters and one-third from the handle ;
fo that, when filling the rocket, this line appears at top
of the cafe : you mull then take the fecond rammer,
(fig. 5.) which from the handle is four diameters, and
the hole for the piercer is one diameter and a half long.
Fig. 6. is the fliort and folid drift which is ufed when
the cafe has been filled as high as the top of the pier- Fig. 5,6.
cer.
Rammers mull have a collar of brafs at the bottom,
to keep the wood from fpreading or fplitting, and the
fame proportion mull be given to all moulds, from one
ounce to fix pounds. We mentioned nothing concerning
the handles of the rammers 5 however, if their diameters
be equal to the bore of the mould, and two diameters
long, it will be a very good proportion : but the ihorter
they can be ufed, the better ; for the longer the drift,
the lefs will be the preffure on the compotition by the
blow given with the mallet.
The following are.the dimenfions for rocket moulds,
when the rockets are rammed folid.
Weight of
Rockets.
Length of the
inoukh without
theii feet.
Interior diameter
of the moulds.
Height of
the nipples.
lb. cz.
Incite-.
In h s
Inches.
2
I
O
O
o
o
o
6 drams
4 drams
34>7
38,6
12,25
10,125
FI s
6.2
4>9
3^9
3>5
2.2
3 >5
2,9
2,1
F7
I>333
1,125
0,9
°,7
o,5
0,3
G5
F4
1,0
0,85
0,6
°,5
o,45
o,33
0,25
0,225
0,2
N. B. The diameter of the nipple muft always be
equal to that of the former.
We ftiall now ftiow the method of finding the dia¬
meters or calibres of rockets, according to their weight ;
but we muft firft obferve, that a pound rocket, is that
3 Y juft
53«
P Y R O T
Apparatus, jui^ capable of admitting a leaden bullet of a pound
£eci*of'Firt- an^ f° of the reft. The calibre for the different
works, hzes may be found in the two lollowing tables, one of
u~—v—— 'which is calculated for rockets of a pound weight and
8 under ; and the other for thofe from a pound to co
Method of nds>
Koair.g the
diameters of
rockets ac- I ABLE I. Of the Calibre of Moulds of a pound weight
cording to and below.
their
weight.
Ounces
16
12
8
7
6
5
4
3
2
I
Lines.
194
1?
lS
Ml
i4t
J3
124
ii|
9h
64
Drams
M
12
10
8
6
4
2
Lines.
74
7
64
64
5t
44
3i
The ufe of this table will be underftood merely by
infpeftion •, for it is evident that the mould for a rocket
of 12 ounces ought to be 17 lines in diameter j one of
eight ounces, 15 lines j one of io drams, 6y lines 5 and
fo of the reft.
On the other hand, if the diameter of the rocket be
given, it will be eafy to find the weight of the ball cor-
refponding to that calibre. For example, if the diame¬
ter be 13 lines, it will be immediately feen, by looking
for that number in the column of lines, that it cerre-
fponds to a ball of five ounces.
II. Table of the Calibre of Moulds frovi one to 30
pounds ball.
Pounds.
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
rM
14
15
16
*7
Calibre.
IOO
126
I44
I58
I7I
181
I9I
200
208
215
222
228
235
241
247
2 f 2
257
Pounds.
18
J9
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
3°
31
32
33
34
Calibre.
262
267
271
275
280
284
288'
292
296
200
3°4
3°7
310
3I4
Ml
320
323
Pounds.
35
36
37
S8
39
40
41
42
43
44
45
46
47
48
49
5°
Calibre.
326
33°
333
336
339
341
344
347
350
353
355
358
061
363
366
368
The ufe of this fecond table is as follows: If the
weight of the ball be given, which we fhall fuppofe to
be 24 pounds, feek for that number in the column of
pounds, and oppofite to it, in the column of calibres,
will be found the number 388, Then fay, as icq is to
E C H N Y. Chap. I.
I9i, fo is 288 to a fourth term, which will be the num- Apparatus,
ber of lines of the calibre required j or multiply the Materials,
number found, that is 288, by 19^, and from the pro-&^|.^u'e'
duce 5616, cut off the two laft figures j the required ■ (
calibre, therefore, will be 56,16 lines, or four inches
eight lines.
On the other hand, the calibre being given in lines,
the weight of the ball may be found with equal eafe.
If the calibre, for example, be 28 lines, fay as 19*- is
to 28, fo is 100 to a fourth term, which will be 143.5,
or nearly 144. But in the above table, oppofite to
144 in the fecond column, will be found the number
3 in the firft; which ftiews that a rocket, the diameter
or calibre of which is 28 lines, is a rocket of a three
pounds ball.
Fig. 7. reprefents a mould, in which the cafes arc
driven folid ; L the nipple, with a brafs point at top,
(flat at top, and of the fame length as the neck of the Fio- 7*
cafe), which, when the cafe is filling, ferves to ^0P jyjouys fcr
the neck, and prevent the compofiticn from falling fe,pents or
out, as without this point it would 5 and, in conic-wheel-’
quence, the air ■would get into the vacancy in the cafes-
charge, and at the time of firing caufe the cafe to be
burft. Thefe moulds are made of any length or diame¬
ter, according as the cafes are required 3 but the diame¬
ter of the rollers muff be equal to half the bore, and
the rammers made quite folid. The nipple and cylin¬
ders muft bear the fame proportion as thofe for rockets.
The rolling and formation of cafes is fo intimately
connected with the conftru&ion of moulds m&fortners,
that we ihall introduce what we have to fay on that
fubjecl into the fame feflion.
Sky-rocket cafes are to be made 6f of their exterior
diameter long 5 and all other cafes that are to be filled
in moulds muft be as long as the moulds, within half its
interior diameter.
Rocket cafes, from the fmalleft to four or fix pounds, Mcihod c?
are generally made of the ftrongeft fort of cartridge roll ng
paper, and rolled dry 3 but the large fort are made ofcafes.
pafted pafteboard. As it is very difficult to roll the ends
of the cafes quite even, the beft way will be to keep a
pattern of the paper for the different forts of cafes;
which pattern ffiould be fomewhat longer than the cafe
it is defigned for, and on it marked the number of fheets
required, which will prevent any paper being cut to
wafte. Having cut the papers of a proper fize, and the
laft ffieet for each cafe with a flope at one end, fo that
when the cafes are rolled it may form a fpiral line round
the outfide, and that this flope may always be the fame,
let the pattern be fo cut for a guide. Before you begin
to roll, fold down one end of the firft: fheet, fo far that
the fold will go two or three times round the former :
then, on the double edge, lay the former with its handle
eft the table 3 and when you have rolled on the paper
within two or three turns, lay the next ffieet on that
part which is loofe, and roll it all on.
Having thus done, you muft have a fmoolh board,
about 20 inches long, and equal in breadth to the
length of the cafe. In th» middle of this board muft
be a handle placed lengthwife. Under this board lay
the cafe, and let one end of the board lie on the table 3
then prefs hard on it, and puffi it forwards, which will
roll the paper very tight 3 do this three or four times be¬
fore you roll on any more paper. This muft be repeat¬
ed with every other fheet of paper, till th^ cafe is thick
enough 5
Chap. I.
Apparatus, enough j but if the rolling board be drawn backwards,
&1SofFire ^ loofen the paper : you are to obferve, when you
works. *ro^ 011 t^ie ^eet» that the point of the dope be pla-
u—y—— ced at the fmall end of the roller. Having rolled your
cafe to fit the mould, pufh in the fmall end of the form¬
er F, about one diameter from the end of the cafe, and
put in the end-piece within a little diftance of the form¬
er ; then give the pinching cord one turn round the
cafe, between the former and the end-piece } at firft pull
gently, and keep moving the cafe, which will make the
neck fmooth, and without large wrinkles. When the
cafes are hard to choak, let each (heet of paper (except
the firft and laft, in that part where the neck is formed)
be a little moiftened with w7ater: immediately after you
have Itruck the concave Itroke, bind the neck of the
cafe round with fmall twine, which mult not be tied in
a knot, but faltened with two or three hitches.
Having thus pinched and tied the cafe fo as not to
give way, put it into the mould without its foot, and
•with a mallet drive the former hard on the end-piece,
which will force the neck clofe and fmooth. This done,
cut the cafe to its proper length, allowing from the
neck to the edge of the mouth half a diameter, wdiich
is equal to the height of the nipple; then take out the
former, and drive the cafe over the piercer with the
long rammer, and the vent will be of a proper fize.
Wheel-qafes mult be driven on a nipple with a point to
clofe the neck, and make the vent of the fize required j
which, in molt cafes, is generally one-fourth of their in¬
terior diameter. As it is very often difficult, when the
cafes are rolled, to draw the roller out, you may make
a hole through the handle, and put in it a fmall iron
pin, by wffiich you may eafily turn the former round and
Fig, 3, Pu^ ^ out' Fig* 8. fhow7S the method of pinching
cafes ; P a treddle, which, when prefled hard with the
foot, will draw7 the cord tight, and force the neck as
clofe as you pleafe j a fmall wheel or pulley, with a
groove round it for the cord to run in.
Cafes for wheels and fixed pieces are commonly rol¬
led wet} and when they are required to contain a great
length of charge, the method of making thofe cafes is
this: The paper mufl: be cut as ufual, only the laft
fheet mult not be cut with a fiope : Having the paper
ready, pafte each fheet on one fide; then fold down the
firft fheet as before directed : but be careful that the
pafte does not touch the upper part of the fold j for if
the roller be wetted, it will tear the paper in drawing
it out. In pafting the laft flieet, obferve not to wretthe
laft turn or twro in that part where it is to be pinched 5
for if that part be damp, the pinching cord will flick to
it, and tear the paper •, therefore, when you choke thofe
cafes, roll a bit of dry paper once round the cafe, be¬
fore you put on the pinching cord ; but this bit of paper
muft be taken oft after the cafe is choked. The rolling
board, and all other methods, according to the former
directions for the rolling and pinching of cafes, muft be
It ufed to tbefe as well as all other cafes.
Tourbillon Tourhi/Ion cafes are generally made about eight diame-
cafes. terslong*, but if very large, feven will be fufficient: tour-
billons will anfwer very well from four ounces to two
pounds *, but when larger there is no certainty. The
Cafes are belt rolled wet with pafte, and the laft Iheet
muft have a flraight edge, fo that the cafe may be all of
a thicknefs : when the cafes have been rolled in the
manner of wheel cafes, pinch them at one end quite
539
clofe ; then with the rammer drive the ends down flat, Apparatus,
and afterwards ram in about one-third of a diameter of Matena!s»
dried clay. The diameter of the former for thefe cafes
muft be the fame as of that for fky-rockets. - v-~ -
N. B. Tourbillons are to be rammed in moulds with¬
out a nipple, or in a mould without its fooc.
For balloons, firft prepare an oval former turned Balloon ca-
of fmooth wood ; over which, parting a quantity offes. or paper
brown or cartridge paper, let it lie till the pafte has flielIs‘
quite foaked through $ this done, rub the former with
foap or greafe, to prevent the paper from flicking to it j
then lay the paper on in fmall flips, till you have made
it one-third of the thicknefs of the intended fhell. This
being done, fet it to dry j and when dry, cut it round
the middle, and the two halves will eafily come off:
but obferve, when you cut, to leave about, one inch un¬
cut, which will make the halves join much better than
if they had been quite feparated. When there are fome
ready to join, place the halves evenly together, pafte a
flip of paper round the opening to hold them together,
and let that dry ; then lay on paper all over as before,
everywhere equal, excepting that end which goes down¬
wards in the mortar, which may be a little thicker than
the reft ; for that part which receives the impulfe from
the powder in the chamber of the mortar requires the
greateft ftrength. When the fliell is thoroughly drv,
burn a round hole at top, with fquare iron, large enough
for the fuze: this method will do for balloons from four
inches two-fifths, to eight inches diameter ; but if they
are larger, or required to be thrown a great height, let
the firft fliell be turned of elm, inftead of being made of
paper.
For a balloon of four inches two fifths, let the former
be three inches one-eighth diameterj and five inches and
a half long. For a balloon of five inches and a half,
the diameter of the former muft be four inches, and
eight inches long. For a balloon of eight inches, let
the diameter of the former be five inches and 1 <;-i6ths,
and 11 inches feven-eights long. For a 10-inch bal¬
loon, let the former be feven inches three-fixteenths dia¬
meter, and 14 inches and a half long. The thicknefs
of a fhell for a balloon of four inches two-fifths, muft be
one-half inch. For a balloon of five inches and a half,
let the thicknefs of the paper be five-eighths of an inch.
For an eight-inch balloon, feven-eighths of an inch.
And for a 10-inch balloon, let the fhell be one inch '
one-eighth thick.
Shells that are defigned for ftars only, may be made
quite round, and the thinner they are at the opening,
the better ; for if they are too ftrong, the ftars are apt
to break at the burfting of the ftiell: when making the
fhell, ufe a pair of calibre compaffes, or a round gage,
fo that the paper may not be laid thicker in one place
than another ; and alfo to know when the fhell is of a
proper thicknfefs. Balloons muft always be made to go
eafy into the mortars.
Port-fire cafes muft be made very thin, and rolled on Cafes1 tor
formers, from two inches to 4 of an inch diameter, and port-fires-,
from two to fix inches long : they are pinched clofe at
one end, and left open at the other. When they are to be
filled, put in but little compofition at a time, and
ram it lightly, fo as not to break the cafe : three or
four rounds of paper, with the laft round parted, will be
ftrong enough for thefe cafes.
Common portfires are intended for the purpofe of fir-
3 Y 2
PYROTECHNY.
54^
PYROTECHNY.
Chap. I.
■Apparatus, ing tlie works, tkeir fire being very flow
Materials, - - - - - - - ■ - - -
Sec. ol Fire-
mon port¬
fires
15
Meth d of
gri! d.ng
the ingre¬
dients.
Fig. 9
v , and the heat
Material.', 0f q1£ f]ame f0 intenfe, that, if applied to rockets, lead¬
ers, &c. it will fire them immediately. Portfires may
be made of any length, but are feldom made more than
21 inches long : the interior diameter of portfire moulds
fiiould be io-i6ths of an inch, and the diameter of the
former halt an inch. The cales muft be rolled wet with
pafte, and one end pinched, or folded down. The
moulds ihould be made oi brafs, and fuch as will take
in two pieces lengthwife ; when the cafe is in the two
lides, they are held together by brals rings, or hoops,
which are made to fit over the outfide. \ he bore of the
mould muft not be made quite through, lb that there
wfill be no occafion for a foot. Thefe portfires, when
uled, are held in copper lockets, fixed on the end of a
long flick : thefe lockets are made like port-crayons, on¬
ly with a fcrew inftead of a ring.
There have been many methods contrived for grind¬
ing the ingredients for fire-works to a powder, fuch as
large mortals and peftles made of ebony and other hard
■wood, and horizontal mills with brafs barrels 5 but none
have proved fo effectual and fpeedy, as that of the meal-
ing-table, reprefented in fig. 9. made of elm, with a rim
round its edge four or five inches high •, and at the nar¬
row' end A, furnifhed with a ftider that runs in a gtoove,
and forms part of the rim : lb that when you have taken
cut of the table as much powder as you can with the
Fig. io. copper (hovel (fig. 10.), fvveep all clean out at the Aider
A. When about to meal a quantity of pou ch r, obferve
not to put too much in the table at once ; but when you
II< have put in a good proportion, take the muller (fig. 11.)
and rub it till all the grains are broken 5 then lift it in
a lawn fieve that has a receiver and top to it, fuch as is
ufed by apothecaries, and that which does not pal's
through the fieve, muft be returned again to the table,
and ground till it is fine enough to go through the fieve.
Sulphur and charcoal are ground in the fame manner,
only the muller muff be made of ebony •, for thefe ingre¬
dients being harder than powder, would flick in the
grain of elm, and be difficult to grind. As fulpbur is
apt to flick and clod to the table, it will be bell to keep
one for that purpofe, by which means you will always
have your brimftone clean and well ground.
Fig. is. Fig. 1 2. reprefents the plan of an apparatus, or lathe,
16 for boring rockets. A the large wheel, -which turns
f^orirn-5 *'*ie one that w'orks the rammer C : thefe ram-
rockets thatmers are different fizes according to the rockets j
are rammed they muft be of the fame diameter as the top of the in-
foiid. tended bore, and continue that thicknefs a little longer
than the depth of the bore required, and their points
muft be like that of an augre : the thick end of each
rammer muft be made fquare, and all of the fame fize,
fo as to fit into one focket, into which they are faftened
by a fcrew I). E the guide for the rammer, which is
made to move backwards and forwards that, after
the rammer has been marked three diameters and a half
of the rocket from the point, fet the guide, allowing
for the thicknefs of the fronts of the rocket boxes, and
the neck and mouth of the rocket •, fo that when the
front of the large box is clofe to the guide, the rammer
rnay not go too far up the charge. F, boxes for bold¬
ing the rockets, which are made fo as to fit one within ;
their fides muft be equal in thicknefs to the difference of
the diameters of the rockets, and their interior diameters
works.
Fig- 13-
Fiz.
14.
Fig. 15.
equal to the exterior diameters of the rockets. To pre- Apparatus,
vent the rocket from turning round while boring, a piece ,;VIatE(rhi''’
of wood muft be placed againft the end of the box in l'
the infide, and preffed againit the tail of the rocket.
Tins will alfo hinder the rammer from forcing the roc¬
ket backwards. G, a rocket in the box. H, a box
that Aides under the rocket-boxes to receive the borings
for the rockets, which fall through holes made on pur¬
pofe in the boxes ; thefe holes muft be juft under the
mouth of the rocket, one in each box, and all to corre-
fpond with each other.
Fig. 13. is a front view of tire large rocket-box. I,
an iron-plate, in which are holes of different fizes,
through which the rammer p-affes ; this plate is faftened
with a fcrew in the centre, fo that when the rammer is
changed, the plate is turned round, but the hole you
are going to ufe muft always be at the bottom : the
fronts of the other boxes muft have holes in them to
correfpond with thole in the plate. K, the lower part
of the large box ; w hich is made to fit the infide of the
lathe, that all the boxes may move quite fteadily.
Fig. 14. is a peripeclive view of the lathe. L, the
guide for the rammer, which is fet by the icrew at bot¬
tom.
Fig. 15. A view of the front of the guide facing the
rammer. M, an iron plate, of the fame dimtnfions as
that on the front of the box, and placed in the lame di-
reefion, and alfo to turn on a Icrew in the centre. N,
tlie rocket-box which Aides batkwards and forwards :
when a rocket is fixed in the box, it is to be puftred for¬
wards againft the rammer j and when the fcoop of the
rammer appears to be full, draw the box back, and
knock out the compofnion : this muft be done till the
rocket is bored, or it will be in danger of taking fire •,
and if the boring be done in a hurry, wet the end
of the rammer now and then with oil to keep it
cool.
Having bored a number of rockets, you muft have
taps of different ferts according to the rockets. Thefe
taps are a little longer than the bore : but when ufed
they mufti be marked 3 f diameters from the point, al¬
lowing for the thickhefs of the rocket’s neck ; then,
holding the rocket in one hand, tap it with the other.
One of thefe taps is reprefented by fig. 16. They are
made in the fame proportion as the fixed piercers, and
are hollowed their whole length.
There are hand machines for boring, which anfwer Hand ma-
very well, though not fo expeditious as the lathes. But chine for
they are not fo expenfive, and they may be worked by 'x-r^k-
one man 5 whereas the lathe evil! require three. Fig. 17. Fig. 17.
reprefents the machine. O, the rocket boxes, which
are to be fixed, and not to Aide as thofe in the lathe.
PQ^ are guides for the rammers, that are made to Aide
together, as the rammer moves forward: the rammers
for thefe machines muft be made of a proper length, al¬
lowing for the thicknefs of the front of the boxes, and
the length of the mouth and neck of the cafe ; on the
fquare end of thefe rammers muft be a round fhculder
of iron, to turn againft the outfide of the guide O. by
which means the guides are forced forwards, it, the
flock which turns the rammer, and which, while turn¬
ing, muft be prefled towards the rocket by the body of
the man who works it 5 all the rammers are to be made
to fit one ftock.
Fig. 16.
17
Sect.
Chap. I.
ges of fire
works
Apparatus
Materials Gect. II. Of the Ingredients fo*" compojing the Charges of
See. of Fire- Fire-works.
v, oiks.
l8 The charges or compofitions with which the cafes
Ingredients that we have deferibed are to be filled, confiif chierly of
for the char-gunp0,V(ier^ or 0f a powder compofed of the fame mate ¬
rials in various proportions, and tome other combutlible
fubttances, intended either to give tne compofition a
ftronger impelling force, or to increafe the beauty and
fplendour of the exhibition. As the nature and compo¬
fition of gunpowder have been tuily explained under the
article Gunpowder, it is unneceffary to confider them
in this place j but as the makers of fire-works common¬
ly employ confiderable quantities of the tubftances of
which gunpowder is compofed, it may be proper to
give forae direflions for obtaining thefe in the greated
purity. We may alfo notice, that gunpowder, in its
ordinary date, is called corn powder; while, when
ground down, as direaed in N° 15. u is denominated
meal powder.
The ingredient on which the force of the compofitions
chiefly depends, is nitre, or faltpetre 5 but as this fub-
flance, in its ufual date, is very impure, being much
contaminated with earthy matter, and as pine ifltre
is now become very expenfive, it is of contequence to
know how the nitre of commerce may be purified.
Nitre, like mod other faline bodies, is much more fo-
luble in boiling water, than in water of the ordinary
temperature. If, therefore, the nitre of commerce be
diffolved in a fmall quantify of boiling water, and the
f'olution be properly drained, the liquor, when cold,
will afford crydals that are very pure. The following
is the mod convenient method of proceeding. Diilolve
the nitre in boiling water, in the proportion of about an
Englifh quart, or Scotch chopin, to each pound of
nitre ; and that the folution may be more eafily effect¬
ed, let the nitre be reduced to powder, and let the vef-
fel containing the nitre and water be kept at the boil¬
ing heat till all the fait is diffolved. . Then drain the
liquor while hot through thick blotting paper, placed
in a clean funnel, and fet by the filtered liquor in a
fhallow veffel, in feme cold place, till crydals are form¬
ed, Thefe mud be removed from the liquor, and dried
with a gentle heat •, and if the remaining liquor be
(lowly evaporated over the fire, in an earthen unglazed
veffel, till a film appears on the top, and then fet by to
cryftallize as before, an additional quantity of pure nitre
will be procured; and thus, by repeated evaporations
and crydallizations, the whole of the fait will be ob¬
tained.
Nitre may be obtained in great purity from damaged
gunpowder, which may often be bought at a cheap rate.
The damaged powder mud; be ground with a fmall
quantity of hot water, in a large wooden or done mor¬
tar, or it may be boiled over a gentle fire, with as much
water as will cover it. When the water feems to have
P Y R O T E C H N Y. 54*
Nitre may be fpeeckly reduced to a fine powder, by Apparatus,
diffolving i
in a little more than its own weight of boil- pjre.
iny; water, m a kettle with a round bottom, keeping
19
Nine.
20
Method of
panning
nitre.
Mettied of
procuring
nitre from
damaged
gun-pow¬
der.
diffolved as much of the nitre as it will retain, it is to
be poured off from the fediment, and filtered or ftrained
through a flannel bag, then heated again, and, while
hot, filtered through blotting paper, and fet by to cry-
dallize, as in the former cafe. Fredi quantities of hot
water are to be fucceflively added to the fediment, and
ftrained as before, till the whole of the nitre is ob¬
tained. .
w _ works.
the folution over a gentle fire, and continually ftirnng    '
it with a wooden fpatula till all the water is evaporated, 22
and the remaining powder is pretty well dried. CareSp«jdy me*
muft be taken, however, not to fuffer it to remain too |.o^rdel.jng
long, or expofe it to too great a heat, otherwife it will n;ue. &
be melted into a firm cake. The drying may be Com¬
pleted by fullering it to lie for a fufficient time on paper
before the fire. 23
Sulphur or brimftone, may be employed in three Sulphur,
ftates/ 1. As it is brought from the neighbourhood of
volcanoes, or what is called fulphur woum. 2. Koll brim¬
ftone, which is fold by moll grocers, and is employed
for making matches ; and, 3. Flowers of fulphur, or
fublimed fulphur. The firft of thefe is the cheapeft,
and anfwers very well for coarfe fire-works •, the fecond
is confidered as the ftrongeft, and is mold ufed ; but the
third is the pureft fulphur, and will anfwer bell for the
nicer and more delicate fire-works. It alio has the ad¬
vantage of being in a ftate of fine powder, whereas the
the two former require to be ground or mealed, as di¬
rected in N° 15. 24' (
Charcoal may, in general, be procured at the Poops Charcoal,
of founders and hardware dealers ; but when this is not
the cafe, it may eafily be prepared by putting a quan¬
tity of fmall pieces of wood into a large earthen cru¬
cible or iron pot, and covering them to the head with
fand, and placing the crucible or the pot in the middle
of a ttrong fire, where it muft be kept red hot for an
hour or two, in proportion to the quantity oi wood.
Charcoal Ihould he chofen foft and light, and fuch as
may eafily be reduced to powder. It Ihould be kept in
a dry place, but is always bell when frefii burned.
Several other ingredients are employed in the compo¬
fition of fire-works, fuch as camphor, antimony (fful-
phuret of antimony'), rafpings of ivory, yellow amber,
fal ammoniac, verdigris, common pitch, and Greek
pitch, all of which are ufed on different occafions, to
produce a change of colour in the fire ; filings of iron
and copper, for giving a fparkling appearance to the
flame, and fait of benjamin {benzoic acid) to produce
an agreeable odour.
Iron filings anfwer very well for ordinary fire-works ; Method of
but they do not produce fuch a brilliant appearance as powdering
powdered caff-iron. The introduction of this latter iscaftiron-
an improvement of the Chinefe, and its ufe is now very
general.
Caft-iron being of fo hard a nature as not to be cut
by a file, we are obliged to reduce it into grains, though
this is rather difficult to perform; but if.we confider-
what beautiful fparks this iron yields, no pains ihould be
fpared to granulate fuch an effential material: to do this,
procure at an iron-foundery fome thin pieces of iron,
fuch as generally run over the mould at the time of call¬
ing : then have a fquare block made of calf-iron, and
an iron fquare hammer about four lb. weight; then, ha¬
ving covered the floor with cloth or fomething to catch
the" beatings, lay the thin pieces of iron on the block,,
and beat them with the hammer till reduced into fmall
grains ; which afterwards lift with a very fine fieve, to
feparate the fine duff, which is fometimes ufed in fmall
cafes of brilliant fire, infiead of (feel duft ; and when
25
76
ypu have got out all the duft, lift what remains with -a
fieve 1.
Apparatus, fieve a little larger, and fo on with fieves of different
Sc^omre-?268’ ^ the iron pafes through about the bignefs of
works. fmall bird-fliot : the iron, thus beaten and lifted, is to be
»—V-— put feparately, according to its finenefs, into wooden
boxes or oiled paper, to keep it from rufting. When
ufed, obferve the difference of its fize, in proportion to
the cafes for which the charge is intended ; for the coarfe
fort is proper only for very large gerbes of fix or eight
pounds. s
When thefe pieces of iron cannot be procured, an
old caft-iron pot may be employed} but care muff be
taken that its furface be perfectly freed from ruff. This
pulverized caff iron is fometimes called iron /and, and
is denominated, according to its finenefs, fand of the
fiift, fecond, third, &c. order, that of the firft order
being the fineft.
It fometimes happens, that fire-works may be re¬
quired to be kept a long time, or fent abroad; neither
of which could be done with brilliant fires, if made
with filings unprepared, for this reafon ; that the falt-
petre being of a damp nature, it caufes the iron to ruff j
the confequence of which is, that when the works are
fired, there will appear but very few brilliant fparks,
but inftead of them a number of red and droffy fparks •,
aim befides, the charge will be fo much weakened, that
if this were to take place in wheels, the fire would
fcarcely be ftrong enough to force them round. But to
prevent fuch accidents, the filings may be thus prepared :
Melt in a glazed earthen pan fome brimftone over a
flow fire, and when melted throw in fome filings; which
keep ftirring till they are covered with brimftone : this
muft be done while it is on the fire ; then take it off,
and ftir it very quickly till cold, when it muft be rolled
on a board with a wooden roller, till broken as fine as
corn powder \ after which lift from it as much of the
brimftone as poffible. There is another method of pre¬
paring filings, fo as to keep two or three months in
wunter; this may be done by rubbing them between
ftrong. brown paper, wdrich before has been moiftened
with linfeed oil.
N. B. If the brimftone fhould take fire, it may be
extinguifhed, by covering the pan clofe at top : it does
not fignify what quantity of brimftone is ufed, provided
there is enough to give each graia of iron a coat; but
as much as will cover the bottom of a pan of about one
foot diameter, will do for five or fix pounds of filings or
2 5 caft-iron for gerbes.
Chinefe fire. Before we enumerate the various compofitions gene¬
rally employed in filling cafes for rockets, wheels, &c.
we fhall defcribe two compofitions that are much valued
for the brilliancy of their appearance. One of thefe is
called Chinefe fire, and is either red or white. The fol¬
lowing tables thew the proportions of the different ingre¬
dients for each of thefe compofitions \ as they are adapt¬
ed to rockets (in the conftrudlion of which the Chinefe
fire is much employed) of from l 2 to 36 lbs.
For If kite Chinefe Fire.
Calibres.
Pounds.
X 2 to 15
18 to 21
24 to 36
Saltpetre.
Bruited
Gunpowder.
Pounds.
I
I
I
Apparatus,
Materials,
Sec. of Fire¬
works.
Charcoal.
Sand of the
third order
Oz.
7
8
8
Dr.
8
O
8
Oz.
11
11
12
Df.
O
8
o
Compofition of Red Chinefe Fire.
Calibre'.
Pounds.
I 2 to 15
18 to 21
24 to 36
Saltpetre.
Pounds.
I
I
I
Sulphur.
uunce:.
3
3
4
Charcoal.
Ounces
4
5
6
Sand of the
firft O' der.
Oz.
7
7
Dr.
O
8
o
The other compofition is called fpur fire, becaufe the
fparks yielded by it have a ftarry appearance like the
rowel of a fpur.
Spur-fire.—This fire is the mofi: beautiful and curious
of any yet known 5 and wTas invented by the Chinefe,
but now is in greater perfeclion in England than in
Chma. As it requires great trouble to make it to per-
lechon, it will be neceffary that beginners fliould have
full jnftrudions; therefore care fhould be taken that all
the ingredients are of the beft, that the lamp-black is
not damp and clodded, that the faltpetre and brimftone
are thoroughly refined. This compofition is generally
rammed in one or two ounce cafes about five or fix
inches long, but not drove very hard ; and the cafes
muft have their concave ftroke ftruck very fmootb, and
the choak or vent not quite fb large as the ufual propor¬
tion : this charge, when driven and kept a few months,
will be much better than when rammed ; and wall not
fpoil, if kept dry, in many vears.
As the beauty of this compofition cannot be feen at
fo great a diftance as brilliant fire, it has a better effedl
in a room than in the open air, and may be fired in a
chamber without any danger : it is of fo innocent a na¬
ture, that, though with an improper phrafe, it may be
called a cold fire ; and fo extraordinary is the fire pro¬
duced from this compofition, that, if well made, the
fparks wall not burn a handkerchief when held in the
midft of them •, you may hold them in your hand while
burning, with as much fafety as a candle; and if you
put your hand within a foot of the mouth of the cafe,
you will feel the fparks like drops of rain. When any
of thefe fpur-fires are fired fingly, they are called artifi¬
cial fiowerpots; but fome of them placed round a tranf-
parent pyramid of paper, and fired in a large room,
make a very pretty appearance.
I he compofition confifts of faltpetre, four pounds
eight ounces ; fulphur two pounds, and lamp-black one
pound eight ounces;'or, faltpetre one pound, fulphi r
half a pound, and lamp-black four quarts.—This com¬
pofition is very difficult to mix. The falipetre and*"
brimftone muft be firft fifted together, and then put in¬
to a marble mortar, and the lamp-black with them
which you work dowm by degrees with a wmoden peftle*
till all the ingredients appear of one colour, which will
be Something grayifh, but very near black : then drive
a little into a cafe for trial, and fire it in a dark place •
and if the fparks, which are called fiars, or pinks, come
out in clufterSj and afterwards fpread well without any
other fparks, it is a fign of its being good, otherwife
not ; for if any droffy fparks appear, and the ftars not
full, it is then not mixed enough ; but if the pinks are
very fmall, and foon break, it is a fign that it has been
rubbed too much.
This
o ^
Spur tire.
Chap. I.
P Y R O T E C H N Y.
31
For rocket
(tars.
Apparatus, This mixture, when rubbed too much, will be too
&?5rFire/ierCe’ and h.ardly fh°W any ^ars ’ and’ on l'ne contrary,
works. Vvdien not mixed enough, will be too weak, and throw
I,. ■ 1. ■  1 out an obfcure fmoke, and lumps of drofs, without any
ftars.
I he following compofitions are thole commonly em-
ployed in ordinary fire-works.
Charges for Rockets of four ounces.—Mealed powder 1 lb. 4 oz.
Qry-rockets. faltpetre 4 oz. and charcoal 2 oz.
Rockets of eight ounces.—I. Mealed powder 1 lb.
laltpetre 4 oz. brimltone 3 oz. and charcoal 14 oz.
11. Meal-powder if lb. and charcoal 4^ oz.
Rockets of one -Meal-powder 2 lb. faltpetre 8
oz. brimltone 4 oz. charcoal 2oz. and fteel-filings if oz.
Sky-rockets in general.—I. Saltpetre 4 lb. brimltone
1 lb. and charcoal if lb. II. Saltpetre 4 lb. brim¬
ltone If lb. charcoal 1 lb. 12 oz. and meal-powder 2 oz.
LargeJky-rockets.—Saltpetre 4 lb. meal-powder 1 lb.
and brimltone 1 lb.
Rockets of a middling fze 1. Saltpetre 8 lb. ful-
phur 3 lb. meal-powder 3 lb. II. Saltpetre 3 lb. ful-
phur 2 lb. meal powder 1 lb. charcoal 1 lb.
White fars. Meal-powrder 4 oz. faltpetre 12 oz.
fulphur vivum 6 oz. oil of fpike 2 oz. and camphor 5 oz.
Blue fars.—Meal-powder 8 oz. faltpetre 4, fulphur 2,
fpirit of wane 2, and oil of fpike 2.
Coloured or variegated fars. Meal-powder 8 drams,
rochpetre 4 oz. fulphur vivum 2, and camphor 2.
Brilliant fars.—Saltpetre 3f oz. fulphur if, and
meal-powder J-, worked up with fpirits of wine only.
Common ^rr.—Saltpetre 1 lb. brimitone 4 oz. an¬
timony 4-}, ifinglafs f, camphor f, and fpirit of wane
Tailed fars.—Meal-powder 3 oz. brimftone 2, falt¬
petre 1, and charcoal (coarfely ground)
Drove fars.—I. Saltpetre 3 lb. fulphur 1 lb. brafs
dull 12 oz. antimony 3. II. Saltpetre 1 lb. antimony
4 oz. and fulphur 8.
Fixed pointed fars.—Saltpetre 8f oz. fulphur 2, anti¬
mony 1 oz. 10 dr.
Stars of afne colour.—Sulphur 1 oz. meal-powder 1,
faltpetre 1, camphor 4 dr. oil of turpentine 4 dr.
Gold rain for Jky-rockets.—I. Saltpetre 1 lb. meal-
powder 4 oz. fulphur 4, brafs-duft 1, faw-duft 2f, and
glafs-duft 6 dr. II. Meal-powder 12 oz. faltpetre 2,
charcoal 4. III. Saltpetre 8 oz. brimftone 2, glafs-duft
I. antimony brafs-duft f, and faw-duft 12 dr.
Silver rain. I. Saltpetre 4 oz. fulphur, meal-pow¬
der, and antimony, of each 2 oz. fal prunella f oz.
II. Saltpetre f lb. brimftone 2 oz. and charcoal 4.
III. Saltpetre 1 lb. brimftone lb. antimony 6 oz.
IV. Saltpetre 4 oz. brimftone 1, powder 2, and fteel-
duft \ oz.
I. Meal-powder 6 lb. faltpetre 4, brimftone 3, char¬
coal 5. II. Saltpetre 1 lb. brimftone ff oz. charcoal
6. III. Saltpetre 1 lb. brimftone 4 oz. charcoal 12.
IV. Saltpetre 4 lb. brimftone if lb. charcoal 1 lb. 12
oz. V. Brimftone 2 lb. faltpetre 4 lb. and meal-powr-
der 4. VI. Saltpetre 1 lb. meal-powder 4 oz. brim-
ftbne 8f, charcoal 2. VII. Meal-powder 1 lb. faltpetre
3, brimftone 1 ; fea-coal 1 oz. charcoal 8f, faw-duft |,
fteel-duft f, and coarfe charcoal oz. VIII. Meal-
powder i^ lb. faltpetre 3, fulphur if, charcoal 12 oz.
faw-duft: 2.
• Sinking charge for water-rockets.—Meal-powder 8 oz.
charcoal -f oz.
543
.
Rains.
33
For water
rockets.
Wheel-cafes from two ounces to four pounds.—I. Meal- Apparatus,
powder 2 lb. faltpetre 4 oz. iron-filings 7. II. Meal- Materia!s?
powder 2 lb. faltpetre 12 oz. fulphur 4, fteel-duft 3.^^’
III. Meal-powder 4 lb. faltpetre 1 lb. brimftone 8 oz. ■ v - - j
charcoal 4f. IV. Meal-powder 8 oz. faltpetre 4, faw- 34
duft if, fea-coal V. Meal-powder 1 lb. 4 oz.For wheels,
brimftone 4 oz. 10 dr. faltpetre 8 oz. glafs-duft 2f.
VI. Meal-powder 12 oz. charcoal 1, faw-duft f. VII.
Saltpetre 1 lb. 9 oz. brimftone 4 oz. charcoal 4f.
VIII. Meal-powder 2 lb. faltpetre 1, brimftone f, and
fea-coal 2 oz. IX. Saltpetre 2 lb. brimftone 1, meal-
powder 4, and glafs-duft 4 oz. X. Meal-powder 1 lbf
ialtpetre 2 oz. and fteel-duft 3f. XI. Meal-powder 2
lb. and fteel-duft 2 and a half oz. with 2 and a half of
the fine duft of beat iron. XII. Saltpetre 2 lb. 13 oz.
orimflone 8 oz. and charcoal.
Slow fire for wheels.—:. Saltpetre 4 oz. brimftone 2,
and meal-powder 1 and a half. II. Saltpetre 4 oz. brim¬
ftone 1, and antimony 1 oz. 6 dr. III. Saltpetre 40Z. and
a half, brimftone 1 oz. and mealed powder 1 and a half.
Dead fire for wheels. I. Saltpetre 1 \ oz. brimftone f,
lapis-calaminaris f, and antimony 2 dr.
I. Meal-powder 4 lb. faltpetre 2, brimftone and char-For ||ed
coal 1. II. Meal-powder 2 lb. faltpetre 1, and fteel-flanding
duft 8 oz. III. Meal-powder 1 lb. 4 oz. and char-cafes-
coal 4 oz. IV. Meal-powder 1 lb. and fteel duft 4 oz.
V. Meal-powder 2^ lb. brimftone 4 oz. and fea coal
6. VI. Meal-powder 3 lb. charcoal 5 oz. and faw-duft
1 and a half.
I. Meal-powder 8f lb. faltpetre 1 lb. 2 oz. fteel-duft For fun
2 lb. 10 oz. brimftone 4. II. Meal-powder 3 lb. fait-cafes,
petre 6 oz. and fteel-duft yf.
Meal-powder 11 lb. faltpetre I, brimftone 4 oz. fteel-For a bril-
duft 1 lb. and a half. liant fire.
Meal-powder 6 lb. and beat-iron 2 lb. 1 oz. and a half. „ 38
Charge for four ounce Tourbillons Meal powder 2 or ^erbeSl
lb. 4 oz. and charcoal 4 oz. and a half. For tour-
Right ounce Tourhilions.—Meal-powder 2 lb. and billons,
charcoal 4^- oz.
Large Tourbillons.—Meal-powder 2 lb. faltpetre 1,
brimftone 8 oz. and beat iron 8.
_ N. B. Tourbillons may be made very large, and of
different-coloured fires: only you are to obferve, that
the larger they are, the weaker muft be the charge j
and, on the contrary, the fmaller, the ftronger their
charge. . ^
I. Saltpetre 4 lb. brimftone 2, meal-powder 2, anti-For water
mony 4 oz. faw-duft 4, and glafs-duft 1 and a fourth. II. balloons.
Saltpetre 9 lb. brimftone 3 lb. meal-powder 6 lb. rofin
1 2 oz. and antimony 8 oz.
L Meal-powder 1 lb. and charcoal 1 lb. II. Meal-For water
powder 1 lb. and charcoal 9 oz. fquibs.
I. Meal-powder 1 lb. and charcoal 1 oz. II. Meal- 4Z
power 9 oz. charcoal 1 oz. Mine ports
For firing rockets, &c. I. Saltpetre 12 oz. brim-°r '
none 4 oz. and meal-powder 2 oz. II. Saltpetre 8 oz. Port fires,
brimftone 4 oz. and meal-powder 2 oz. III. Saltpetre 1
lb. 2oz. meal-powder 1 lb. and a half, and brimftone 1 o oz.
This compofition muft be moiftened with one gill of lin¬
ked oil. IV. Meal-powder 6 oz. falt-petre 2 lb. 2 oz.
and brimftone 10 oz. V. Saltpetre 1 lb. 4 oz. meal-
powder 4 oz. brimftone 5 oz. faw'-duft 8 oz. VI. Salt¬
petre 8 oz. brimftone 2 oz. and meal-powder 2 oz.
For illuminations.—Saltpetre 1 lb. brimftone 8 oz,
and meal-powder 6 oz.
4
Saltpetre'
44
Cone s or
fniral
wheels.
45
Crowns or
globes.
Air balloon
fuzes.
47
Serpents for J,
pots des
brin.
43
Fire pumps
49
A flow
white flame.
5°
Amber
lights.
51
Other
lights.
52
A red fire.
53
A common
fire.
54
For liars
different
colours.
J44
Apparatus, Saltpetre I lb. and a half, briraftone 6 oz. meal-powder
Materials, oz> and glafs-tluft 14 oz.
Saltpetre 6 oz. brimltone 2 lb. antimony 4 oz. and
camphor 2 oz.
I. Saltpetre 1 lb. 10 oz. brimftone 8 oz. and meal-
powder x lb. 6 oz. II. Saltpetre 1 lb. and a half, brimlfone
8 oz. and meal-powder 1 lb. 8. oz.
Meal-powder x lb. 8 oz. faltpetre 12 oz. and char¬
coal 2 oz.
I. Saltpetre 5 Ib.brimftone I lb. meal powder 1 lb. and
a half, and glafs dull 1 lb. II. Saltpetre 5 lb. 8 oz. brim-
llone 2 lb. meal-powder 1 lb. 8 oz. and glafs-duft 1 lb.
8 oz.
Saltpetre 2 lb, brimftone 3 lb. antimony 1 lb. II.
Saltpetre 34 lb. fulphur 2-f lb. meal-powder I lb. anti¬
mony half a lb. glafs-duft 4 oz. brafs-duil I oz.
N. B. Thefe compofitions, driven x^ inch in a 1 oz.
cafe, will burn one minute, which is much longer time
than an equal quantity of any compofition yet known
' will laft.
Meal-powder 9 oz. amber 3 oz. This charge may
be drove in fmall cafes, for illuminations.
Saltpetre 3 lb. brimftone 1 lb. meal-powder 1 lb. an¬
timony iolr oz. All thefe muft be mixed with the oil
of fpilie.
Meal-powder 3 lb. charcoal 1 2 oz. and faw-duft 8 oz.
Saltpetre 3 lb. charcoal 10 oz. and brimftone 2 oz.
I. Meal powder 4 oz. faltpetre 2 oz. brimftone 2 oz.
fteel-duft 1 oz. and a half, and camphor, white amber, an-
0f timony, and ipercury-fublimate,of each oz. II. Roche-
petre 10 oz. brimftone, charcoal, antimony, meal-pow¬
der, and camphor, of each | oz. moiftened with oil of
turpentine. Thefe compofitions are made into ftars, by
being worked to a pafte with aqua vitae, in which has
been diffolved fome gum-tragacanth •, and after you
have rolled them in powder, make a hole through the
middle of each, and firing them on quick-match, leav¬
ing about 2 inches between each. III. Saltpetre 8 oz.
brimftone 2 oz. yellow amber 1 oz. antimony 1 oz. and
powder 3 oz. IV. Brimftone 2\- oz. faltpetre 6 oz.
olibanum or frankincenfe in drops 4 °''i* ? maftick, and
mercury-fublimate, of each 4 oz. meal-powder 5 oz.
white amber, yellow amber, and camphor, of each 1 oz.
antimony and orpiment half a oz. each. V. Saltpetre
1 lb. brimftone half a lb. and meal-powder 8 oz. moif¬
tened with petrolio-oil. VI. Powder half a lb. brim-
ilone and faltpetre, of each 4 oz. VII. Saltpetre 4 oz.
brimftone 2 oz. and meal-powder 1 oz.
Stars that carry tails of /parks.—I. Brimftone 6 oz.
crude antimony 2 oz. faltpetre 4 oz. and rofin 4 oz.
II. Saltpetre, rofin, and charcoal, of each 2 oz. brim-
ilone 1 oz. and pitch 1 cz.
Thefe compofitions are fometimes melted in an ear¬
then pan, and mixed with chopped cotton-match, before
they are rolled into ftars •, but wall do as well if wet¬
ted, and worked up in the ufual manner.
Stars that yield fome /parks.—I. Camphor 2 oz. falt¬
petre 1 oz. meal-powder 1 oz. II. Saltpetre 1 oz. ditto
melted half a oz. and camphor 2 oz. When you wrould
make ftars of either of thefe coinpofitions, you muft wet
them with gum water, or weak fpirits, in which has
been diffolved fome gum-arabic, or gum-tragacanth, that
the whole may have the confiftence of a pretty thick li¬
quid j having thus done, take 1 oz. of lint, and ftir it
2
PYROTECHNY. Chsp. I.
about in the compofition till it becomes dry enougl
roll into ftars.
Stars of a yellowifh colour.—Take
tragacanth or gum-arabic, pounded and filled through
„ /-orrvn1-!i->r in hranriv O 07. {Hltnetre
to Apparatus,
Materials,
r 6-cc. of Fire-
oz. of gum- workSi
a fine lieve, camphor diffolved in brandy 2 oz. faltpetre
I lb. fulphur half a lb. coarfe powder of glafs 4 oz.
wftfite amber I oz. and a half, orpiment 2 oz. Being well
incorporated, make them into itars after the common me¬
thod.
Stars of another kind.—Take 4 oz. of camphor, and
melt it in half a pint of fpirit of w ine over a flow fire j
then add to it ^ lb. of gum-arabic that has been diffolved ;
with this liquor mix 1 lb. of faltpetre, 6 oz. of fulphur,
and 5 oz. of meal-pow'der ; and after you have iiirred
them well together, roll them into liars proportionable
to the rockets for which you intend them. 55
As variety of fires adds greatly to a colledlion ofColours pru»
works, it is neceffary that every artilt Ihould know' theduce,d„by
different effedl of each ingredient. For which reafon,
the differ¬
ent compa-
we lhall here explain the colours they produce ol them-£t;onSt
felves ; and likewife howr to make them retain the fame
when mixed with other bodies: as for example, lulphur
gives a blue, camphor a white or pale colour, faltpetre
a clear white-yellow, amber a colour inclining to yellow,
fal-ammoniac a green, antimony a reddilb, rofin a cop¬
per colour, and Greek-pitch a kind of bronze, or be¬
tween red and yellow'. All thefe ingredients are luch
as fhow themfelves in a flame, viz.
White fame.—Saltpetre, fulphur, meal-powder, and
camphor ; the faltpetre mull be the chief part.
Blue fame.—Meal-powder, faltpetre, and fulphur vi-
vum •, fulphur mull be the chief: or meal-powder, falt¬
petre, brimftone, fpirit of wine, and oil of Ipike ; but let
the powder be the principal part.
Flame inclining to red.—Saltpetre, fulphur, antimony,
and Greek-pitch j faltpetre the chief.
By the above method may be made various colours
of fire, as the praftitioner pleafes j for, by making a few
trials, he may caufe any ingredient to be predominant in
colour. 56
The fet colours of fire produced by fparks are di-Sparkling
vided into four forts, viz. the black, white, grey, and^P^’
red. The black charges are compofed of two ingredi-cho.dked
ents, which are meal-powder and charcoal *, the white ofcafe!l.
three, viz. faltpetre, fulphur, and charcoal j the grey of
four, viz. meal-pow'der, falt-petre, brimllone, and char¬
coal •, and the red of three, viz. meal-powder, charcoal,
and fawr-duft.
There are, befides thefe four regular or fet charges,
tw'o others, which are dillinguilhed by the names, of
compound and brilliant charges; the compound being
made of many ingredients, fuch as meal-powder, falt¬
petre, brimftone, charcoal, faw-duft, fea-coal, antimony,
glafs-duft, brafs-duft, fteel-filings, call-iron, tanner’s dull,
&c. or any thing that will yield fparks •, all which muft:
be managed with diferetion. The brilliant fires are
compofed of meal-powder, faltpetre, brimftone, and fteel-
duft } or with meal-powder and ileel-filings only. ^
The beauty of fire-works depends much on the com-of mixing
pofitions being w'ell mixed j therefore great care muft the compa-
be taken in this part of the work, particularly for the htlons•
compofition for fky-rockets. When there are 4 or five
pounds of ingredients to be mixed, which is a fufficient
quantity at a time (for a larger proportion will not do
!•
58
Cotton
quick
match.
Chap. I. P Y R O T
Apparatus, fo well), firft put the different ingredients together j
^c^oTrire t^len wor^ them with your hands, till you think they
Works. ~are P^y well incorporated : after which put them into
y—— a law-n fieve with a receiver and top to it ; and if, after
it is lifted, any remains that will not pais through the
Heve, grind it again till fine enough j and if it be twice
lifted, it will not be amifs •, but the compofitions for
wheels and common works are not fo material, and need
not be fo fine. But in all fixed w'orks, from which the
fire is to play regularly, the ingredients muit be very
fine, and great care taken in mixing them well toge¬
ther and in all compofitions in which are iron filings,
the hands muft not touch ; nor will any works which
have iron or Heel in their charge keep long in damp
weather, unlefs properly prepared, according to the for¬
mer diredlions.
Cotton quick match is generally made of fuch cotton as
is put in caudles, of ieveral fixes, from one to fix threads
thick, according to the pipe for which it is defigned ; which
pipe muft be large enough for the match, when made, to
be puftied in eafily without breaking. Having doubled
the cotton into as many threads as is proper, coil it very
lightly into a flat-bottomed copper or earthen pan •, then
put in the faltpetre and the liquor, and boil them about
20 minutes ; after which coil it again into another pan,
as in fig. , and pour on it what liquor remains ; then
put in feme meal pow-der, and prefs it down with the
hand till it is quite wet ; afterwards place the pan be¬
fore the wooden frame (fig. 18.) which muft be fufpend-
ed by a point in the centre of each end; and place
yourfelf before the pan, tying the upper end of the cot¬
ton to the end of one of the fides of the frame.
When every thing is ready, an afiiftant muft turn the
frame round, while die cotton paffes through the Land,
holding it very lightly, and at the fame time keeping
the hand full of the w’et pow’der ; but if the powder
fliould be too wet to ftick to the cotton, more muit be
added, fo as to keep a continual fupply till the match is
all wound up ; it may be w'ound as clofe on the frame as
you pleafe, fo that it may not ftick together ; when the
frame is full, take it off the points, and lift dry meal-
powder on both fides the match, till it feem qui e dry :
in winter the match will be a fortnight before it is fit
for ufe ; when it is thoroughly dry, cut it along the out-
fide of one of the fides of the frame, and tie it up in
fkains for ufe.
N. B. The match muft be wmund tight on the
frames.
The ingredients for the match, are, cotton i lb. I 2 oz.
faltpetre t lb. fpirit of wine 2 quarts, water q quarts, ifin-
glafs 3 gills, and meal-pow’der jo lb. To diffolve 4 oz.
of ifinglafs, take 3 pints of water.
Touch pa- Diffolve, in fpirit of wane or vinegar, a little faltpetre ;
per fkcap- then take ibrne purple or blue paper, and wet it with
this liquor, and wken dry it will be fit for ufe; wken
this paper is to he parted on any fire-works, take care
that the pafte does not touch that part which is to burn.
The method of ufing this paper is by cutting it into
flips, long enough to go once round the mouth of a fer-
pent, ciacker, &c. When thefe flips are parted on,
leave a little above the mouth of the cafe not parted ;
then prime the cafe with meal-powder, and twift the pa¬
per to a point.
We are indebted to the Chinefe for the contrivance
in', objedts a which may be employed for reprefenting ani-
in firefi VoL. XVII. Part II.
ping fire¬
works.
60
Pafte for
reprefent
E C H N Y. 54.5
mals and other objects in fire. To prepare tins pafte, Apparatus,
take fulphur reduced to a very fine powder, or flowers lVjaterials,
of fulphur, and having formed it into a pafte with rtarch,.^^^116"
cover with it the figure you are defirous of reprefenting —v —r,./
on fire : it is here to be obferved, that the figure muft
firft be coated over with clay, to prevent it from being
burnt.
W hen the figure has been covered with this pafte,
befprinkle it while ftill moift with pulverized gunpowder;
and when the whole is perfe&ly dry, arrange fome fmall
matches on the principal parts of it, that the fire may be
fpeedily communicated to it on all fides.
I he fame pafte may be employed on figures of clay,
to form devices and various defigns. Thus, tor example,
feftoons, garlands, and o.her ornaments, the flowers of
which might be imitated by fire of different colours,
could be tormed on the frieze of a piece of architecture
covered with plafter. The Chinefe imitate grapes ex¬
ceedingly well, by mixing pounded fulphur with the
pulp of the jujube, inftead of flour palle. 6l
It is ufual to paint the frames or Itands of large fire-Method of
works of fome dark colour, but this renders them very preferving
combuftible. It would be better to wafh them with thefi|e-work*
following compofition, which will both give them a
proper colour, and render them lefs combuftible. Take by acci-
equal parts of brick-duft, coal-afhes, and iron-filings,dent,
and mix them with a double fize while hot. With this
v/afli over the frames, &c. and when dry repeat the wafli-
ing.
Chap. II. Of the principal varieties of Fire-WorkS)
and the tnfi approved JVLithods of conjlruBing them.
Artificial fire-wrorks differ from each other very Dkifion of
much in point of hmplicity of conftrudlion. Some re- fire-w'orks.
quire very little dexterity in the preparation ; and are
either employed as appendages to works of greater im¬
portance, or, if ufed by themfelves, are confined to the
fports of fchoolbovs. Of this nature are fquibs,ferpents,
crackers, fars, [parks, macrons, faucijfons, pin-voheels,
leaders, and gerbes or Roman candles. Others are very
complex in their ftrudture, require confiderable addrefs
and ingenuity, and form the amufement of fafhionable
circles on occafion of public rejoicings or private fefti-
vity : Such are rockets ot various kinds, vuheels, funs,
globes, balloons, pyramids, &c. W'e fliall firft deferibe
the more fimple kinds, and then give an account of the
method of conftrudling thofe of a more complex na¬
ture.
Sect. I. Of Simple Fire-works.
As in the fubfequent dire&ions for fire-works, we Leadm.
fhall have frequent occafion to mention pipes of com¬
munication commonly called leaders, by which the fe-
veral parts of a compound fire-wrork are connedled with
each other, it will be proper to fhou' how thefe are con-
ftrudted. Leaders confift of finall tubes of paper of dif¬
ferent lengths, accord’ng to the diftance to which they
muft extend; and thefe tubes are filled with a combufti¬
ble compofition that will not burn to" faft.
The belt paper for leaders is that called elephant;
which is cut into long flips 2 or 3 inches broad, fo that
they may go 3 or 4 times round the former, but not
more: v/hen they are very thick, they are too ftrong
3 & for
546 P Y R O T
Varieties for the paper which fallens them to the works, and will
of Conftruc- fometimes fly off without leading the fire. The for-
y , mers for thefe leaders are made from 2 to 6-i6ths of an
V inch diameter j but 4-i6ths is the fize generally ufed.
The formers are made of fmooth bral's wire : when
ufed, rub them over with greafe, or keep them wet
with pafte, to prevent their flicking to the paper,
which muft be pafted all over. In rolling pipes,
make ufe of a rolling-board, but ufe it lightly : having
rolled a pipe, draw out the former with one hand,
holding the pipe as light as poflible with the other j for
if it prefs againff the former, it will flick and tear the
paper.
N. B. Make the leaders of different lengths, or in
clothing works many will be wafted. Leaders, for
marron batteries muft be made of ftrong cartridge
paper.
H
Serpents-
Joining and placing leaders is a very effential part
of fire-works, as it is on the leaders that the perform¬
ance of all complex wmrks depend j for wdrich reafon
the method of conducting pipes of communication lhall
be here explained in as plain a manner as poflible. Your
works being ready to be clothed, proceed thus : Cut your
pipes of a fufficient length to reach from one cafe to the
other; then put in the quick-match, which muft always
be made to go in very eafy : when the match is in, cut
it off within about an inch of the end of the pipe, and
let it projeft as much at the other endj then faften
the pipe to the mouth of each cafe with a pin, and put
the loofe ends of the match into the mouths of the cafes,
with a little meal-powder : this done to all the cafes,
pafte over the mouth of each twm or three bits of paper.
'The preceding method is ufed for large cafes, and the
following for fmail, and for illuminations : Firft thread
a long pipe •, then lay it on the tops of the cafes, and
cut a bit off the under fide, over the mouth of each cafe,
fo that the match may appear: then pin the pipe to
every other cafe ; but before you put on the pipes,^ put
a little meal powder in the mouth of each cafe. If the
cafes thus clothed are port fires on illuminated works,
cover the mouth of each cafe with a fingle paper ; but
if thev are choked cafes, fituated fo that a number of
fparks from other works may fall on them before they
are fired, fecure them with three or four papers, which
muft be pafted on very fmooth, that there may be no
creafes for the fparks to lodge in, wdiich often fet fire to
the works before their time. Avoid as much as pof-
fible placing the leaders too near, or one acrofs the other
fo as to touch, as it may happen that the flaflr of one
will fire the other ; therefore if your works fhould be fo
formed that the leaders muft crofs or touch, be fare to
make them very ftrong, and fecure at the joints, and at
every opening.
When a great length of pipe is required, it muft be
made by joining feveral pipes in this manner : Having
put on one length of match as many pipes as it will
hold, pafte paper over every joint ; but, if a ftill greater
length is required, more pipes muft be joined, by cut¬
ting about an inch off one fide of each pipe near the end,
and laying the quick-match together, and tying them
faft with fmail twine; after which, cover the joining
with pafted paper.
One of the fimpleft fire-works is what is called a fer-
pent, which confifts of a cylindrical paper cafe, about
,1 or 5 inches long, and not made very thick. AC,
E C H N Y. Chap. II.
fig. 19. reprefents the ufual form of the ferpent, except Varieties
that in general they have not the contraction in theuc"'
middle, reprefented in this figure. The name ferpent. ^ .
has been given to this fire-work, either from the hit-
fing noife which it makes when fired, or from the zig
zag or undulating diredtion in which it moves, when
properly conftrudted. The cafe or cartridge is rolled
round a cylindrical ftick, rather larger than a goofe
quill, and provided at one end with a narrow appendage,
fuch as that ufed for rockets, fig. 3. by means of which
it is choaked at one end. This cafe is filled about half
way with fome of the compofitions deferibed for making
fmail rockets, fee N° 30, rammed moderately hard in
the proper mould, and then it is either choaked in the
middle, or fome obftrudling body, fuch as a fmall piece
of paper, is introduced, and the remainder of the cafe
is filled with grained or corn powder. Lafily, this
other extremity is well fecured with twine, and com¬
monly dipt into melted pitch ; a little moiftened meal
powder is introduced into the extremity next the choak,
and a piece of touch paper being properly faftened on
this end, the ferpent is complete. 65
Crackers are compofed of a pretty long paper cafe, Crackers,
filled with the proper compofition, as will be deferibed
immediately, and folded up in fuch a manner as, when
fired, to make fucceffive reports at ftiort intervals. To
conftruft thefe crackers, cut fome cartridge paper into
pieces 3-* inches broad, and one foot long ; one edge of
each fold down length-wife about ^ of an inch broad
then fold the double edge down ^ of an inch, and turn
the fingle edge back half over the double fold ; then
open it, and lay all along the channel, which is formed
by the folding of the paper, fome meal-poivder ; then
fold it over and over till all the paper is doubled upr
rubbing it down every turn ; this done, bend it back¬
wards and forwards, 2 inches and a half, or thereabouts,
at a time, as oft as the paper will allow ; then hold all
thefe folds flat and dole, and with a fmall pinching
cord give one turn round the middle of the cracker, and
pinch it clofe ; then bind it with a packthread as tight
as poflible ; then, in the place where it was pinched,
prime one end of it, and cap it with touch-paper.
When thefe crackers are fired, they will give a report
at every turn of the paper: if you would have a great
number of reports, the paper muft be cut longer, or
join them after they are made ; but if they are made
very long before they are pinched, you muft have
a piece of wood with a groove in it, deep enough to
let in half the cracker ; this will hold it ftraight while pratff
it is pinching. Fig. 20. reprefents a cracker com-CCCCLnn
plete. _ # 66
Stars are fmall balls, prepared of a ccmpofition which Stars.j
emits a brilliant, radiating light, and are much employ¬
ed in the conftrudlion of rockets, Roman candles, and
fimilar fire-works. They are made of various fizes, but
generally about as large as a mufket bullet. Compofitions
for ftars have been deferibed in N° 31. and 54. The in¬
gredients muft be thoroughly incorporated, and in form¬
ing the ball, unlefs the pafte is fufficiently glutinous, it
muft be wrapped up in a piece of paper, or linen rag,
tied clofelv round with pack thread, and a hole muft
be pierced through its middle for the infertion of a piece
of match. Thefe ftars, when lighted, will exhibit a
moft beautiful appearance ; for the fire, as it iffues from
the two ends of the hole in the middle, will extend to
a
Chap. II. P Y R O T
Varieties a great diilance, atid thus make the fiery ball appear
of Conftruc- much larger.
. tl<)n~ StrungJiars, Firft take fome thin paper, and cut it
into pieces of one inch and a half fquare, or thereabouts;
then on each piece lay as much dry ftar-coinpofition as
the paper will eafiiy contain j then twill: up the paper
as tight as polhble 5 when done, rub fome pafte on your
hands, and roll the liars between them 5 then fet them
to dry : the liars being thus made, get fome llax or fine
tow, and roll a little of it over each liar ; then palte
the hand and roll the liars as before, and fet them again
to dry \ when they are quite dry, with a piercer make
a hole through the middle of each, into which run a
cotton quick-match, long enough to hold 10 or 12 liars
at 3 or 4 inches diltance : but any number of liars may
be Itrung together by joining the match.
Tailed Jiars. Thefe are called tailed Jiars, becaufe
there are a great number of fparks ifl'uing from them,
which reprefent a tail like that of a comet. Of thefe
there are two forts; which are rolled, and driven : when
rolled, they mull be moillened with a liquor made of
half a pint of fpirit of wine and half a gill of thin fize,
of this as much as will wet the compofition enough to
make it roll eafy ; when they are rolled, lift meal-pow¬
der over them, and fet them to dry.
When tailed liars are driven, the compofition mull
be moillened with fpirit of wane only, and not made lb
wet as for rolling : 1 and 2 oz. cafes, rolled dry, are
bell for this purpofe; and when they are filled, unroll
the cafe within 3 or 4 rounds of the charge, and all that
are unrolled cut off; then palte down the loofe edge :
2 or 3 days after the cafes are filled, cut them in pieces
5 or 6 8ths of an inch in length : then melt fome wrax,
and dip one end of each piece into it, fo as to cover the
compofition : the other end mull be rubbed with meal-
powder wetted with fpirit of wine.
Driven Jiars. Cafes for driven liars are rolled with
pafte, but are made of paper very thin. Before they
are filled, damp the compofition with fpirit of wine that
has had fome camphor diffolved in it : ram them indif¬
ferently hard, fo that the cafe be not broken or facked ;
to prevent winch, they Ihould fit tight in the mould.
They are driven in cafes of feveral fizes, from 8 drams
to four oz. When they are filled in half ounce cafes,
cut them in pieces of three fourths of an inch long ; if
1 oz. cafes, cut them in pieces of 1 inch ; if 2 oz. cafes,
cut them in pieces of 1 and one fourth inch long ; and if
4 oz. cafes, cut them in pieces of 1 inch and a half long:
having cut the liars of a proper fize, prime both ends
with wTet meal-powder. Thefe liars are feldom put in
rockets, they being chiefly intended for air balloons,
and driven in cafes, to prevent the compofition from
being broken by the force of the blowing powder in the
fhell.
Rolling Jiars are commonly made about the fize
of a mulket ball ; though they are rolled of feveral
fizes, from the bignefs of a piftol ball to 1 inch dia¬
meter ; and fometimes very fmall, but are then called
fparks. Great care mull be taken in making ftars,
firft, that the feveral ingredients are reduced to a fine
pow der; fecondly, that the compofition may be wrell
worked and mixed. Before beginning to roll, take
about a pound of compofition, and wet it with the fol¬
lowing liquid, enough to make it Hick together and roll
eafy : Spirit of wine 1 quart, in which diffolveone fourth
E c H N Y.
547
of an ounce of ifinglafs. If a great quantity of compo- Varieties
fition be w'etted at once, the fpirit will evaporate, anq of Conftnu*-
leave it dry, before it is rolled into ftars : having rolled , tl°’1' .
up one proportion, {hake the ftars in meal-powxier,
and fet them to dry, which they will do in 3 or 4
days; but if they fhould be wanted for immediate ufe,
dry them in an earthen pan over a {low heat, or in an
oven. It is very difficult to make the ftars all of
an equal fize when the compofition is taken up pro-
mifeuoufiy with the fingers; but by the following
method they may be made very exadly. When the
mixture is moiftened properly, roll it on a flat fmooth
ftone and cut it into fquare pieces, making each fquare
large enough for the ftars intended. There is another
method ufed by fome to make ftars, which is by rol¬
ling the ccmpofition in long pieces, and then cutting
off the ftar, fo that each ftar will be of a cylindrical
form : but this method is not fo good as the for¬
mer ; for, to make the compofition roll this wray, it
muft be made very wret, which makes the ftars heavy,
as well as weakens them. All ftars muft be kept as
much from air as pollible, otherwife they will grow
W’eak and bad.
Sparks differ from ftars, only in their fize and dura- Sparks,
tion, as they are made fmaller than ftars, and are fooner
extinguilhed. The lollow'ing is the moft approved me¬
thod of making them. Having put into an earthen vef-
fel an ounce of mealed gunpow der, 3 oz. of pi wdered
faltpetre, and 4 oz. of camphor, reduced to powder by
rubbing it in a mortar with a little fpirit of wine ; pour
over this mixture fome weak gum water, or fome weak
brandy, in wffiich fome gum dragant has been difiblved,
till the compofition acquires the confiftence of thick
foup. Then take fome lint or caddice, which has been
boiled in brandy, vinegar, or wdth faltpetre, and after¬
wards dried and unravelled, and throw into the compo-
fition as much of it as is neceffary to abforb the w hole,
taking care to ftir it well. This matter is to be formed
into fmall balls of about the fize of a pea, wffffch being
dried in the air, are to be fprinkled with meal gunpow¬
der, that they may more readily take fire.
Another method of making fparks is, to take fome
faw dull of any wood that burns readily, fuch as fir, and
boil it in water that has been faturated with faltpetre.
When it has been boiled for fome time, the veffel is to
be removed from the fire, and the folution of nitre pour¬
ed off, fo as to leave the faw duft at the bottom. The
faw duft thus impregnated with nitre, is then to be
poured on a table, and, while moift, to be fprinkled wfith
powdered fulphur, to which a little bruifed gunpowrder
has been added ; and when the whole is well mixed, and
of a proper confiftence, fparks are to be made of it as
before.
Marroons are fmall boxes made either of paper or 6S
pafteboard, and of a roundifh or cubical form, fo pre- Marro0&s‘
pared as when fired to make a loud and hidden report.
They are ufually employed, either as appendages to
other fire-wwks, or a great many of them are fo ar¬
ranged, as to explode fucceffively at certain intervals.
Formers for marroons are from three fourths of an
inch to one and a half diameter; but the paper for the
cafes tw ice the diameter of the former broad, and long
enough to go three times round. When you have rolled
a cafe, pafte down the edge and ti? one end dole ; then
with the former drive it down to take away the wrin-
3 Z 2 klcs,
*
543
P Y R O T E C H N Y.
Fiar. 21.
69
Marroon
batteries.
Varieties kies, and make St fiat at bottom ; tlien fill the cafe with
oi Gunltcuc- eoni-powder one diameter and one fourth high, and fold
. down the reft of the cafe tight on the powder. The
marroon being thus made, wax fome Strong pack-thread
with fhoemakers wax : this thread wind up in a ball,
. then unwind two or three yards of it, and that' part
which is near the ball make fait to a hook ; then take a
marroon, and Hand as far from the hook as the pack¬
thread will reach, and wand it lengthwife round the
marroon as dole as poffible, till it will hold no more
that way j then turn it, a.,d wind the packthread on the
fhovt way, then lengthwife again, and fo on till the pa¬
per is all covered ; then make fait the end of the pack¬
thread, and beat down both ends' of the marroon to
bring it in ihape. The method of firing marroons is by
making a hole at one end with an awl, and putting in
a piece of quick-match 5 then taking a piece of ftrong
paper, in which wrap up the marroon with trvo leaders,
which mult Ire put down to the vent, and the paper
tied tight round them with fmall twine : thefe leaders
are bent on each fide, and their loofe ends tied to the
other marroons, and are nailed in the middle to the rail
of the Hand, as in fig. 21. The ufe of winding the
packthread in a ball is, that it may be let out as wanted,
according to the quantity the marroon may require j
and that it may not be tied in knots, which would fpoil
the marroon. Thefe oblong irurroons are, by the
French, called Sattcijjbns, as they are fuppofed to re¬
ferable a fauffage.
Batteries of Marroons.—Thefe, if well managed, will
keep time to a march, or a How piece of mufic. Mar¬
roon batteries are made of feveral Hands, with a num¬
ber of crofs rails for the marroons ; which are regulated
by leaders, by cutting them of different lengths, and
nailing them tight, or loofe, according to the time of
the mufic. In marroon batteries you muH ufe the large
and fmall marroons, and the nails for the pipes mufi have
flat heads.
The proper marroon boxes are made of Hrong paffe-
board, cut as reprefented in fig. 22., fo as to fold up in
the form of a cube, one fide of which is to be left unce-
mented till the box be filled. The cavity being filled
with gun-powder, flrong paper is to be paffed over the
box in various direftions, and the whole is to be wrap¬
ped round with flrong pack thread dipt in glue. Lafl-
ly, a hole is to be made in the corner of the box, and
a piece of match introduced, by which it may be
fired.
Sometimes it is required to render marroons luminous,
or to prepare them in fuch a way, that they fliall emit a
brilliant light before they burfl. To effeft this, they
are to be covered on the outfide with one of the compo-
fitions direfted for flars, and then rolled in bruifed gun¬
powder.
Pin wheels ^'or Pin Wheels.—Firfl roll fome paper pipes, about
14 inches long each j thefe pipes mufl not be made
thick of paper, two or three rounds of elephant paper
being fufficient. When the pipes are thoroughly dried,
you mufl have a tin tube 12 inches long, to fit eafy in¬
to the pipes ; at one end of this tube fix a fmall conical
cup, called a funnel; then bend one end of one of
the pipes, and put the funnel in at the other as far as it
will reach, and fill the cup with compofition: then
draw out the funnel by a little at a time, (baking it up
and down, and it will fill the pipe as it comes out.
Chap. II.
Having filled fome pipes, have fome fmall circular ' -.netics
blocks made about one inch diameter and half an inch ot Guniti nc-
thick : round one oi theie blocks wind and pafle a pipe, f
and to the end of this pipe join another 5 which mufl be
done by twilling the end ot one pipe to a point, and
putting it into the end of the other with a little pafle :
in this manner join four or five pipes, winding them one
upon the other fo as to form a fpiral line. Having
wound on your pipes, pafte two flips of paper acrois
them to hold them together : befides thefe Hips of pa¬
per, the pipes muft be palled together.
There is another method of making thefe wheels, viz.
by winding on the pipes without pafte, and flicking
them together with fealing-wax at every half turn ; fo
that when they are fired, the end will fall loofe every
time the fire paffes the wrax, by which means the circle
of fire will be confiderably increafed. The formers for
thefe pipes are made from one and a half to q-ibths of
an inch diameter \ and the compofition for them is as
follows : Meal-powder 8 oz. faltpetre 2 oz. and fulphur
1 : among thefe ingredients may be mixed a little fteei-
filings or the duft of caft iron : this compofition ftiould
be very dry, and not made too fine, or it will flick in
the funnel. Thefe wfiieels may be fired on a large pin,
and held in the hand with fafety. ^
There is a pleafing decoration frequently added to shower of
rockets, called a f:ower of fire, rain, or rain fall, and it fire or rain,
is called gold or filver rain, according as its colour is
more or lefs intenfe. It confifts of leveral fmall cafes
filled with a brilliant compofition, fuch as the following
variety of Chinefe fire, viz. meal povrder 1 pound,
flower of fulphur 2 oz. and iron land of the firft order,
5 °z-
Gold and filver rain compofitions are rammed in cares
that are pinched quite clofe at one end : if rolled dry, 4
or 5 rounds of paper wall be ftrong enough •, but if they
are pafted, 3 rounds will do ; and the thin fort of car¬
tridge-paper is beft for thofe fmall cafes, in rolling
which you muft not turn down the infide edge as in
other cafes, for a double edge would be too thick for fo
fmall a bore. The moulds for rain-falls fliould be made
of brafs, and turned very fmooth in the infide 5 or the
cafes, which are fo very thin, would tear in coming
out; for the charge muft be rammed in tight; and the
better the cafe fits the mould, the more driving it will
bear. Thefe moulds have no nipple, but inftead of it
they are made flat. As it would be very tedious and
troublefome to (hake the compofition out of fuch fmall
ladles as are ufed for thefe cafes, it wfill be neceffary to
have a funnel made of thin tin, to fit on the top of the
cafe, by the help of which they may be filled very faft.
For fingle rain-falls for 4 oz. rockets, let the diameter
of the former be 2-i6ths of an inch, and the length of
the cafe 2 inches; for 8 oz. rockets, 4-i6ths and 2 dia¬
meters of the rocket long 5 for 1 lb. rockets, j-i6ths,
and 2 diameters of the rocket long ; for 2 lb. rockets,
5- i6ths, and 3 inches and a half long ; for 41b. rock¬
ets, 6-i6ths, and 4 inches and a half long j and for
6- pounders, 7-i6ths diameter, and 5 inches long.
Of double rain-falls there are two forts. For ex¬
ample, fome appear firft like a ftar, and then the rain j
and fome appear firft like rain, and then like a ftar.
When you wrould have ftars firft, you muft fill the cafes,
within half an inch of the top, with rain-compofition, and
the remainder with ftar-compofition) but when you in¬
tend
Chap. II. P Y R O T E C H N Y. 549
Varieties tend the rain fhould be dr ft, drive the cafe half an inch
of Conftmc-with ftar-compofition, and the reft with rain. By this
tl01!- method may be made many changes of firej for in large
rockets you may make them firft burn as ftars, then
rain, and again as ftars ; or they may firft ftiow rain,
then ftars, and finifh with a report \ but when thus ma¬
naged, cut open the firft rammed end, after they are fil¬
led and bounced, at which place prime them. The
ftar-compofition for this purpofe muft be a little ftronger
than for rolled ftars.
Gerbts. Gerbes confift of a ftrong cafe of thick paper or pafte-
board, filled with a brilliant compofition, and generally
with ftars or balls placed at fmall diftances, fo that the
compofition and the balls are introduced alternately.
Immediately below' each ball is placed a little grained
powder. Thefe laft gerbes are fometimes called Roman
candles. When fired, they firft throw' up a beautiful
jet of flame, which in fome meafure refembles a water-
fpout, whence the name. Gerbes are either employed
fingly, or batteries are formed of them, and frequently
thofe filled with brilliant fire without balls, are placed
in row's along the front of the frames of large compound
fire-w'orks. They are fometimes made perfedtly cylin¬
drical ; at others they have a contracted part at the top
called the nech.
Fig. 23. ar.d Fig. 23. reprefents a wooden former; fig. 24. a gerbe
24- complete, w'ith its foot or ftand. The cafes for gerbes
are made very ftrong, on account of the ftrength of the
compofition •, which, when fired, comes out with great
velocity ; therefore, to prevent their burfting, the paper
fhould be pafted, and the cafes made as thick at the top
as at the bottom. They fhould alfo have very long
necks, for this reafon 5 firft, that the particles of iron
■will have more time to be heated, by meeting with
greater refiftance in getting out, than with a thort
neck, w'hich w'ould be burnt too wide before the
charge be confumed, and fpoil the effetlft : fecondly,
that with long necks the ftars will be throwm to a great
height, and will not fall before they are fpent, or
fipread too much ; but, when made to perfedftion, will
rife and fpread in fuch a manner as to form exactly a
■wheat flieaf.
In ramming of gerbes, there will be no need of a mould,
the cafes being fufficiently ftrong to fupport themfelves.
But you mutt be careful, before you begin to ram, to
have a piece of wood made to fit in the neck ; for if
this be not done, the compofition will fall into the neck,
and leave a vacancy in the cafe, which will caufe the
cafe to burft as foon as the fire arrives at the vacancy.
You muft likewife obferve, that the firft ladleful of
charge, or fecond, if proper, be of fome weak compofi¬
tion. When the cafe is filled, take out the piece of
wood, and fill the neck with fome flow charge. Gerbes
are generally made about fix diameters long, from the
bottom to the top of the neck 5 their bore muft be one-
fifth narrower at top than at bottom. The neck S is
one-fixth diameter and three-fourths long. T, a wooden
foot or ftand, on which the gerbe is fixed. This may
be made with a choak or cylinder four or five inches
long to fit the infide of the cafe, or with a hole in it to
put in the gerbe •, both thefe methods wall anfwer the
fame purpofe. Gerbes produce a moft brilliant fire,
and are very beautiful when a number of them are
fixed in the front of a building or a colleftion of fire¬
works. V
N. Ik Gerbes are made by their diameters, and their Vaneties
cafes at bottom one-fourth thick. The method of ^on^ruc*
ing the interior diameter of a gerbe is this : Suppofing tl°n’ j
the exterior diameter of the cafe, when made, to be five
inches, then, by taking two-fourths for the fides of the
cafe, there will remain inches for the bore, which
will be a very good fize. Tbefe gerbes ftiould be ram¬
med very hard.
Small Gerbes, or volute Fountains,
May be made of tour ounces, eight ounces, or one
pound cafes, pafted and made very ftrong, of any length:
but before they are filled, drive in clay one diameter of
their orifice high j and when the cafe is filled, bore a
vent through the centre of the clay to the compofition :
the common proportion -will do for the vent, which
muft be primed with a flow' charge. Thefe cafes, with¬
out the clay, may be filled with Chinefe fire.
Sect. II. Of Compound Fire-works.
73
Among the moft pleafing compound fire-works are Rockets,
rockets, which are of various kinds. Some are made
to afeend to a great height in the air, where they burft,
and throw out the contents of the head with which they
are provided. Thefe are called Jhj-rockets. Others
are fo conftrufted as to run with great velocity along a
line, and are called line-rockets. Some are arranged at
the extremities of the fpokes of a wheel, and are deno¬
minated wheel-rockets; while a fourth variety have their
cafes made w'ater tight, and are filled with a very ftrong
compofiiion, fo as to admit of their burning below wa¬
ter. Tbefe laft are called water-rockets. Sky-rockets
are tied to a ftick, which renders their afeent into the
air more equable and fteady. ^
Fig. 25. reprefents a rocket complete without itssky-rock-
ftick. Its length from the neck is five diameters one-ets.
fixth : the cafes Ihould always be cut to this length after Gg- 25'
they are filled. M is the head, which is two diameters
high, and one diameter one-fixth and a half in breadth $
N the cone or cap, whofe perpendicular height muft be
one diameter one-third. Fig. 26. the collar to which Fig. 2d.
the head is fixed : this is turned out cf fir or any light
wood, and its exterior diameter muft be equal to the in¬
terior diameter of the head ; oneriixth will be lufficient
for its thicknefs, and round the outfide edge muft be a
groove ; the interior diameter of the collar muft not be
quite fo wide as the exterior diameter of the rocket;
when this is to be glued on the rocket, twTo or three
rounds of paper muft be cut off the cafe, which will
make a (boulder for it to reft upon. Fig. 27. a former Fig. 2 j.,,
for the head : two or three rounds of paper well pafted
will be enough for the head, which, when rolled, put
the collar on that part of the former marked O, which
muft fit the infide of it •, then, w'ith the pinching cord
pinch the bottom of the head into the groove, and tie
it with fmall twine. Fig. 28. a former for the cone. Fig. 2S.
To make the caps, cut the paper in round pieces, equal
in diameter to twice the length of the cone to be made j
which pieces being cut into halves, will make two caps
each, without wafting any paper; having formed the
caps, psfte over each of them a thin white paper, which
muft be a little longer than the cone, fo as to projedt
about half an inch below the bottom : this projediion of
paper, being notched and pafted, ferves to fallen the cap
to the head.
When
PYROTECHNY.
550
Varieties W hen you JoaJ the heads of the rockets with ftars,
tionIUC"ra”1S’ ferPents» crachers, or any thing elfe, according to
■—-y- • fancy, remember always to put one ladleful of meal-
powder into each head, which will be enough to burft
the head, and dilperfe the ftars, or whatever it contains:
when the heads are loaded with any cafes, let their
mouths be placed downwards ; and after the heads are
filled, pafte on the top of them a piece of paper before
putting on the caps. As the fize of the liars often dif¬
fers, it would be needlefs to give an exact number for
each rocket; but this rule may be obferved, that the
heads may be nearly filled with whatever they are to
contain.
Chap. II,
75
Dimenfions
and poife of
rocket-
iticks.
Dimenjions and Poife of Rocket fUchs.
Weight
of the
Rocket.
lb
Length of
the ftick.
Thicknefs
at top.
Breadth Square at
at top. bottom
Ft in.
14 O
12 10
4
1 i of
Inches. Inches.
Imhes.
Poife from
the point of
the cone.
F:. in.
M
1,25
1,125
°,725
°>5
0,375°
°,3
0,25
0,125
0.1
1,85
1,40
i,
0,80
0,70
o,55
o,45
o,35
0,20
0,15
o,75
0,62c
0,525
o,375
0,25
o,35
0,15
0,10
0,16
o,5
4
3
2
2
1
1
1
11
8
5
1.5
9,
9,
1,
10,5
8.5
3,
o,
o,
o,5
Fig. 2<J. The laft column on the right, in the above table, ex-
preffes the diftance from the top of the cone, where the
Hick, when tied on, Ihould balance the rocket, fo as to
Hand in an equilibrium on one’s finger, or the edge of a
knife. The belt wood for the Hicks is dry fir, and they
are thus made : When you have cut and planed the
Hick according to the dimenfions given in the table,
cut, on one of the fiat fides at the top, a groove the
length of the rocket, and as broad as the flick will al¬
low ; then on the oppofite flat fide, cut two notches
for the cord, which ties on the rocket, to lie in • one
of thefe notches mufl be near the top of the Hick, and
the other facing the neck of the rockets 5 the difiance
between thefe notches may eafily be known, for the top
of the Hick fhould always touch the head of the rocket.
When the rockets and Hicks are ready, lay the rockets
in the grooves in the Hicks, and tie them on. Thole
who, merely for curiofity, may choofe to make rockets
of different fizes from thofe expreffed in the table of di¬
menfions, may find the length of their Hicks, by making
them for rockets, from half an ounce to one pound, 60
diameters of the rocket long ; and for rockets above one
pound 5° or 52 diameters will be a good length $ their
thicknefs at top may be about half a diameter, and their
breadth a very little more j their fquare at bottom is
generally equal to half the thicknefs at top. But al¬
though the dimenfions of the flicks be very nicely ob¬
ferved, we can depend only on their balance ; for, with¬
out a proper counterpoife, the rockets, inflead of mount¬
ing perpendicularly, will take an oblique direction, and
fall to the ground before they are burnt out.
Rockets rammed over a piercer mult not have fo
4
much compofition put into them at a time as when ram- Varieties'
med folid } for the piercer, taking up great part of the°^'-‘(?n^riic
bore of the cafe, would caule the rammer to rife too tl0^‘ j
high j fo that the preffure of it would not be fo great on 7$
the compofition, nor would it be rammed everywhere .vlethod of
equal. To prevent this, obferve the following rule : ramming
That for thofe rockets which are rammed over a piercer,rockets*
let the ladle hold as much compofition as, when drove,
will raife the drift one-half the interior diameter of the
cafe, and for thofe rammed folid to contain as much as
wull raife it one-half the exterior diameter of the cafe :
ladles are generally made to go eafy in the cafe, and
the length of the fcoop about onfe and a half of its own
diameter.
The charge of rockets mufl always be rammed on?,
diameter above the piercer, and on it muft be rammed
one-third of a diameter of clay 5 through the middle of
which bore a fmall hole to the compofition, that, when
the charge is burnt to the top, it may communicate its
fire, through the hole, to the flats in the head. Great
care muft be taken to ftrike wuth the mallet, and with
an equal force, the fame number of ftrokes to each ladle¬
ful of charge 5 otherwdfe the rockets will not rife with
an uniform motion, nor will the compofition burn equal¬
ly and regularly : for which reafon they cannot carry a
proper tail : for it will break before the rocket has got
half way up, inftead of reaching from the ground to the
top, where the rocket breaks and difperfes the flats,
rains, or whatever is contained in the head. When
ramming, keep the drift conftantly turning or moving j
and when you ufe the hollow rammers, knock out of
them the compofition nowr and then, or the piercer will
fplit them. To a rocket of four ounces, give to each
ladleful of charge, 16 ftrokes 5 to a rocket of one
pound, 28 } to a twTo pounder, 36 j to a four pounder,
42 ; and to a fix pounder, 56 : but rockets of a larger
fort cannot be rammed well by hand, but muft be ram¬
med w-ith a machine made in the fame manner as thofe
for driving piles.
The method of ramming wheel cafes, or any other
fort, in which the eharge is rammed folid, is much the
fame as in Iky-rockets; for the fame proportion may be
obferved in the ladfe, and the fame number of ftrokes
given, according to their diameters, all cafes being di-
ftinguiftied by their diameters. In this manner, a cafe,
w’hofe bore is equal to a rocket of four ounces, is called
a four ounce cafe, and that which is equal to an eight
ounce rocket an eight ounce cafe, and fo on, according
to the different rockets.
Having taught the method of ramming cafes in
moulds, we {hall here fay fomething concerning thofe
filled without moulds •, wThich method, for ftrong pafted
cafes, will do extremely well, and fave the expence of
making fo many moulds. The reader muft here ob¬
ferve, when filling any cafes, to place the mould on a
perpendicular block of wrood, and not on any place
that is hollow ; for we have found by experience, that
wrhen cafes were rammed on driving benches, which
wrere formerly ufed, the works frequently mifearried,
on account of the hollow refiftance of the benches,
which often jarred and loofened the change in the cafes j
but this accident never happens when the driving blocks
are ufed.
When cafes are to be filled without moulds, pro¬
ceed thus: Have fome nipples made of brafs or iron,
of
Chap. n. P Y R O T
Varieties of feveral fizes, in proporlion to the cafes, and to fcrew
of Con ft rue- or jn t]le t0p 0f dnving block ; when you have
. tl"n'. fixed in a nipple, make, at about one inch and a half
from it, a fquare hole in the block, fix inches deep and
one inch diameter) then have a piece of w^ood, fix inches
longer than the cafe intended to be filled, and two
inches fquare; on one fide of it cut a groove almoft
the length of the cafe, whofe breadth and depth muft be
fufficient to cover near one-half of the cafe } then cut
the other end to fit the hole in the block, but take care
to cut it fo that the groove may be of a proper diftance
from the nipple ; this half mould being made and fix¬
ed tight in the block, cut, in another piece of wood
nearly of the fame length as the cafe, a groove of the
fame dimenfions as that in the fixed piece j then put the
cafe on the nipple, and with a cord tie it and the two
half moulds together, and the cafe will be ready for fil-
ling-
The dimenfions of the above-deferibed half-moulds
are proportionable for cafes of eight ounces, but notice
muft be taken, that they differ in fize in proportion to
the cafes.
The beft wood for mallets is dry beech. If a perlon
ufes a mallet of a moderate fize, in proportion to the
rocket, according to his judgement, and if the rocket
fucceeds, he may depend on the reft, by ufing the fame
mallet •, yet it will be neceffary that cafes of different
forts be driven with mallets of different fizes.
Tiie following proportion of the mallets for rockets
of any fize, from one oz. to fix lb. may be obferved ; but
as rockets are feldom made lefs than one oz. or larger
than fix lb. w’e fhall leave the management of them to
the curious 5 but all cafes under one oz. may be rammed
with an ounce rocket mallet. The mallets will ftrike
more folid, by having their handles turned out of the
fame piece with the head, and made in a cylindrical form.
Let their dimenfions be worked by the diameters of the
rockets : for example ; let the thicknefs of the head be
three diameters, and its length four, and the length of the
handle five diameters, whofe thicknefs muft be in propor-
^ tion to the hand.
Afcentof As the caufe -which occafions the afeent of a rocket
fky-rockets into the air is the fame as that wLich makes a mufket
explained, recoil w’hen fired, it will be proper, before explaining
the afeent of rockets, to fhow how the recoil of fire-arms
is produced. When the powder is fuddenly inflamed in
the chamber, or at the bottom of the barrel, it necef-
farily exercifes an aftion two -ways at the fame time ;
that is to fay, againft the breech of the piece, and againft
the bullet or wadding, which is placed above it. Be-
fides this, it a<fts alto againft the fides of the chamber
which it occupies •, and as they oppofe a refiftance al¬
moft infurmountable, the wrhole effort of the elaftic fluid,
produced by the inflammation, is exerted in the two d’-
leclions above mentioned. But the refiftance oppofed by
the bullet, being much lefs than that oppofed by the mats
of the barrel or cannon, the bullet is forced out with
great velocity. It is impofiible, however, that the body
of the piece itfelf fhould not experience a movement back¬
wards ; for if a fpring is fuddenlv let loofe, between two
moveable obftacles, it will impel them both, and commu¬
nicate to them velocities in the inverfe ratio of their maf-
fes ; the piece, therefore, muft acquire a velocity back¬
wards nearly in the inverfe ratio of its mafs to that of
E C H N Y. 551
the bullet. We make ufe of the term nearly, becaufe Varieties
there are various circumftanccs which give to this ratio 0^lnftruc“
certain modifications 5 but it is always true that the body ,
of the piece is driven backwards, and that if it weighs
with its carriage a 1000 rimes more than the bullet, it
acquires a velocity which is 1000 times lers, and which
is foon annihilated by the friflion of the wheels againft
the ground, &c.
The caule of the afeent of a rocket is nearly the fame.
At the moment when the pow7der begins to inflame, its
expanfion produces a torrent of elaftic fluid, which
afls in every direftion •, that is, againft the air which
oppofes its efcape from the cartridge, and againft the up¬
per part of the rocket 5 but the refiftance of the ?;r is\
more confiderable than the weight of the rocket, on ac¬
count of the extreme rapidity with which the elaftic
fluid iffues through the neck of the rocket to throw itfelf
downwards, and therefore the rocket afeends by the ex-
cefs of the one of thefe forces above the other.
This however would not be the cafe, unlefs the rocket
were pierced to a certain depth. A fufficient quantity
of elaftic fluid would not be produced ; for the compofi-
tion would inflame only in circular coats of a diameter
equal to that of the rocket; and experience Ihevvs that
this is not fuificient. Recourfe then is had to the very
ingenious idea of piercing the rocket with a conical hole,
which makes the compofition burn in conical ftrata which
have much greater furface, and therefore produce a much * Hutton's
greater quantity of inflamed matter and fluid. This ex- ^ecre^ ^
pedient was certainly not the work of a moment. *
When fky-rockets are fixed one ©n the top of ano-
ther, they are called towering rockets, on account of To fix one
their mounting fo very high. Towering rockets areroc^eton
made after this manner : Fix on a pound-rocket a head^^j.0^
without a collar •, then take a four ounce rocket, which
may be headed or bounced, and rub the mouth of it with
meal-powder wetted with fpirit of wine : this done, put
it in the head of the large rocket with its mouth down¬
wards; but before it is put in, flick a bit of quick-match
in the hole of the clay of the pound-rocket, which match
fhould be long enough to go a little way up the bore of
the fmall rocket, to fire it when the large rocket is burnt
out. As the four ounce rocket is too fmall to fill the head
of theother, roll round it as much tow aswill make it ftand
upright in the centre of the head : the rocket being thus
fixed, pafte a fingle paper round the opening of the top
of the head of the large rocket. The large rocket muft
have only half a diameter of charge rammed above the
piercer ; for, if filled to the ufual height, it would turn
before the fmall one takes fire, and entirely deftroy the
intended effeft: when one rocket is headed with another,
there will be no occafion for any blowing powder ; for
the force with which it goes off will be fufficient to dif-
engage it from the head of the firft fired rocket. The •
flicks for thefe rockets muft be a little longer than for
thofe headed with ftars, rains, &c. ^
Caduceus rockets are fuch as, in rifing, form twx> fpi-Cadueeus
ral lines, by reafon of their being placed obliquely, one1’00'^6^’
oppofite to the other ; and their counterpoife in their cen¬
tre, which caufes them to rife in a vertical direclion.
Rockets for this purpofe muft have their ends choaked
clofe, without either head or bounce, for a weight at
top would be a great obftruflion to their mounting.
No caduceus rockets afeend fo high as fingle, becaufe of
their'’
\
So
Honoiary
Jockets.
552 P Y R O T
Varieties their ferpentine motion, and likewifc the refiftance of
of Conftruc-ajr^ {s rauc}1 greater than two rockets of the fame
■ fize would meet with if fired fingly.
Fig. 30. thews the method of fixing thefe rockets :
the tticks for this purpofe muft have all their tides equal,
and the Tides tliould be equal to the breadth of a flick
.proper for a tky-rocket of the fame weight as thofe you
intend to ufe, and made to taper downwards as ufual,
long enough to balance them, one length of a rocket
from the crofs ilick j which muft be placed from the
large ftick fix diameters of one of the rockets, and its
length feven diameters •, fo that each rocket, when tied
on, may form with the large ftick an angle of 60 de¬
grees. In tying on the rockets, place their heads on the
oppofite Tides of the crofs ftick, and their ends on the op-
pofite tides of the long ftick ; then carry a leader from
the mouth of one into that of the other. When thefe
rockets are to be fired, fufpend them between two hooks
or nails, then burn the leader through the middle, and
both will take fire at the fame time. Rockets of one lb.
are a good fize for this ufe.
Honorary rockets are the fame as tky-rockets, except
that they carry no head nor repoit, but are ciofed at
top, on which is fixed a cone : then on the cafe, clofe to
the top of the ftick is tied on a two ounce cate, about
five or fix inches long, filled with a ftrong charge, and
pinched clofe at both ends ; then in the reverfe Tides, at
each end, bore a hole in the fame manner as in tourbil-
lons, to be prefently defcribed ; from each hole carry a
leader into the top of the rocket. When the rocket is
fired, and arrived to its proper height, it will give file
to the cafe at top •, which will caule both rocket and
ftick to fpin very faft in their return, and repiefent a
worm of fire defcending to the ground.
There is another method of placing the finall cafe,
which is by letting the ftick r fe a little above the top of
the rocket, and tying the cafe to it, fo as to reft on the
rocket : thefe rockets have no cones.
A third method by which they are managed is this :
In the top of a rocket fix a piece of ivood, in which drive __
a fmall iron fpindle j then make a hole in the middle of
the fmall cafe, through which put the fpindle : then fix
on the top of it a nut, to keep the cafe from falling off •,
when this is done, the cafe will turn very faft, without
the rocket: but this method does not aniwer fo w-ell as
either of the former.
Fig. 31. is the honorary rocket complete. The heft
fized rockets for this purpofe are thofe of one lb.
Having fome rockets made, and headed according to
fancy, and tied on their flicks ; get fome fheet tin, and
cut it into round pieces about three or four inches dia¬
meter •, then on the ftick of each rocket, under the mouth
of the cafe, fix one of thefe pieces of tin 16 inches from
the rocket’s neck, and fupport it by a wooden bracket, as
ftrong as poflible: the ufe of this is, that when the rocket
is afcending the fire may play with great force on the
tin, which will divide the tail in fuch a manner that it
will form an arch as it mounts, and will have a very
good effe£l when well managed : if there is a fhort piece
of port-fire, of a ftrong charge, tied to the end of the
ftick, it will make a great addition ; but this muft be
lighted before the rocket is fired.
Take fix, or any number of fky-rockets, of any fize j
fame direc- cu(. pome ^rong packthread into pieces of three or
E C H N Y.
si
To make
a rocket
form an
arch in r
rifing.
Si
To make
fcveral
rockets
rife in the
tion. and at
the fame
diltftnce.
four yards long, and
tie each end of thefe pieces to a
3
Chap. II.
rocket in this manner : Having tied one end of the Varieties
packthread round the body of one rocket, and the other ot t on^ruc-
end to another, take a fecond piece of packthread and ,
make one end of it faft to one of the rockets already
tied, and the other end to a third rocket, fo that all
the rockets, except the two on the outfide, will be
faftened to two pieces of packthread : the length of
thread from one rocket to the other may be what the
maker pleafes } but the rockets muft be all of a fize,
and their heads filled with the fame weight of ftars,
rains, &c.
Having thus done, fix in the mouth of each rocket a
leader of the fame length 5 and when about to fire them,
hang them almoft clofe ; then tie the ends of the leaders
together, and prime them : this prime being fired, all
the x'ockets will mount at the fame time, and divide as
far as the firings will allow, and this divifion they will
keep, provided they are all rammed alike, and well
made. They are fometimes called chained rochets.
Signal rockets are made of feveral kinds, accordingSignalrock-
to the different fignals intended to be given ; but in ar-ets.
tificial fire works, two forts are only ufed, which are one
with reports and the other without j but thofe for the
ufe of the navy and army are headed with ftars, feipents,
&c. Rockets which are to be bounced muft have
their cafes made one and a half or two diameters longer
than the common proportion ; and after they are filled,
drive in a double quantity of clay, then bounce and
pinch them after the ufual manner, and fix on each a
cap.
Signal fky-rockets without bounces, are only iky-
rockets ciofed and capped : thefe are very light, there¬
fore do not require fuch heavy flicks as thofe with load¬
ed heads ; for which reafon the rocket may be cut from
the ftick, or elfe be made thinner.
Signal rockets " ith reports are fired in fmall flights j
and often both thefe, and thofe without reports, are
ufed for a fignal to begin firing a colleflion of works.
Two, three, or fix fky-rockets, fixed on one ftick,To fix fe-
an.l fired together, m ake a grand and beautiful appear-veral mck-
ance } for the tails of all will feem but as one of an im-|.ts
menfe fize, and the breaking of fo many heads at once
will refemble the burfiing of an air-balloon. The ma¬
nagement of this device requires a fkilful hand j but
if the following inftvudlions be well obferved, even by
thofe who have not made a great progrefs in this art,
there will be no doubt of the rockets having the defired
effedft.
Rockets for this purpofe muft be made with the great-
eft exadlnefs, all rammed by the fame hand, in the fame
mould, and filled with the fame proportion of compofi-
tion ; and after they are filled and headed, muft all be
of the fame weight. The ftick muft alfo be well made
(and proportioned) to the following direflions : firft,
fuppofing the rockets to be half pounders, whofe flicks
are fix feet fix inches long, then if two, three, or fix of
thefe are to be fixed on one ftick, let the length of it be
nine feet nine inches : then cut the top of it into as ma¬
ny fides as there are rockets, and let the length of each
fide he equal to the length of one of the rockets without
its head •, and in each fide cut a groove (as ufual) ^ then
from the grooves plane it round, down to the bottom,
where its thicknefs muft be equal to half the top of
the round part. As their thicknefs cannot he exadtly
ascertained, we (hall give a rule which generally anfwers
for
Chap. II.
P Y R O T E C H N Y.
Varieties for any number of rockets above two : the rule Is this 5
of Conftruc- j]ie at; top mult be thick enough, when the
, ti0li‘ grooves are cut, for all the rockets to lie, without pref¬
ling each other, though as near as pofllble.
When only two rockets are to be fixed on one flick,
let the length of the flick be the lall given proportion,
but fhaped after the common method, and the breadth
and thicknefs double the ufual dimenfions. The point
of poife mutt be in the ufual place (let the number of
rockets be what they will) : if flicks made by the above
direftions fhould be too heavy, plane them thinner 5 and
if too light, make them thicker 5 but always make them
of the fame length.
When more than two rockets are tied on one Hick,
there will be fome danger of their flying up without the
flick, unlefs the following precaution is taken : For cafes
being placed on all tides, there can be no notches for the
cord which ties on the rockets to lie in j therefore, in-
flead of notches, drive a fmall nail in each fide of the
flick, between the necks of the cafes : and let the cord,
which goes round their necks, be brought clofe under
the nails; by this means the rockets will be as fecure as
when tied on fingly. The rockets being thus fixed, car¬
ry a quick-match, without a pipe, from the mouth of
one rocket to the other ; this match being lighted will
give fire to all at once.
Though the directions already given may be fuffi-
cient for thefe rockets, we fhall here add an improve¬
ment on a very effential part of this device, which is,
that of hanging the rockets to be fired ; for before the
following method was contrived, many attempts proved
unfuccefsful. Inflead, therefore, of the old and common
manner of hanging them on nails or hooks, make ufe of
the following contrivance : Have a ring made of llrong
iron wire large enough for the flick to go in as far as
the mouths of the rockets; then have another ring fup-
ported by a fmall iron, at fome diflance from the poll or
Hand to which it is fixed : then have another ring fit to
receive and guide the fmall end of the flick. Rockets
thus fufpended will have nothing to obflruft their fire ;
but when they are hung on nails or hooks , in fuch a
manner that fome of their mouths are againll or upon a
rail, there can be no certainty of their rifing in a vertical
g. dire&ion.
To fire To fire rochets without fiicks, you muft have a Hand,
rockets of a block of wood, a foot diameter, and make the bot-
without tom f0 that ^ may ftand Heady : in the centre of
the top of this block draw a circle two inches and a half
diameter, and divide the circumference of it into three
equal parts 5 then take three pieces of thick iron wire,
each about three feet long, and diive them into the
block, one at each point made on the circle ; when
thefe wares are driven in deep enough to hold them fall
and upright, fo that the diflance from one to the
other is the fame at top as at bottom, the Hand is com¬
plete.
The Hand being thus made, prepare the rockets
thus : l ake fome common fky-rockets of any fize,
and head them as you pleafe ; then get fome balls of
lead, and tie to each a fmall wire twro or two feet and a
half long, and the other end ol each ware tie to the neck
of a rocket. Thefe balls anfwer the purpofe of Hicks
when made of a proper weight, which is about two-
thirds the weight of the rocket; but when they are of a
proper fize, they wall balance the "rocket in the fame
Vol« XVIL Part II.
tricks.
553
manner as a Hick, at the ufual point of poife. To fire Varieties
thefe, hang them, one at a time, between the tops of the°^c?nftrua'
wires, letting their heads reft on the point of the wares,. tl°n~ .
and the balls hang down between them : if the wires
flrould be too wide for the rockets, prefs them together
till they fit 5 and if too clofe, force them open j the wires
for this purpofe mult be foftened, fo as not to have any
Ipring, or they will not keep their pofition when preffed
clofe or opened. sg
Cafes for fcrolls fliould be made four or five inches in'Scrolls for
length, and their interior diameters three-eighths of an rockets,
inch : one end of thefe cafes mult be pinched quite clofe
before beginning to fill; and when filled clofe, the other-
end : then in the oppofite fides make a fmall hole at each
end, to the compofition, as in tourbillons ; and prime
them with wet mealqxmder. You may put in the head
of a rocket as many of thefe cafes as it will contain :
being fired they turn very quick in the air, and form a
fcroll or fpiral line. They are generally filled with a
llrong charge, as that of ferpents or brilliant fire. „
Rockets that pafs under the denomination offiwarm-Swa.nners.
ers, are thofe from two ounces downwards. Thefe roc¬
kets are fired fometimes in flights, and in large water-
works, &c. Swarmers of one and two ounces are bor¬
ed, and made in the fame manner as large rockets, ex¬
cept that, when headed, their heads mull be put on
without a collar : the number of Hrokes for driving one
ounce mull be eight, and for two ounces twelve.
All rockets under one ounce are not bored, but mult
be filled to the ufual height with compofition, w'hich
generally confifls of fine meal-powder four ounces, and
charcoal or fleel-dufl two drams : the number of flrokes
for ramming thefe fmall fwarmers is not material, provi¬
ded they are rammed truly, and moderately hard. The
necks of unbored rockets mult be in the fame proportion
as in common cafes. gg
Care mufl be taken, in placing the rockets, when they Stands for
are to be fired, to give them a vertical direflion at theirrocketE*
firlt fetting out ^ which may be managed thus : Have
twm rails of w-ood, of any length, fupported at each
end by a perpendicular leg, fo that the rails may be ho¬
rizontal, and let the diflance from one to the other be
almoft equal to the length of the flicks of the rockets
intended to be fired ; then in the front of the top rail
drive fquare hooks at eight inches diltance, with their
points turning fidewife, fo that wdien the rockets are
hung on them, the points will be before the flicks and
keep them from falling or being blown off by the wdnd ,
in the front of the rail at bottom mufl be llaples, dri¬
ven perpendicular under the hooks at top ; through
thefe flaples put the fmall ends of the rocket flicks.
Rockets are fired by applying a lighted port-fire to then-
mouths.
N. B. When Iky-rockets are made to perfection, and
fired, they will Hand two or three feconds on the hook
before they rife, and then mount up brilkly, with a
Heady motion, carrying a large tail from the ground all
the way up, and juft as they turn, break, and difperfe
the liars.
Girandole chefts are generally compofed of four fides'Gira^ole
of equal dimenfions 5 but may be made of any diame-chefts for
ter, according to the number of rockets defigned to be^'S^tsot
fired; their height mull be in proportion to the rockets,roc^et:i‘
but mult always be a little higher than the rockets with
their flicks. When the fides are joined, fix in the top
4 A • as
I
554
Varieties as far down the cheft as the length of one of the roc-
of Con (true- kets wjt}1 its cap on> In this top, make as many fquare
■ Uo"' or round holes to receive the rocket ilicks as there are
to be rockets j but let the diftance between them be fuf-
ficient for the rockets to ftand without touching one
another j then from one hole to another cut a groove
large enough for a quick match to lie in : the top being
thus fixed,put in the bottom, at about one foot and a half
diftance from the bottom of the cheft } in this bottom
muft be as many holes as in the top, and all to cone-
fpond : but thefe holes need not be lb large as thole in
the top.
To prepare the cheft, a quick match muft be laid in
all the grooves, from hole to hole : then take fome fky-
rockets, and rub them in the mouth with -wet meal-
powder, and put a bit of match up the cavity of each j
which match muft be long enough to hang a little be¬
low the mouth of the rocket. The rockets and cheft
being prepared according to the above directions, put
the flicks of the rockets through the holes in the top
and bottom of the cheft, fo that their mouths may reft
on the quick-match in the grooves: by which all the
rockets will be fired at once ; for by giving fire to any
part of the match, it will communicate to all the roc¬
kets in an inftant. As it would be rather troublefome
to direcl the flicks from the top to the proper holes in
the bottom, it will be neceffary to have a fmall door in
one of the fides, through which, when opened, you
may fee how to place the flicks. 1 lights of rockets
being feldom fet off at the beginning of any fire-works,
they are in danger of being fired by the fparks from
wheels, &c. j therefore, to preferve them, a cover fhould
be made to fit on the cheft, and the door in the fide
90 kept {hut.
Line-rockets are made and rammed as the fky-rockets,
rockets. gut have no heads, and the cafes muft be cut clofe to the
clay 5 they are fometimes made with fix or feven chan¬
ges, but in general not more than four or five. The
method of managing thefe rockets is the following:
Firft, have a piece of light wood, the length of one of
the rockets turned round about two inches and a half dia¬
meter, with a hole through the middle lengthwife, large
enough for the line to go eafily through } if four chan¬
ges are intended, have four grooves cut in the fwivel,
one oppofite the other, in which to lay the rockets.
The mouths of the rockets being rubbed with wet
meal-powder, lay them in the grooves head to tail,
and tie them faft ; from the tail of the firft rocket carry
a leader to the mouth of the fecond, and from the fe-
cond to the third, and fo on to as many as there are
on the fwivel, making every leader very fecure •, but in
fixing thefe pipes, take care that the quick-match does
not enter the bores of the rockets: the rockets being
fixed on the fwivel and ready to be fired, have a line
100 yards long, ftretched and fixed up tight, at any
height from the ground ; but be fure to place it hori¬
zontally : this length of line will do for half-pound
rockets 5 but if larger, the line muft be longer. Be¬
fore you put up the line, put one end of it through the
fwivel 5 and when you fire the line rocket, let the mouth
of that rocket which is firft fired face that end of the
line where you ftand; then the firft rocket will carry
the reft to the other end of the line, and the fecond will
bring them back •, and fo they will run out and in ac¬
cording to the number of rockets: at each end of the
Chap. II.
line there muft be a piece of flat wrood for the rocket Varieties
to ftrike againft, or its force will cut the line. Let the ™ Conftme.
line be well foaped, and the hole in the fwivel very ^
fmooth. 91
To line rockets may be fixed a great variety of fi-Different
gures, fuch as flying dragons, Mercuries, ftiips, &c. 5 or fl corations
they may be made to run on the line hke a wheel ;
which is done in this manner. Have a flat fw ivel made ve¬
ry exactly, and on it tie two rockets obliquely one on each
fide, w hich will make it turn round as it goes, and form
a circle of fire ; the charge for thefe rockets fhould be a
little weaker than common. If you would fhow two
dragons fighting, get two fwivels made fquareT and on
each tie three rockets together on the under fide then
have tw7o flying dragons made of tin, and fix one of
them on the top of each fwivel, fo as to ftand upright j
in the mouth of each dragon put a fmall cafe of com¬
mon fire, and another at the end of the tail; put two
or three port-fires, of a ftrong charge, on one fide of
their bodies, to Ihow them. This done, put them on
the line, one at each end ; but let there be a fwivel in
the middle of the line to keep the dragons from ftriking
together : before firing the rockets, light the cades
on the dragons ; and if care be taken in firing both at
the fame time, they will meet in the middle of the line,
and feem to fight. Then they will run back and return
with great violence, which will, have a very pleafing ef¬
fect, The line for thefe rockets muft be very long, or
they will ftrike too hard together. 9Z
Cafes for Chinefe flyers may be made of different Cafes for
fizes, from one to eight ounces : they muft be made thick Chn cfe
of paper, and eight interior diameters long j they are‘i}ers-
rolled in the fame manner as tourbillons, wiih a ftraight
parted edge, and pinched clofe at one end. The method
of filling them is, the cafe being put in a mould, w hofe
cylinder, or foot, muft be fiat at top without a nipple,
fill it within half a diameter of the middle ; then
ram in half a diameter of clay, on that as much com-
pofition as before, on which drive half a diameter of
clay ; then pinch the cafe clofe, and drive it down fiat :
after this is done, bore a hole exaftly through the cen¬
tre of the clay in the middle; then in the oppolite fides,
at both ends, make a vent ; and in that fide intended to
be fired firft make a fmall hole to the compolition near
the clay in the middle, from w’hich carry a quick-match,
covered with a Angle paper, to the vent at the other end 5
then, wThen the charge is burnt on one fide, it wall, by
means of the quick-match, communicate to the charge
on the other (w-hich may be of a different fort). I he
flyers being thus made, put an iron pin, that muft be
fixed in the wmrk on which they are to be fired, and on
which they are to run, through the hole in the middle^
on the end of this pin muft be a nut to keep the flyer
from running oft'. If they are to turn back again after
they are burnt, make both the vents at the ends on the
fame fide, which will alter its courfe the contrary way.
Table rockets are defigned merely to fhow the truth
of driving, and the judgment of a fire-worker; they rockets,
having no other effeff, when fired, than fpinning round
in the fame place where they begin, till they are burnt
out, and fhowing nothing more than an horizontal circle
of fire.
The method of making thefe rockets is,—Have a cone
turned out of hard wrood two inches and a half in dia¬
meter, and as much high : round the bafe of it drive a
line j
PYROTECHNY.
Chap. 11. P Y R O T
Varieties 1'mc •, on tins line fix four fpokes, each two inches long,
of Conftruc-f0 as {l;an(l one oppofite the other j then fill tour nine-
, tlun' , inch one pound cafes with any ftrong compofition,
within two inches of the top : thefe cafes are made like
tourbillons, and muft be rammed with the greateft ex-
aclnefs.
The rockets being filled, fix their open ends on the
fhort fpokes j then in the fide of each cafe bore a hole
near the clay ; all thefe holes, or vents, muft be fo made
that the fire of each cafe may a£l the fame way j from
thefe vents carry leaders to the top of the cone, and
tie them together. When the rockets are to be fired,
fet them on a fmooth table, and light the leaders in the
middle, and all the cafes will fire together (fee fig. 32.)
and fpin on the point of the cone.
Thefe rockets may be made to rife like tourbillons, by
making the cafes {hotter, and boring four holes in the
Under fide of each at equal diftances : this being done
they are called double tourbillons.
Note, All the vents in the under fide of the cafes
muft be lighted at once *, and the {harp point of the cone
cut oft, at which place make it fpherical.
Aeriai Fireworks called aerial globes or bombs confift of
globes or a fpherical cafe made of ftrong paper, or of wTood, pre-
bombs. pared as will be immediately deicribed, and thrown from
a mortar commonly made of pafteboard, w'ith a copper
Fig. 33. chamber to contain the charge, fuch as AB, fig. 33.
This fmall mortar muft be made of light wood, or of
paper parted together, and rolled up in the form of a
cylinder, or truncated cone, the bottom excepted }
which, as already faid, muft be of wrood. I he cham¬
ber for the powder AC muft be pierced obliquely, with
a fmall gimlet, as leen at BC ; fo that the aperture B
correfponding to the aperture of the metal mortar, in
which this paper mortar muft be placed svhen the globe
is fired, the fire applied to the latter may be communi-
ted to the powder w’hich is at the bottom of the cham¬
ber AC, immediately below the globe. By thefe means
the globe will catch fire and make an sgreeable noife as
it riles into the air ; but it wmuld not fucceed fo w'ell
if any vacuity were left between the powder and the
globe.
A profile or perpendicular fe£lion of fuch a globe is
reprefented by the right-angled parallelogram ABCD,
fig. 34.5 the breadth of which AB is nearly equal
to the height AD. The thicknefs of the wood to¬
wards the two fides L, M, is equal to about the
twelfth part of the diameter of the globe ; and the
thicknefs E, F, of the cover, is double the preceding,
or equal to a fixth part of the diameter. The height
GK, or HI of the chamber GHIK, where the match is
applied, and which is terminated by the femicircle
LGKM, is equal to the fourth part of the breadth
AB, and its breadth GH is equal to the fixth part of
AB.
We muft here obferve, that it is dangerous to put
wooden covers, fuch as EF, on aerial balloons or globes,
for thefe covers may be fo heavy as to wound thofe on
whom they happen to fall. It will be fufficient to place
turf or hay above the globe, in order that the powder
may exoerence fome refiftance.
The globe muft be filled with feveral pieces of cane
or common reed, equal in length to the interior height
of the globe, and charged with a flow compofition, made
of three ounces of pounded gunpowder, an ounce of ful-
E C H N Y. 555
phur moiftened with a fmall quantity of petroleum oil, Varieties
and two ounces, of charcoal j and in order that thefeot Gonftruc-
reeds or caaes may catch fire fooner, and with more fa-, t'°i“ ■
cility, they muft be charged at the lower ends, which
reft on the bottom of the globe, with pulverized gun¬
powder moiftened in the fame manner with petroleum
oil, or well befprinkled with brandy, and then dried.
The bottom of the globe ought to be covered with a
little gunpowder half pulverized and half grained j
which, when fet on fire by means of a match applied to
the end of the chamber GH, will fet fire to the lower
part of the reed. But care muft have been taken to fill
the chamber with a compofition fimilar to that in the
reeds, or with another flowT compofition made of‘eight
ounces of gunpowder, four ounces of faltpetre, two
ounces of fulphur, and one ounce of charcoal : the
whole muft be well pounded and mixed.
Inftead of reeds, the globe may be charged with run¬
ning rockets, or paper petards, and a quantity of fiery
ftars or fparks mixed with the pulverifed gunpowder,
placed without any order above thefe petards, which
muft be choaked at unequal heights, that they may
perform their effedt at different times.
Thefe globes may be conftrudled in various other
ways, which it would be tedious here to enumerate. We
{hall only obferve, that wdien loaded they muft be well
covered at the top ; they muft be wrapped up in a piece
of cloth dipped in glue, and a piece of woollen cloth
muft be tied round them, fo as to cover the hole which
contains the match. 95
Fuzes for air balloons are fometimes turned out of Fnz'^')r
dry beech, with a cup at top to hold the quick match,
or other firing material •, but if made with parted paper,
they will do as well : the diameter of the former for
fuzes for coehorn balloons muft be half an inch ; for a
royal fuze, five-eighths of am inch ; for an eight inch
iuze, three-fourths of an inch *, and for a ten inch fuze,
feven-eighths of an inch. Having rolled the cafes, pinch
and tie them almoft clofe at one end : then drive them
down, and let them dry. Before beginning to fill them,
mark on the outfide of the cafe the length of the charge
required, allowdng for the thicknefs of the bottom ; and
when the compofition is rammed in, take two pieces of
quick-match about fix inches long, and lay one end of
each on the charge, and then a little meal-powder,
which ram down hard ; the loofe ends of the match
double up into the top of the fuze, and cover it with a
paper cap to keep it dry. When the {hells are put into
the mortars, uncap the fuzes, and pull out the loofe ends
of the match, and let them hang on the fides of ^he bal¬
loons. The ufe of the match is, to receive the fire from
the powder in the chamber of the mortar, in order to
light the fuze : the {hell being put in the mortar with
the fuze uppermoft, and exaftly in the centre, fprinkle
over it a little meal-powder, and it will be ready to be
fired. Fuzes made of wood muft be longer than thofe
of paper, and not bored quite through, but left folid
about half an inch at bottom ; and when ufed faw them
oft' to a proper length, meafuring the charge from the
cup at top. 96
To make Tourbillons.—Having filled fome cafes with-Tourbd-
in about one diameter and a half, drive in a ladleful of l0115,
clay j then pinch the ends clofe, and drive them down
with a mallet. When done, find the centre of gravity
of each cafe j where the nail and flick are tied which
4 A 2 ftiould
556
Varieties ftiould be half an inch broad at the middle, and run
^tfon rt'C"3 little narrower to the ends: thefe flicks muft have
t -1- ; their ends turned upwards, fo that the cafes may turn
horizontally on their centres : at the oppofite fides of
the cafes, at each end, bore a hole clofe to the clay
with a gimblet, the lize of the neck of a common cafe
of the fame nature : from thefe holes draw a line round
the cafe, and at the under part of the cafe bore a hole
with the fame gimblet, within half a diameter of each
line towards the centre ; then from one hole to the
other draw a right line. Divide this line into three
equal parts 5 and at X and Y (fig. 35.) bore a hole ;
then from thefe holes to the other two lead a quick-
match, over which pafte a thin paper. Fig. 36. repre-
fents a tourbillon as it fliould lie to be fired, with a
leader from one fide hole A to the other B. When
tourbillons are fired lay them on a fmooth table, with
their flicks downwards, and bum the leader through the
middle with a portfire. They Ihould fpin three or four
feconds on the table before they rife, which is about the
time the compofition will be burning from the fide holes
to thofe at bottom.
To tourbillons may be fixed reports in this manner :
In the centre of the cafe at top make a fmall hole, and
in the middle of the report make another j then place
them together, and tie on the report, and with a fingle
paper fecure it from fire : this done, the tourbillon is
completed. By this method you may fix on tourbil¬
lons fmall cones of flars, rains, &c. but be careful not
to load them too much. One eighth of an inch will be
enough for the thicknefs of the flicks, and their length
equal to that of the cafes.
Aigrettes. Mortars to throw aigrettes are generadly made of
pafleboard, of the fame thicknefs as balloon mortars,
and two diameters and a half long in the infide from the
top of the foot : the foot muft be made of elm without a
chamber, but flat at top, and in the fame proportion as
thofe for balloon mortars ; thefe mortars muft alfo be
bound round with a cord: fometimes eight or nine of
thefe mortars, of about three or four inches diameter,
are bound all together, fo as to appear but one : but
when they are made for this purpofe, the bottom of the
foot muft be of the fame diameter as the mortars, and
only half a diameter high. The mortars being bound
well together, fix them on a heavy folid block of wood.
To load thefe mortars, firft put on the infide bottom of
each a piece of paper, and on it fpread one ounce and a
' half of meal and com powder mixed; then tie the fer-
pents up in parcels with quickmatch, and put them in
the mc!*tar with their mouths downwards ; but take care
the parcels do not fit too tight in the mortars, and that
all the ferpenls have been well primed with powder
wetted with fpirit of wine. On the top of the ferpents
in each mortar lay fome paper or tow; then carry a
leader from one mortar to the other all round, and then
from all the outfide mortars into that in the middle :
thefe leaders muft be put between the cafes and the
fides of the mortar, down to the porvder at bottom : in
the centre of the middle mortar fix a fire pump, or bril¬
liant fountain, which muft be open at bottom, and long
enough to project out of the mouth of the mortar ; then
pafte paper on the tops of all the mortars.
Mortars thus prepared are called a nejl of ferpents, as
reprefented by fig. 37. When thefe mortars are to be
fired, light the fire-pump C, which when confumed will
Chap. II.
communicate to all the mortars at once by means of Varieties
the leaders. For mortars of 8, 9, or 10 inches diame-ot ^nftruc-
ter, the ferpents ftrould be made in one and two ounce non- .
cafes fix or feven inches long, and fired by a leader
brought out of the mouth of the mortar, and turned
down the outfide, and the end of it covered with paper,
to prevent the fparks of the other -works from letting it
on fire. For a fix-inch mortar, let the quantity of
powder for firing be two ounces j for an eight-inch, two
ounces and three quarters \ and for a ten-inch, three
ounces and three quarters. Care muft be taken in thefe,
as well as fmall mortars, not to put the ferpents in too
tight, for fear of burfting the mortars. Thefe mortars
may be loaded with ftars, crackers, &c.
If the mortars, when loaded, are fent to any diftance,
or liable to be much moved, the firing powder Ihould
be fecured from getting amongft the ferpents, w;hich
would endanger the mortars, as well as hurt their per¬
formance. To prevent this, load the mortars thus:
Firft put in the firing pow'der, and fpread it equally
about j then cut a round piece of blue touch-paper,
equal to the exterior diameter of the mortar, and draw
on it a circle equal to the interior diameter of the mor¬
tar, and notch it all round as far as that circle : then
pafte that part which is notched, and put it down the
mortar clofe to the powder, and flick the palled edge
to the mortar : this wall keep the powder always fmooth
at bottom, fo that it may be moved or carried anywhere
without receiving damage. The large fingle mortars
are called pots des aigrettes.
Pots des Brins are formed of pafteboard, and muft be Pots dea
rolled pretty thick. They are ufually made three orbrins.
four inches diameter, and four diameters long; and
pinched wuth a neck at one end, like common cafes.
A number of thefe are placed on a plank thus : Having
fixed on a plank two rows of wmoden pegs, cut in the
bottom of the plank a groove the whole length under
each row of pegs j then, through the centre of each peg,
bore a hole down to the groove at bottom, and on every
peg fix and glue a pot, wdiofe mouth muft fit tight on
the peg *, through all the holes run a quick match, one
end of which muft go into the pot, and the other into
the groove, wdiich muft have a match laid in it from
end to end, and covered with paper, fo that when light¬
ed at one end it may difcharge the wdiole almoft inllan-
taneoully : in all the pots put about one ounce of meal
and corn powTder ; then in fome put ftars, and in others
rains, fnakes, ferpents, crackers, &c. wdien they are all
loaded, pafte paper over their mouths. Two or three
hundred of thefe pots being fired together make a very
pretty fhowq by affording fo great a variety of fires.
Fig. 38. is a range of pots des brins, with a leader A,
by which they are fired.
Pots des Sauciflbns are generally fired out of large
mortars without chambers, the fame as thofe for aigrettes, faucifibns,
only fomewhat ftronger. Sauciffons are made of one
and twm ounce cafes, five or fix inches long, and choked
in the fame manner as ferpents. Half the number
which the mortar contains muft be driven one diame¬
ter and a half with compofitio-n, and the other half two
diameters, fo that when fired they may give two volleys
of reports. But if the mortars are very ftrong, and
will bear a fufficient charge to throw7 the fauciffons very
high, you may make three volleys of reports, by divid¬
ing the number of cafes into three parts, and making a
difference
PYROTECHNY.
Chap.
i®o
Single ver¬
tical
wheels.
II. P Y R O T
Varieties difference in the height of the charge. After they are
of Conftruc-gUg^ pinch and tie them at top of the charge almoft
tlon’ clofe 5 only leaving a fmall vent to communicate the
fire to the upper part of the cafe, which mult be filled
with corn-powder very near the top 5 then pinch the
end quite clofe, and tie it: after this is done, bind the
cafe very tight with waxed packthread, from the choke
at top of the compofition to the end of the cafe } this
will make the cafe very ftrong in that part, and caufe
the report to be very loud, bauciffons fhould be roued
a little thicker of paper than the common proportion.
When they are to be put in the mortar, they mull be
primed in their mouths, and fired by a cafe of brilliant
fire fixed in their centre.
The charge for thefe mortars fhould be one-fixth or
one-eighth more than for pots dcs aigrettes ot the fame
diameter.
There are different forts of vertical wheels ; fome ha¬
ving their fells of a circular form, others of an hexagonal,
odtagonal, or decagonal form, or of any number of fides,
according to the length of the cafes you defign for the
wheel: the fpokes being fixed in the nave, nail flips
of tin, with their edges turned up, fo as to form grooves
for the cafes to lie in, from the end of one fpoke to that
of another; then tie the cafes in the grooves head to
tail, in the fame manner as thofe on the horizontal water¬
wheel, fo that the cafes fucceffively taking fire from one
another, will keep the wheel in an equal rotation. Two
of thefe wheels are very often fired together, one on each
fide of a building ; and both lighted at the fame time,
and all the cafes filled alike, to make them keep time
together j as they will, if made by the following di¬
rections : In all the cafes of both wheels, except the
firft, on each wheel drive two or three ladiesful of flow
fire, in any part of the cafes j but be careful to ram the
fame quantity in each cafe, and in the end of one of
the cafes, on each wheel, you may ram one ladleful
of dead-fire compofition, which muft be very lightly
driven •, you may alfo make many changes of fire by this
method.
Let the hole in the nave of the wheel be lined with
brafs, and made to turn on a fmooth iron fpindle. On
the end of this fpindle let there be a nut, to fcrew off
and on j when you have put the wheel on the fpindle,
fcrew on the nut, which will keep the wheel from^ fly¬
ing off. Let the mouth of the firft cafe be a little raifed.
See fig. 39. Vertical wheels are made from ten inches
to three feet diameter, and the fize of the cafes muft
differ accordingly } four-ounce cafes wall do for wheels
of 14 or 16 inches diameter, which is the proportion ge¬
nerally ufed. The beft wood for wheels of all forts is a
light and dry beech.
Horizontal wheels are beft when their fells are made
circular ; in the middle of the top of the na\e muft be
a pintle, turned out of the fame piece as the nave, two
inches long, and equal in diameter to the bore of one of
the cafes of the wheel : there muft be a hole bored up
the centre of the nave, within half an inch of the top of
the pintle. The wheel being made, nail at the end of
each fpoke (of wdiich there fhould be fix or eight) a
piece of wood, wnth a groove cut in it to receive the
cafe. Fix thefe pieces in fuch a manner that half the
cafes may incline upwards and half downwards, and that,
when they are tied on, their heads and tails may come
very nearly together 3 from the tail of one cafe to the
tor
Horizontal
wheels.
E C H N Y. 557
mouth of the other carry a leader, which ihould be fe- Varieties
cured with pafted paper. Befides thefe pipes, it will be of Conftruc-
neceffary to put a little meal-powder within the pafted . ^
paper, to blow off the pipe, that there may be no ob-
ftruftion to the fire from the cafes. By means of thefe
pipes the cafes will fucceffively take fire, burning one
upwards and the other downwards. On the pintle fix a
cafe of the fame fort as thofe on the wheel 3 this cafe
muft; be fired by a leader from the mouth of the laft cafe
on the wheel, which cafe muft play downwards : inftead
of a common cafe in the middle, you may put a cafe of
Chinefe fire, long enough to burn as long as two or three-
of the cafes on the wheel.
Horizontal wheels are often fired two at a time, and
made to keep time like vertical wheels, only they are
made without any flow or dead fire 3 10 or 12 inches plate
wull be enough for the diameter of wheels with fixcCGCLIV,
fpokes. Fig. 40. reprefents a wheel on fire, with the Fig. 40.
firft cafe burning. ioj
Spiral wheels, are only double horizontal wheels, and Spiral
made thus : The nave muft be about fix inches long,wlieel?*
and rather thicker than the Angle fort 3 inftead of the
pintle at top, make a hole for the cafe to be fixed in,
and two fets of fpokes, one fet near the top of the nave,
and the other near the bottom. At the end of each
fpoke cut a groove wherein you tie the cafes, there be¬
ing no fell 3 the fpokes ffiould not be more than twm
inches and a half long from the naves, fo that the wheel
may not be more than eight or nine inches diameter;
the cafes are placed in fuch a manner, that thofe at top
play down, and thofe at bottom play up, but let the
third or fourth cafe play horizontally. The cafe in the
middle may begin with any of the others: fix fpokes
will be enough for each fet, fo that the wheel may con-
fift of 12 cafes, befides that on the top : the cafes fix
inches each. I03
Plural wheels are made to turn horizontally, and to plural
confift of three fets of fpokes, placed fix at top, fix at wheels,
bottom, and four in the middle, which laft muft be a
little ftiorter than the reft : let the diameter of the wheel
be 10 inches 3 the cafes muft be tied on the ends of the
fpokes in grooves cut on purpofe, or in pieces of wood
nailed on the ends of the fpokes, with grooves cut in
them as ufual: in clothing thefe wheels, make the up¬
per fet of cafes play obliquely downwards, the bottom
fet obliquely upwards, and the middle fet horizontally.
In placing the leaders, they muft be managed fo that the
cafes may burn thus, viz. firft up, then dowm, then ho¬
rizontal, and fo on with the reft. But another change
may be made, by driving in the end of the eighth cafe
two or three ladiesful of 1W fire, to burn till the
vdreel has flopped its courfe 3 then let the other cafes be
fixed the contrary way, which will make the wheel
run back again : for the cafe at top you may put a fmall
gerbe 3 and let the cafes on the fpokes be ffrort, and fill¬
ed with a ftrong brilliant charge. I0^
Illuminatedfpiral wheel.—Firft have a circular hori- Illuminated
zontal wheel made two feet diameter, with a hole quite fpiral
through the nave 3 then take three thin pieces of deal, whec's>
three feet long each, and three-fourths of an inch broad
each : one end of each of thefe pieces nail to the fell of
the wheel, at an equal diftance from one another, and
the other end nail to a block with a hole in its bottom,
which muft be perpendicular to that in the block of the
wheel, but not fo large. The wheel being thus made,
have
pouble
fpiral
wheel.
jo6
Balloon
wheels.
107
Frailoni
wheels.
have a hoop planed down very thin and flat; then nail
one end of it into the „fell of the wheel, and wind it
round the three Hicks in a fpiral line from the wheel to
the block at top : on the top of this block fix a cafe of
Clunefe fire j on the wheel you may place any number
of cafes, which muft incline downwards, and burn two
at a time. If the wheel fhould confift of ten cafes, you
may let the illuminations and Chinefe fire begin with
the fecond cafes. Jfhe fpindle for this wheel muft be a
little longer than the cone, and made very fmooth at
top, on which the upper block is to turn, and the whole
weight of the wheel to reft. See fig. 41.
Double fpiral wheel.—For this wheel the block, or
nave, muft be as long as the height of the worms, or
fpiral lines, but muft be made very thin, and as light as
pofTible. In this block muft be fixed feveral fpokes,
which muft diminifh in length, from the wheel to the
top, fo as not to exceed the furface of a cone of the fame
height, lo the ends of thefe fpokes nail the wrorms,
which muft crofs each other feveral times : clothe thefe
wwms with illuminations, the fame as thofe on the fingle
wheels} but the horizontal wheel you may clothe as
you like. At top of the worm place a cafe of fpur-fire,
or an amber light, fee fig. 42. This figure is fhow-n
without leaders, to prevent a confufion of lines.
Balloon wheels are made to turn horizontally : they
muft be made two feet diameter, without any fpokes *,
and very ftrong, with any number of fides. On the top
of a wheel range and fix in pots, three inches diameter
and feven inches high each, as many of thefe as there
-are cafes on the w heel: near the bottom of each pot
make a fmall vent; into each of thefe vents carry a
leader from the tail of each cafe ; load fome of the pots
with ftars, and fome with ferpents, crackers, &c. As
the wheels turn, the pots will fucceflively be fired, and
throw into the air a great variety of fires.
For fruiloni wheels firft have a nave made nine inches
long and three in diameter: near the bottom of this
nave fix eight fpokes, with a hole in the end of each,
large enough to receive a two or four ounce cafe : each
of thefe fpokes may be 14 inches long from the block.
Near the top of this block fix eight more of the fame
fpokes, exactly over the others, but not fo long by two
inches. As this wheel is to run horizontally, all the
cafes in the fpokes muft play obliquely upwards, and all
thofe in the fpokes at bottom obliquely dowmvards.
This being done, have a fmall horizontal wheel made
with eight fpokes, each five inches long from the block:
on the top of this wheel place a cafe of brilliant fire :
all the cafes on this w-heel muft play in an oblique di-
reftion dowmvards, and burn tw-o at a time, and thofe
on the large wheel four at a time; that is, tw-o of thofe
in the top fet of {pokes, and two of thole in the bottom
let of fpokes.
The four firft cafes on the large wheel, and the two
firft on the fmall, muft be fired at the fame time, and
the brilliant fire at top at the beginning of the laft cafes.
The cafes of the wheels may be filled w-ith a gray
charge. When thefe wheels are completed, you muft
have a ftrong iron fpindle, made four feet fix inches
long,^ and fixed perpendicularly on the top of a ftand :
on this put the large wheel, whofe nave muft have a hole
quite through from the bottom to the top. This hole
.muft be large enough to turn eafily round the bettom of
P Y R Q T E C H N Y. Chap. II.
the fpindle, at which place there muft be a ftioulder, to ^ arieties
keep the wheel from touching the fland : at the top of0*
the fpindle put the fmall wheel, and join it to a large , tlon- f
one with a leader, in order that they may be fired both
together.
Cafcades off re are made of any fize ; but one made Cafcades of
according to the dimenfions of that fliown in fig. 43.fire,
will be large enough for eight-ounce cafes. Let tire
diftance. from A to B be three feet; from B to G two
feet fix inches ; and from C to D two feet-, and let the
crofs piece at A be four feet long : then from each end
of this piece draw a line to D 5 then make the other
crofs. pieces fo long as to come within thofe lines. The
top piece D may be of any length, fo as to hold the
cafes, at a little diftance from each other j all the crofs
pieces are fixed horizontally, and fupported by brackets;
the bottom crofs piece Ihould be about one foot fix
inches broad in the middle, the lecond one foot, the
third nine inches, and the top piece four inches: the
cafes may be made of any length, but muft be filled
with a brilliant charge. On tire edges of the crofs
pieces muft be nailed bits of wood, with a groove cut
in each piece, large enough for a cafe to lie in. Thefe
bits of w'ood are fixed fo as to incline downwards, and
that the fire from one tier of cafes may play over that of
the other. All the cafes being tied fart on, carry lead¬
ers from one to the other ; and let there be a pipe hung
from the mouth of one of the cafes, covered at the end
with a fingle paper, which you burn to fire the cafcade. IC
The Fire Tree.— To make a fire tree, as {hown by Fire tree.
%• 44- y°u muft firft have a piece of wood fix feet long,
and three inches fquare; then at E, nine inches from
the top, make a hole in the front, and in each fide; or,
inftead of holes, you may fix fhort pegs, to fit the infide
of the cafes. At F, nine inches from E, fix three more
pegs ; at G, one foot nine inches from F, fix three pegs;
at H, nine inches from G, fix three pegs; at I, nine
inches from H, fix three pegs, inclining downwards;
but all the other pegs muft incline upwards, that the
cafes may have the fame inclination as is feen in the
figure : then at top place a four-inch mortar, loaded
with ftars, rains, or crackers. In the middle of this
mortar place a cafe filled ivith any fort of charge, but
let it be fired with the other cafes : a brilliant charge
will do for all the cafes; but the mortar may be made
of any diameter, and the tree of any fize; and on it
any number of cafes, provided they are placed in the
manner def-nbed.
Chinefe Fountains.—To make a Chinefe fountain, you
muft have a perpendicular piece of wood feven feet long
and two inches and a half fquare. Sixteen inches from
the top, fix on the front a crofs piece one inch thick,
and two and a half broad, -with the broad fide up¬
wards ; below this, fix three more pieces of the fame
width and thicknefs, at fixteen inches from each other;
let the bottom rail be five feet long, and the others of
fuch a length as to allow the fire-pumps to ftand in
the middle of the intervals of each other. The pyra¬
mid being thus made, fix in the holes made in the bot¬
tom rail five fire pumps, at equal diftances; on the fe¬
cond rail, place four pumps ; on the third, three ; on
the fourth, two; and on the top of the port, one; but
place them all to incline a little forwards, that, when
they throw out the ftars, they may not ftrike againft
the
5
Chap. II.
Varieties the crofs rails. Having fixed your fire-pumps, clothe
of Cotiftnrc- them with leaders, fo that they may all be fired toge-
. . ti^n' ther. See fig. 45.
x 11 Of illuminated Globes with horizontal Wheels.—The
IUuinira‘ed hoops for thefe globes may be made of wood, tin, or
globes with iron wire, about two feet in diameter. For a fingle
vmeels'tdl ta^e tw0 ^°0P?» tie them together, one
within the other, at right angles •, then have a horizon¬
tal wheel made, whofe diameter mull be a little wi¬
der than the globe, and its nave fix inches long) on the
top of which the globe is fixed, fo as to ftand three or
four inches from the wheel: on this wheel you may put
any number of cafes, filled with what charge you pleafe j
but let two of them burn at a time : they may be placed
horizontally, or to incline downwards, juft as you
choofe. Now, when the wheel is clothed, fix on the
hoops as many illuminations as will ftand within two
inches and a half of each other : fallen theie on the
hoops with fmall iron binding wire ; and when they are
all on, put on the pipes of communication, which mull
be fo managed as to light them all with the fecond or
third cafe on the wheel. The fpindle on which the globe
is to run muft go through the block of the wheel, up to
the infide of the top of the globe; where muft be fix¬
ed a bit of brafs, or iron, with a hole in it to receive
the point of the fpindle, on which the whole weight of
the wheel is to bear, as in fig. 46. which repreients a
globe on its fpindle. By this method may be made a
crown, which is done by having the hoops bent in the
form of a crown. Sometimes globes and crowns are
managed fo as to ftand Hill, and the wdieel only to turn
round 5 but when you would have the globe or crown
to ftand Hill, and the w’heel to run by itfelf, the block
of the wheel muft not be fo long, nor the fpindle any
longer than juft to raife the globe a little above the
wheels j and the wheel cafes and illumination muft be-
11.2 gin together.
Dodeeahe- The Dodecahedron.—§0 called becaufe it nearly re-
dron. prefents a twelve-fided figure, is made thus : Firft have
a ball turned out of fome hard wood, 14 inches diame¬
ter : divide its furface into 14 equal parts, from wftuch
bore holes one inch and a half diameter, perpendicular
to the centre, fo that they may all meet in the middle :
then let there be turned in the infide of each hole a fe¬
male fcrew *, and to all the holes but one muft be made
a round fpoke five feet long, with four inches of the
fcrew at one end to fit the holes; then in the fcrew’-end
of all the fpokes bore a hole, five inches up, which muft
be bored flanting, fo as to come out at one fide, a little
above the fcrew; from which cut a fmall groove along
the fpoke, within fix inches of the other end, wdrere
make another hole through to the other fide of the
fpoke. In this end fix a fpindle, on wdiich put a fmall
wheel of three or four fides, each fide fix or feven inches
long •, thefe fides muft have grooves cut in them, large
enough to receive a two or four ounce cafe. When
thefe wheels are clothed, put them on the fpindles, and
at the end of each fpindle put a nut to keep the wheel
from falling off. The wheels being thus fixed, carry a
pipe from the mouth of the firft cafe on each wheel,
through the hole in the fide of the fpoke, and from
thence along the groove, and through the other hole, fo
as to hang out at the fcrew-end about an inch. The
fpokes being all prepared in this manner, you muft have
a poft, on vvhich you intend to fire the work, with an
559
iron fcrew in the top of it, to fit one of the holes in Varieties
the ball: on the fcrew fix the ball j then in the top Conftruc-
hole of the ball put a little meal-powder, and fome , tuJ1‘
loofe quick-match : then fcrew in all the fpokes ; and v
in one fide of the ball bore a hole, in which put a lea¬
der, and fecure it at the end ; and the work will be rea¬
dy to be fired. By the leader the powder and match in
the centre is fired, which will light the match at the ends
of the fpokes all at once, whereby all the wheels will be
lighted at once. There may be an addition to this
piece, by fixing a fmall globe on each wheel, or one on
the top w'heel only. A gray charge will be proper for
the wheel cafes. X1^
The Yew 1 ree of brilliant Tire is reprefented by Yew tree of
fig. 47. as it appears when burning'. Firft, let A be an brilliant
upright piece of wood, four feet long, two inchesfire-
broad, and one thick : at top of the piece, on the flat
fide, fix a hoop 14 inches diameter ; and round its edge
and front place illuminations, and in the centre a five-
pointed ftar; then at E, which is one foot and a half
from the edge of the hoop, place two cafes of brilliant
fire, one on each fide \ thefe cafes Ihould be one foot
long each : below thefe fix two more cafes of the fame
fize, and at fuch a diftance that their mouths may al-
moli meet them at top : then clofe to the ends of thefe
fix twm more of the fame cafes ; they muft ftand parallel
to them at E. The cafes being thus fixed, clothe them
with leaders j fo that they, with the illuminations and
ftars at top, may all take fire together. 114.
Stars with Points for regulated Pieces, &c.—Thefe Stars with
ftars are made of different iizes, according to the work f)01IU'c:‘
for which they are intended 5 they are made with cafes
from one ounce to one pound, but in general with four
ounce-cafes, four or five inches long : the cafe muft bs
rolled with pafte, and twice as thick as that of a rocket
of the fame bore. Having rolled a cafe, pinch one end
of it quite clofe: then drive in half a diameter of
clay ; and when the cafe is dry, fill it with compofition
two or three inches to the length of the cafes with
which it is to burn : at top of the charge drive fome
clay j as the ends of thefe cafes are feldom pinched, they
would be liable to take fire. Having filled a cafe, di¬
vide the circumference of it at the pinched end clofe
to the clay into five equal parts ; then bore five holes
with a gimblet, about the fize of the neck of a common
four-ounce cafe, into the compofition : from one hole to
the other carry a quick-match, and fecure it with pa¬
per : this paper muft be put on in the manner of that on
the end of wheel-cafes, fo that the hollow part, which
projeifts from the end of the cafe, may ferve to receive
a leader from any other work, to give fire to the points
of the ftars. Thefe ftars may be made with any number
of points.
Fixed Sun with a tranfparent Face.—To make a fun tMxed'fun
of the beft kind, there ftiould be two rows of cafes, as in with a
fig. 48. which will ihow a double glory, and make the tran*Parent
rays ftrong and full. The frame or fun-wheel, muft be tace'
made thus : Have a circular flat nave made very flrong,
12 inches diameter: to this fix fix ftrong flat fpokes,
A,B,C,D,E,F. On the front of thefe fix a circular fell,
five feet diameter; within which fix another fell, the
length of one of the fun-cafes lefs in diameter ; within
this fix a third fell, whofe diameter muft be lefs than
the fecond by the length of one cafe and one-third.
The wheel being made, divide the fells into fo many equal
parts
PYROTECHNY.
56°
Varieties parts as tliere are to be cafes (which may be done from
of Con (true- to ^ . at gadi divifion fix a flat iron ftaple j thefe
■ t‘°n' ftaples mufl; be made to fit the cafes, to hold them
faft on the wheel; let the ftaples be fo placed, that
one row of cales may lie in the middle of the intervals
of the other.
In the centre of the block of the fun drive a fpindle,
on which put a fmall hexagonal wheel, whofe cates'
muft be filled with the fame charge as the cafes of the
fun : two cafes of this wheel muft burn at a time, and
begin with them on the fells. Having fixed on all the
cales, carry pipes of communication from one to the
other, as vou fee in the figure, and Irom one fide oi
the fun to the wheel in the middle, and Irom thence
to the other fide of the fun. Thefe leaders will hold
the wheel fteady while the lun is fixing up, and will
alfo be a fure method of lighting both cafes of the
wheel together. A fun thus made is called a brilliant
fun, becaufe the wrood work is entirely covered with
fire from the wheel in the middle, fo that there appears
nothing but fparks of brilliant fire ; but if you w-ould
have a tranfparent face in the centre, you muft have
one made of pafteboard of any fize. The method of
making a face is, by cutting out the eyes, nofe, and
mouth, for the fparks of the wdieel to appear through ;
but inftead of this face, you may have one painted on
oiled paper, or Perfian filk, {trained tight on a hoop •,
which hoop muft be fupported by three or four pieces of
wire at fix inches diftance from the wheel in the centre,
fo that the light of it may illuminate the face. By this
method may be Ihown in the front of a fun, Vivat Rex,
cut in pafteboard, or Apollo painted on filk ; but, for
a fmall colledtion, a fun with a fingle glory, and a w heel
in front, will be moft fuitable. Half pound cafes, filled
ten inches with compofition, will be a good fize for a
fun of five feet diameter ; but, if larger, the cafes muft
116 be greater in proportion.
Three ver- Three Vertical Wheels illuminated, ’which turn on their
tical wheels ow;2 ]$aves vpon a horizontal Table.—A plan of this is
illuminated.^ j^et D be a fir table three feet in
diameter : this table muft be fixed horizontally on the
top of a poft } on this poll muft be a perpendicular iron
fpindle, which muft come through the centre of the table :
then let A, B, C, be three fpokes joined to a triangular
flat piece of wood, in the middle of which make a hole
to fit eafily over the fpindle : let E, F, G, be pieces of
wood, four or five inches long each, and twm inches
fquare, fixed on the under fides of the fpokes 5 in thefe
pieces make holes lengthwife to receive the thin p&rt of
the blocks of the wheels, which, when in, are prevented
from coming out by a fmall iron pin being run through
the end of each. K, L, M, are three vertical oftagonal
wheels, 18 inches diameter each : the blocks of thefe
wheels muft be long enough for three or four inches to
reft on the table •, round which part drive a number of
(harp points of wire, which muft not project out of the
blocks more than i-i6th of an inch : the ufe of thefe
points is, that, wdren the blocks run round, they will
ftick in the table, and help the wheels forward : if the
naves are made of ftrong wood, one inch will be enough
for the diameter of the thin part, which Ihould be made
to turn eafily in the holes ©f the pieces E, F, G. On
the front of the wheels make four or five circles of
ftrong ware, or flat hoops, and tie on them as many il¬
luminations as they will hold at two inches diftant from
Chap. II.
each other : inftead of circles, you may make fpiral Varieties
lines, clothed with illuminations, at the fame diftance01 Conftruc-
from each other as thofe on the hoops. When illumi- tl"n' t
nations are fixed on a fpiral line in the front of a wheel,
they muft be placed a little on the flant, the contrary
way from that in which the wheel runs ; the cafes for
thefe wheels may be filled with any coloured charge,
but muft burn only one at a time.
The wheels being thus prepared, you muft have a
globe, crown, or fpiral wheel, to put on the fpindie in
the middle of the table : this fpindle fliould be juft long
enough to raife the wheel of the globe, crown, or fpi¬
ral wheel, fo high that its fire may play over the three
vertical wheels : by this means their fires will not be
confufed, nor will the wheels receive any damage from
the fire of each other. In clothing this work, let the
leaders be fo managed, that all the wheels may light to¬
gether, and the illuminations after twro cafes of each
wheel are burned. _ uy
Illuminated works are much admired by the Italians, Illuminated
and indeed are a great addition to a collection of wmrks; chandelier,
in a grand exhibition an illuminated piece ftiould be fir¬
ed after every two or three w-heels, or fixed pieces of
common and brilliant fires j and likewife illuminated
works may be made cheap, quick, and eafy.
To make an illuminated chandelier, you muft firft
have one made of thin w7ood (fee fig. 50-)* chan¬
delier being made, bore in the front of the branches,
and in the body, and alfo in the crown at top, as many
holes for illuminations as they will contain at three
inches diftance from each other : in thefe holes put il¬
luminations filled with white, blue, or brilliant charge.
Having fixed in the port-fires, clothe them with leaders,
fo that the chandelier and crown may light together.
The fmall circles on this figure reprefent the mouths of
the illuminations, which muft projedl ftraight from the
front. 118
To make a flaming ftar with brilliant wheels, you muft Flaming
firft have made a circular piece of ftrong wood about one ftms with
inch thick and two feet diameter : round this block fix
eight points, two feet fix inches long each •, four of theie
points muft be ftraight and four flaming ; thefe points be¬
ing joined on very ftrong, and even with the furface of the
block, nail tin or pafteboard on their edges, from the
block to the end of each, where they mull be joined :
this tin muft projeft in front eight inches, and be joined
where they meet at the block; round the front of the
block fix four pieces of thick iron wire, eight inches
long each, equally diftant from each other : this being
done, cut a piece of pafteboard round, two feet diameter,
and draw on it a ftar, as may be feen in fig. 51. Cut -r>
out this ftar, and on the back of it pafte oiled paper j
then paint each point half red and half yellow, length-
wife p but the body of the ftar muft be left'open, where¬
in muft run a brilliant wheel, made thus : Have a light
block turned nine inches long : at eacn end of it fix fix
fpokes 5 at the end of each fpoke put a two ounce cafe
of brilliant fire : the length of thefe cafes muft be in
proportion to the wheel, and the diameter of the wheel
Vvflien the cafes are on muft be a little lefs than the dia¬
meter of the body of the fmall ftar : the cafes on the
fpokes in front muft have their mouths incline outwards,
and thofe on the infide fpokes muft be placed fb as to
form a vertical circle of fire. When you place the
leaders, carry the firft pipe from the tail of one of the
cafes
PYROTECHNY.
Chap.
1x9
J’rojedled
regulated
piece with
mutations.
Fig- 53-
Plate
CCCCLV
II. P Y R O T
Varieties cafes in front to the mouth of one of the infide cafes,
°fCt<iomrUC’and fr°m the tail °f tllat t0 an°ther in front, and fo on
«— ah the cafes. The wheel being made, put it on a
fpindle, in the centre of the ftar ; this fpindle mull have
a Ihoulder at bottom, to keep the wheel at a little dil-
tance from the block, 1 he wdieel mult be kept on the
fpindle by a nut at the end j having fixed on the wheel,
fallen the tranfparent liar to the four pieces of wire :
when you fire it, you wall only fee a common horizontal
wheel ; but when the firlt cafe is burnt out, it will fire
one of the vertical cafes, which will Ihow the tranfparent
flar, and fill the large flames and points with fire 5 then
it will again appear like a common wheel, and fo on for
12 charges.
A regulated piece, if w-ell executed, is as curious as
a?y fire-works : it eonfifts of fixed and moveable
pieces on one fpindle, reprefenting various figures,
which take fire fucceflively one from another, without
any aflillance after lighting the firlt mutation. See
fig- 53'
I. Names of the mutations, with the colour of fire
and fize of the cafe belonging to each.
Fi/y? mutation is a hexagon vertical wheel, illuminat¬
ed in front with fmall portfires tied on the fpokes; this
wheel mull be clothed with two ounce cafes, filled wdth
black charge 5 the length of thefe cafes is determined
by the fize of the w'heel, but mull burn fingly.
Second jnutation is a fixed piece, called a golden gloryi
by reafon of the cafes being filled with fpur-fire. The
cafes mull Hand perpendicular to the block on which
they are fixed, lo that, when burning, they may reprelent
a glory of fire. This mutation is generally compofed of
five or feven two ounce cafes.
Third tnutation is moveable ; and is only an oflagon
vertical wheel, clothed with four ounce cafes, filled with
brilliant charge : txvo of thefe cafes mull burn at a time.
In this wrheel you may make changes of fire.
Fourth tnutation is a fixed fun of brilliant fire, con-
filling of 12 four ounce cafes j the necks of thefe cafes
mull be a little larger than thofe of four ounce wheel-
cafes. In this mutation may be made a change of fire,
by filling the cafes half with brilliant charge, and half
with grey.
Fifth mutation is a fixed piece, called the porcupine's
quills. This piece confills of 12 fpokes, Handing per¬
pendicular to the block in which they are fixed ; on
each of thefe fpokes, near the end, mull be placed a four
ounce cafe of brilliant fire. All thefe cafes mult incline
either to the right or left, fo that they may all play one
way.
Sixth mutation is a Handing piece, called the crofs-Jire.
This mutation confifls of eight fpokes fixed in a block;
near the end of each of thofe fpokes muH be tied two
four ounce cafes of white charge, one acrofs the other, fo
that the fires from the cafes on one fpoke may interfefl
the fire from the cafes on the other.
Seventh mutation is a fixed wheel, with two circular
fells, on which are placed 16 eight-ounce cafes of bril¬
liant fire, in the form of a Har. This piece is called a
fixedJlar of wild-fre.
Eight mutation.—This is a beautiful piece, called a
brilliant Jlar-piece. It confifls of fix fpokes, which are
Hrengthened by two fells of a hexagon form, at feme di-
Hance from each other: at the end of each fpoke, in
the fiont, is fixed a brilliant Har of five points v and on
Vol. XVII. Part II.
E C H N Y.
561
each fide of every flar is placed a four-ounce cafe of Varieties
black or gray charge ; thefe cafes muft be placed withofGonftruc"
their mouths fidewife, fo that their fires may crofs each tlon‘
other.
hinth mutation is a wheel-piece. This is compofed
of fix long fpokes, with a hexagon vertical wheel at the
end of each : thefe wheels run on fpindles in the front
of the fpokes j all the wheels are lighted together : two
ounce cafes will do for thefe w'heels, and may be filled
with any coloured charge.
II. Proportions of the mutations, with the method of
conveying the fire from one to the other, and the diftance
at which they Hand one from the other on the fpindle.
Firfl mutation muft be a hexagon vertical wheel,
14 inches diameter ; on one fide of the block, whole
diameter is two inches and a quarter, is fixed a tin bar-
rel A (fee fig. 53. N° 1.) This barrel muft be a little
lels in diameter than the nave; let the length of the
barrel and block be fix inches. Having fixed the cafes
on the wheel, carry a leader from the tail of the laft
cafe into the tin barrel through a hole made on purpofe,
two inches from the block 5 at the end of this leader
let there be about one inch or two of loofe match, but
take care to fecure wrell the hole wherein the pipe is
put, to prevent any fparks falling in, which would light
the fecond mutation before its time, and confufe the
whole.
Second tnutation is thus made: Have a nave turned
two inches and a half diameter, and three long j then
let half an inch of that end which faces the firfl wheel
be turned fo as to fit eafy into the tin barrel of the firfl:
mutation, which muft turn round it without touching.
On the other end of the block fix a tin barrel B, N° 2.
This barrel muft be fix inches long, and only half an
inch of it to fit ort the block. Round the nave fix five
fpokes, one incli and a half long each $ the diameter of
the fpokes muft be equal to a two ounce former. On
thefe fpokes put five feven inch two ounce cafes of Ipur-
fire, and carry leaders from the mouth of one to the other,
that they may all light together. Then from the mouth
of one of the cafes carry a leader through a hole bored
flantvvife In the nave, from between the fpokes, to the
front of the block near the fpindle hole : the end of this
leader muft projedl out of the hole into the barrel of the
fiift mutation, fo that wfeen the pipe which comes from
the end of the laft cafe on the firfl: wheel flafties, it may
fake fire, and light the fecond mutation. To commu¬
nicate the fire to the third mutation, bore a hole near
the bottom of one of the five cafes to the compofition,
and from thence carry a leader into a hole made in the
middle of the barrel B : this hole muft be covered with
palled paper.
Third mutation may be either an o6lagon or hexagon
W'heel, 20 inches diameter •, let the nave be three inches
and p quarter diameter, and three and a half in length ;
one inch and a half of the front of the nave muft be made
to fit in the barrel B. On the other end of the block fix
a tin barrel C, N° 3. This barrel muft be fix inches
ana a half in length, one inch of w'hich muft fit over the
block. The cafes of this wheel muft burn tw'o at a
time ; and from the mouths of the firft two cafes carry
a leader, through holes in the nave, into the barrel of
the fecond mutation, after the ufual manner : but be-
fides thefe leaders let a pipe go acrofs the wheel from
the firft cafe to the other ; then from the tail of one of
'• , 4 B the
562
Varieties the laft cafes carry a pipe into a hole in the middle of
of Con ft rue- p,aiTei c : at the end of this pipe let there be feme
1 loofe quick-match.
Fourth and fifth mutations.—Thefe may be deferibed
under one head, as their naves are made of one piece,
which from E to F is 14 inches j E, a block four inches
diameter, with 10 or 12 (hort fpokes, on which are fixed
1 1 inch eight ounce cafes: let the front of this block
be made to fit eafily in the barrel C, and clothe the cafes
fo that they may all light together *, and let a pipe be
carried through a hole in the block into the barrel C, in
order to receive the fire from the leader brought from
the laft cafe on the wheel. G is the nave ot the 5th
mutation ; wdsofe diameter mull be four inches and a
half: in this nave fix 10 or 12 fpokes, one foot and a
half in length each ; thefe fpokes muft Hand feven inches
dittant from the fpokes of the 4th mutation ; and at the
end of each fpoke tie a four ounce cafe, as N° 5. All
thefe cales are to be lighted together, by a leader brought
from the end of one of the cafes on N° 4. Let F and H
be of the fame niece of wood as E and G, but as much
thinner as pofiible, to make the work light.
Sixth and fieventh mutations.—The blocks of thefe
two mutations are turned out of one piece of wood, whofe
length from F to P is 15 inches. L, a block five-inches
diameter, in which are fixed eight fpokes, each two feet
four inches long ; at the end of each fpoke tie two four
ounce cafes, as in N° 6. All thefe cafes muft be fired
at the fame time, by a pipe brought from the end of
one of the cafes on the 5th mutation. Let the diftance
between the fpokes at L, and thofe in the 5th mutation,
be feven inches. M, the nave of the yth mutation,
whofe diameter muft be five inches and a half: in this
nave fix eight fpokes, and on the front of them two cir-
v cular fells, one of four feet eight inches diameter, and
one of three feet 11 diameter ; on thefe fells tie 16 eight
ounce or pound cafes, as in N° 7. and carry leaders from
one to the other, fo that they may be all fired together.
This mutation muft be fired by a leader brought from
the tail of one of the cafes on the 6th mutation.
Eighth and ninth mutations.—The blocks of thefe
may be turned out of one piece, whofe length from P
to D muft be 12 inches. O, the block of the 8th mu¬
tation, which muft be fix inches diameter •, and in it muft
be fixed fix fpakes, each three feet in length, ftrengthen-
ed by a hexagon fell wuthin three or four inches of the
ends of the fpokes : clofe to the end of each fpoke, in
the front, fix a five-pointed brilliant ftar ; then feven
inches below7 each ftar tie tw7o 10 inch eight ounce cafes,
fo that the upper ends of the cafes may reft on the fells,
and their ends on the fpokes. Each of thefe cafes muft
be placed parallel to the oppofite fell (fee N° 8.) NNN,
&.c. are the cafes, and kkk, &c. the ftars.
The 9th mutation is thus made : Let D be a block
feven inches diameter. In this block muft be ferewed fix
fpokes, fix feet long each, with holes and grooves for
leaders, as thofe in the dodecaedron •, at the end of each
fpoke, in the front, fix a fpindle for a hexagon vertical
wheel, 10 inches diameter, as in N° 9. When thefe
wheels are on, carry a leader from each into the block,
fo that they may all meet ; then lead a pipe from the
end of one of the cafes of the 8th mutation, through a
hole bored in the block D, to meet the leaders from
the vertical wheels, fo that they may all be fired toge¬
ther.
The fpindles for larger pieces are required to be
Chap. II.
made very ftrong, and as exa<T as poflible •, for a piece Varieties
of nine mutations, let the fpindle be at the large end one0^ Conftrur’
inch diameter, and continue that thicknefs as far as the tlon' .
7th mutation ; and thence to the 5th, let its diameter be
three-fourths of an inch •, from the fifth to the fourth,
five-eighths of an inch-, from the fourth to the fecond
half an inch \ and from the fecond to the end three
eighths of an inch. At the fmall end muft be a
nut to keep on the firft wheel, and at the thiclj. end muft
be a large nut, as fhown by the figure } fo that the ferew
part of the fpindle being put through a poft, and a nut
ferewed on tight, the fpindle will be held faft and fteady :
but you are to obferve, that that part of the fpindle on
which the moveable pieces are to run, be made long
enough for the wheels to run eafy wuthout flicking j the
fixed pieces being made on different blocks, the leaders
muft be joined after they are fixed on the fpindle. The
beft method of preventing the fixed mutations from mov¬
ing on the fpindle, is to make that part of the fpindle
which goes through them fquare j but as it wrould be
difficult to make fquare holes through fuch long blocks
as are fometimes required, it will be beft to make them,
thus : Bore a hole a little larger than the diameter of
the fpindle 5 and at each end of the block, over the
hole, fallen a piece of brafs w’ith a fquare hole in it to
fit the fpindle. t
To make a horizontal wheel change to a vertical wheel Horizontal
with a fun in front.—The fudden change of this piece changed t®
is very pleafing 5 and gives great furprife to thofe whoa vertical
are not acquainted with the contrivance. A w’heel for w'iee^'
this purpofe Ihould be about three feet diameter, and its
fell circular ; on which tie 16 half pound cafes filled
w-ith brilliant charge : tw-o of thefe cafes muft burn at a
timey and on each end of the nave muft be a tin barrel
pf the fame conftrudtion as thofe on the regulated piece.
The wdreel being completed, prepare the poft or Hand
thus : Firft have a ftand made of any height, about
three or four inches fquare ; then faw off from the top
a piece two feet long } this piece join again at the place
where it wTas cut, wdth a hinge on one fide, fo that it
may lift up and down in the front of the ftand 5 then fix
on the top of the bottom part of the ftand, on each fide,
a bracket j and thefe brackets muft pfiojeff at right
a/ngles wdth the ftand, one foot from the front, for the
fhort piece to reft on. Thefe brackets muft be placed
a little above the joint of the poft, fo that when the up¬
per ftand falls, it may lie between them at right angles
with the bottom ftand j w'hich may be done by fixing a
piece of wood, one foot long, between the brackets, and
even with the top of the bottom ftand 5 then, as the
brackets rife above the bottom ftand, they will form a
channel for the (hort poft to lie in, and keep it fteady
without ftraining the hinge. On the fide of the ftiort
poft, oppofite the hinge, nail a piece of wood, of fuch a
length, that, when the poft is perpendicular, it may reach
about one foot and a half dowm the long poft ; to w'hich
being tied, it wall hold the Ihort ftand upright. The
ftand being thus prepared, in the top of it fix a fpindle
x o inches long : on this fpindle put the wheel: then fix
on a brilliant fun with a fingle glory $ the diameter of
this fun muft be fix inches lefs than that of the wheel.
When you fire this piece, light the wheel firft, and let
it run horizontally till four cafes are confumed : then
from the end of the fourth cafe carry a leader into the
tin barrel that turns over the end of the ftand : this
leader muft be met by another brought through the top
PYROTECHNY.
Chap. II. P Y R O T E C H N Y.
Varieties of the poft, from a cafe filled with a ftrong port-fire
tar
Grand il¬
luminated
volute.
Fig- 54-
of Conftrue-charge> an(j t0 the bottom port, with its mouth
non' facing the packthread which holds up the ftand ; fo that
when this cafe is lighted, it will burn the packthread,
and let the wheel fall forward, by which means it will
become vertical: then from the laft cafe of the wheel,
carry a leader into the barrel nest the fun, which will
begin as foon as the wheel is burnt out.
Grand volute illuminated with a projeSled wheel in
front.—Firit have two hoops made of llrong ipon wire,
one of fix feet diameter, and one of four feet two inches 5
thefe hoops muft be joined to fcrolls A, A, A, &c. as
i*n fig. 54. Thefe fcrolls mutt be made of the fame fort
of wire as the hoops } on thefe fcrolls tie, with iron¬
binding wire, as many illuminating port-fires as they
■will hold, at two inches diitance ; clothe thefe port-fires
with leaders, fo that they may all take fire together.—
Then let C be a circular wheel of four fpokes, three feet
fix inches diameter ; and on its fell tie as many four
ounce cafes, head to tail, as will complete the circle,
only allowing a fufficient difiance between the cafes,
that the~fire may pafs free ; which may be done by cut¬
ting the upper part of the end of each cafe a little ihelv-
ing: on each fpoke fix a four ounce cafe, about three
inches from the fell of th^e wheel: thefe cafes are to burn
one at a time, and the firft of them to begin with thofe
on the fell, of which four are to burn at a time ; fo
that the wheel will laft no longer than one-fourth of
the cafes on the fell, -which in number ftiould be 16 or
20. On the front of the wheel form a fpiral line with
ftrong wire, on which tie port-fires, placing them on a
llant, with their mouths to face the fame -way as the
cafes on the wheel : all thefe port-fires muft be fired
with the fecond cafes of the wheel. Let D, D, D, &c.
be fpokes of wood, all made to ferew into a block in the
centre ; each of thefe fpokes may be in length about four
feet fix inches ; in the top of each fix a fpindle, and on
each fpindle put a fpiral wheel of eight fpokes, fuch as
E, E, E, &c. The blocks of thefe wheels muft have a
hole at top for the centre cafe, and the fpindle muft have
nuts ferewed on their ends ; which nuts fhould fit in the
holes at top of the blocks, fo that all the wheels muft
be put on before you fix in the centre cafes : as fome of
thele wheels, from their fituation, wall not bear on the
nut, it will be neceflary to have fmooth flioulders made
on the fpindles for the blocks to run on. The cafes of
thefe -wheels are to burn double ; and the method of fir¬
ing them, is by carrying a leader from each down the
fpokes into the block in the centre, as in the dodecahe¬
dron, but the centre cafe of each wheel muft begin with
the two laft cafes as ufual. It is to be obferved, that
the large circular wheel in front muft have a tin barrel
on its block, into which a pipe muft be carried from one
of the fecond cafes on the wheel; this pipe being met
by another from the large block, in which the eight
fpokes are ferewed, will fire all the fpiral wheels and
the illuminating port fires at the fame time. The cafes
of the projefled wheel may be filled with a white charge,
j2I and thofe of the fpiral wheels with a gray charge.
Moon and Let fig. 55. be a fnlooth circular board fix feet dia-
feven ftars. meter : out of the middle of it cut a circular piece 1 2
-F'g- 55- or 14 inches diameter ; and over the vacancy put white
Perfian filk, on whicb paint a moon’s face : then let
I, I, I, &c. be ftars, each four or five inches diameter,
cut out with five points, and covered with oiled filk ; on
563
the front of the large circular board draw a feven-point- Varieties
ed ftar, as large as the circle will allow j then on the0^ ton^ruc"
lines which form this ftar, bore holes, wherein fix point- tl°tl' ..
ed ftars. When this calei s to be fired, it mull be fixed
upon the front of a poft, on a fpindle, with a wheel of
brilliant fire behind the face of the moon ; fo that, while
the wheel burns, the moon and liars will appear tranf-
parent : and when the wheel has burnt out, they will
difappear, and the large ftar in front, which is formed
of pointed ftars, will begin, being lighted by a pipe of
communication from the laft cafe of the vertical wheel,
behind the moon \ this pipe muft be managed in the
lame manner as thofe in regulated pieces. 123
Double cone-wheel illuminated.—This piece is repre-®0Ul)*e. .
fented by fig. 56. Let A be a ftrong decagonal or ten- iPu^ina-6
fided wheel, two feet fix inches diameter ; then on each ted.
fide of it fix a cone B and C : thefe cones are to confilt Fig $6.
of a number of hoops, fupported by three or four pieces
of wood, in the manner of the fpiral wheels. Let the
height of each cone be three feet fix inches 5 and on all
the hoops tie port-fires horizontally, with their mouths
outwards, and clothe the wdreel with eight-ounce cafes,
all to play horizontally, two at a time : the cones may
be fired with the nrft or fecond cafes. The fpindle for
this piece muft go through both the cones, and rife three
feet above the point of the cone at top ; fb that its length
will be 10 feet four inches from the top of the poft H,
in which it is fixed, allowing four inches for the thick-
nefs of the block of the wheel. The whole weight of
the wheel and cones muft bear on a thoulder in the
foindle, on which the block of the wheel muft turn.—
Near the top of the fpindle muft be a hole in the front,
into which fcreuT a fmall fpindle, after the-cones are on :
then on this fmall fpindle fix a fun D, compofed of fix-
teen nine inch four-ounce cafes of brilliant fire ; which
cafes muft not be placed on a fell, but only ftuck into a
block of fix inches diameter : then in the front of this
fan muft be a circular vertical wheel, 16 inches diameter j
on the front of this wheel form with iron-wire a fpiral
line, and clothe it with illuminations after the ufual me¬
thod. As this wheel is not to be fired till the cones are
burnt out, the method of firing it is this : Let the hole
in the block, at the top of the uppermoft cone, be a lit¬
tle larger than the fpindle which pafles through it.
Then, from the firft cafe of the vertical wheel before the
fun, carry a leader dowm the fide of the fpindle to the
top of the block of the horizontal wheel, on w’hich muft
be a tin barrel: then this leader being met by another
brought from the end of the laft cafe of the horizontal
wheel, wall give fire to the vertical wheel as foon as the
cones are extinguifhed : but the fun D muft not be fired
till the vertical wheel is quite burned out. 124
Cafes for fire pumps are made as thofe for tourbil- Fire pumps.
Ions; only they are parted, inftead of being rolled dry.
Having rolled and dried the cafes, fill them : firft put
in a little meal-powder, and then a ftar j on which ram
lightly a ladleful or twx) of compofition, then a little
meal-pow-der, and on that a ftar, then again coinpofi-
tion ; and fo on till the cafes are filled. Stars for fire
pumps ftiould not be round j but muft be made either
fquare, or flat and circular, with a hole through the mid¬
dle : the quantity of powder for throwing the ftars muft
increafe near the top of the cafe j for, if much powder
be put at the bottom, it will burft the cafe. The ftars
muft differ in fize in this manner : Let the ftar which is
4 B 2 put
125
Vertical
fcroli
wheel.
Fig' 57-
T26
Fire globe
5^4 P Y R O T
Varieties pufc in firft be about a quarter lefs than the bore of the
^ 'tionmC'Cak ’ hut let the next liar be a little larger, and the
.■ third liar a little larger than the fecond, and fo on : let
them increafe in diameter till within two of the top of
the cafe, which two mult fit in tight. As the loading
of fire-pumps is rather difficult, it will be neceffary to
make two or three trials before depending on their per¬
formance : when you fill a number of pumps, take care
not to put in each an equal quantity of charge between
the liars, fo that when they are fired, they may not throw
up too many liars together. Cafes for fire-pumps ffiould
be made very ftrong, and rolled on four or eight ounce
formers, io or 12 inches long each.
A vertical fcroll wheel may be made of any diameter,
but mull be conltructed as in fig. 57. to do which proceed
thus: Have a block made of a moderate fize, in which
fix four flat fpokes, and on them fix a flat circular fell of
wood ; round the front of this fell place port-fires; then
on the front of the fpokes form a fcroll, either with a
hoop or ftrong iron wire ; on this fcroll tie cafes of bril¬
liant fire, in proportion to the wheel, head to tail, as in
the figure. When you fire this wheel, light the firft
cafe near the fell j then, a^ the cafes fire fuccefllvely,
the circle of fire will gradually diminifh : but whether
the illuminations on the fell begin with the fcroll or not,
is immaterial.
N. B. This wheel may be put in the front of a re¬
gulated piece, or fired by itfelf, occafionally.
There are two forts of jire-globes ; one with projefted
cafes 5 the other with the cafes concealed. For the latter
have a globe made of wood, of any diameter, and divide the
furface of it into 14 equal parts, and at each divifion bore
a hole perpendicular to the centre : thefe holes muft be in
proportion to the cafes intended to be ufed : in every hole,
except one, put a cafe filled with brilliant or any other
charge, and let the mouths of the cafes be even with the
furface of the globe 5 then cut in the globe a groove,
from the mouth of one cafe to the other, for leaders,
which muft be carried from cafe to cafe, fo that they
may all be fired together j this done, cover the globe
with a Angle paper, and paint it. Thefe globes may be
ufed to ornament a building.
Fire-globes with projeded cafes are mafle thus : the
globe being made with 14 holes bored in it as ufual, fix
in every hole except one, a cafe, and let each cafe pro-
fed from the globe two-thirds of its length ; then clothe
all the cafes with leaders, fo that they may all take fire
at the fame time. Fire-globes are fupported by a pintle,
made to fit the hole in which there is no cafe.
Nothing adds more to the appearance of fire-works
works^o^e ^an P^ac^ng them properly } though this chiefly depends
exhibited' on t^ie judgement of the maker. The following are the
rules generally obferved, whether the rvorks are to be
fired on a building or on Hands : if they are a double
fet, place one wheel of a fort on each fide of the build¬
ing -y and next to each of them, towards the centre,
place a fixed piece, then wheels, and fo on •, leaving a
fufficient diftance between them for the fire to play from
one without burning the other. Having fixed feme of
the works thus in front, place the reft behind them, in
the centre of their intervals : The largeft piece, which
is generally a regulated or 'iranfparent piece, muft be
placed in the centre of the building, and behind it a fun,
which muft always Hand above all the other works. A
h.Ule before the building, or Hands, place the large
127
Method of
}
rockets
E c H N y. Chap. II.
gerbes j and at the back of the works fix marroon bat- Varieties
teries, pots des aigrettes, pots des brins, pots des faucijjbns,^ Conftruc-
air-balloons, and flights of rockets ; the rocket Hands Uon* j
may be fixed behind, or anywhere elfe, fo as not to be
in the way of the works.
Single colle&ions are fired on ftands 5 which are made
in the fame manner as theodolite ftands, only the top
part muft be long or ffiort occafionally : thefe ftands
may be fixed up very loon without much trouble.
I he following order of Firing will ferve as a fpecimen
of the Flan to be purfued in an exhibition of Fire-
works.
1. Two fignal
2. Six Iky
3. Twm honorary
4. Four caduceus
6." \ Two | fpirar1} wheels aiuniinated
7* J C. tranfparent ftars
8. A line rocket of five changes
9. Four tourbillons
10. 1 f horizontal wheels
II • | lair balloons illuminated
12. ^ Two <| Chinefe fountains
I3- | regulating pieces of four mutations each
14* J ^pots des aigrettes
15- Three large gerbes
16. A flight of rockets
17* 7 T ’ 5 balloon wffieels
18. v'° £ cafcades of brilliant fire
19. Twelve flcy-rockets
20. C f illuminated yew trees
21 • 1 1 air-balloons of ferpents and two compound
22. Four tourbillons
23. 7 Two -f Fruiloni wheels
24* S L illuminated globes with horizontal wheels
25. One pot des faucijjbns
26. Twro plural wffieels
27. Marroon battery
28. Two chandeliers illuminated
29. Range of pots des brins
30. Twelve Iky-rockets
31. Two yewT-trees of fire
3 2. Neft of ferpents
33. Two double cones illuminated
34. Regulating piece of feven mutations, viz.
1. Vertical wheel illuminated
2. Golden glory
3. Otftagon vertical wheel
4. Porcupine’s quills
5. Crofs fires
6. Star-piece with brilliant rays
7. Six vertical wheels
35. Brilliant fun
36. Large flight of rockets.
When water-works are to be exhibited, divide them
into feveral fets, and fire one fet after every fifth or fixth
change of land and air wmrks. Obferve this rule in
firing a double fet of works : Always begin with fky-
rockets, then two moveable pieces, then two fixed pieces,
and fo on ; ending with a large flight of rockets, or a
marroon battery : if a Angle colleftion, fire a fixed
piece after every wheel or twTo, and now and then feme
air and water-works.
Chap. II. P Y R O 7
Varieties Fig. 58. reprtfents a fountain of 30 rockets. Let A
of Conftrue- be a perpendicular poll, 16 feet high from the ground,
1 tl°'1' . and four inches fquare. Let the rail, or crofs piece C,
xsS be one foot fix inches long, three inches broad, and one
Fountain of thick. The rail D, at bottom, muft be fix feet long,
p rockets. one f00t broad, and one inch thick. F and G are the
ls'5S’ two fides which ferve to fupply the rails D, E, H, I, C:
thefe fides are one foot broad at bottom, and cut in the
front with a regular (lope, to three inches at top ; but
their back edges mutt be parallel with the front of the
pots A. The breadth of the rails E, H, I, will be de¬
termined by the breadth of the fides : all the rails muft
be fixed at two feet diftance from each other, and at
right angles with the pots. Having placed the rails
thus, bore in the bottom rail 10 holes, at equal diftances,
large enough to receive the Hick of a one-pound rock¬
et : in the back edge of this rail cut a groove from one
end to the other, fit to contain a quick-match *, then
cut a groove in the top of the rail, from the edge of
each hole, into the groove in the back : in the fame
manner cut in the fecond rail, E, eight holes and grooves 5
in the third rail, H, fix holes and grooves 5 in the fourth
rail, I, four holes and grooves ; and in the top rail, two
holes and grooves. B, a rail with holes in it to guide
the ends of the rocket flicks: this rail mufl be fixed fix
feet from the rail D. The fountain frame being thus
made, prepare the rockets thus : Tie round the mouth of
each apiece of thin paper, large enough to go twice round,
and to proje£l about an inch and a half from the mouth
of the rocket, which muft be rubbed with wTet meal-
powder ; in the mouth of each rocket put a leader, which
fecure well with the paper that projects from the mouth
of the cafe : thefe leaders muft be carried into the grooves
in the back of the rails, in which lay a quick-match
from one end to the other, and cover it with parted
paper : holes muft be made in the rail D, to receive the
ends of the flicks of the rockets in the rail E, and fo on
to the fourth rail; fo that the flicks of the rockets at
top may go through all the rails. The rockets being
fo prepared, fix a gerbe, or white flower- pot, on each rail,
before the poll, with its mouth inclining a little forwards :
thefe gerbes muft be lighted all at once. Behind or be¬
fore each gerbe, fix a cafe of brilliant or flow fire : thefe
cafes muft be filled fo that they may burn out one after
the other, to regulate the fountain ; which may be done
by carrying a leader from the end of each flow or bril¬
liant fire, into the groove in the back of each rail. Dif¬
ferent fixed rockets may be ufed in thefe fountains: but
it will be bell to fill the heads of the rockets on each
rail with different forts of things, in this manner; thofe
at top with crackers, the next with rains, the third with
ferpents, the fourth with tailed liars, and the laft flight
svith common or brilliant ftars.
Film tree. The piece called a palm tree, though made of com¬
mon fires, and of a Ample conftrucftion, has a very plea-
fing effect •, from the fires interfedlirig fo often, that
Fig. 59. they refemble the branches of trees. Let A (fig. 59.)
be a perpendicular port, of any thicknefs, fo that it be
fufficiently ftrong to hold the cafes ; let the diftance
from B to C be two feet fix inches, and from C to D
two feet fix inches, and let the length of each crofs-
piece be two feet j on each end of each fix a five-point¬
ed liar: then fix, on pegs made for the purpofe, twelve-
inch half-pound cafes of brilliant fire, as in the figure,.
E C H N Y. S6S
All the cafes and ftars mufl be fired at once. This Varieties
piece fhould be fixed high from the ground. 04 Conftmc-
A/i illuminated pyramid, voitk Archimedian fcrews, a t‘°n' .
globe, and vertical fun, may be of any fize. One made I30
according to the dimenfions of fig. 60. will be of a good Illuminated
proportion, whole height is 21 feet; from C to D, fix Pyramid-
feet} from E to F, nine feet: the fpace between the ^'p
rails muft be fix inches, and the rails as thin as poftible : CCCGLVI.
in all the rails flick portfires at four inches diftance. -
I he Archimedian fcrews, G, K, are nothing more than
double fpiral wheels, with the cafes placed on their
wheels horizontally inftead of obliquely. The vertical
fun, I, need not confiil of more than 12 rays, to form
a fingle glory. The globe at top mufl be made in pro¬
portion to the pyramid ; which being prepared accord¬
ing to the preceding dire&ions* place the leaders fo that
all the illuminating portfires, fcrews, globe, and fun,
may take fire together. The pyramid muft be fupport-
ed by the two fides, and by a fupport brought from a
pole, which muft be placed two feet from the back of
the pyramid, that the wheels may run freely. T~l
A rofe-piece may be ufed for a mutation of a regu-Rofe piece
lated piece, or fired by itfelf: it makes the befl appear- ai?d fun*
ance when made large ; if its exterior diameter be fix F,s- 6l*
feet,, it will be of a good fize. Fig. 61. fliows the man¬
ner in which it appears before it is fired. Let the outer
fell be made of wood, and fupported by four wooden
fpokes: all the other parts, on which the illuminations
are fixed, muft be made of ftrong iron wire: on the
outer fell place as many half-pound cafes of brilliant
charge as you think proper, but the more the better ;
for the nearer the cafes are placed, the ftronger will be
the rays: the illuminations fhould be placed within
three inches of each other : they muft all be fired toge¬
ther, and burn fome time before the fun is lighted ;
which may be done by carrying a leader from the mid¬
dle of one of the illuminations, to the mouth of one of
the fun cafes. ^
Fig. 62. reprefents an illuminatedfar. Let the diame- Trantpa-
ter from A to B be two feet, and from C to D feven rent ftars
feet. Firft make a ftrong circular back or body of the wlth,'Ilurn "
flar, two feet diameter, to which fix the illuminated
rays : in the centre of the front of the body fix a fpindle,
on which put a double triangular wheel, fix inches dia¬
meter, clothed with two ounce cafes of brilliant charge:
the cafes on this wheel muft burn but one at a time.
Round the edge of the body nail a hoop made of thin
wood or tinl this hoop muft projefl in front fix or feven
inches : in this hoop cut three or four holes to let out-
the fmoke from the wheel. The liar and garter may
be cut out of ftrong pafteboard or tin, made in this
manner : Cut a round piece of pafteboard or tin, two
feet diameter, on which draw a ftar, and cut it out;
then over the vacancy pafte Perfian filk ; paint the let¬
ters yellow j four of the rays yellow, and four red ; the
crofs in the middle may be painted half red and half
yellow, or yellow and blue. This tranfparent ftar muft;
be faftened to the wooden hoop by a Icrew, made fo as
to take off" and on ; the illuminated rays are made of
thin wood, with tin fockets fixed on their fides within
four inches of each other ; in thefe fockets Hick illumi¬
nating portfires ; behind the point of each ray fix a half-
pound cafe of gray, black, or Chinefe fire.
N, B, The. illuminated rays are-to.be lighted at the.
famo
566
nated table
ftar.
Fi|.
P Y R O T
Varieties fame time as tlie triangular wheel, or after it is burnt
ot Cc)rftmc-ou^ . w]1;cj1 1Tiay he done by a tin barrel being fixed to
. uo"' , the wheel, after the manner of thofe in the regulated
pieces. Into this barrel carry a leader from the illumi¬
nated rays, through the back ol the ftar; and this lead¬
er muft be met by another, brought from the tail of the
133 laft cafe on the wheel.
Tranfpa- Fig. 63. reprefents a tob/e/far, whofe diameter, from
rentillumi- £ to F, is 1 2 feet: and from E to I, four feet. This
proportion, obierved on each fide, will make the centre
frame four feet fquare : in this fquare fix a tranlparent
ftar, as in the figure. This ftar may be painted blue,
and its rays made as thofe of the flaming ftars deferibed
before. The wheel for this ftar may be compofed of
different coloured fires, with a charge or two of flow
fire ; the wheels a, a, a, a, may be clothed with any
pumber of cafes, fo that the ftar-wheel confift of the
fame : the illuminating portfires, which muft be placed
very near each other on the frames, muft be fo managed
as to burn as long as the wheels, and lighted at the
134 fame time.
Regulated 77/<f regulated illuminated fpiralpiece, with a projeEled
fidr,a!'piece Jlar-wheel illuminated, is reprefented by fig. 64. and is
Fig. <54. thus made. Have a block made eight inches diameter ;
in this block ferew fix ir®n fpokes, which muft ferve for
fpindles for the fpiral wheels : thefe wheels are made as
ufual, each one foot and a half diameter, and three feet
in height: the fpindles muft be long enough to keep the
wheels four or five inches from one another : at the end
of each fpindle muft be a ferew-nut, on which the wheels
that hang downwards will run 5 and on the fpindles
which ftand upwards muft be a ftioulder, for the blocks
®f the wheels to run on.
The projefled ftar-wheel muft turn on the fame
fpindle on which the large block is fixed •, this fpindle
muft be long enough to allow the ftar-wheel to project
a little before the fpiral wheels : the extdrior diameter
of the ftar wheel muft be three feet five inches. On
this wheel fix three circles of iron wire, and on them
portfires 5 on the block place a tranfparent ftar, or a large
five-pointed brilliant ftar. The cafes on this wheel may
burn four at once, as it will contain nearly twice the
number of one of the fpiral wheels: the cafes on the
fpiral wheels muft be placed parallel to their fells, and
burn two at a time.
,3S A figure piece illuminated with five-pointed fiars —
figure pftce The conftruftion of this piece is very eafy, as fliown by
Fig. 65. fig- 65. whofe diameter from B to C is eight feet, and
from D to F two feet : the vertical wheel in the centre
muft be one foot diameter, and confift of fix four-ounce
cafes of different coloured charge, which cafes muft burn
double : on the frames fix five-pointed brilliant or blue
ftars, rammed four inches with compofition : let the
fpace between each ftar be eight inches ; at each point
fix a gerbe, or cafe of Chinefe fire. When to be fired,
let the gerbe, ftars, and wheel, be lighted at the fame
time.
Illuminated fiar-wheel illuminated, is fhown by fig. 66. Its
ftar-wheel. exterior fell is made of wood, three feet fix inches or
Fig. 66. four feet diameter ; within this fell, form with iron
wire three circles, one lefs than the other, fo that the
diameter of the leaft may be about 10 inches : place
the portfires on thefe fells with their mouths inclining
outwards, and the portfires on the points of the ftar
with their mouths projefting in front: let the exterior
E C H N Y. Chap. II.
fell be clothed with four-ounce cafes of gray charge: Varieties
thefe cafes muft burn four at a time, and be lighted at^^ftme-
the fame time as the illuminations. t tl0n-
Pyramid ofiflower-pots is reprefented at fig. 67. and
made thus. Let the diftance from A to B be fix feet jPjramtd of
and from one rail to the other, two : on the bottom rail flower-pots,
fix five paper mortars, each three inches and a half dia-FiS- 67*
meter 5 thefe mortars load with ferpents, crackers, liars.
&c.
In the centre of each mortar fi£ a cafe of fpur-fire :
on the fecond rail fix four mortars, fo as to ftand exadlly
in the middle of the intervals of thofe on the bottom
rail ; on the third rail place three mortars •, on the
fourth, two 5 and on the top of the poils, 1 : the bot¬
tom rail muft be fix feet long : all the mortars muft in¬
cline a little forwards, that they may be eafily difehar-
ged ; and the fpur-fires rammed exadlly alike, that the
mortars may all be fired at the fame time. Having pre¬
pared the pyramid according to the preceding direftions,
carry pipes of communication from one fpur-fire to the
other.
Fig. 68. reprefents one half of the illuminated illuminated
ting piece.— A, A, A, A, are flat wooden fpokes, each regulating
five feet long : at the end of each place a vertical wheel, Pitce-
10 inches diameter, clothed with fix four-ounce cafes
brilliant fire : thefe cafes muft burn but one at a time : CGCCLVIf
on two of the fpokes of each wheel place two portfires,
which muft be lighted with the firft cafe of the wheel j
on each fpoke A, A, &c. behind the wheels, place fix
cafes of the fame fize with thofe on the wheels : thefe
cafes muft be tied acrofs the fpokes with their mouths all
one way, and be made to take fire fucceflively one after
the other, fo that they may affift the whole piece to turn
round.
The diameter of the large wheel muft be twm feet -
and a half; and its fell made of wood, rvhich muft be
fixed to the large fpokes : on this wdreel place 24 cafes
of the fame fort wfith thofe on the fmall wheels *, thefe
cafes muft burn four at a time: in this wheel make
three circles with iron wire, and on them place illumi¬
nating portfires, as in the figure : the ftar-pcints on the
large fpokes may be made of thin afli-hoops } the diame¬
ter of thefe points clofe to the centre-wheel muft be 11
inches : on thefe points place portfires, at three inches
and a half diftance one from the other.
Fig. 69. reprefents the blocks of this piece. The dia-Fig. 69.
meters of thefe blocks, at A and B, muft be eight
inches; and C and D, four inches and a half: the
length of each of thefe blocks muft be fix inches : at
the fmall ends of thefe blocks fix an iron wheel, five
inches diameter, and thefe wheels muft have teeth, to
turn the wheel E : this wheel is fixed on a fmall fpindle
ferewed into the large fpindle, which goes through the
two blocks, and on which they run.
Suppofing fig. 68. to be on the block A, in fig. 69.
and to turn to the right, and another piece of the fame
conftruftion on the block B, with its fires placed fo as
to turn it to the left 4 you wall find them move very
true and faft, by the help of the three iron wheels,
which ferve to regulate their motions, as well as to af¬
fift them in turning : let the iron circles in the front of
the great wffieels be of different diameters, fo that when
fired there may appear fix circles. When this piece is
fired all the wheels and illuminations muft be lighted at
one time.
Aquatic
Chap. II. P Y R 0 T
Aquatic
Firewoiks.
Aquatic Fire-worh.
* Works tliat fport in the water are much efteemed by
molt admirers of fire-works, particularly water-rockets;
and as they feem of a very extraordinary nature to thofe
who are unacquainted with this art, they merit a parti-
x^0 cular explanation.
Water.roc- J'Fater rockets, may be made from four ounces to tw^o
kets. pounds. If larger, they are too heavy ; fo that it will
be difficult to make them keep above water without a
cork float, which muft be tied to the neck of the cafe ;
but the rockets will not dive fo well with as wuthout
floats.
I4I
Pipes of
communi¬
cation for
water.
*4*
Horizontal
water-
wheels.
Cafes for thefe are made in the fame manner and pro¬
portion as Iky-rockets, only a little thicker of paper.
When you fill thofe which are driven folid, put in firlt
one ladleful of flow fire, then two of the proper charge,
and on that one or two ladles of finking charge, then
the proper charge, then the finking charge again, and
fo on, till you have filled the cafe wdthin three diame¬
ters ; then drive on the compofition one ladleful of clav j
through which make a fmall hole to the charge j then
fill the cafe, within half a diameter, with corn-powder,
on which turn down two or three rounds of the cafe in
the infide } then pinch and tie the end very tight ; hav¬
ing filled the rockets (according to the above direc¬
tions), dip their ends in melted rofin or fealing-wax, or
elfe fecure them well with greafe. When you fire thofe
rockets, throw in fix or eight at a time ; but, if you
would have them all fink, or fwim, at the fame time,
you muft fill them with an equal quantity of compofi¬
tion, and fire-them all tog-ether.
F//>es of communication, which may be vfed under
water, muft be a little thicker in the paper than thofe
for land. Having rolled a fufficient number of pipes,
and kept them till dry, wafh them over with drying oil,
and fet them to dry 5 but when you oil them, leave
about an inch and a half at each end dry, for joints ;
as if they were oiled all over, when you come to join
them, the pafte would not flick where the paper is
greafy : after the leaders are joined, and the pafte dry,
oil the joints. Thefe pipes will lie many hours under
water, without receiving any damage.
To make horizontal wheels for the water, firft get a
large wooden bowl without a handle j then have an
eight-fided wheel made of a flat board 18 inches diame¬
ter, fo that the length of each fide may be near feven
inches: in all the fides cut a groove for the cafes to lie
in. This^wheel being made, nail it on the top of the
bowl \ then take four eight-ounce cafes, filled with a
proper charge, each about fix inches in length. Now,
to clothe the wheel with thefe cafes, get fome whitilh-
brown paper, and cut it into flips four or five inches
broad and feven or eight long : thefe flips being palled
all over on one fide, take one of the cafes, and roll one
of the flips of paper about an inch and a half on its end,
fo that there will remain about two inches and a half of
the paper hollow from the end of the cafe : tie this cafe
on one of the fides of the wheel, near the corners of
which muft be holes bored, through which put the pack¬
thread to tie the cafes : having tied on the firft cafe at
the neck and end, put a little meal-powder in the hol¬
low paper 5 then pafte a flip of paper on the encfof an¬
other cafe, the head of which put into the hollow paper
on the firll, allowing a fufficient diftance from the tail
E C H N Y. 557
of one to the head of the other for the palled paper to Aquatic
bend without tearing : tie on the fecond cafe as you did Fireworks,
the firll : and fo on with the reft, except the lall, which ‘—-"V"—^
mull be clofed at the end, unlefs it is to communicate
to any thing on the top of the wheel, fuch as fire-pumps
or brilliant fires, fixed in holes cut in the wheel, and
fired by the lall or fecond cafe, as the fancy diredls :
fix, eight, or any number, may be placed on the top
of the wheel, provided they be not too heavy for the
bowl.
Before tying on the cafes, cut the upper part of all
their ends, except the lall, a little Ihelving, that the fire
from one may play over the other, without being ob-
llrufted by the cafe. Wheel-cafes have no clay drove in
their ends, nor pinched, but are always left open, only
the lalt, or thofe which are not to lead fire, which mull
be well fecured.
For water mines you muft have a bowl with a wheel Water3
on it, made in the fame manner as the water-wheel j on- mines,
ly in its middle there muft be a hole, of the fame diame¬
ter as that of the intended mine. Thefe mines are tin
pots, with ftrong bottoms, and a little more than two
diameters in length : the mine muft be fixed in the hole
in the wheel, with its bottom refting on the bowl j then
loaded with ferpents, crackers, ftars, fmall water-roc¬
kets, Sec. in the fame manner as pots of aigrettes ; but
in their centre fix a cafe of Chinefe fire, or a fmall
gerbe, which muft be lighted at the beginning of the
laft cafe on the wheel. Thefe wheels are to be clothed
as ufual. ’ „
Bawls for water-globes muft be very large, and the Fire*gk)bes
wheels on them of ten fides : on each fide nail a piece for the wa-»
of wood four inches long j and on the outfide of eachter’
piece cut a groove, wide enough to receive about one-
fourth of the thicknefs of a four-ounce cafe : thefe pieces
of wood muft be nailed in the middle of each face of the
wheel, and fixed in an oblique direSlion, fo that the fire
from the cafes may incline upwards : the wheel being
thus prepared, tie in each groove a four-ounce cafe filled
with a gray charge ; then carry a leader from the tail
of one cafe to the mouth of the other.
_ Globes for thefe wheels are made of two tin hoops,
with their edges outwards, fixed one within the other,
at right angles. The diameter of thefe hoops muft be
rather lefs than that of the wheel. Having made the
globe, drive in the centre of a wheel an iron fpindle,
which muft Hand perpendicular, and its length four or
fix inches more than the diameter of the globe.
This fpindle ferves for an axis, on which is fixed the
globe, which muft Hand four or fix inches from the
wheel: round one fide of each hoop muft be foldered
little bits of tin, two inches and a half diftance from
each other ; which pieces muft be two inches in length
each, and only faftened at one end, the other ends be¬
ing left loofe, to turn round the fmall portfires, and hold
them on : thefe portfires muft be made of fuch a length
as will laft out the cales on the wheel. There need not
be any portfires at the bottom of the globe within four
inches of the fpindle > as they would have no effe£l, but
to burn the wheel: all the portfires muft be placed per¬
pendicularly from the centre of the globe, with their
mouths outwards *, and muft be clothed with leaders, fo
as all to take fire with the fecond cafe of the wheel j
and the cafes jpuft burn two at a time, one oppolite the
other. When two cafes of a wheel begin together, two
will .
5-68
Aquatic will end together ; therefore the two oppofite end cafes
■ ireyor^s' mufl: have their ends pinched and fecured from fire. The
method of firing fuch wheels is, by carrying a leader
from the mouth of one of the firfl cafes to that of the
145 other and the leader being burnt through the middle,
Odoriferous will give fire to both at the fame time,
loon^ Odoriferous water balloons are made in the fame man¬
ner as air-balloons, but very thin of paper, and in dia¬
meter one inch and three-fourths, with a vent of half
an inch diameter. The Ihells being made, and quite
dry, fill them with any of the following compofitions,
which muft be rammed in tight: thefe balloons muft be
fired at the vent, and put into a bowl of water. Odo¬
riferous works are generally fired in rooms.
Compojition I. Saltpetre two ounces, flour of fulphur
one ounce, camphor half an ounce, yellow amber half
an ounce, charcoal-dull three-fourths of an ounce, fait
of benjamin half an ounce, all powdered very fine and
well mixed.
II. Saltpetre 12 ounces, meal-powder three ounces,
frankincenfe one ounce, myrrh half an ounce, camphor
half an ounce, charcoal three ounces, all moiftened with
the oil of fpike.
III. Saltpetre two ounces, fulphur half an ounce, an¬
timony half an ounce, amber half an ounce, cedar rafp-
ings one-fourth of an ounce, all mixed with the oil of
rofes and a few drops of bergamot.
IV. Saltpetre four ounces, fulphur one ounce, faw-
duft of juniper half an ounce, faw-duft of cyprefs one
ounce, camphor one-fourth of an ounce, myrrh two
drams, dried rofemary one-fourth of an ounce, all moift¬
ened a little with the oil of rofes.
N. JB. Water-rockets may be made with any of the
above compofitions, wfith a little alteration, to make
them weaker or ftronger, according to the fize of the
145 cafes.
A fea^fight Having procured four or five fmall fhips, of two or
fliips and^ l^rec feet length, make a number of fmall reports,
a fire-fliip. which are to ferve for guns. Of thefe range as many as
you pleafe on each fide of the upper decks j then at the
head and ftern of each fhip fix a two-ounce cafe, eight
inches long, filled with a flow portfire compofition j but
take care to place it in fuch a manner that the fire may
fall in the water, and not burn the rigging : in thefe
cafes bore holes at unequal diftances from one another,
but make as many in each cafe as half the number of re¬
ports, fo that one cafe may fire the guns on one fide,
and the other thofe on the oppofite. The method of
firing the guns is, by carrying a leader from the holes
in the cafes to the reports on the decks j you muft make
thefe leaders very fmall, and be careful in calculating
the burning of the flow fire in the regulating cafes, that
more than two guns be not fired at a time. When you
would have a broadfide given, let a leader be carried to
a cracker, placed on the outfide of the ftiip; which
cracker muft be tied loofe, or the reports will be too
flow7: in all the fliips put artificial guns at the port¬
holes ("a).
Having filled and bored holes in two portfires for
Chap. IL
regulating the guns in one flap, make all the reft exaft- Aquatic
ly the fame $ then, when you begin the engagement, Fneworka.
light one (hip firft, and fet it a failing, and fo on with Y " ^
the reft, fending them out fingly, which wrill make them
fire regularly, at different times, without confufion 5 for
the time between the firing of each gun will be equal to
that of lighting the flow fires.
The fire-ftiip may be of any fize ; and need not be
very good, for it is always loft in the aftion. To pre¬
pare a fliip for this purpofe, make a portfire equal in fize
with thofe in the other Ihips, and place it at the ftern j
in every port place a large portfire, filled with a very
ftrong compofition. and painted in imitation of a gun,
and let them all be fired at once by a leader from the
flow fire, wathin two or three diameters of its bottom j
all along both fides, on the top of the upper deck, lay
ftar-compofition about half an inch thick and one broad,
which muft be wetted with thin fize, then primed w7ith
meal-powder, and fecured from fire by palling paper
over it; in the place w7here you lay this compofition,
drive fome little tacks wfith flat heads, to hold it fall to
the deck : this muft be fired juft after the fliam guns,
and w7hen burning will Ihow a flame all round the fliip :
at the head take up the decks, and put in,a tin mortar
loaded with crackers, which mortar muft be fired by a
pipe from the end of the flow7 fire $ the firing of this
mortar will fink the fliip, and make a pretty conclufion.
The regulating portfire of this ftiip muft be lighted at
the fame time with the firft fighting fliip.
Having prepared all the (hips for fighting, we fliall
next proceed wfith the management of them when on
the w7ater. At one end of the pond, juft under the fur-
face of the water, fix two running blocks, at what di-
ftance you choofe the fliips fliould fight 5 and at the
other end of the pond, oppofite to each of thefe blocks,
under the water, fix a double block; then on the land,
by each of the double blocks, place two fmall wfindlaf-
fes j round one of them turn one end of a fmall cord,
and put the other end through one of the blocks j then
carry it through the fingle one at the oppofite end of
the pond, and bring it back through the double block
again, and round the other windlafs : to this cord, near
the double block, tie as many fmall firings as half the
number of the fliips, at any diftance; but thefe firings
muft not be more than two feet long each : make fall;
the loofe end of each to a fliip, juft under her bow fprit;
for if tied to the keel, or too near the w7ater, it will
overfet the ftiip. Half the fliips being thus prepared,
near the other double block fix tw7o more wfindlaffes, to
wfliich faften a cord, and to it tie the other half of the
fliips as before : when you fire the fliips, pull in the cord
with one of the wfindlaffes, to get all the fliips together j
and when you have fet fire to the firft, turn that wind¬
lafs which draws them out, and fo on wfith the reft, till
they are all out in the middle of the pond j then, by turn¬
ing the other wfindlafs, you will draw them back again ;
by which method you may make them change fides, and
tack about backwards and forwards at pleafure. For
the fire-fliip fix the blocks and wfindlaffes between the
others:
PYROTECHNY.
(a) Reports for thefe and fimilar occafions are made, by filling fmall cartridges with grained powder 5 pinch¬
ing them clofe at each end, and, when ufed, boring a hole in the fide, to which is placed a match or leader for
firing them.
4
PVR O T ft (’ H NT Y
IM.ilr (’rf’fMVlI
Ci'CCl lil
P YU O TK <' II X Y ;
Pi/it
t. r// rr . // *9 /?t f ^/'ft* '/.
Plate C CC CLIV.
F YR O T E C H N Y
S^.44.
________
'’""I -n;...
  |«|
•//'/ v n ■ //a /^x/ru/ftfet 'feet/
< Jr / y/i
:C/ / I
/ v_jf M
nr
\\
% 
-- —
v
fl
/
iQ
[Lk
1
t
wammm
I
'■
T Yfi O T E C TI N Y
r‘ ^ \'
y T f
rf^—ji
vSt—
\ * JSSrP x^a \
# / ■ ■
’ /■Sr'r'// f-'S/v // . // *r/] r_j m./fi/o/-'/r,-//.
'••••'755; : vH
TYUO TE CHET.
Elate
CCCCEV1L.
(
Chap. II.
Aquatic
Firewerks.
147
To fire fky-
rockets un¬
der water.
148
Neptune in
his chariot.
Fig. 70.
149
Swans and
ducks, in
water.
others j fo that when Hie fails out, fhe will be between
the other (hips : you mull; not let this fhip advance till
the guns at her ports take fire.
To fire Jhy-rockets under water, you mull have ftands
made as ufual, only the rails muft be placed flat inftead
of edgewife, and have holes in them for the rocket-
flicks to go through 5 for if they were hung upon hooks,
the motion of the water would throw them off: the
flands being made, if the pond is deep enough, fink
them at the fides fo deep, that, when the rockets are
in, their heads may juft appear above the furface of the
water •, to the mouth of each rocket fix a leader, which
put through the hole with the ftick ; then a little above
the water muft be a board, fupported by the ftand, and
placed along one fide of the rockets ; then the ends of
the leaders are turned up through holes made in this
board, exa£lly oppofite the rockets. By this means
you may fire them fingly or all at once. Rockets may
be fired by this method in the middle of a pond, by a
Neptune, a fwan, a water-wheel, or any thing elfe you
choofe.
To reprefent Neptune in his chariot, you muft have a
Neptune (made of wood, or bafket work) as big as life,
fixed on a float large enough to bear his weight ; on
which muft be two horfes heads and necks, fo as to feem
fwimming, as fhown by fig. 70. For the wheels of the
chariot, there muft be two vertical wheels of black fire,
and on Neptune’s head a horizontal wheel of brilliant
fire, with all its cafes, to play upwards. When this
wheel is made, cover it with paper or pafteboard, cut
and painted like Neptune’s coronet; then let the trident
be made without prongs, but inffead of them, fix three
cafes of a weak gray charge, and on each horfe’s head
put an eight ounce cafe of brilliant fire, and on the
month of each fix a ftiort cafe, of the fame diameter,
filled with the white-flame compofition enough to laft
out all the cafes on the wheels : thefe fnort cafes muft
be open at bottom, that they may light the brilliant
fires •, for the horfes eyes put fmall portfires, and in each
noftril put a fmall cafe half filled with gray change, and
the reft with portfire compofition.
If Neptune is to give fire to any building on the wa¬
ter ; at his firft fetting out, the wheels of the chariot,
and that on his head, with the white flames on the
horfes heads, and the portfires in their eyes and noftrils,
muft all be lighted at once ; then from the bottom of
the white flames carry a leader to the trident. As Nep¬
tune is to advance by the help of a block and cord, you
muft manage it fo as not to let him turn about, till the
brilliant fires on the horfes and the trident begin •, for it is
by the fire from the horfes (which plays almoft upright)
that the building, or work, is lighted ; which muft be
thus prepared. From the mouth of the cafe which is to be
firft fired, hang fome loofe quick-match to receive the fire
from the horfes. When Neptune is only to be fliowm
by himfelf, without fetting fire to any other works, let
the white flames on the horfes be very ftiort, and not to
laft longer than one cafe of each wheel, and let two
cafes of each wheel burn at a time.
If you wrould have fw’ans or ducks difeharge roc¬
kets into the water, they muft be made hollow, and of
paper, and filled wdth fmall wTater rockets, with fome
blowing-powder to throw them out: but if this is not
done, they may be made of wood, which will laft many
times. Having made and painted fome fwans, fix them
Vox.. XVII. Part II.
PYROTECH N Y. 569
on floats: then in the places rvhere their eyres (hould be, Optical
bore holes twro inches deep, inclining downwards, au q Agnations of
wide enough to receive a fmall portfire ; the pottfire .
cafes for this purpofe muft be made of brafs, twro inches
long, and filled with a flow bright charge. In the mid¬
dle of one of thefe cafes make a little hole ; then put
the portfire in the eye-hole of the fwran, leaving about
half an inch to projeft out *, and in the other eye put.
another portfire, with a hole made in it : then in the
neck of the fwan, within two inches of one of the eyes,
bore a hole flantwife, to meet that in the portfire •, in
this hole put a leader, and carry it to a water-rocket,
that muft be fixed under the tail with its mouth upwards.
On the top ot the head place two one-ounce cafes, four
inches long each, drove with brilliant fire ; one of thefe
cafes muft incline forwards, and the other backwards:
thefe muft be lighted at the fame time as the water-roc¬
ket ; to do wxhich, bore a hole between them in the top
of the fwan’s head, down to the hole in the portfire, to
which carry a leader: if the fwan is filled with rockets,
they muft: be fired by a pipe from the end of the water-
rocket under the tail. When you fet the fwan a fwim¬
ming, light the two eyes. zco
To make a fire-fountain for the water, firft have a Water fire-
float made of wood, three feet diameter ; then in the !ountain,•
middle fix a round perpendicular poll, four feet high,
and twTo inches diameter j round this poll fix three cir¬
cular wheels made of thin wood, without any fpokes.
The largeft of thefe wheels muft be placed within two
or three inches of the float, and muft be nearly of the
fame diameter. The fecond wheel muft he two feet two
inches diameter, and fixed at two feet diftance from the
firft. The third wheel muft be one foot four inches dia¬
meter, and fixed within fix inches of the top of the poft ;
the wheels being fixed, take 18 four or eight-ounce
cafes of brilliant fire, and place them round the firft
wheel with their mouths outwards, and inclining down¬
wards; on the fecond wheel place 13 cafes of the fame,
and in the fame manner as thofe on the firft on the
third, place eight more of thefe cafes, in the fame man¬
ner as before, and on the top of the poft fix a gerbe ;
then clothe all the cafes with leaders, fo that both they
and the gerbe may take fire at the fame time. Before
firing this w-ork, try it in the water to fee whether the
float is properly made, fo as to keep the fountain up-
riSht- , . . . . i5r
As the artificial fire-wmrks which w-e have deferibed, Opticaliml-
require confiderable caution in their preparation and ma-tationsof
nagement, and are attended with great expence, at- fire-works,
tempts have been made to imitate fome of the more
fimple kinds by optical delufion, and to give to the ob-
jefts reprefented the appearance of moving fire, though
they be really fixed, and no fire be employed. Thefe
attempts have been tolerably fuccefsful 5 and by means
of this invention, a fpe&acle of artificial fire-works may
be apparently exhibited at a trifling expence ; and if the
pieces employed are conftrutted with ingenuity, and
wdth a proper attention to the rules of perfpe&ive, while
in viewing them we employ glaffes which magnify the
objefts, and prevent them from being too diftinftly feen,
a very agreeable illufion will be produced.
The artificial fire-works imitated with moft fuccefs
by this invention, are fixed funs, gerbes, and jets of fire,
cafcades, globes, pyramids, and columns, moveable
around their axes. To reprefent a gerbe of fire, take
4 C paper
57°
Optical paper blackened on both Tides, and very opaque; and
Imitationsof tlelineated on a piece of white paper the figure
, 1 " JI * • 0f a gerbe of fire, apply it to the black paper, and with
the point of a very lliarp penknife make feveral llafhes
Fig. 71, (Plate CCCCLVII. fig. 71.) in it, as 3, 5, or 7, pro¬
ceeding from the origin of the gerbe : thefe lines muft
not be continued, but cut through at unequal intervals.
Pierce thefe intervals with unequal holes made with a
pinking iron, in order to reprelent the fparks of fuch a
gerbe. In ihort, you muft endeavour to paint, by thefe
lines and holes, the well known effedt of the fire of in¬
flamed gunpowder, when it iffues through a fmall aper¬
ture.
According to the fame principles, you may delineate
the cafcades (fig. 72.) and jets of fire which you are de-
firous of introducing into this exhibition, which is pure¬
ly optical ; and thofe jets of fire which proceed from
the radii of funs, either fixed or moveable. It may ea-
fily be conceived, that in this operation tafte muft be
the guide.
If you are defirous of reprefenting globes, pyramids,
or revolving columns, draw the outlines of them on pa¬
per, and then cut them out in a helical form ; that is,
eyt out fpirals with the point of a penknife, and of a
fize proportioned to that of the piece.
It is to be obferved alfo, that as thefe different pieces
have different colours, they may be eafily imitated by
pafting on the back of the paper, cut as here deferibed,
very fine filk paper coloured in the proper manner. As
jets, for example, when loaded with Chinefe fire, give
a reddifh light, you mull pafte to the back of thefe jets
tranfparent paper, flightly tinged with red ; and pro¬
ceed in the fame manner in regard to the other colours
by which the different fire-works are diltinguifhed.
When thefe preparations have been made, the next
thing is to give motion, or the appearance of motion, to
this fire, which may be done two ways, according to
circumftances.
If a jet of fire, for example, is to be renrefented,
prick unequal holes, and at unequal diftances from each
Other, in a band of paper, fig. 73. and then move this
band, making it afeend between a hght and the above
jet ; the rays of light which efcape through the holes of
the moveable paper will exhibit the appearance of fpaiks
rifing into the air. It is to be obferved that one part of
the paper muft be whole; that another muft be pierced
with holes thinly fcattered ; that in another place they
muft be very clofe, and then moderately fo : by thefe
means it will reprefent thofe fudden jets of fire obferved
in fire-works.
To reprefent a cafcade, the paper pierced with holes,
inftead of moving upwards, muft be made to defeend.
This motion may be eafily produced by means of two
rollers, on one of which the paper is rolled up, while it
is unrolled from the other.
Suns are attended with fome more difficulty ; becaufe
in theft it is neceftary to reprefent fire, proceeding from
the centre to the circumference. The artifice for this
purpofe is as follows.
On ftrong paper deferibe a circle, equal in diameter
to the fun which you are defirous to exhibit, or even
Ibmewhat larger ; then trace out on this circle two fpi¬
rals, at the diftance of a line or half a line from each
other, and open the interval between them with a pen-
kifife, in fuch a manner, that the paper may be cut
Chap. I!.
from the circumference, decreafing in breadth to a cer- Optical
tain diftance from the centre, fig. 74. : cut the remain- Imkationsof
remainder of the circle into fpirals of the fame kind, Firewc'rk5*
open and clofe alternately; then cement the paper circle “l-'y kJ
to a fmall iron hoop, fupported by two pieces of iron,
crofting each other in its centre, and adjuft the whole
to a fmall machine, which will fuffer it to revolve round
its centre. If this moveable paper circle, cut in this man¬
ner, be placed before the reprefentation of your fun, with
a light behind it, as foon as it is made to move towards
that fide to which the convexity of the fpirals is turned,
the luminous fpirals, or thofe which afford a paffage to
the light, will give, on the image of the radii or jets of
fire of your fun, the appearance of fire in continual
motion, as if undulating from the centre to the circum¬
ference.
The appearance of motion may be given to columns,
pyramids, and globes, cut through in the manner above
deferibed, by moving in a vertical dire&ion a band of
paper cut through into apertures, inclined at an angle
rather different from that of the fpirals. By thefe means
the ipeflators will fuppofe that they fee fire continually
circulating and afeending along the fpirals ; and thus
will be produced an optical illufion, in confequence cf
which the columns or pyramids will feem to revolve.
We have thus briefly explained the principle on which
artificial fire-works may be imitated ; and as the tafte of
the artift may fuggeft to him many circumftances which
may improve the reprefentation, and render the illufion
itronger, we fhall not enlarge further on the fubjeef,
but (hall conclude this article with a few obfervations
on illuminated prints and drawings, which are fome-
times introduced as accompaniments in thefe imitations
of artificial fire-works.
The mode of preparing thefe illuminations is thus de¬
feribed in Hutton’s tranllation of Montucla’s Recrea¬
tions. Take fome prints reprefenting a caftle, or palace,
&c. ; and having coloured them properly, cement paper
to the back of them, in fuch a manner that they ftiall
be only femitranfparent; then, with pinking irons of
different fizes, prick fmall holes in the places and' on
the lines where the lamps are generally placed, as along
the fides of the windows, on the cornices or balu-
ftrades, &c. But care muft be taken to make thefe
holes fmaller and clofer, according to the perfpeefive di¬
minution of the figure. With other irons of a larger
fize, cut out, in other places, fome ftronger lights, fo
as to renrefent fire-pots, &c. Cut out alfo the panes in
fome of the windows, and cement to the back of them
tranfparent paper of a green or red colour,, to reprefent
curtains drawn before them, and concealing an illumi¬
nated apartment.
When the print is cut in this manner, place it in the
front of a fort of fmall theatre, flrongly illuminated
from the back part, and look at it through a convex
glafs »f a pretty long focus, like that ufed in thofe final]
machines called optical boxes. If the rules of perfpec-
tive have been properly obferved in the prints, and if
the lights and fhades have been diftributed with tafte,
this fpeflacle will be highly agreeable.
Before difmiffing this fubjecl, it may not be improper Mana’ge,
to point out the moft effe&ual means of relieving ihofement oi
burns, to which fire-workers are fo much expofed. !?urns trQIE
When the burn is firft received, and before bliftersfiie WOrlsfc
arife, the belt applications are oil of turpentine, frong
Spirit
pVrotechny.
Chap. II. P Y R O T E C H N
fpirits, rcElijied fpirit of wine, or camphorated Jpirit, ter muft be
with which linen rags muft be wetted and kept moift on
the part till the pain abates. It no other remedy can
be procured, immerfing the part for a long time in cold
water will often afford great relief. When thefe means
have been negledled, and blitters arife, if thefe are
fmall, they thould not be opened ; but if large, the wa-
Y.
let out, and the fore covered with rags,
fpread with a mixture of linfeed oil and lime water, in
the proportion of one part of the former to three of the
latter. We muft remark, however, that in all cafes of
extenfive burns, or where fome very delicate part is in¬
jured, fpeedy recourfe ftiould be had to medical aflift-
ance.
S7r
Manage¬
ment at'
Burns.
P Y R
PYROTICS, in Medicine, cauftics, or remedies
either actually or potentially hot } and which accord¬
ingly will burn the ftefti, and faiie an efchar. See Cau¬
sticity.
PYRftHICHA, in antiquity, a kind of exercife on
horfeback, or a feigned combat, for the exercife of the
cavalry.
It was thus called from its inventor Pyrrhichus, or
Pyrrhus of Cydonia, wdio firft taught the Cretans to
march in meafure and cadence to battle, and to ob-
ferve the pace of the Pyrrhic foot.—Others derive
the name from Pyrrhus the fon of Achilles, who infti-
tuted this exercife at the oblequies of his father.—-
Ariftotle fays, that it was Achilles himfelf who invent¬
ed it.
The Romans alfo called it ludus Trojanus, “ the Tro¬
jan game and Aulus Gellius, decurfus.—It is doubt-
lefs this exercife that we fee reprefented on medals by
two cavaliers in front running with lances, and the
word decurfio in the exergum.
PYRRHICHIUS, in the Greek and Latin poetry,
a foot confifting of two fyllables, both fhort ;—as,
Deus.— Among the ancients this foot is alfo called pe-
riambus ; by others hegernona.
PYRRHO, a Greek philafopher, born at Elis in
Peloponnefus, flourifhed about 300 B. C. He was the
difciple of Anaxarchus, whom he accompanied as far
as India, where he converfed with the Brachmans and
Gymnofophifts. He had made painting his profeffion
before he devoted himfelf to the ftudy of philofophy.
He eftablithed a feft wbofe fundamental principle was,
That there is nothing true 01 falfe, right or wrong,
honeft or difhoneft, juft or unjuft ; or that there is no
ftandard of any thing beyond law or cuftom, and that
uncertainty and doubt belong to every thing. From
this continual feeking after truth and never finding it,
the fe£t obtained the name of Sceptics or Pyrrhonians.
from the founder, who is laid to have acted upon his
own principles, and to have carried his feepticifm to fuch
a ridiculous extreme, that his friends were obliged to
accompany him wherever he -went, that he might not
be run over by carriages, or fall down precipices. If
this was true, it was not without reafon that he was
ranked among thofe whofe intellects were difturbed by
intenfe ftudy. But it is treaied by a modern writer
as a mere calumny invented by the dogmatifts; and we
are ftrongly inclined to be of his opinion, (fee Scep¬
tics). Pyrrho died about the 90th year oi his age,
when his memory was honoured with a ftatue at A-
thens, and a monument ereCted to him in his own
country.
P Y T
PYRRHUS, the name of two kings of Epirus. pyrriiU(S
See Epirus. [|
PYRUS, the PEAR-TREE. See Botany Index; and Pythagoras.
for the culture of this fruit fee Gardening. For an ac- y
count of the proceffes followed in making perry, fee A-
griculture.
PYTHAGORAS, a celebrated philofopher of an-^
tiquity, refpeCting the time and place of whofe birth
the learned are much divided. Eratofthenes afferts, (• Dijfcrt.
that in the 48th Olympiad *, when he was very young, on the Ep.^ .
he was a victor at the Olympic games. Hence Dr °I
Bentley f determines the date of his birth to be the 4th pytiag^ J
year of the 43d Olympiad ; whilft Lloyd J, who denies ras.
that the Olympic victor was the fame perfon with the § Two Dif-
philofopher, places it about the 3d year of the 48th Q.Jertations
lympiad. Mr Dad well § differs from both, and wiftres
to fix the birth of Pythagoras in the 4th year of the and-Py-
5 2d Olympiad. Of the arguments of thefe learned
writers, Le Clerc has given a fummary in the Bibliothequc
Choifee, tom. x. p. 81. &c. and from a review of the
whole, it would appear that he was not born earlier than
the 4th year of the 43d Olympiad, or later than the
4th year of the 5 id j but in what particular year of
that period his birth took place, cannot with any degree
of certainty be afeertained. It is generally believed
that he was born in the iiland of Samos, and that he
flourilhed about 500 years before Chrift, in the time of
Tarquin the laft king of Rome*. His father Mne- if Tufc.
farchus, who is thought by fome to have been a lapidary, Quejt.
and by others a merchant of Tyre, appears to have been hk-1V'
a man of Tome diftinClion, and to have beftowed upon I'
his fon the beft education.
Jamblicusf relates a number of wonderful ftories re-1. yit -py,
fpeding Pythagoras?s defeent from Jupiter, his birth, thag, n.6.
and early life ; and reprefents him even in his youth as
a prodigy of wifdcm and manly ferioul’nefs. But moft
of thefe idle tales confute themfelves, afford nothing of
importance to be depended upon, and only prove the
credulity, careleffnefs, and prejudice of their author. Of
his childhood and early education we know nothing, ex¬
cept that he was firft inftrufted in his own country by
Creophilus, and afterwards in Scyrus by Pherecydes.
(fee Pherecydes). According to the cuftom of the
times he was made acquainted with poetry and mufic ;
eloquence and aftronomy became his private ftudies,
and in gymnaftic exercifes he often bore the palm for
ftrength and dexterity. He firft diftinguifhed himfelf
in Greece at the Olympic games, where, befide gaining
the prize, he is faid to have excited the higheft admira¬
tion by the elegance and dignity of his perfon, and the
brilliancy of his underftanding.
4 C 2
Soon
P Y T r 572 ] P Y T
Pythagoras Soon after his appearance at thefe games, Pythagoras
commenced his travels in queft of knowledge. He firft
vifit-ed Egypt, where, through the interelf of Polycrates
tyrant of Samos, he obtained the patronage of Amafis
king of Egypt, by whofe influence, combined with his
own afl'iduity, patience, and perfeverance, he at length
gained the confidence of the priefts ; from whom he
Jearned their facred myfteries, theology, and the wdiole
fyftem of fymbolical learning. In Egypt, too, he be¬
came acquainted with geometry and the true folar
fyftem 5 and, before he left that country, made him-
lelf mafter of all the learning for which it was fo famed
among the nations of antiquity.
He afterwards vifited Perfia and Chaldea, where
from the Magi he learnt divination, the interpreting
ot dreams, and aftronomy. He is likewife laid to have
travelled into India, to have converfed with the Gym-
nofophifts, and to have acquired from them a knowledge
of the philofophy and literature of the eaft ; and fuch
was his ardour in the purfuit of fcience, that in quell of
* ^**-it, we are told by Cirero *, he croffed many feas, and
lib. iv. travelled on foot through many barbarous nations.
After Pythagoras had fpent many years in gathering
information on every fubjefl, efpecially refpefling the
nature of the gods, the rites of religion, and the immor¬
tality ol the human foul, he returned to his native iftand, •
and attempted to make his knowledge ufeful by inllitu-
ting a fchool for the inftruflion of his countrymen.
Failing of fuccefs in this laudable undertaking, be re¬
paired to Delos, where he pretended to receive moral
dogmas from the prieftefs of Apollo, He alfo vifited
Crete, where he was initiated into the moil facred my¬
fteries of Greece. He went likewife to Sparta and
Elis, and again aflifted at the Olympic games 5 where
in the public aflembly he was faluted with the title of
fophiji or wife man, which he declined for one mote
humble. See Philology, N° t. and Philosophy,
N° 1.
He returned to Samos enriched with mythological
learning and myfterious rites, and again inllituted a
fchool. His myfterious fymbols and oracular precepts
made this attempt more fuccefsful than the former had
been ; but meeting wdth fome oppofition, or being de-
teftecl in fome pious frauds, he fuddenly left Samos, re¬
tired to Magna Grecia, and fettled at Crotona.
Here he founded the Italic feft (fee Philosophy,
N° 20.) 5 and his mental and perfonal accomplilhments,
the fame of his diftant travels, and his Olympic crown,
foon procured him numerous pupils. His bold and
manly eloquence and graceful delivery attrafted the
moll difiblute, and produced a remarkable change in
the morals of the people of Crotona. His influence
xvas increafed by the regularity of his own example,
and its conformity to his precepts. He punftually at¬
tended the temples of the gods, and paid his devotions
at an early hour ; he lived upon the pureft and moft
innocent food, clothed himfelf like the priefts of Egypt,
and by his continual purifications and regular offerings
appeared to be fuperior in fanftity to the reft of man¬
kind. He endeavoured to affuage the paftions af his
fcholars with verfes and numbers, and made a praflice of
compofing his own mind every morning, by playing on
his harp, and fmging along with it the pseans of Thales.
To avoid the temptations of eafe and the feduflions of
idlenels, bodily exercifes alfo made a confiderable part of Pythagoras
his difcipline. —v—w
At Crotona he had a public fchool for the general
benefit of the people, in which he taught them their
duty, praifing virtue and condemning vice ; and parti¬
cularly inftrufting them in the duties of focial life.
Befide this, he had a college in his own houfe, which
he denominated x-oivofitoy, in which there were two claftes
of ftudents, viz. who were alfo called aufcul-
tantes, and nrwri^iKot. 'The former of thefe were proba¬
tioners, and were kept under a long examen. A ft-
lence of five years was impofed upon them; which A-
puleius thinks was intended to teach them modefty and
attention ; but Clemens Alexandrinus thinks it was for
the purpofe of abftrafting their minds from fenfible
objefts, and inuring them to the pure contemplation of
the Deity. The latter clafs of fcholars were called
genuini, perfecti, mathematici, and, by way of eminence,
Pythagoreans. They alone were admitted to the know¬
ledge of the arcana and depths of Pythagoric difcipline,.
and were taught the ufe of ciphers and hieroglyphic
writings.
Clemens obferves, that thefe orders correfponded very
exaftly to thofe among the Hebrew’s : for in the fchoois
of the prophets there were two claffes, viz. the fons of
the prophets, who wrere the fcholars, and the doflors or
mafters, who were alfo called perfeBi; and among the
Levites, the novices or tyros, who had their quinquen¬
nial exercifes, by way of preparation. Laftly, even
among the profclytes there were two orders •, exotemci,
or profelytes of the gate ; and intrinfeci or perfeBi,
profelytes of the covenant. He adds, it is highly pro¬
bable, that Pythagoras himfelf had been a profelyte of
the gate, if not of the covenant. Gale endeavours to
prove that Pythagoras borrowed his philofophy from,
that of the Jewrs 5 to this end producing the authorities
of many of the fathers and ancient authors, and even,
pointing out the tracks and footfteps of Mofes in feveral
parts of Pythagoras’s doftrine. But w7e believe the
learned author was milled by the Chriftian Platonifts.
The authority of Pythagoras among his pupils was
fo great, that it w'as even deemed a crime to difpute
his w7ord \ and their arguments wrere confidered as in¬
fallibly convincing, if they could enforce them by add¬
ing, that “ the mafter faid fo f an expreffion which af¬
terwards became proverbial in jurare in verba magijiri.
This influence over his fchool wTas foon extended to the
wmrld, and even his pupils themfelves divided the ap-
plaufe and approbation of the people with their mafter ^
and the rules and legiflators of all the principal towns
of Greece, Sicily, and Italy, boafted of being the dif-
ciples of Pythagoras. To give more weight to his
exhortations, as fome writers mention, Pythagoras re¬
tired into a fubterraneous cave, where bis mother fent
him intelligence of every thing w hich happened during
his abfence. After a certain number of months he
again re-appeared on the earth with a grim and ghaltly
countenance, and declared in the affembly of the people
that he was returned from hell. From fimilar exag¬
gerations it has been afferted that he appeared at the
Olympic games with a golden thigh, and that he could
write in letters of blood whatever he pleafed on a look-
ing-glafs *, and that by fetting it oppofite to the moon,
W'hen full, all the charaflers which were on the glafs
became
P Y T [ 57.-! 3 P Y T
Pythagoras, became legible on the moon’s dife. They alfo relate,
v"—that by fome magical words he tamed a bear, flopped
the flight of an eagle, and appeared on the fame day
and at the fame initant in the cities of Crotona and Me-
tapontum, &c.
At length his lingular doftrines, and perhaps his
flrenuoufly afferting the rights of the people againft
their tyrannical governors, excited a fpirit of jealoufy,
and railed a powerful party againll him 5 which foon
became fb outrageous as to oblige him to fly for his
life. His friends fled to Rhegium 5 and he himfelf, af¬
ter being refufed protection by the Locrians, tied to
Metapontum, where he was obliged to take refuge in
the temple of the mufes, and where it is faid he died
of hunger about 497 years before Chrift. Refpetting
the time, place, and manner of his death, however,
there are various opinions, and many think it uncertain
when, where, or in what manner, he ended his days.
After his death his followers paid the fame refpebt to
him as was paid to the immortal gods; they erefted
flatues in honour ©f him, converted his houfe at Cro¬
tona into a temple of Ceres, appealed to him as a deity,
and fwore by his name.
Pythagoras married Theano of Crotona, or, accord¬
ing to others, of Crete, by whom he had two fbns, Te-
hmges and Mnefarchus, 'who, after his death, took care
of his fchool. He is faid alfo to have had a daughter
called Damo.
Whether he left any writings behind him is difputed.
It feems probable, however, that he left none, and that
fuch as went under his name were written by fome of
his followers. The golden verfes which Hierocles illu-
flrated with a commentary, have been aferibed to Epi-
charraus or Empedocles, and contain a brief fummary
of his popular doftrines. From this circumftance, and
from the myfterious fecrecy with which he taught, our
information concerning his doftrine and philofophy is
very uncertain, and cannot always be depended on.
The purpofe of philofophy, according to the fyftem
of Pythagoras, is to free the mind from incumbrances,
and to raife it to the contemplation of immutable truth
and the knowledge of divine and fpiritual objedls. To
bring the mind to this Rate of perfection is a work of
lome difficulty, and requires a variety of intermediate
Reps. Mathematical fcience was with him the firR
Rep to wifdom, becaufe it inures the mind to contem¬
plation, and takes a middle courfe between corporeal
and incorporeal beings. The whole fcience he divided
into two parts, numbers and magnitude; and each of thefe
he fubdivided into two others, the former into arithme¬
tic and tnufic, and the latter into magnitude at rejl and in
motion ; the former of which comprehends geometry, and
the latter ajironomy. Arithmetic he confidered as the
noblefl fcience, and an acquaintance with numbers as
the higheR good. He confidered numbers as the princi¬
ples of everything •, and divided them into fcientific and
intelligible. Scientific number is the produefion of the
powers involved in unity, and its return to the fame ;
number is not infinite, but is the fource of that infinite
divifibility into equal parts which is the property of all
bodies. Intelligible numbers are thofe which exiRed
in the divine mind before all things. They are the mo¬
del or archetype of the world, and the caufe of the ef-
ience of beings. Of the Monad. Duad, Triad, Tetrad,
and Decad, various explanations have been given by Pythagoras,
various authors; but nothing certain or important is v
known of them. In all probability, numbers were ufed
by Pythagoras as fymbolical reprefentations of the firR
principles and forms ol nature, and efpecially of thofe
eternal and immutable effences which Plato denominated
ideas $ and in this cale the Monad was the fimple root
from which he conceived numbers to proceed, and as
fuch, analogous to the fimple effence of deity j from
whence, according to his fyltem, the various properties
of nature proceed. %
Mufic followed numbers, and was ufeful in raifing^
the mind above the dominion of the paffions. Pytha¬
goras confidered it as a fcience to be reduced to mathe¬
matical principles and proportions, and is faid to have
diicovered the mufical chords from the circumfiance of
feveral men facceflively flriking witn hammers a piece ^
of heated iron upon an anvil. This Rory Dr Burney * r f
djfcredits 5. but allows, from the uniform teflimony of vol. i. J
writers ancient and modern, that he invented the/bzr-p. 441.
monical canon or monochord, (fee Monochord). The
mufic of the fpheres, of which every one has heard, was
a mofi fanciful doftrine of Pythagoras. It was pro¬
duced, he imagined, by the planets linking on the ether
through which in their motion they palled ; and he con¬
fidered their mufical proportions as exact, and their har¬
mony perfect.
Pythagoras, as we have already feen, learned geome¬
try in Egypt 5 but by invefiigating many new theorems,
and by digefling its principles, he reduced it to a more
regular fcience. A geometrical point, which he defines
to be a monad, or unity with pofition, he fays corre-
fponds to unity in arithmetic, a line to two, a fuperfi-
cies to three, and a folid to four. He difeovered fe¬
veral of the propofitions of Euclid ; and on dilcovering
the 47th of book ifl, he is faid to have offered a heca¬
tomb to the gods ; but as he was averfe to animal fa-
crifices, this affertion is furely falfe. His great progrefs
in aflronomical fcience has been mentioned elfewhere.
See Astronomy, N° ii, 22. and Philosophy, N° 15,
16.
Wifdorri, according to Pythagoras, is converfant with
thofe obiects which are naturally immutable, eternal,
and incorruptible j and its end is to affimilate the hu¬
man mind to the divine, and to qualify us to join the
affembly of the gods. A£!ive and moral philofophy
preferibes rules and nrecepts for the condufl of life, and
leads us to the pra&ice of public and private virtue.—
On thefe heads many of his precepts were excellent, and
fome of them were whimfical and ufelefs. Theoreti¬
cal philofophy treats of nature and its origin, and is,
according to Pythagoras, the higheR object of Rudy.
It included all the profound myfleries which he taught,
of which but little is now known. God he confiders
as the univerfal mind, diffufed through all things, and
the felf-moving principle of all things [xvTttA.ararg.oi
Trxvrav), and of whom every human foul is a portion*.* Cicero d'e
It is very probable, that he conceived of the Deity as a Sene^-
fubtle fire, eternal, aflive, and intelligent j which is not jI
inconfiRent with the idea of incorporeality, as the an¬
cients underRood that term. This Deity was primarily
combined with the chaotic mafs of paffive matter, but
he had the power of feparating himfelf, and fince the
reparation he has remained diflinfl. The learned Cud-
worth
. p Y T . . r 57+
' vtua^0'as' contends, that Pythagoras maintained a trinity of
* Sat. iii.
56*
hypolfafes in the divine nature, fimilar to the Platonic
triad (fee Platonism). We cannot fay that his argu¬
ments appear to have much force ; but we think the con-
clufion which he wuflies to eftabliih extremely probable,
as Plato certainly drew his doflrine from fome of the
countries which Pythagoras had vifited before him.
Subordinate to the Deity there w'ere in the Pytha¬
gorean creed three orders of intelligences, gods, demons,
and heroes, of different degrees of excellence and digni¬
ty. Thefe, together wuth the human foul, were confi-
dered as emanations from the Deity, the particles of
fubtle ether affuming a groffer clothing the farther they
receded from the fountain. Hierocles defines a hero
to be a rational mind united with a luminous body.
God himfelf was reprefeixed under the notion of mo¬
nad, and the fubo.-dinate intelligences as numbers de¬
rived from and included in unity. Man is confidered
as confifting of an elementary nature, and a divine or
rational foul. His loul, a felf-moving principle, is com-
pofed of two parts; the rational, feated in the brain 5 and
the irrational, including the pafifions, in the heart. In
both thefe refpecis he participates with the brutes,
whom the temperament of their body, &c. allow’s not
to aft rationally. The fenfitive foul periihes ; the other
affumes an ethereal vehicle, and paffes to the region of
the dead, till fent back to the earth to inhabit fome
other body, brutal or human. See Metempsychosis.
It was unquetlionably this notion which led Pythago¬
ras and his followers to deny themfelves the ufe of fielh,
and to be fo peculiarly merciful to animals of every de-
fcription. Some authors, however, fay, that fifth and
beans, the ufe of which he alfo forbade, were prohibited,
becaufe he fuppofed .them to have been produced from
the fame putrified matter, from which, at the creation
of the w’orld, man was formed.
Of the fymbols of Pythagoras little is knowm. Thev
have been religioufiy concealed ; and though they have
awakened much curiofity, and occafioned many ingeni¬
ous conjeftures, they ffill appear to us dark and tri¬
fling. As a fpecimen we give the following : “ Adore
the found of the whifpering wind. Stir not the fire
with a fword. Turn afide from an edged tool. Pafs
not over a balance. Setting out on a journey, turn not
back, for the furies will return with you. Breed no¬
thing that hath crooked talons. Receive not a (wal¬
low into your houfe. Took not in a mirror by the
light of a candle. At a facrifice pare not your nails.
Eat not the heart or brain. Tafte not that which hath
fallen from the table. Break not bread. Sleep not at
noon. When it thunders touch the earth. Pluck not
a crow. Roaft not that which has been boiled. Sail
not on the ground. Plant not a palm. Breed a cock,
but do not facrifice it, for it is facred to the fun and
moon. Plant mallows in thy garden, but eat them not.
Abftain from beans.”
I he following precepts are more important: “ Dif-
courfe not of Pythagorean doftrines without light.
Above all things govern your tongue. Engrave not
the image of God in a ring. Quit not your Ration with¬
out the command of your general. Remember that the
paths of virtue and of vice refemble the letter Y. To
this fymbol Perfius refers *, when he fays,
] P Y T
Et libi qiue Samios diduxit litera ram&s,
Surgentem dcxtro monjlravit limite colletn.
J nere has the Samian Y’s inftruftive make Python.
Pointed the road thy doubtful foot Ihould take j 1 
There warn’d thy raw and yet unpraftis’d youth,
To tread the rifing right-hand path of truth.
Tne fcantinefs and uncertainty of our information
refpefting Pythagoras, renders a regular and complete
account of his lite and doftrines impoflible. A mo¬
dern author f- of profound erudition, pronounces him f Ancient
to have been unquejiionably the wifeft man that ever \x.Meta^hy.
ved, if his mafters the Egyptian priefts muff not be ex--^"'
cepted. This is faying a great deal too much \ but
that he was one of the moil diftinguifhed philofophers
of antiquity, or, as Cicero expreffes it, vir prajlanti
fapientia, appears very evident j and his moral charac¬
ter^ has never been impeached. The myfterious air
which he threw over his doftrines, and the apparent
inanity of fome of his fymbols, have indeed fubjefted
him to the charge of impofture, and perhaps the charge
is not wholly groundlefs : but when we confider the
age in which he lived, and the nature of the people
with whom he had to deal, who would in all probabi¬
lity have refilled more open innovations, even this will
not appear fo blameable as at firft fight we are apt to
think it; and it is worthy of notice, that the worft fto-
ries of this kind have come down to us in a very que-
ftionable ffiape, and with much probability appear to be
falfe.
PYIHAGOREANS, a feft of ancient philofophers,
fo called from being the followers of Pythagoras. See
the preceding article.
P^ i Id I A,, the prieftefs of Apollo at Delphi, by
whom he delivered oracles. She was fo called from
Pythius, a name of that god, which is faid to have been
given him on account of his viftory over the ferpent
Python.
The Pythia was at firft required to be a young girl,
but in later times flie was a wToman of 50 years of age.
The firff and moft famous Pythia was Phemonoe. O-
racles were at firff delivered by her in hexameter verfe.
All the pythias were to be pure virgins, and all of them
delivered their oracles with great enthufiafm and violent
agitations. See Oracle and Delphi.
P^ I iff IAN games, in Grecian antiquity, fports
inftituted near Delphos in honour of Apollo, on account
of his flaying the ferpent Python. See Apollo.—
Ihefe games, at their firff inffitution, were celebrated
only once in nine years ; but afterwards every fifth
year, from the number of the Parnaflian nymphs who
came to congratulate Apollo, and to make him prc-
fents on his viftory. The viftor was crowned with gar¬
lands.
PYTHON, in fabulous hiffory, a monffrous ferpent,
produced by the earth after Deucalion’s deluge. Juno
being exafperated at Latona, who w^as beloved by Jupi¬
ter, commanded this ferpent to deftroy her ; but flying
from the purfuit of the monfter, (he efcaped to Delos,
where ftie was delivered of Diana and Apollo ; the latter
of whom at length deftroyed Python with his arrows, in
memory of which viftory the Pythian games were infti-
tuted. See Apollo.
Q-
3
QUA
[ 575 ]
QUA
Q.
,, <)r tfee 16th letter and j 2th confonant of
Quadi. cur alphabet 5 but is not to be found either in
<■ y-. ■ the Greek, old Latin, or Saxon alphabets j and in¬
deed fome would entirely exclude it, pretending that
•k ought to be ufed wherever this occurs. However, as
it is formed in the voice in a different manner, it is un¬
doubtedly a diftindf letter : for, in exprefling this found,
the cheeks are contrafted, and the lips, particularly the
under one, are put into a canular form, for the paflage of
the breath.
I he q is never founded alone, but in conjundfion rvith
u, as in quality, quejlion, quite, quote, &c. and never ends
any Englifh word.
As a numeral, O Hands for 500; and with a dafh
over it, thus t,>j for 500,000.
Ufed as an abbreviature q fignifies quantity, or quan¬
tum. Thus, among phyficians, q. pi. is quantum placet,
x. e. “ as much as you pleafe” of a thing j and q.f is
quantum fufficit, i. e. “ as much as is neceflary.” Q. E. U.
among mathematicians, is quod cnat demotijlrandum, i. e.
“ which was to be demonftrated and p. E. F. is
quod erat faciendum, i. e. “ which w'as to ^be done.”
O. D. among grammarians is quad diclum, i. e. “ as if it
t\eie laid j” or, “ as who fliould lay.-’ In the notes of
the ancients, (^) Hands for Quintus, or ®uintius; Q.B.V.
for quod bene vert at ; O. S. b. S. for qiue fupra feripta
/tint; Q. M. for -ffiintus Mu tins, or quomodo; Quint,
for dffntiliux ; and Omef. for qiuejlor.
PJJAB, in Ichlh[ology, the name of a Ruffian fifh,
which is laid to be at firit a tadpole, then a frog, and
at I aft a fhh. Dr IMounfey, who made many inquiries
concerning thefe pretended changes, confiders them all
f.s fabulous. He had opportunity of feeing the fifh it-
felf, and found that they {pawned" like other filhes, and
grew in fize, without any appearances to juflify the re¬
port. He adds, that they delight in very clear water,
in rivers with fandy or flony bottoms, and are never
found in Handing lakes, or in rivers palfng through
marflies or moffy grounds, where frogs choofe mofl to be.
QUABES, are a free people of Africa, inhabiting
the fouthern banks of the river SeHos, and between that
and Sierra Leona. They are under the prote&ion of
the emperor of Manow.
OUACEIA, or quagga. See Equus, Mammalia
Index.
Marc- QUACHILTO, in Ornithology, is the name of a
grnnje'i very beautiful Brafilian bird, called alfo yacaenintii and
Hift. Bra- porphyria Americanus. It is of a fine blackiih purple
JlL colour, variegated with white j its beak is white while
young, but becomes red as it grows older, and has a
naked fpace at its bafis, refemhling in fome fort the
coot; its legs are of a yellowifh green ; it lives about
the waters, and feeds on fifir, yet is a very well tailed
bird. It imitates the crowing of a common cock, and
makes its mufic early in the morning.
QUACK, among phyficians, the fame with empiric.
See Empiric.
QUADI, (Tacitus) j a people of Germany, fituated
to the fouth-eaH or the mountains of Bohemia, on the Qaadrage-
banks of the Danube, and extending as far as the river bima
Marus, or March, running by Moravia, which country M
they occupied. Quadrant. ^
PUADilAGESIMA, a denomination given to lent,
from its confifling of 40 days. See Lent.
QUADRANGLE, in Geometry, the fame with a
quadrilateral figure, or one confifting of four Hides and
four angles.
QUADRANS, the quarter or fourth part of any
thing, particularly the as, or pound.
Quadrans, in Englifh money, the fourth part of a
penny. Before the reign of Edward I. the fmalleil
com was n fieri mg, or penny, marked with a crofs j by
the guidance 01 which a penny might be cut into halves
for a halfpenny, or into quarters or four parts for far¬
things ; till, to avoid the fraud of unequal cuttings, that
king coined halfpence and farthings in diltindt round
pieces.
QUADRANT, in Geometry, the arch of a circle,
containing 90°, or the fourth part of the entire peri¬
phery.
Sometimes alfo the fpace or area, included between
this arch and two radii drawn Tom the centre to each
extremity thereof, is called a quadrant, or, more pro¬
perly, a quadrantal fpace, as being a quarter of an en¬
tire circle.
Quadrant, alfo denotes a mathematical inHrument,
of great ufe in aHronomy and navigation, for taking the
altitudes of the fun and Hars, as alio for taking angles in
furveying, &c.
_This inHrument is varioufiy contrived, and furnifhed
with different apparatus, according to the various ufes
it. is intended for j but they all have this in common,
that they confifl of a quarter of a circle, whofe limb is
divided into 90°. Some have a plummet fufpended
from the centre, and are furnifhed with fights to look
through.
I he principal and moH ufeful quadrants are the com¬
mon furveying quadrant, aflronomical quadrant, Adams’s-
quadrant, Cole’s quadrant, Gunter’s quadrant, Hadley’s
quadrant, horodi&ical quadrant, Sutton’s or Collins’s
quadrant, and the finical quadrant, &c. Of each of which
in order.
1. The common furveying quadrant, is made of brafs,
woo_d,. or any other folid fubHance 5 the limb of which
is divided into 90°, and each of thefe farther divided
into as many equal parts as the fpace will allow, either
diagonally or otherwife. On one of the femidiameters
are fitted two moveable fights 5 and to the centre is
fometimes alfo fixed a label, or moveable index, bearing
two other fights; but in lieu of thefe laff fights there
is fometimes fitted a telefcope : alfo from the centre
there is hung a thread with a plummet | and on the
under fide or face of the inHrument is fitted a ball and
focket, by means of which it may be put into any p0-
Ution. The general ufe of it is for taking angles in a
vertical plane, comprehended under right lines going
ixom>
QUA [57
Quadrant, from the centre of the inftrument, one of which is ho-
    rizontal, and the other is direfted to fome vifible point.
But befides the parts already defcribed, there is fre¬
quently added on the face, near the centre, a kind of
compartment, called the quadrat, or geometricalfquare.
See Quadrat.
This quadrant may be ufed in different fituations :
for obferving heights or depths, its plane muff be difpof-
ed perpendicularly to the horizon j but to take horizon¬
tal diftances, its plane is difpofed parallel thereto. Again,
heights and diftances may be taken two wTays, viz. by
means of the fixed fights and plummet, or by the label :
As to which, and the manner of meafuring angles, fee
Geomrtry and Mensuration.
2. The aftronomical quadrant is a large one, ufually
made of brafs, or wooden bars faced with iron plates ;
having its limb nicely divided, either diagonally or
otherwife, into degrees, minutes, and feconds ; and fur-
niihed with two telefcopes, one fixed on the fide of the
quadrant, and the other moveable about the centre, by
means of the fcrew. There are alfo dented wheels
which ferve to direft the inftrument to any objedt or
phenomenon.—The ufe of this curious inftrument, in
taking obfervations of the fun, planets, and fixed ftars,
is obvious j for being turned horizontally upon its axis,
by means of the telefcope, till the objedf is feen through
the -moveable telefcope, then the degrees, &c. cut by
the index give the altitude required. See Astronomy
Index.
3. Cole’s quadrant is a very ufeful inftrument invent¬
ed by Mr Benjamin Cole. It confifts of fix parts, viz.
Plate the ftaff AB (fig. 1.) j the quadrantal arch DE ; three
fccceLvin. vanes A, B, C 5 and the vernier FG. The ftaff is a
Gg- *• bar of wTood about two feet long, an inch and a quarter
broad, and of a fufficient thicknefs to prevent it from
bending or warping. The quadrantal arch is alfo of
wood ; and is divided into degrees, and third-parts
of a degree, to a radius of about nine inches ; to its ex¬
tremities are fitted two radii, which meet in the centre
of4 the quadrant by a pin, round which it eafily moves.
The fight-vane A is a thin piece of brafs, almoft two
inches in height and one broad, placed perpendicularly
on the end of the ftaff A, by the help of two fcrews
paffmg through its foot. Through the middle of this
vane is drilled a fmall hole, through which the coinci¬
dence or meeting of the horizon and folar fpot is to be
viewed. The horizon vane B is about an inch broad,
and two inches and a half high, having a flit cut through
it of near an inch long and a quarter of an inch broad ;
this vane is fixed in the centre-pin of the inftrument, in
a perpendicular pofition, by the help of two fcrews pal¬
ling through its foot, whereby its pofition with refpecl
to the fight-vane is always the fame, their angles of in¬
clination being equal to 45 degrees. The ftiade-vane
C is compofed of two brafs plates. The one, which
ierves as an arm, is about four inches and a half long,
and three quarters of an inch broad, being pinned at
one end to the upper limb of the quadrant by a fcrew,
about which it has a fmall motion ; the other end lies
in the arch, and the lower edge of the arm is dire&ed
to the middle of the centre-pin \ the other plate, which
is properly the vane, is about two inches long, being
fixed perpendicularly to the other plate, at about half
an inch diftance from that end next the arch ; this vane
may be ufed either by its fhade or by the folar fpot
2
6 ] q U A
caft by a convex lens placed therein. And, becaufe the Qnadrant.
wood-work is often apt to warp or twill, therefore this ’ ■1 f
vane may be rectified by the help of a fcrew, fo that the
wrarping of the inftrument may occafion no error in the
obfervation, which is performed in the following man¬
ner : Set the line G on the vernier again!! a degree on
the upper limb of the quadrant, and turn the fcrew on
the backfide of the limb forward or backward, till the
hole in the fight-vane, the centre of the glafs, and the
funk fpot in the horizon-vane, lie in a right line.
To find the fun’s altitude by this inftrument : Turn
your back to the fun, holding the inftrument by the
ftaff with your right hand, fo that it be in a vertical
plane pafling through the fun ; apply your eye to the
fight-vane, looking through that and the horizon-vane
till you fee the horizon ; with the left hand Hide the
quadrantal arch upwards, until the folar fpot or fnade,
caft by the ftiade-vane, fall diredtly on the fpot or flit
in the horizon-vane j then will that part of the quad¬
rantal arch, which is raifed above G or S (according
as the obfervation refpedled either the folar fpot or
ftiade) ftrow the altitude of the fun at that time. But if
the meridian altitude be required, the obfervation muft
be continued $ and as the fun approaches the meridian,
the fea wrill appear through the horizon-vane, and then
is the obfervation finifhed ; and the degrees and mi¬
nutes, counted as before, will give the fun’s meridian
altitude : or the degrees counted from the lower limb
upwards will give the zenith-diftance.
4. Adams’s quadrant differs only from Cole’s qua¬
drant in having an horizontal vane, with the upper
part of the limb lengthened ; fo that the glafs, which
caffs the folar fpot on the horizon-vane, is at the fame
diftance from the horizon-vane as the fight-vane at the
end of the index.
5. Gunter’s quadrant, fo called from its inventor Ed¬
mund Gunter, befides the ufual apparatus of other
quadrants, has a ftereographical projetlion of the
fphere on the plane of the equinoctial. It has alfo
a kalendar of the months, next to the divifions of the
limb.
life of Gunter’s quadrant. 1. To find the fun’s me¬
ridian altitude for any given day, or the day of the
month for any given meridian altitude. Lay the thread
to the day of the month in the fcale next the limb 5 and
the degree it cuts in the limb is the fun’s meridian al¬
titude. Thus the thread, being laid on the 15th of
May, cuts 590 30', the altitude fought; and, contrari-
ly, the thread, being fet to the meridian altitude, Ihows
the day of the month. 2. To find the hour of the day.
Having put the bead, which Aides on the thread, to
the fun’s place in the ecliptic, obferve the fun’s alti¬
tude by the quadrant 5 then, if the thread be laid over
the fame in the limb, the bead will fall upon the hour
requln d. Thus fuppofe on the 10th of April, the
fun being then in the beginning of Taurus, I obferve
the fun’s altitude by the quadrant to be 36° 5 I place
the bead to the beginning of Taurus in the ecliptic,
and lay the thread over 36° of the limb 5 and find the
bead to fall on the hour-line marked three and nine ; ac¬
cordingly the hour is either nine in the morning or three
in the afternoon. Again, laying the bead on the hour
given, having firft redtified or put it to the fun’s place,
the degree cut by the thread on the limb gives the alti¬
tude. Note, the bead may be redified otherwife, by
bringing
QUA [5
Quadrant, bringing the thread to the day of the month, and the
“ bead to the hour-line of 1 2. 3. To find the fun’s decli¬
nation from his place given, and contrariwife. Set the
bead to the fun’s place in the ecliptic, move the thread
to the line of declination, and the bead will cut the
degree of declination required. Contrarily, the bead
being adjufted to a given declination, and the thread
moved to the ecliptic, the bead will cut the fun’s place.
4. .} he lun’s place being given, to find his right afcen-
fion, or contrarily. Lay the thread on the lun’s place
in the ecliptic, and the degree it cuts on the limb is the
right afcenfion lought. Contrarily, laying the thread
on the right afcenfion, it cuts the fun’s place in the
ecliptic. 3. The fun’s altitude being given, to find his
azimuth, and contrariwife. Rectify the bead for the
time, as in the fecond article, and obferve the fun’s al¬
titude : bring the thread to the complement of that al¬
titude j thus the bead will give the azimuth fought,
among the azimuth lines. 6. To find the hour of the
•night from feme of the five liars laid down on the qua¬
drant. (1.) Put the bead to the liar you would ob¬
ferve, and find how many hours it is off the meridian,
by article 2. (2.) Then, fr6m the right afcenfion of
the liar, fubtraft the fun’s right afcenfion converted in¬
to hours, and mark the difference 5 which difference,
added to the obferved hour of the liar from the meri¬
dian, fhows how many hours the fun is gone from the
meridian, which is the hour of the night. Suppofe on
the 15th of May the fun is in the 4th degree of Ge-
rnini, I fet the bead to Ardlurus j and, obferving his al¬
titude, find him to be in the well about $2° high, and
the bead to fall on the hour-line of two in the afternoon ;
then will the hour be 11 hours 50 minutes pad noon,
or 10 minutes Ihcrt of midnight : for 62°, the fun’s
right afeention, converted into time, makes four hours
eight minutes j which, fubtradled from 13 hours 58 mi¬
nutes, the right afcenfion of Arfturus, the remainder
•will be nine hours 50 minutes ; which added to two
hours, the obferved dillance of Arfturus from the me¬
ridian, lhowTs the hour of the night to be 11 hours 50
minutes.
T he mural quadrant has been already deferibed under
the article Astronomy. It is a moll important inllru-
ment, and has been much improved by Mr Ramfden,
who has dillinguilhed himfelf by the accuracy of his di-
vifions, and by the manner in which he finilhes the
planes by working them in a vertical pofition. He
places the plumb-line behind the inllrument, that there
may be no necefiity for removing it when we take an
oblervation near the zenith. His manner of fufpending
the glafs, and that of throwing light on the objedl-glafs
and on the divifions at the fame time, are new, and im¬
provements that deferve to be noticed. Thofe of eight
feet, which he has made for the obfervatories of Padua
and Vilna, have been examined by Dr Malkelyne ; and
the greatell error does not exceed tw'o feconds and a half.
'1 hat of the fame fize for the obfervatory of Milan is in
a very advanced Hate. The mural quadrant, of fix
feet, at Blenheim, in a moll admirable inllrument. It
is fixed to four pillars, which turn on two pivots, fo
. that it may be put to the north and to the fouth in one
minute. It was for this inllrument Mr Ramfden in¬
vented a method ol redlifying the arc of 90 degrees, on
which an able allronomer had ftarted Ibme difficulties j
but by means of an horizontal line and a plumb-line,
Vol. XVII. Part II.
77 1 Q U A
forming a kind of crofs, without touching the circle,
he Ihowed him that there was not an error of a fingie
fecond in the 90 degrees ; and that the difference was
occafioned by a mural quadrant of Bird, in which the
arc of 90 degrees was too great by feveral feconds, and
wnich had never been rectified by fo nice a method as
that of Mr Ramfden.
But the quadrant is not the inllrument which Hands
highelt in Mr Ramfden’s opinion ; it is the complete
circle : and he has demonllrated to M. de la Lande,
that the former mull be laid afide, if we would arrive at
the utmolt exadlnefs of which an obfervation is capable.
His principal reafons are : 1. The leaft variation id the
centre is perceived by the two diametrically oppofile
points. 2. The circle being worked on the turn, the
furface is always of the greatell accuracy, which it is
impoffible to obtain in the quadrant. 3. We may al¬
ways have two meafures of the fame arc, which will
ferve for the verification of each other. 4. The firft
point of the divifion may be verified every day with the
utmolt facility. 5. The dilatation of the metal is uni¬
form, and cannot produce any error. 6. This inflru-
ment is a meridian glafs at the fame time. 7. It alio
becomes a moveable azimuth circle by adding a hori¬
zontal circle beneath its axis, and then gives the refrac¬
tions independent of the menfuration of time.
6. Hadley’s quadrant is an inllrument of vail utility
both in navigation and pradtical allronomv. It derives
its name from Mr Hadley, who firlt publiffied an ac¬
count of it, though the firlt thought originated with
the celebrated Dr Hooke, and was completed by Sir
Ifaac Newton (fee Astronomy, N° 32. and alfo N° j 7.
and 22.). The utility of this quadrant arifes from the
accuracy and precifion with which it enables us to de¬
termine the latitude and longitude ; and to it is naviga¬
tion much indebted for the very great and rapid advances
it has made of late years. It is eafy to manage, and of
extenfive ufe, requiring no peculiar Iteadinels of hand,
nor any fuch fixed balls as is neceflary to other afiro-
nomical inllruments. It is ufed as an inllrument for
taking angles in maritime furveying, and with equal fa¬
cility at the mall head as upon the deck, by which its
fphere of oblervation is much extended ; for fuppofing
many iflands to be vifible from the malt head, and only
one from deck, no ufeful obfervation can be made by
any other inllrument. But by this, angles may be ta¬
ken at the mail head from the one vifible object with
great exadtnefs ; and further, taking angles from
heights, as hills, or a Ihip mall’s head, is almolt the
only way of deferibing exadlly the figure and extent of
fhoals.
It has been objefted to the ufe of this inllrument for
furveying, that it does notmeafure the horizontal angles,
by which alone a plan can be laid down. This objection,
however true in theory, may be reduced in pra£tice by a
little caution 5 and Mr Adams has given very good di¬
rections for doing fo.
Notwithftanding, hoxvever, the manifelt fuperiority
of this inftrument over thofe that were in ufe at the
time of its publication, it was many years before the
failors could be perfuaded to adopt it, and lay afide
their imperfeCt and inaccurate inllruments j fo great is
the difficulty to remove prejudice', and emancipate the
mind from the flavery of opinion. No inltrument has
undergone, fince the original invention, more changes
4 I) than
Cb'.'Hlranf.
QUA [ 578 ] QUA
Quadrant, than the quadrant of Hadley 5 of the various altera-
l— v-”-" tions, many had no better foundation than the caprice
of the makers, who by thefe attempts have often ren¬
dered the inftrument more complicated in conftru&ion,
and more difficult in ufe, than it was in its original
hate.
It is an effential property of this inftrument, derived
from the laws of rededfion, that half degrees on the arc
anfwer to whole ones in the angles meafured : hence an
odlant, or the eighth part of a circle, or 45 degrees on
the arch, ferves to meafure 90 degrees ; and fextants
will meafure an angular diftance of 120 degrees, though
the iwch of the inftrument is no more than 60 degrees.
It is from this property that foreigners term that in¬
ftrument an oBatit, which we ufually call a quadrant,
and wffiich in effedl it is. This property reduces in¬
deed conuderably the bulk of the inftrument : but at
the fame time it calls for the utmoft accuracy in the
divifions, as every error on the arch is doubled in the
obfervation.
Another eflential, and indeed an invaluable, proper¬
ty of this inftrument, whereby it is rendered peculiarly
advantageous in marine obfervations, is, that it is not liable
to be difturbed by the fliip’s motion ; for provided the
mariner can fee diftindtly the two objedls in the field of
his inftrument, no motion nor vacillation of the ffiip will
injure his obfervation.
Thirdly, the errors to which it is liable are readily dif-
covered and eafily rectified, while the application and
ufe of it is facile and plain.
To find whether the two fur faces of any one of the
reflefting glafles be parallel, apply your eye at one end
of it, and obferve the image of fome object refledfted
veiy obliquely from it; if that image appear fingle,
and well-defined about the edges, it is a proof that the
furfaces are parallel : on the contrary, if the edge of
the reflefted images appear milled, as if it threw a
fhadow from it, or feparated like two edges, it is a
proof that the tivo furfaces of the glafs are inclined to
each other : if the image in the fpeculum, particularly
if that image be the fun, be viewed through a fmall te-
lefcope, the examination will be more perfeft.
To find whether the furface of a reflecting glafs be
plane. Choofe two diftant objefts, nearly on a level
with each other : hold the inftrument in an horizontal
pofition, vierv the left-hand objeft direftly through the
tranfparent part of the horizon-glafs, and move the in-
dey till the reflected image of the other is feen below it
in' the filvered part ; make the two images unite juft
at the line of feparation, then turn the inftrument round
ftorvly on its own plane, fo as to make the united images
move along the line of feparation of the horizon-glafs.
If the images continue united without recedingTrom each
other, or varying their refpeClive pofition, the refleCling
fuiface is a good plane.
To find if the two furfaces of a red or darkening glafs
are parallel and perfeClly plane. This muft be done by
means of the fun when it is near the meridian, in the fol¬
lowing manner : hold the fextant vertically, and direft
the fight to fome obieCl in the horizon, or between you
and the Iky, under the fun ; turn down the red glafs and
move the index till the refleCled image of the fun is in
eontaCl with the objeCl feen direClly : fix then the index,
and turn the red glafs round in its fquare frame ; view
ffie fun’s image andobjeCt immediately, and if the fun’s
image is neither raifed nor deprefled, but continues in Quadrant,
contaft with the objeCt below, as before, then the fur-v—
faces of the darkening glafs are true.
For a more particular defeription of Hadley’s qua¬
drant, and the mode of ufing it, fee Navigation,
Book II. chap. i.
This inftrument has undergone feveral improvements
fince its firft invention, and among thefe improvers muft
be ranked Mr Ramfden. He found that the effential
parts of the quadrant had not a fufficient degree of fo-
lidity ; the friCtion at the centre vras too great, and
in general the alidada might be moved feveral minutes
without any change in the pofition of the mirror j the
divifions were commonly very inaccurate, and Mr Ramf¬
den found that Abbe de la Caille did not exceed the
truth in eftimating at five minutes the error to which
an obferver was liable in taking the diftance between
the moon and a ftar 5 an error capable of producing a
miftake of 50 leagues in the longitude. On this ac¬
count Mr Ramfden changed the principle of conftruc-
tion of the centre, and made the inftrument in fuch a
manner as never to give an error of more than half a
minute *, and he has now brought them to fuch a de¬
gree of perfection as to warrant it not more than fix
leconds in a quadrant of fifteen inches. Since the time
of having improved them, Mr Ramfden has conftruCted
an immenfe number 5 and in feveral which have been
carried to the Eaft Indies and America, the deficiency
has been found no greater at their return than it had
been determined by examinations before their being ta¬
ken out. Mr Ramfden has made them from 15 inches
to an inch and a half, in the latter of which the minutes
are eafily diftinguiffiable j but he prefers for general ufe
thofe of 10 inches, as being more eafily handled than
the greater, and at the fame time capable of equal ac¬
curacy. See Sextant.
A. great improvement wras alfo made in the con-
ftruCtion of this quadrant by Mr Peter Dollond, fa¬
mous for his invention of achromatic telefcopes. The
glaffes of the quadrants ftxould be perfeCt planes, and
have their furfaces perfectly parallel to one another. By
a praClice of feveral years, Mr Dollond found out me¬
thods of grinding them of this form to great exaCt-
nefs } but the advantage which fliould have arifen from
the goodnefs of the glaffes was often defeated by the
index-glafs being bent by the frame which contains it.
To prevent this, Mr Dollond contrived the frame fo,
that the glafs lies on three points, and the part that
prefles on the front of the glafs has alfo three points op-
pofite to the former. Thefe points are made to confine
the glafs by three ferews at the back, aCting direCtly
oppofite to the points between which the glafs is pla¬
ced. The principal improvements, however, are in the
methods of adjufting the glafles, particularly for the
back-obfervation. The method formerly praCtifed for
adjufting that part of the inftrument by means of the
oppofite horizons at fea, was attended with fo many
difficulties that it was fcarcely ever ufed : for fo little de¬
pendence could be placed on the obfervations taken
this way, that the beft Hadley’s fextants made for the
purpofe of obferving the diftances of the moon from the
fun or fixed ftars have been always made without the
horizon-glafs for the back-obfervation j for want of
which, many valuable obfervations of the fun and moon
have been loft, when their diftance exceeded 120 de¬
grees..
QUA
t 579 ]
Quadrant, grees. To make the adjuftment of the back-obferva-
tion eafy and exaft, he applied an index to the back
horizon-glafs, by which it may be moved in a parallel
pofition to the index-glafs, in order to give it the two ad-
juftments in the fame manner as the fore-horizon-glafs
is adjufted. Then, by moving the index to which the
back-horizon-glafs is fixed exaftly 90 degrees (which
is known by the divifions made for that purpofe), the
glafs will thereby be fet at right angles to the index-
glafs, and will be properly adjufted for ufe j and the
obfervations may be made with the fame accuracy by
this as by the fore-obfervation. To adjuft the horizon-
glafles in the perpendicular pofition to the plane of the
inftrument, he contrived to move each of them by a
fingle fcrew, which goes though the frame of the qua¬
drant, and is turned by means of a milled head at the
back j which may be done by the obferver while he is
looking at the objedl. To thefe improvements alfo
he added a method, invented by Dr Mafkelyne, of pla¬
cing darkening-glaffes behind the horizon-glafles. Thefe,
which ferve for darkening the objeft feen by diredt
vifion, in adjufting the inftrument by the fun or moon,
he placed in fuch a manner as to be turned behind the
fore horizon-glafs, or behind the back horizon-glafs :
there are three of thefe glaffes of different degrees of
darknefs.
We have been the more particular in our defcription
and ufe of Hadley’s quadrant, as it is undoubtedly the
beft hitherto invented.
7. Horodiftical quadrant, a pretty commodious in¬
ftrument, fo called from its ufe in telling the hour of
the day.—Its conftruftion is this : From the centre of
Fig. 3« the quadrant, C, fig. 3. whofe limb AB is divided into
90°, defcribe feven concentric circles at intervals at
pleafure; and to thefe add the figns of the zodiac, in
the order reprefented in the figure. Then applying a
ruler to the centre C and the limb AB, mark upon
the feveral parallels the degrees correfponding to the
altitude of the fun when therein, for the given hours j
conneft the points belonging to the fame hour with a
curve line, to which add the number of the hour. To
the radius CA fit a couple of fights, and to the centre
of the quadrant C tie a thread with a plummet, and
upon the thread a bead to Aide. If now the thread be
brought to the parallel wherein the fun is, and the qua¬
drant diredled to the fun, till a vifual ray pafs through
the fights, the bead will fhow the hour *, for the plum¬
met, in this fituation, cuts all the parallels in the de¬
grees correfponding to the fun’s altitude. Since the
bead is in the parallel which the fun defcribes, and
through the degrees of altitude to which the fun is ele¬
vated every hour there pafs hour lines, the bead muft
Ihow the prefent hour. Some reprefent the hour-lines
by arches of circles, or even by ftraight lines, and that
without any fenfible error.
Fig. 4. Sutton’s or Collins’s quadrant (fig. 4.) is a ftereo-
graphic proje&ion of one quarter of the fphere be¬
tween the tropics, upon the plane of the ecliptic, the
eye being in its north pole : it is fitted to the latitude
of London. The lines running from the right hand
to the left are parallels of altitude ; and thofe crofting
them are azimuths. The leffer of the two circles,
bounding the projection, is one-fourth of the tropic of
Capricorn j the greater is one-fourth of that of Cancer.
The ttvo ecliptics are drawn from a point on the left
QUA
edge of the quadrant, with the characters of the figns Qua I rant,
upon them ; and the two horizons are drawn from the “ v
fame point. The limb is divided both into degrees and
time } and, by having the fun’s altitude, the hour of
the day may be found here to a minute. The qua-
drantal arches next the centre contain the kalendar of
months j and under them, in another arch, is the fun’s
declination. On the projection are placed feveral of
the moft noted fixed ftars between the tropics ; and the
next below the projection is the quadrant and line of
ftiadows. To find the time of the fun’s rifing or fet-
ting, his amplitude, his azimuth, hour of the day, &c.
by this quadrant: lay the thread over the day and the
month, and bring the bead to the proper ecliptic, either
of fummer or winter, according to the feafon, which is
called reSlifijing ; then, moving the thread, bring the bead
to the horizon, in which cafe the thread wdll cut the
limb in the time of the fun’s rifing or fetting before or
after fix ; and at the fame time the bead will cut the
horizon in the degrees of the fun’s amplitude.—Again,
obferving the fun’s altitude w;.h the quadrant, and fup-
pofing it found 450 on the fifth of May, lay the thread
over the fifth of May, bring the bead to the fummer
ecliptic, and carry it to the parallel of altitude 450 ; in
which cafe the thread will cut the limb at 550 15', and
the hour will be feen among the hour-lines to be either
41' paft nine in the morning, or 19' paft two in the af¬
ternoon.—Laftly, the bead among the azimuths (hows
the fun’s diftance from the fouth 50° 41'. But note,
that if the fun’s altitude be lefs than what it is at fix
o’clock, the operation muft be performed among thofe
parallels above the upper horizon, the head being recti¬
fied to the winter ecliptic.
9. Sinical quadrant (fig. 5.) confifts of feveral con- Fig. 5,
centric quadrantal arches, divided into eight equal parts
by radii, with parallel right lines crofting each other
at right angles. Now any one of the arches, as BC,
may reprefent a quadrant of any great circle of the
fphere, but is chiefly ufed for the horizon or meridian.
If then BC be taken for a quadrant of the horizon,
either of the fides, as AB, may reprefent the meridian 5
and the other fide, AC, will reprefent a parallel, or line
of eaft and weft : and all the other lines, parallel to AB,
will be alfo meridians j and all thofe parallel to AC,
eaft and weft lines, or parallels.—Again, the eight fpa-
ces into which the arches are divided by the radii, repre¬
fent the eight points of the compafs in a quarter of the
horizon j each containing 11° 15’. The arch BC is
likewife divided into po*3, and each degree fubdivided
into 12, diagonal-wife. To the centre is fixed a thread,
which, being laid over any degree of the quadrant, ferves
to divide the horizon.
If the finical quadrant be taken for a fourth part of
the meridian, one fide thereof, AB, may be taken for
the common radius of the meridian and equator 5 and
then the other, AC, will be half the axis of the world.
The degrees of the circumference, BC, will reprefent
degrees of latitude 5 and the parallels to the fide AB,
sffumed from every point of latitude to the axis AC,
will be radii of the parallels of latitude, as likewife the
fine complement of thofe latitudes.
Suppofe, then, it be required to find th© degrees of
longitude contained in 83 of the leffer leagues in the
parallel of 48° ; lay the thread over 48° of latitude on
the circumference, and count thence the 8 2 leagues on
4D 2 AB,
QUA [ 580 ] QUA
Quid rant. AB, beginning at A j this will terminate in H, allovv-
v " ing every imall interval four leagues. Then tracing out
the parallel HE, from the point H to the thread ; the
part AE of the thread fhows that 125 greater or equi-
noftial leagues make 6o° 15'j and therefore that the 83
leffer leagues AH, which make the difference of longitude
of the courfe, and are equal to the radius of the parallel
HE, make 6o° 15' of the faid parallel.
It the (hip fails an oblique courfe, fuch courfe, be¬
tides the north and fouth greater leagues, gives leffer
leagues ealterly and wefterly, to be reduced to degrees
of longitude of the equator. But thefe leagues being
made neither on the parallel of departure, nor on that
of arrival, but in all the intermediate ones, we muff
find a mean'proportional parallel between them. To
find this, we have on the inftrument a fcaie of crofs la¬
titudes. Suppofe then it were required to find a mean
parallel between the parallels of 40° and 6o° j with
your compaffes take the middle between the 40th and
60th degree on this fcaie : the middle point will termi¬
nate againff the 51ft degrge, which is the mean parallel
required.
The principal ufe of the finical quadrant is to form
triangles upon, fimilar to thofe made by a Ihip’s way
with the meridians and parallels •, the fides of which
triangles are meafured by the equal intervals between
the concentric quadrants and the lines N and S, E and
W : and every fifth line and arch is made deeper than
the reft. Now, fuppofe a fhip to have failed 150 leagues
north-eaft, one fourth north, which is the third point,
and makes an angle of 330 44' with the north part of
the meridian : here are given the courfe and diftance
failed, by which a triangle may be formed on the in¬
ftrument fimilar to that made by the (hip’s courfe and
hence the unknown parts of the triangle may be found.
Thus, fuppofing the centre A to reprefent the place of
departure, count, by means of the concentric circles along
the point the (hip failed on, viz. AD, 150 leagues :
then in the triangle AED, fimilar to that of the Ihip’s
courfe, find AEnrdifference of latitude, and DE— dif¬
ference of longitude, which muft be reduced according
to the parallel of latitude come to.
7ig. 10. Gunner’s quadrant (fig. 6.), fometimes called
gunner's fquare, is that ufed for elevating and pointing
cannon, mortars, &c. and confifts of two branches ei¬
ther of brafs or wood, between which is a quadrantal
arch divided into 90 degrees, beginning from the (liorter
branch, and furnithed wuth a thread and plummet, as
reprefented in the figure.—The ufe of the gunner’s
quadrant is extremely eafy; for if the longeft branch
be placed in the mouth of the piece, and it be elevated
till the plummet cut the degree neceffary to hit a propo-
fed objeft, the thing is done. Sometimes on one of the
furfaces of the long branch are noted the divifion of dia¬
meters and weights of iron bullets, as alfo the bores of
pieces.
Quadrant of Altitude, is an appendage of the arti¬
ficial globe, confiding of a lamina, or (lip of brafs, the
length of a quadrant of one of the great circles of the
globe, and graduated. At the end, where the divifion
terminates, is a nut rivetted on, and furnifhed with a
fcrew, by means whereof the inftrument is fitted on the
meridian, and moveable round upon the rivet to all
points of the horizon.—-Its ufe is to ferve as a fcaie in
meaiuring altitudes, amplitudes, azimuths, See. See A- Ouadr'antal
STRONG MY. ' j|
OUADRANTAL, in Antiquity, the name of a Qi1:ulra'
veiiel in ufe among the Romans for the meafuring of t tu‘ .
liquids. It was at nrft called amphora ; and afterwards
quadrantal, from its form, which was fquare every way
like a die. It capacity was 80 lurae, or pounds of
waiter, wmch made 4^ (extaries, tw'o urnae, or eight
congii.
QUADRAT, a mathematical inftrument, called al'fo
a Geometrical Square, and Line of Shadows: it is fre¬
quently an additional member on the face of the com¬
mon quadrant, as alio on thofe of Gunter’s and Sutton’s
quadrants.
UuaDRat, in Printing, a piece of metal ufed to fill
up the void {paces between words, Sec. There are qua¬
drats of different fizes} as m-quadrats, n-quadrats, &c.
which are reipedtively of the dimenfions of thefe letters,
only lower, that they may not receive the ink.
{Quadratic equations, in Algebra, thofe
W'herein the unknown quantity is of two dimeniions, or
railed to the lecond power. See Algebra.
^HJADRATRIX, in Geometry, a mechanical line,
by means whereof we can find right lines equal to the
circumference of circles, or other curves, and their fe¬
ver al parts.
QUADRATURE, in Geometry, denotes the fqua-
ring, or reducing a figure to a iquare. 1 hus, the find¬
ing of a fquare, which {hall contain juft as much fur-
face or area as a circle, an ellipiis, a^ triangle, &c. is
the quadrature of a circle, ellipfis, &c. The quadra¬
ture, efpecially among the ancient mathematicians, w as
a great poftulatum. The quadrature of rectilineal fi¬
gures is eafily found, for it is merely the finding their
areas or (iirjaces, 1, e. their (quares } for the fquares of
equal areas are eafily found by only extracting the roots
of the areas thus found. The quadrature of curvilinear
fpaces is of more difficult inveftigation j and in this re-
fpect extremely little w7as done by the ancients, except
the finding the quadrature of the parabola by Archimedes.
In 1657, Sir Paul Neil, Lord Brouncker, and Sir Chrif-
topher Wren, geometiically demonftrated the equality
of fome curvilinear fpaces to reCtilinear fpaces; and foon
after the like was proved both at home and abroad of
other curves, and it was afterwards brought under an
analytical calculus ; the firft fpecimen of wftiich was
given to the public in 1688 by Mercator, in a demon-
ftration of Lord Brouncker’s quadrature of the hyper¬
bola, by Dr Wallis’s reduCfion of a fraCtion into an infi¬
nite feries by divifion. Sir Ifaac Newton, however,
had before difeovered a method of attaining the quan¬
tity of all quadruple curves analytically by his fluxions
before 1668. It is difputed between Sir Chriftopher
Wren and Mr Huygens which of them firft; difeovered
the quadrature of any determinate cycloidal fpace. Mr
Leibnitz afterwards found that of another fpace j and in
1669 Bernoulli difeovered the quadrature of an infinity
of cycloidal fpaces both fegments and feftors, &c. See
Squaring the Circle.
Quadrature, in AJlronomy, that afpeft of the moon
when ftie is 90° diftant from the fun ; or when (he is in
a middle point of her orbit, between the points of con-
junClion and oppofition, namely, in the firft and third
quarters. See Astronomy Index.
QUADRAT US,
Plate CCCCLVm
Q UARTEB. -
'llitf-tfrulhG’
QUA [ 5
Quadratus Q^UADRATUS, in Anatorwj^^xv^xciz given to feve-
il. ral mufcles on account of their fquare figure. See A-
CWtUM NATOMY, Table of the Mufcles.
OUADREL, in Building, a kind of artificial ftone,
fij called from its being perfectly fquare. The quadrels
are made of a chalky earth, &c. and dried in the (hade
for two years. Thefe were formerly in great requeft
among the- Italian architects.
QUADRIGA, v\ Antiquity, a car or chariot drawn
by four horfes. On the reverfes of medals, we fre¬
quently fee the emperor or Victory in a quadriga, hold¬
ing the reins of the horfes; whence thele coins are,
among the curious, called nurnmi quadrigati, and vtclo-
riati.
QUADRILATERAL, in Geometry, a figure whofe
perimeter confilts of four tides and four angles j whence
it is alfo called a quadrang Aar figure.
OJJ ADRILLE, a little troop or company of cava¬
liers, pompoully drefled, and mounted for the perform¬
ance of caroufals, jutts, tournaments, runnings at the
ring, and other gallant divertifements.
Quadrille, a game played by four perfons, -with
40 cards •, which are the remains of a pack after the
four tens, nines, and eights are difcarded; thefe are
dealt three, and three, and one round four, to the right
hand player ; and the trump is made by him that plays
with or wdthout calling-,• by naming fpades, clubs, dia¬
monds, or hearts, and the fuit named is trumps. If the
perfon who names the trump fliould miftake, and fay
fpades inftead of clubs, or it he name two fuits, the firll
named is the trump.
In this game the order of the cards, according to their
natural value, is as follows : of hearts and diamonds, king,
queen, knave, ace, deuce, three, four, five, fix, fieven ; in
all 10 : of fpades and clubs, king, queen, knave, fieven,
fix, five, four, three, deuce ; in all 9. The reafon why
the ace of fpades and ace of clubs are not mentioned, is,
becaufe they are always trumps in whatever fuit that is
played. The ace of fpades being always the firft, and
the ace of clubs the third trump, for the cards ranked
according to their value when trumps ttand in the fol¬
lowing order.
Hearts and diamonds, SPADILL, or the ace of fpades ;
MANILL, the feventh of the two red fuits; Basto, the
ace of clubs ; PONTO, the ace of hearts and diamonds ;
king, queen, knave, deuce, three, four, five, fix ; in all
12. Spades and clubs, SPADILL, the ace of fpades,
MANILL, the deuce of fpades and clubs, basto the ace
of clubs, king, queen, knave, feven, fix, five, four, three
in all \ 1. It is here to be obferved, that the card which
is manill and the fecond trump, is always the lowed; in its
fuit when not trumps ; and that the ace of hearts or dia¬
monds, which when trump is above the king, is below
the knave when not trump.
There are three matadors 5 fpadill, manill, and ha¬
llo •, the privilege of which is, that when the player
has no other trumps but them, and trumps are led, he
is not obliged to play them, but may play what card
he thinks proper, provided, however, that the trump
led is of an inferior rank 5 but if fpadill fliould be led,
81 ] QUA
he that has manill or bado only is obliged to play it 5 Quadrille,
it is the fame of manill bado, with refpefl to the fupe- ^ v
rior matadore always forcing the inferior. Though there
are properly but three matadores, neverthelefs, ail thofe
trumps which follow7 the three fird without interruption,
are likewife called matadores} but the three fird only
enjoy the privilege above mentioned.
Each perfon is to play as he judges mod convenient
for his own game. He is not to encourage his friend
to play •, but each perfon ought to know what to do
when it is his turn to play. The dakes confid of feven
equal mils or contrats, as they are fometimes called,
coruprifing the ten counters and fidies, wdiich are given to
each player. A mil is equal to ten fidi, and each fdi
to ten counters: the value of the fifli is according to the
players agreement, as alio the number of tours, which
are generally fixed at ten, and marked by turning the
corners of a card.
If the cards ihould happen not to be deal right, or
that there ihouid be two cards of the fame fort, as
two deuces of fpades, for example, there mud be a
new deal) provided it is difeovered before the cards
are all played. The cards mud likewife be dealt over
again in cafe a card is turned in dealing, as it mighti
be of prejudice to him w7ho dioukl have it ; and of
courfe if there diould be feveral cards turned. There
is no penalty for dealing wrong, he who does fa mud
only deal again.
When each player has got his ten cards, he that is
on the right hand of the dealer, after examining his
game, and finding his hand fit to play, aiks if they
play ; or if he has not a good hand, he pafles, and fo
the fecond, third, and fourth. All the four may pafs;
but he that has fpadill, after having diowm or named
it, is obliged to play by calling a king. Whether
the deal is played in this manner, or that one of the
players has afked leave, nobody choofing to play without
calling, the elded hand mud begin the play, fird na¬
ming the fuit, and the king which he calls •, he who
w ins the trick plays anpther card, and fo of the red till
the game is finhhed. The tricks then are counted } and
if the ombre, that is, he who dands the game, has to¬
gether with him who is the king called, fix tricks, they
have w'on and are paid the game, the confolafion, and
the matadores, if they have them, and divide what is up¬
on the game, and the beads if there are any. But if
they make only five tricks, it is a remife, and they are
beaded, what goes upon the game, paying to the other
players the confolation and the matadores. If the tricks
are equally divided betwdxt them, they are likewife bead¬
ed } and if they make only four tricks between them, it
is a remife } if they make lefs they lofe codill (a),
and in that cafe they pay to their adverfaries what they
diould have received if they had won •, that is, the
game, the confolation, and the matadores, if they have
them, and are beaded what is upon the game : they
who win codill, divide the dakes. The bead and every
thing elfe that is paid, is paid equally betwixt the
two lofers ; one half by him that calls, and the other half
by him that is called, as well in cale of codill as a re¬
mife ;
(a) Coddl is when thofe who defend the pool make more tricks than they who dand the game 3 which is call-,
ed winning the codill.
QUA
,<^nadnile. mlfe • unleis the ombre does not make three tricks, in
~~v~ which cafe he that is called is not only exempted from
paying half the beaft, but alfo the game, the conlblation,
and the matadores if there are any, which the ombre
in that cafe pays alone; and as well in cafe of a codill
as a remiie. Ihis is done in order to oblige players
not to play games that are unreafonable. There is ne-
verthelefs, one cafe in which if the ombre makes only
one trick, he is not beafted alone, and that is, when
not having a good hand he paffes, and all the other
players have pafled likewife; he having Ipadill is obliged
to play. Here it would be unjuit to oblige him to make
three or four tricks ; in this cafe, therefore, he that is
called pays one half of the lofings. For which reafon
he that has fpadill with a bad hand, Ihould pafs, that
if he is afterwards obliged to play by calling a king
(which is called forced fpadillf he may not be beafted
alone. He that has once paffed cannot be admitted
to play; and he that has aflced leave cannot refufe to
play, unlefs any one fliould offer to play without call-
ing.
. He that has four kings, may call a queen to one of
his kings, except that which is trump. He that wants
one or more kings, may call one of thofe kings j but
in that cafe, he muft make fix tricks alone, and confe-
quently he wins or lofes alone. The king of that fuit
in which he plays cannot be called. No one ftieuld
play out of his turn, although he is not beafted for fo
doing. If he who is not the eldeft hand has the king
called, and plays fpadill, manill, or bafto, or even the
king called in order to fhow that he is the friend, ha¬
ving other kings that he fears the ombre fhould trump,
he is not to be allowed to go for the vole; he is even
beafted, if ft appears to be done with that intent. It
is not permitted to (how a hand though codill may al¬
ready be won ; that it may be feen whether the ombre
is beafted alone. If the ombre or his friend ftiows
their cards before they have made fix tricks, thinking
that they have made them, and there appears a poffi-
bility of preventing their making them, the other
players can oblige them to play their cards as they think
proper.
A player need only name his fuit when he plays,
without calling a king. He who plays without calling
muft make fix tricks alone to wrin •, for all the other
players are united againft him, and they are to do what
they can to prevent his winning. He who plays with¬
out calling, is admitted to play in preference to him
who w'ould play with calling ; however, if he that has
aflced leave will play without calling, he has the pre¬
ference of the other who would force him. Thefe are
the two methods of play without calling that are called
forced.
.As he who plays without calling does not divide the
winnings with any perfon, he confequently, when he
lofes, pays all by himfelf: if he lofes by remife he is
beafted, and pays each of the other players the confo-
lation, the fans appeller (which is commonly, but im-
properly, called the jans prendre}, and the matadores
if there are any j if he lofes codill he is likewife beaft-
ed and pays to each player w'hat he w^ould have re¬
ceived from each if he had won. They who win co¬
dill divide what there is; and if there are any coun¬
ters remaining^ they belong to him of the three who
ihall have fpadill or the higheft trump the next deal. It
4
t 582 ]
Qua
is the fame with regard to him who calls one of his own
kings, he wins alone or lofes alone as in the other cafe,
except the fans appeller, which he does not pay if he
lofes, or receive if he wins, although he plays alone.
If he plays fans appeller, though he may have a fure
game, he is obliged to name his fuit j which if he ne-
glecfts to do, and ftiows his cards, and fays “ I play fans
appeller j” in that cafe either of the other players can
oblige him to play in what fuit he pleafes, although he
fhould not have one trump in that fuit.
He who has afked leave is not permitted to play fans
appeller, unlefs he is forced 5 in which cafe, as was
faid before, he has the preference of the other that
forces him.
A player is not obliged to trump when he has none
of the fuit led, nor play a higher card in that fuit if
he has it, being at his option although he is the laft
player, and the trick fhould belong to the ombre j but
he is obliged to play in the fuit led if he can, other-
wife he renounces. If he feparates a card from his
game and fliows it, he is obliged to play it, if by not
doing it the game may be prejudiced, or if he can give
any intelligence to his friend} but efpecially if it Ihould
be a matadore.—He that plays fans appeller, or by
calling himfelf, is not fubjett to this law. He may
turn the tricks made by the other players, and count
what has been played as often as it is his turn to play,
but not otherwife. If inftead of turning a player’s tricks,
he turns and fee his game, or fhow's it to the other
players, he is beafted, together with him whofe cards
he turned j and each of them muft pay one half of the
beaft.
If any one renounces, he is beafted as often as he
has renounced and it is dete&ed ; but a renounce is not
made till the trick is turned. If the renounce is difco-
vered before the deal is finifhed, and has been detrimen¬
tal to the game, the cards muft be taken up again, and
the game replayed from that trick where the renounce
was made 5 but if the cards are all played, the beaft is
ftill made, and the cards muft not be replayed ; except
there fhould be feveral renounces in the fame deal : then
they are to be played again, unlefs the cards fhould be
mixed. . If feveral beafts are made in the fame deal,
they all go together, unlefs it is otherwife agreed at the
beginning of the party •, and when there are feveral
beafts, the greateft always goes firft.
A great advantage accrues from being eldeft hand at
quadrille, which often renders it very difagreeable to the
reft of the players, being obliged to pafs with a good
hand unlefs they choofe to play alone ; and when it hap¬
pens that the eldeft hand having afked leave, the fecond
player has three matadores, feveral trumps in back, and
all fmall cards, he cannot then even play alone; and
having no chance of being called, he muft pafs with this
good hand. On account of which, this method has
been thought expedient to remedy this defeft of the
game ; each player having an opportunity of availing
himfelf of the goodnefs of his game, by adding to the
ufual method of playing the game that of the media-
teur, and the favourite fuit.
The firft thing to be obferved is that of drawing for
places, which is done in this manner: One of the
players takes four cards; a king, a queen, a knave,
and an ace ; each player draw's one of thefe cards; and
commonly he w'ho comes in laft, draw's firft. The per¬
fon
Quadrille.
>
QUA
Quadrille, fon who draws the king fits where he pleafes, the queen
^ at r^^lt hand, the knave next the queen, and the
« - ■ ace on the left of the king. The king draws the fa¬
vourite fuit. I he number of cards and perfons is the
fame at this game as the other, and is played in the
fame manner.
I he favourite fuit is determined by drawing a card
out of the pack, and is of the fame fuit, during the whole
party, of the card fo drawn.
A king is the mediateur, which is demanded of the
others by one of the players, who has a hand he ex¬
perts to make five tricks of; and through the affiftance
of this king he can play alone and make fix tricks.
In return for the king received, he gives what card
he thinks proper with a filh ; but muft give two filh if
it is in the favourite fuit. He who alks by calling in the
favourite fuit, has the preference to him who alks by
calling in another; he who alks with the mediateur, has
the preference to him who alks by calling in the favou¬
rite fuit, and by playing alone is obliged to make fix
tricks t© wdn. He who alks with the mediateur in the
favourite fuit, has the preference to him who alks with
the mediateur in any other fuit, and is obliged to play
alone, and to make fix tricks.
If fans prendre is played in any other fuit than the fa¬
vourite, he who plays it has the preference to him who
alks only, or with the mediateur, or even he who plays
in the favourite fuit with the mediateur; and the fans
prendre in the favourite fuit has the preference to all
other players whatever.
The only difference between this method of playing
the game and the other is, that when one of the players
demands the mediateur he is obliged to play alone, and
to make fix tricks, as if he played fans prendre. In this
cafe he fhould judge from the ftrength of his hand, whe¬
ther the aid of the king will enable him to play alone
or not.
With the mediateur and without the favourite fuit it
is played in this manner. The game is marked and
played the fame as in common, except that a filh extra¬
ordinary is given to him who plays the mediateur, and to
him who plays fans prendre ; that is, he who wins the
mediateur receives 13 counters from each; and if be
lofes by remife he pays 12 to each j and 13 if by codill.
The winner of fans prendre receives 17 counters from
each ; and if by remife he lofes, he pays 16 to each, and
17 if by codill.
The vole with the mediateur receives one filli only,
as at common quadrille. The beafts are alfo the fame as
the common game. The laft game is generally played
double, and is called paulans; but for thofe who choofe
to play a higher game, they may play the double colour,
wdiich is called the Turk, and is double of the favourite
fuit. There is alfo a higher game than this, called the
anode, which is paying whatever is agreed to him who
happens to hold the two aces in his hand.
We have omitted many things refpefting the mode
of marking the game, and playing the vole, becaufe
thefe are different in different cafes, and are to be learn¬
ed only by praftice. I'he game itfelf is a very infe-
rior one ; but he rvho wdlhes to know more of it, may
confult Hoyle’s games improved by James Beaufort, Efq.
from which we have, with very little alteration, taken
this article.
QUADRIPARTITION, the dividing by four, or
QUA
into four equal parts. Hence comes the term quadri- Quadru-
partite, the fourth part, or fomething divided into four. Pe(*s
QJJADRUPEDS, in Zoo/o^y ; thofe animals which nJail
have four limbs or legs proceeding from the trunk of , *
their body. See Mammalia.
QUADRUPLE, four-fold, or fomething taken four
times, or multiplied by four, on which account it is the
converfe of quadripartition.
QUriESTOR, fee Questor.
QUAGGA, or Quacha. See Equus, Mammalia
Index.
QUAIL. See Tetrao, Ornithology Index.
Quails are to be taken by means of the call during
their whole wmoing time, which lafts from April to
Auguft. The proper times for ufing the call are at
fuhrifing, at nine o’clock in the morning, at three in
the afternoon, and at funfet j for thefe are the natural
times of the quail’s calling. The notes of the cock
and hen quail are very different; and the fportfman who
expedis to fucceed in the taking them muff be expert in
both : for when the cock calls, the anfw-er is to be made
in the hen’s note ; and when the hen calls, the anfw-er
is to be made in the cock’s. By this means they will
come up to the perfon, fo that he may, with great eafe,
throw the net over them and take them. If a cock-quail
be fingle, on hearing the hen’s note he will immediately
come 5 but if he have a hen already with him, he will
not forfake her. Sometimes, though only one quail an-
fwers to the call, there will three or four come up 5 and
then it is beft to have patience, and not run to take up
the firft, but flay till they are all entangled, as they
will loon be.
The quail is a neat cleanly bird, and will not run
much into dirty or wet places : in dew^y mornings, they
will often fly inftead of running to the call ; and in this
cafe, it is belt to let them go over the net, if it fo hap¬
pens that they fly higher than its top 5 and the fportf.
man then changing fides, and calling again, the bird
will come back, and then wall probably be taken in the
net.
The calls are to be made of a fmall leather purfe,
about two fingers wide, and four fingers long, and
made in the Ihape of a pear ; this is to be fluffed half¬
full of horfe-hair, and at the end of it is to be placed a
fmall whiffle, made of the bone of a rabbit’s leg, or
fome other Rich bone : this is to be about two inches
long, and the end formed like a flageolet, with a little
foft wax. This is to be the end faffened into the
purfe ; the other is to be doled up with the fame w’ax,
only that a hole is to be opened with a pin, to make
it give a diftinct and clear found. To make this
found, it is to be held full in the palm of the hand,
with one of the fingers placed over the top of the wax \
then the purfe is to be preffed, and the finger is to
fliake over the middle of it, to modulate the found it
gives into a fort of fliake. This is the moft ufeful call;
for it imitates the note of the hen quail, and feldom
fails to bring a cock to the net if there be one near the
place.
The call that imitates the note of the cock, and is
ufed to bring the hen to him, is to be about four inches
long, and above an inch thick *, it is to be made of a
piece of wire turned round and curled, and covered
with leather ; and one end of it muft be clofed up with
a piece of flat wood, about the middle of wdiich there
muft
r 583 i
Quail,
Quakers.
* See
Month,
Rev. Sept
I793»art S'
QUA [ 58+ ] , O' U A . .
mu ft be a fmall thread or ftrap of leather, and at the which is a praife to them that do well; which is a pro- Quakers,
other end is to be placed the fame fort of pipe, made teftion to them that do well, and not the evil 5 and <-—v—
of bone, as is ufed in the other call. The noife is made fuch foldiers as are put in place no falfe accufers muft
by opening and doling the fpiral, and gives the fame be, no violence muft do, but be content with their
found that the cock does when he gives the hen a fignal wages: and that magiftrate bears not the fword in vain,
that he is near her. fr°m under the occafion of that fword do I feek to bring
QUAKERS, a religious fociety, which took its rife people : my weapons are not carnal but fpiritual, and
in England about the middle of the 17th century, and tmj kingdom is not of this world; therefore with carnal
rapidly found its way into other countries in Europe, weapon I do not fight, but am from thofe things dead,
and into the Englilh fettlements in North America.— from him who is not of this world, called of the world
The members of this fociety, we believe, called them- by the name of G- F: and this I am ready to feal with
felves at firft feelers, from their feeling the truth ; but my blood 5 this I am moved tp give forth for the truth’s
after the fociety was formed, they affumed the appella- fake, who a witnefs Hands againft all unnghteoufnefs,
tion of friends. The name of 'quakers was given to and all ungodlinefs, who a fufferer is for the righteous
them by their enemies 5 and though an epithet of re- feed’s fake, waiting for the redemption of it, who a
proach, feems to be ftamped upon them indelibly. Their crown that is mortal feeks not, for that fadeth away j
founder is generallv believed to have been George Fox, but in the light dwells which comprehends that crown,
an illiterate fhoemaker (fee George Fox), but this opi- which light is the condemnation of all luch, in which
nion has been lately controverted. An ingenious wri- light I witnefs the crown that is immortal, which fades
ter * having found, or fancied, a fimilaritv of fentiments not away fiom him who to all your fouls is a miend,
among the ancient Druids and modern Quakers, feems for eftablifhing of righteoufnefs, and clearing the land
to think that Fox muft have been nothing more than a of evil doers, and a witnefs againft all the wicked m-
tool employed by certain deifts to pave the way for their ventions of man, and muiderer s plots, which anfwer
fyftem of natural religion, by allegorizing the diflin- fhall be with the light in all your confidences, which
guiftiing articles of the Chriftian faith. makes no covenant with death •, to which light in you
It muft be confeffed, for experience will not allow7 it sll I fpeak, and am clear, G. F. who a new name hath,
to be denied, that extremes in religion are very apt to which the world know7s not.” (a).
beget each other ; and if the deifts alluded to reafoned The Quakers, however, did not long entruft the de-
from this fad, they could not have pitched upon a tool fence of their principles to fuch fenfelefs enthufiafts as
fitter for their purpofe than George Fox. From his George Fox: They were joined by a number of learned,
works ftill extant, he appears to have been one of the ingenious, and pious men, who new7 modelled . tueir
moft extravagant and abfurd enthufiafts that ever lived, creed 5 and though they did not bring it to what is ge-
and to have fancied himfelf, in his apoftolic charafter, nerally deemed the Chriftian ftandard, they fo reformed
fomething infinitelv fuperior to man. In a book called it as that its tenets do not fhock common feme, noi the
News coming out of the North, (p. 15.) he fays of him- duties preferibed fcandalize a man of piety. The chief
felf, “ I am the Door that ever was, the fame Cbrift of thefe reformers were George Keith, the celebrated
yefterday, to-dav, and for ever And in the intro- Penn, and our countryman Barclay. Keith was indeed
duiiftion to his Battle door for Teachers and Profe/fors, excommunicated for the liberties which he took with
he fays, “ All languages are to me no more than dull, the great apoftle ", but we have not a doubt out his wri-
w;ho was before languages were.” But one of the moft tings contributed to the moderation oi Penn, and to
extraordinary and'blafphemous things that he ever the elegant and mafterly apology of Barclay. From
wrote, is an anfwer to the Proteaor, w7ho had required that apology we fekaed the fummary of their opinions
him to promife not to difturb his government as then which was given in the former edition of this work;
eftabliftied. It is as follows: but they have lately publifhed fuch a fummary them-
“ I who am of the world called G : F : doth deny felves, of which the reader will be pleafed with the fol-
the carrying or drawing any carnal fword againft any, lowing abftraft :
or againft thee O: C: or any man, in the prefence of I hey tell us, that about the beginning of the
the Lord I declare it, God is my witnefs, by whom I 17th century, a number of men, diffatisfied with all
vim moved to give tb s forth for the truthjs fake, from the modes of religious worfhip then known in the
him whom the world calls G: Fox, who is the fon of world, withdrew from the communion of every vi-
God, who is fent to ftand a witnefs againft all violence fible church to feek the Lord in retirement. Among
and againft the works of darknefs, and to turn the peo- thefe was their honourable elder George ^ Fox, whp
pie from darknefs to light, and to bring them from the being quickened by the immediate touches of di-
occafion of the war and from the occafion of the magi- vine love, could not fatisfy his apprehenfions of duty
ftrates fword, which is a terror to the evil doer, which to God without directing tne people where to find
a£is contrary to the light of the Lord Jefus Chri/l; the like conlolation and inftrudtion. In the courfe of
(a) We have tranCcribed this letter from the theological works of Mr Leflie, where it is preferved in its original
form. The Quakers, after the death of their apoftle, expunged from their edition of it the words which we have
printed in Italics ; afhamed, as we hope, of the hlafphemy imputed to them : but that Mr Leflie’s copy is authen¬
tic, is thus attefted bv two of the friends, who faw Fox deliver it to the proteftor’s mellenger : “ We are witneftes
of this teftimony, whofe names in the flelh are, 1 h°- Adam,
■2 Rob. Craven, *
QUA [ 585
Quakers, his travels, he met with many feeking perfons in cir-
—v   cumftances fimilar to his own, and thefe readily recei¬
ved his teftimony. They then give us a fliort account
of their fufferings and different fettlements 5 and with a
degree of candour w’hich does them infinite credit, they
vindicate Charles II. from the character of a perfe-
cutor ; acknowledging, that though they fuffered much
during his reign, he gave as little countenance as he
could to the feverities of the legiflature. They even
tell us, that he exerted his influence to refcue their
friends from the unprovoked and cruel perfecutions of
the New England fanatics ; and they fpeak with be¬
coming gratitude of the different a£!s paffed in their fa¬
vour during the reigns of William and Mary, and
George I. They then proceed to give us the following
account of their doftrine :
“ We agree with other profeifors of the Chriftian
name, in the belief in one eternal God, the Creator and
Preferver of the univerfe ; and in Jefus Chrill his Son,
the Mefliah, and Mediator of the new covenant (Heb.
xii. 24).
“ When wre fpeak of the gracious difplay of the love
of God to mankind, in the miraculous conception, birth,
life, miracles, death, refurreftion, and afcenfion of our
Saviour, we prefer the ufe of fuch terms as we find in
Scripture •, and, contented with that knowledge which
divine wifdom hath feen meet to reveal, we attempt not
to explain thofe myfteries which remain under the veil j
neverthelefs, we acknowledge and aflert the divinity of
Chrift, who is the wifdom and power of God unto falva-
tion (T Cor. i. 24).
“ To Chrift alone we give the title of the Word of
God (John i. 1.) and not to the Scriptures 5 although
W7e highly efteem thefe facred writings, in fubordination
to the Spirit (2 Pet. i. 21.), from which they wTere gi¬
ven forth 5 and we hold, with the apoftle Paul, that
they are able to make wife unto falvation, through faith
which is in Chrift Jefus (2 Tim. iii. 15.).
“ We reverence thofe moft excellent precepts which
are recorded in Scripture to have been delivered by our
great Lord, and we firmly believe that they are prafti-
cable, and binding on every Chriftian ; and that in the
life to come every man will be rewarded according to
his works (Mat. xvi. 27.). And farther, it is our be¬
lief, that, in order to enable mankind to put in practice
thefe facred precepts, many of which are contradiftory
to the unregenerate will of man (John i. 9.), every man
coming into the world is endued with a meafure of the
light, grace, or good Spirit of Chrift ; by which, as it
is attended to, he is enabled to diftinguiih good from
evil, and to correft the diforderly paffions and corrupt
propenfities of his nature,which mere reafon is alto¬
gether infufficient to overcome. For all that belongs
to man is fallible, within the reach of temptation 5 but
this divine grace, which comes by Him who hath over¬
come the world (John xvi. 33.) is, to thofe who hum¬
bly and fincerely feek it, an all-futficient and prefent
help in time of need. By this the fnares of the enemy
are detefted, his allurements avoided, and deliverance
is experienced through faith in its effectual opera-
jion; whereby the foul is tranflated out of the king¬
dom of darknefs, and from under the power of Satan,
into the marvellous light and kingdom of the Son of
God.
“ Being thus perfuaded that man, v.ithout the Spirit
Vox, XVIL Part II.
] QUA
of Chrift inwardly revealed, can do nothing to the glo- Quakers,
ry of God, or to effedt his own falvation ; we think this '-■"“'“v"" "-
influence ei’pecially neceffary to the performance of the
higheft adt of which the human mind is capable, even
the worfhip of the Father of lights and of fpirits, in
fpirit and in truth; therefore we confider as obftruc-
tions to pure w'orfliip, all forms which divert the at¬
tention of the mind from the fecrct influence of this
undfion from the Holy One (1 John ii. 20, 27.). Yet,
although true worfhip is not confined to time and place,
we think it incumbent on Chriftians to meet often to¬
gether (Heb. x. 25.) in teftimony of their dependence
on the heavenly Father, and for a renewal of their fpi-
ritual ftrength : neverthelefs, in the performance of wor¬
fhip, we dare not depend, for our acceptance with Him,
on a formal repetition of the words and experiences of
others 5 but we believe it to be our duty to ceafe from
the adlivity of the imagination, and to wait in filence
to have a true fight of our condition beftowed upon us :
believing even a Angle figb (Rom. viii. 26.) arifing
from fuch a fenfe of our infirmities, and of the need we
have of divine help, to be more acceptable to God, than
any performances, however fpecious, which originate in
the will of man.
“ From what has been laid refpedfing worfhip, it fol¬
lows, that the miniftry we approve muft have its ori¬
gin from the fame fource : for that which is needful for
a man’s own diredlion, and for his acceptance with God
(Jer. xxiii. 30, to 32.), muft be eminently fo to enable
him to be helpful to others. Accordingly, wre believe
the renewed afliftance of the light and powrer of Chrift
to be indifpenfably neceffary for all true miniftry; and
that this holy influence is not at our command, or to
be procured by ftudy, but is the free gift of God to his
chofen and devoted fervants.—From hence arifes our
teftimony againft preaching for hire, and in contradic¬
tion to Chrift’s pofitive command, “ Freely ye have re¬
ceived, freely give” (Mat. x. 8.) ; and hence our con-
fcientious refufal to fupport fuch miniftry by tithes or
other means.
“ As wre dare not encourage any miniftry but that
w’hich we believe to fpring from the influence of the
Holy Spirit, fo neither dare we attempt to reftrain this
influence to perfons of any condition in life, or to the
male fex alone j but, as male and female are one in
Chrift, we allow fuch of the female fex as we believe
to be endued with a right qualification for the mini¬
ftry, to exercife their gifts for the general edification of
the church : and this liberty we efteem to be a pecu¬
liar mark of the gofpel difpenfation, as foretold by the
prophet Joel (Joel ii. 28, 29.), and noticed by the apof¬
tle Peter ("Afts ii. 16, 17.).
“ There are twro ceremonies in ufe amongft moft pro-
feffors of the Chriftian name ; Water-baptifm, and what
is termed the Lord’s Supper. The firft of thefe is gene¬
rally efteemed the effential means of iuitiation into the
church of Chrift 5 and the latter of maintaining commu¬
nion with him. But as w’e have been convinced, that
nothing ihort of his redeeming pow’er, inwardly reveal¬
ed, can fet the foul free from the thraldom of fin, by
this powrer alone we believe falvation to be effected. We
hold that as there is one Lord and one faith (Eph. iv.
5.), fo his baptifm is one in nature and operation ; that
nothing thort of it can make us living members of his
myftical body ; and that the baptifm with water, admi-
4 niftered
QUA
Quakers, niftered by Ins fore-runner John, belonged, as the latter
—r-— confefled, to an inferior and decreahng difpenfation
(John iii. 30.).
“ With refpeft to the other rite, rve believe that
communion between Chrill and his church is not main-
taiiied by that nor any other external performance, but
only by a real participation of his divine nature (2 Pet.
i. 4.) through faith j that this is the fupper alluded
to in the Revelation (Rev. iii. 20.), “ Behold I Rand
at the door and knock, if any man hear my voice, and
open the door, I will come in to him, and will fup with
him, and he with me and that where the lubRance
is attained, it is unneceffary to attend to the fliadow,
which doth not confer grace, and concerning which
opinions fo different, and animofities fo violent, have
arifen.
“ Now, as we thus believe that the grace of God,
which comes by Jefus Chrifl, is alone fufficient for fal-
vation, we can neither admit that it is conferred on a
few only, whilft others are lelt without it; nor, thus, af-
ferting its univerfality, can we limit its operation to a
partial cleanfing of the loul from fin, even in this life.
We entertain worthier notions both of the power and
goodnefs of our heavenly Father, and believe that he
deth vouchfafe to affift the obedient to experience a to¬
tal furrender of the natural will to the guidance of his
pure unerring Spirit; through -whole renewed affiffance
they are enabled to bring forth fruits unto holinefs, and
to Rand perfect in their prefent rank (Mat. v. 48.; Eph.
iv. 13. ; Col. iv. 1 2.).
“ There are not many of our tenets more generally
known than our teftimony againR oaths and againR
war. With refpeft to the former of thefe, we abide
literally by ChriR’s pofitive injunction, delivered in his
fermon on the mount, “ Swear not at all” (Mat. v.
* See 34-) *• From the fame facied collection of the moR
excellent precepts cf moial and religious duty, from the
example of our Lord himfelf (Mat. ch. v. 39, 44, &c,
eh. xxvi. 52, 53.; Luke xxii. 51 ; John xviii. 11.), and
from the correfpondent convictions of his Spirit in our
hearts, we are confirmed in the belief that wars and
fightings are, in their origin and effcCts, utterly repug¬
nant to the Gofpel, which Rill breathes peace and good¬
will to men. We alfo are clearly of the judgment, that
if the benevolence of the Gofpel were generally preva¬
lent in the minds of men, it would effectually prevent
them from oppreffing, much mere from enflaving, their
brethren, (of whatever colour or complexion), for whom,
as for themfelves, Chrifl died ; and would even influence
their conduCt in their treatment of the brute creation,
which would no longer groan the viClims of their ava¬
rice, and of their falfe ideas of pleafuie.
“ Some of our tenets have in former times, as hath
been fliown, fubjeCted our friends to much fuffering from
government, though to the falutary purpofes of govern¬
ment our principles are a fecurity. They inculcate
fubmiffion to the laws in all cafes wherein confcience is
not violated. But we hold, that as ChriR’s kingdom
is not of this world, it is not the bufinefs of the civil
magiflrate to interfere in matters of religion; but to
QUA
maintain tire external peace and good order of the com- Quakers,
munity. We therefore think perfecution, even in the—'
fmalleft degree, unwarrantable. We arc careful in re¬
quiring our members not to be concerned in illicit trade,
nor in any manner to defraud the revenue.
“ It is well known that the fociety, from its firfl ap¬
pearance, has dilufed thofe names of the months and
days which, having been given in honour of the heroes
or falfe gods of the heathens, originated in their flat¬
tery or luperflition ; and the cuflom of fpeaking to a
Angle perfon in the plural number (b), as having ari¬
fen alfo from motives of adulation. Compliments, fu-
peifluity of apparel and furniture, outward Rrows of re¬
joicing and mourning, and obfervation of days and
times, we efieem to be incompatible with the fimplicity
and fincerity of a Chriflian life; and public diverfions,
gaming, and other vain amufements of the world, we
cannot but condemn. They are a wafle of that time
which is given us for nobler purpofes, and divert the
attention of the mind from the lober duties of life, and
from the reproofs of inflruefion, by which we are guided
to an everlafling inheritance.
“ To conclude, although we have exhibited the feve-
ral tenets which diftinguifh our religious fociety, as
objedfs of our belief, yet we are fenfible that a true and
living faith is not produced in the mind of man by his
own effort; but is the free gift of God (Eph. ii. 8.)
in Chrifl Jefus, nouriflied and increafed by the progref-
five operation of his fpirit in our hearts, and our pro¬
portionate obedience (John vii. 17.). Therefore, al¬
though, for the prefervation of the teflimonies given us
to bear, and for the peace and good order of the fo¬
ciety, we deem it neceffary that thofe who are admit¬
ted into memberfliip with us, fliould be previoufly con¬
vinced of thofe dodlrines which wre efleem effential; yet
we require no formal fubfeription to any articles, either
as the condition of memberfliip, or to qualify for the
fervice of the church. We prefer the judging of men
by their fruits, in a dependence on the aid of Him
w-ho, by his prophet, hath promifed to be “ a fpirit
of judgment to him that fitteth in judgment” (Ifaiah
xxviii. 6.). Without this, there is a danger of re¬
ceiving numbers into outward communion, without
any addition to that fpiritual fheepfold, whereof our
bleffed Lord declared himfelf to be both the door
and the fhepherd (John x. 7, 11.), that is, fr.ch as
know7 his voice, and follow him in the paths of obe¬
dience.”
Such are the do&rines of this people as wz find them
flated in a fmall pamphlet lately prefented by themfelves
to the public ; and in the fame tratfl they give the fol¬
lowing account of their difeipline.
“ In the prablice of difciplinc, we think it indifpen-
fable that the order recommended by Chrift himfelf be
invariably obferved : (Matth. xviii. 13. to 17.). ‘ If
thy brother fliall trefpafs againft thee, go and tell him
his fault between thee and him alone : if he fliall hear
thee, thou haft gained thy brother ; but if he will not
hear thee, then take writh thee one or two more, that in
the mouth of twro or three witneffes every w*ord may
be
C 586 ]
(b) Speaking of this cuflom, Fox fays: “ When the Lord fent me into the w7orld, he forbade me to put off my
hat to any ) and I was required to t/iee and thou all men and women.” Journal, p. 24.
Q, U A
Quake is. be'eflablifliecl j and if he iliall negle£l to hear them, tell
 v it unto the church.’
“ To efleet the falutary purpofes of difcipline, meet¬
ings were appointed, at an early period of the fociety,
which, from the times of their being held, were called
quarterly meetings. It was afterwards found expedient
to divide the diftriets of thole meetings, and to meet
more often j whence a role monthly meetings, fubordinate
to thofe held quarterly. At length, in 1669, a yearly
meeting was eftabhlhed, to fuperintend, athit, and pro¬
vide, rules for the whole 5 previous to which, general
meetings had been occafionally held.
“ A monthly meeting is uiually compofed of feveral
particular congregations, fituated within a convenient
dittance of each other. Its bufinefs is to provide for
the fubflilence of their poor, and for the education of
their offspring : to judge of the fincerity and fitnefs of
perfons appearing to be convinced of the religious prin¬
ciples of the fociety, and defiling to be admitted into
memberihip ; to excite due attention to the difeharge
of religious and moral duty ; and to deal with difor-
derly members. Monthly meetings alfo grant to fuch
of their members as remove into other monthly meetings,
certificates of their memberfliip and condufl 3 without
which they cannot gain memberfliip in fuch meetings.
Each monthly meeting is required to appoint certain
perfons under the name of overfeers, who are to take
care that the rules of our difcipline be put in practice 3
and when any cafe of complaint or diiorderly conduft
comes to their knowledge, to fee that private admoni¬
tion, agreeable to the gofpel rule before mentioned, be
given previoufly to its being laid before the monthly
meeting.
“ When a cafe is introduced, it is ufual for a fmall
committee to be appointed to vifit the offender, to en¬
deavour to convince him of his error, and to induce him
to forfake and condemn it. If they fucceed, the perfon
is by minute declared to have made fatisfadlion for the
offence 3 if not, he is difowned as a member of the fo¬
ciety.
“ In difputes between individuals, it has long been the
decided judgment of the fociety that its members fliould
■not fue each other at law. It therefore enjoins all to
end their differences by fpeedy and impartial arbitration,
agreeable to rules laid down. If any refufe to adopt
this mode, or, having adopted it, to fubmit to the award,
it is the direftion of the yearly meeting that fuch be dif¬
owned.
“ To monthly meetings alfo belongs the allowing of
marriages 3 for our fociety hath always fcrupled to ac¬
knowledge the excluflve authority of the priefts in the
folemnization of marriage. Thofe who intend to mar¬
ry, appear together and propofe their intention to the
monthly meeting 3 and if not attended by their parents
or guardians, produce a written certificate of their con-
fent, fignecNn the prefence of witneffes. The meeting
then appoints a committee to inquire whether they are
clear of other engagements refpefting marriage 3 and
if at a fubfequent meeting, to which the parties alfo
QUA
come and declare the continuance of their intention, no Quakers*
objections are reported, they have the meeting’s con- v J
fent to folemnize their intended marriage. This is
done in a public meeting for worlhip 3 towards the
dole whereof the parties itand up, and folemnly take
each other for hulband and wife. A certificate of the
proceedings is then publicly read, and figned by the
parties, and afterwards by the relations and others as
witnefles. Of fuch certificates the monthly meeting
keeps a record 3 as alfo of the births and burials of its
members. A certificate of the date, of the name of
the infant, and of its parents, figned by thofe prefent
at the birth, is the fubjeCl of one of thefe lart-men-
tioned records 3 and an order for the interment, coun-
terfigned by the grave-maker, of the other. The
naming of children is without ceremony. Burials are
alfo conduced in a fimple manner. The body, follow¬
ed by the relations and friends, is fometimes, previoufiy
to interment, carried to a meeting 3 and at the grave
a paufe is generally made 3 on both which occafions it
frequently falls out that one or more friends prefent have
fomewhat to exprefs for the edification of thofe who at¬
tend 3 but no religious rile is confidered as an effential
part of burial.
“ Several monthly meetings compofe a quarterly meet¬
ing. At the quarterly meeting are produced written
anfwers from the monthly meetings, to certain queries
refpeCling the conduft of their members, and the meet¬
ing’s care over them. The accounts thus received are
digefte.d into one, which is fent, alfo in the form of an¬
fwers to queries, by reprefentatives, to the yearly meet¬
ing.—Appeals from the judgment of monthly meetings
are brought to the quarterly meetings ; whole bufinefs
alio it is to afliit in any difficult cafe, or where remiffnefs
appears in the care of the monthly-meetings over the in¬
dividuals who compofe them.
“ The yearly meeting has the general fuperintendance
of the fociety in the country in which it is eftabliffied (0)3
and therefore, as the accounts which it receives dif-
cover the Hate of inferior meetings, as particular exi¬
gencies require, or as the meeting is impreffed with a
fenfe of duty, it gives forth its advice, makes fuch
regulations as appear to be requifite, or excites to the
obfervance of thofe already made 3 and fometimes
appoints committees to vifit thofe quarterly meetings
which appear to be in need of immediate help. Ap¬
peals from the judgment of quarterly meetings 1 re
here finally determined 3 and a brotherly correfpon-
dence, by epiilles, is maintained with other yearly meet-
ings.
“ In this place it is proper to add, that as we believe
women may be rightly called to the work of the mini-
ftry, we alfo think, that to them belongs a {bare in the
lupport of our Chriftian difcipline 3 and that fome parts
of it, wherein their own fex is concerned, devolve on
them with peculiar propriety. Accordingly they have
monthly, quarterly, and yearly meetings of their own
fex, held at the fame time and in the fame place with
thofe of the men 3 but feparately, and without the power
4 E 2 of
L 537 1
(c) There are feven yearly meetings, viz. ill, London, to which come reprefentatives from Ireland 3 2d, New-
England; 3d, New-York 3 4th, Pennfylvania and New-Jerfey ; 5th, Maryland 3 6th, Virginia ; 7th, the Carolinas
and Georgia.”
QUA [ 588 ] QUA
Quakers, of making rules : and it may be remarked, that during
the perfecutions, which in the laft: century occafioned
the imprifonment of fo many of the men, the care of the
poor often fell on the women, and was by them fatisfac-
torily adminiftered.
“ In order that thofe who are in the fituation of mi-
niders may have the tender fympathy and counfel of
thofe of either fex, wrho, by their experience in the
work of religion, are qualified for that fervice the
monthly meetings are advifed to feleft fuch, under the
denomination of elders. Thefe, and minifters approved
by their monthly meetings (d), have meetings peculiar
to themfelves, called meetings of minifters and elders ;
in wThich they have an opportunity of exciting each
other to a difcharge of their feveral duties, and of ex¬
tending advice to thofe wdro may appear weak, without
any needlefs expofure. Thefe meetings are generally
held in the compafs of each monthly, quarterly, and
yearly meeting. They are condufted by rules pre-
fcribed by the yearly meeting, and have no authority to
make any alteration or addition to them. The members
of them unite with their brethren in the meetings for dif-
cipline, and are equally accountable to the latter for
their conduct.
“ It is to a meeting of this kind held in London,
called the fecond-day morning-meeting, that the revifal
of manufcripts concerning our principles, previoufty to
publication, is intrufted by the yearly meeting held in
London } and alfo the granting, in the intervals of the
yearly meeting, certificates of approbation to fuch mi-
nifters as are concerned to travel in the work of the
miniftry in foreign parts. When a vifit of this kind
doth not extend beyond Great Britain, a certifi¬
cate from the monthly meeting of which the mini-
fter is a member is fufficient •, if to Ireland, the con¬
currence of the quarterly meeting is alfo required.
Regulations of fimilar tendency obtain in other yearly
meetings.
“ The yearly meeting held in London, in the year
1675, appointed a meeting to be held in that city, for
the purpofe of advifing and aflifting in cafes of fuffer-
ing for confcience fake, which hath continued with
great ufe to the fociety to this day. It is compofed
of friends under the name of correfpondents, chofen by
the feveral quarterly meetings, and who refide in or
near the city. The fame meetings alfo appoint mem¬
bers of their own in the country as correfpondents, who
are to join their brethren in London on emergency.
The names of all thefe correfpondents, previous to their
being recorded as fuch, are fubmitted to the approba¬
tion of the yearly meeting. Thofe of the men who are
approved minifters are alfo members of this meeting,
which is called the meeting tor fujferings ; a name arifing
from its original purpofe, which is not yet become en¬
tirely obfolete.
“ The yearly meeting has intrufted the meeting for
fufferings with the care of printing and diftributing
books, and with the management of its flock j and Quakers,
confidered as a Handing committee of the yearly Quality,
meeting, it hath a general care of whatever may arife, '-“■“v——*
during the intervals of that meeting, affedling the focie¬
ty, and requiring immediate attention : particularly of
thofe circumftances which may occafion an application
to government.
“ There is not in any of the meetings which have
been mentioned any prefident, as we believe that Di¬
vine Wifdom alone ought to prefide ) nor hath any mem¬
ber a right to claim pre-eminence over the reft. The
office of clerk, with a few exceptions, is undertaken
voluntarily by fohre member j as is alfo the keeping
of the records. Where thefe are very voluminous,
and require a houfe for their depofite (as is the cafe
in London, where the general records of the fociety in
Great Britain are kept), a clerk is hired to have the
care of them ; but except a few clerks of this kind,
and perfons who have the care of meeting houfes, none
receive any ftipend or gratuity for their fervices in our
religious fociety.”
It is remarkable, that all the fettlements of the Eu¬
ropeans in America, except the Quaker fettlement of
Pennfylvania, were made by force of arms, with very lit¬
tle regard to any prior title in the natives. The kings
of Spain, Portugal, France, and Britain, together with
the States of Holland, then the only maritime powers,
gave grants of fuch parts of America as their people
could lay hold on, ftudying only to avoid interference
with their European neighbours. But Mr Penn, being
a Quaker, did not think his power from King Cha. II.
a fufficient title to the country fince called Pennfylvania:
He therefore aflembled the fachems or princes then in
that country, and purchafed from them the extent of
land that he wanted. The government of this province
is moftly in the hands of the Quakers, who never have
any quarrels with the natives. When they defire to ex¬
tend their fettlements, they purchafe newr lands of the
fachen>s, never taking any thing from them by force.
How unlike is this condudl to that of the Spaniards, who
murdered millions of the natives of Mexico, Terra Fir-
ma, Peru, Chili, &c.
QUALITY is a wwd which, as ufed in philofophi- Quality
cal difquifitions, cannot be explained by any periphrafis. charadle-
That which is expreffed by it muft be brought into the nzed by
immediate view of the fenfes or intelledl, and the name AnftotIe*
properly applied, or he who is a ftranger to the word
will never be made to comprehend its meaning. Ari-
ftotle, who treated it as a general conception, fecond in
order among the ten predicaments or categories (fee Ca¬
tegory), gives feveral charafters of it; but though they
are all in fome refpedts juft, no man could from them,
without other affiftance, learn what quality is. Thus he
tells us *, y.d\u. to ttowv, ETrideyshti # Prced. ed.
to uctXXov x.ou to yitIov too TTOttt. And again, 'Opoicc Sylb. p. 44-
« ccvoy.oicc xd\c& fiovcts ras? ‘TtoioTxlu.’; MyiTcti o/aoiov slwe# 45*
fkg&i ovx. ier\i net]' uXM, ov^ev, n xcttf 0 ttoiov icrjiy.
When
(d) u Phofe who oelieve themfelves required to fpeak in meetings for worlhip, are not immediately acknow¬
ledged as minifters by their monthly meetings 5 but time is taken for judgment, that the meeting may be fatisfied
of their call and qualification. It will alfo fometimes happen, that fuch as are not approved, will obtrude themfelves
rtS_ minifters, to. the grief of their brethren} but much forbearance is ufed towards thefe, before the difapprobation
of the meeting is publicly teftified.”
Quality.
QUA [5
When a man comprehends, by means of his fenfes
and intellect, what it is which the word quality denotes,
he will indeed perceive that the full: of thefe characters
is applicable to fome qualities and not to others; that
the fecond is more applicable to quantity than to quality;
and that it is only the third which can with propriety
be confidered as the general charafteriftic of this predi¬
cament. Thus when we have learned by our fenfe of
fight that whitenefs is a quality of fnow, and blacknefs of
coal j and by means of obfervation and retleClion, that
wifclom is a quality of one man and folly of another—we
muft admit that the fenfible quality of the fnow is con-
trarq to that of the coal, and the intellectual quality of
wifdom contrary to that of folly. There is, however,
no contrariety between voifdom and whitenefs or black-
fiefs, nor between hardnefs or foftnefs and any particular
colour; for fenfible and intellectual qualities can never
be compared •, and it is not eafy, if poffible, to make a
comparifon between qualities perceptible only by diffe¬
rent fenfes : Nay, among qualities perceptible by the
fame fenfe, wye often meet with a difference where there
is no contrariety } for though the figure of a cube is dif¬
ferent from that of a fphere, and the figure of a fquare
from that of a circle, the fphere is not contrary to the
cube, nor the circle to the fquare.
His fecond chara&eriftic of this genus is Hill lefs pro¬
per than the firlt. It is indeed true that fome qualities
admit of intenfion and remiffion ; for fnow is whiter than
paper, and one wroman is handfomer than another •, but
of the fpecies of quality called figure wye cannot predi¬
cate either more or lefs. A crown-piece may have as
much of the circular quality in it as the plane of the
equator, and a mulket-bullet as much of the fplierical
quality as the orb of the fun. It is indeed a property
of all quantity to admit of intenfion and remiffion ; and
therefore this ought to have been given as the charac¬
ter not of the fecond but of the third category. See
Quantity.
That it is only from a comparifon of their qualities
that things are denominated like or unlike, or that one
thing cannot referable another but m fome quality, is in¬
deed a juft obfervation. We know nothing direftly but
qualities fenfible and intelleClual (fee Metaphysics,
N° 149, 150, 151, and 227); and as thefe have no re-
femblance to each other, we conclude that body or mat¬
ter, the fubjeCI of the former, is a being unlike mind,
the fubjeCt of the latter. Even of bodies themfelves we
can fay, that one is like or unlike another only by vir¬
tue of their qualities. A ball of ivory refembles a ball
of fnow in its figure and colour, but not in its coldnefs or
hardnefs ; a ball of lead may refemble a ball of fnow in
its figure and coldnefs, but not in its colour ; and a cube
of ivory refembles not a ball of lead either in figure, co¬
lour, or coldnefs. The mind of a brute refembles that of
a man in its porvers of fenfation and perception, but does
not refemble it in the powers of volition and reafoning ;
or at leaft the refemblance, in this latter inftance, is
very flight. All bodies refemble one another in being
folid and extended, and all minds in being more or lefs
a£tive. Likenefs or unlikenefs therefore is the univerfal
charaCreriftic of the category quality.
Im 'orta'it Ariftotle has other fpeculations refpefting quality,
diftindtiotis which are worthy of notice. He diftinguifhes between
of quality, qualities which are effential and thofe which are acciden¬
tal j between qualities which are natural and thofe
Nothing
known but
qualities.
39 ] QUA
which are acquired; and he fpeaks of the qualities of Quality.
capacity and thofe of completion. Extenfion and figure m
general are qualities effential to all bodies : but a parti¬
cular extenfion, fuch as an inch or an ell, and a particu¬
lar figure, fuch as a cube or a fphere, are qualities acci¬
dental to bodies. Among the natural qualities of glafs
it is one to tranfmit objedls of vifion j but to enlarge
thefe objects is an adventitious or acquired quality. The
fame quality may be natural in one fubftanee, as attrac¬
tion in the magnet j and acquired in another, as the
fame attraftion in the magnetic bar. Docility may be
called a quality natural to the mind of man, feience an
acquired one. To underftand what he means by quali¬
ties of capacity and completion, it may be fufficient to ob-
ferve that every piece of iron has the qualities of a ra¬
zor in capacity, becaufe it may be converted into fteel,
and formed into a razor: when it is fo formed, it has,
in the language of this fage, the quality of a razor in
completion. Among the qualities of capacity and comple¬
tion, the moft important, and what may lead to intereft-
ing fpeculations, is the reafoning faculty of man. A
capacity of reafoning is effential to the human mmd }
but the completion of this capacity or adlual reafoning is
not, otherwife infants and perfons afleep would be ex¬
cluded from the human fpecies. 4
Mr Locke has puzzled his readers, and perhaps him-overl°0ked
felf, with a queftion refpefting the fpecies of an idiot^ bocke.
or changeling, whom he pronounces to be fomething
between a man and a brute *. It is not often that we * Book iv.
feel ourfelves inclined to regret Locke’s ignorance ofeh. 4. § 13,.
Ariftotle’s diftindftions •, but wTe cannot help thinking, ^
that had the Britilh philofopher attended to the Stagy-
rite’s account of qualities in capacity and qualities in
completion, this perplexing queftion would never have
been ftarted. It is juftly obferved in the Eflay on Hu¬
man Underftanding, that of real effences we know no¬
thing : but that every man feletfts a certain number of
qualities which he has always perceived united in certain
beings 5 and forming thefe into one complex conception,
gives to this conception a fpecific name, which he ap¬
plies to every being in which he finds thofe qualities 5
united. This is undoubtedly the procefs of the mind in Strange
forming genera and fpecies 5 and as the excellent author c“r’1^ ^
refufes the name of man to the changeling, it is obvious qp^ver-
that the complex conception, to which he gives that fight,
name, muft imply rationality or the actual cxercife of rea-
fon. But this limitation will exclude many beings from
the fpecies man, whom Mr Locke certainly confidered as
men and women. Not to mention infants and perfons
in found fleep, how fhall we clafs thofe wrho, after having
lived 30 or 40 years in the full exercife of reafon, have
been fuddenly or by degrees deprived of it by fome dif-
order in the brain ?
From Marlb’rough’s eyes the ftreams of dotage flow ;
And Swift expires a driveller and a fliow. Johnson.
But were the hero and the wit in thofe deplorable cir-
cumftances excluded from the human fpecies, and clafled
between men and brutes ? No furely ; they were both
acknowledged to be men, becaufe they were known to
have the quality of reafon in what Arillotle would have
called capacity. Their dotage and drivelling originated
from fome diforder in their bodies, probably in the re¬
gion of the brain •, and Locke himfelf contends that no
defeat in body is fufficient to degrade a perfon from the
rank
(
QUA [ 590 ] QUA
Quality rank of manhood. Again, lunatics have the exercife of is one dedicated to thofe men who, as the Chinefe Quango
^ i' reafon, except at new and fuil moon. Are thefe un- pretend, difcovered the fecret of rendering themfelves jl
ping-fou*. haPPy beings fometimes men and fometirnes a fpecies by immortal. ^ ° Quantity.
' themfelves between men and brutes? QUANGSI, a province of China, bounded on the ~~*v '
.6 It appears, therefore, that not the aBual cxercife of north by Koe-Tcheau and Hu-Qriang j on the ealt, by
his d Uf reafor!’ but reason in capacity, ought to be included in Yunan and Quantong j on the loutk, by the fame and
ti-ineTe". t5ie comPIex conception to which we give the fpecinc Tonquin ; and on the weft, by Yun-nan. It produces
fpefling name otman, as fome of the greateft men that ever lived great plenty of rice, being watered by feveral large ri-
the human have been during parts of their lives deprived of the vers 5 and containing 10,000,000 of inhabitants. The
ipecies. power of aBual reafoning. . This, however, it will be fouthern part is a flat country, and well cultivated 5 but
laid, doesmot remove the difficulty; for the occafional the northern is full of mountains covered with trees. It
exercife of reafon in lunatics, and the great exertions of contains mines of all forts ; and there is a gold-mine
it in Inch men as Swift and Marlborough, fhow that lately opened. The capital town is Quie linp.
they had it in capacity tX all times ; whereas we have no A very lingular tree, fays Grolier, grows in this
evidence that changelings have even a capacity of rea- province ; inftead of pith, it contains a foft pulp, which
foning at any time, lince they never do a rational aftion, yields a kind of flour : the bread made of it is faid to
nor ever utter a lentence to the purpofe. That we have
no direB and yta/ikW evidence of the minds of change¬
lings being capable of reafoning, were they fupplied
with proper organs, muff be granted ; but the probabi¬
lities of their being fo are many and great. \Ve know
by experience that the a final exercife of reafon may be
interrupted by an occalional and accidental preffure on
the brain : and therefore we cannot doubt but that if
this preflure were rendered permanent by any wrong
configuration of the Ikull given to it in the womb, or
in the a£I of being born into the world, an infant, with
a mind capable of reafoning by means of proper organs,
would by this accident be rendered, through the whole
of life, an idiot or changeling. That idiotifm is caufed
by fuch accidents, and is not the quality of an inferior
mind occafionally given to a human body, will at leaft
^ feem probable from the following confiderations.
True doc- It does not appear that an animal body can Jive and
trine. move but while it is adiuated by fome mind. Whence
then does the unborn infant derive its mind ? It muft be
either immediately from God, or ex traduce from its
parents ; but if the mind of man be immaterial, it can¬
not be ex traduce. Now, as idiots are very few in num¬
ber when compared with the rational part of the human
fpecies, and as God in the government of this world
adls not by partial but by general laws ; we muft con¬
clude that the law which he has eftablilhed refpedfting
the union of mind and matter, is, that human bodies
Ihall be animated with minds endowed with a capacity
of reafcning, and that thofe who never exert this capa¬
city are prevented by fome fuch accident ‘as we have
affigned.
For a further account of qualities, why they are fup-
pofed to inhere in fome fubjeel, together with the ufual
diftindlion between the primary and fecondary qualities
of matter, fee Metaphysics, Part II. chap. i.
Chemical QUALITIES, thofe qualities principally intro¬
duced by means of chemical experiments, as fumigation,
amalgamation, cupellation, volatilization, precipitation,
&c.
Quality, is .alfo ufed for a kind of title given to
certain perfons, in regard of their territories, figniories,
or other pretenfions.
OUANGA. See Capra.
QUANG-fing-fou, a city in China, is fituated in
the northern part of the province of Pe-tcheli, between
the provinces of Chang-tong and Ho-nan, and has nine
cities of the third clafs dependent on it; all its plains
3re well watered' by rivers. Among its temples, there
3
be exceedingly good. Betides paroquets, hedgehogs,
porcupines, and rhinocerofes, a prodigious number of
wild animals, curious birds, and uncommon infe&s, are
found here.
This province contains 12 villages of the firft clafs,
and 80. of the fecond and third.
QUANG-tong, a province of China, bounded on
the eaft by Kiang-ii and Fokien ; on the fouth, bv the
ocean ; and on the weft, by Tonquin. This province
is diverfified by valleys and mountains ; and yields two
crops of corn in a year. It abounds in gold, jewels, fiik,
pearls, tin, quickfilver, fugar, brafs, iron, fteel, faitpetre,
ebony, and feveral forts of odoriferous wood ; befides
fruits of all forts proper to the climate. They have a
prodigious number of duck«, whofe eggs they hatch in
ovens ; and a tree, whofe wood is remarkably hard and
heavy, and thence called iron-wood. The mountains
are covered with a fort of ofiers which creep along the
ground, and of which they make bafkets, hurdles, matts,
and ropes.
Although the climate of this province is warm, the
air is pure, and the people are robuft Hud healthy. They
are very induftrious; and it muft be allowed that they
poffefs in an eminent degree the talents of imitation : if
they are only Ihown any of our European works, they
execute others like them with the moft furprifing exaft-
nefs. This province buffered much during the civil
wars ; but at prefent it is one of the moft flourilhing
in the empire ; and, as it is at a great diftance from
court, its government is one of the moft important.
This province is divided into ten diftrifls, which con¬
tain ten cities of the firft clafs, and 84 of the fecond and
third. Canton is the capital town. T
QUANTITY, as explained by the great Englifli Quantity,
lexicographer, is that property of any thing which
may be increafed or diminhhed. This interpretation of
the word is certainly juft, and for the purpoies of com¬
mon converfation it is fufficiently determinate; but the
man of fcience may expeft to fftid in a work like ours
a definition of the thing fignified. This, however, can¬
not be given him. A logical definition ccnfifts of the
genus under which the thing defined is ranked, and the
fpecijic difference (fee Logic, N° 20, &c.j ; but quan¬
tity is ranked under no genus. In that fchool where
fuch definitions were melt valued, it was confidered as
one of the ten categories, or general conceptions, under
whicli all the objefts of human apprehenfion were muf-
tered, like foldiers in an army (fee Category and Phi¬
losophy, N0 22.). On this account, even Ariftotle
himfelf,
QUA
(Niar.tky. himfelf, who delighted in definitions, and was not eafi-
1 v ly deterred from a favourite purfuit, coold not confift-
di-'-Ae- entl7 h*8 owu ru^es attempt to define quantity. He
nzed by characterizes it, however, in feveral parts of his works :
Ariftotle. and particularly in the 15th chapter of the 4th book of
his metaphyfics, where he gives the following account
oi the three firft categories : T»v]x pnv w p-ix v ovcna.
ceioiX 0 a/v *1 Trairtl',; f-tix rex rfs, to ttotov w. “ .Things
are the fame of which the substance is one \fimilar, of
which the quality is one ; equal, of which the quan-
t 591 1
QUA
which it has performed, have procured it a moil refpeft- Quantity,,
able place in the circle of the Iciences. Ingenious men -v—-"'
have availed themfelves of this pre-eminence of mathe¬
matics, and have endeavoured to procure refpeft for
their difquiiitions on other fubjeCls, by prefenting them
to the public as branches of mathematical fcience, and
therefore fufceptible of that accuracy and certainty
which are its peculiar boaft. Our moral affe&ions, our
fenfations, our intelleftual powers, are all fufceptible of
augmentation and diminution, are conceivable as greater
* Freed.
p. 34. edit.
tity is one. Again, he tells us*, that the chief charac- » and lefs when Hated together, and are familiarly Ipoken
Sylb.
The fubjeft
of mathe¬
matical rea¬
soning.
teriftic of quantity is, that it may be denominated eequal
and unequal.
That any man can become wifer by reading fuch de-
feriptions as thefe, none but an idolater of Ariitotle
will fiippofe. There is, indeed, no periphrafis by
which we can explain what is meant by quantity to
thole who have not previoufly formed fuch a notion.—
All that can be done by making the attempt is only to
fettle language, by Hating exaftly the cafes in which
we ufe this word in the greatcH conformity to general
cullom; for there is a laxnefs or carelefsnefs of expref-
fion in the language of moll men, and our notions are
frequently communicated by fpeech in a w7ay by no
means precife } fo that it is often a great chance that
the notions excited in the mind of the hearer are
not exadt counterparts of thofe in the mind of the
fpeaker.
The underHandings of men differ in nothing more re¬
markably than in their power of abHradl’on, and of ra¬
pidly iorming conceptions fo general and fimple as not
to by clogged with diHinguiiliing circumfiances, which
may be different in different minds while uttering and
hearing the fame words : and it is of great confequence
to a man of fcientific habits, either to cultivate, ifpofi-
ffble, tins talent, or to fuperfede its ufe, by Hudioufiy
forming to himfell notions of the moH important univer-
fals in his own courfe of contemplation, by careful ab-
Itraclion of every thing extraneous. His language by
this means becomes doubly inllruflive by its extreme
precifion \ and he will even judge with greater certainty
of notions intended to be communicated by the more fio-
venly language of another perfon.
We cannot fay that there is much ambiguity in the
general ufe of the term quantity : But here, as in all
other cafes, a love of refinement, of novelty, and fre¬
quently of vanity, and the wifh of appearing ingenious
and original, have made men take advantage of even
the finall latitude with which the carelefs ufe of the
word will furnifh them, to amufe themfelves and the
public by giving the appearance of fcience to empty
founds.
Mathematics is undoubtedly employed in difeovering
and Hating many relations of quantity ; and it is in this
category alone that any thing is contemplated by the
mathematician, whether in geometry, arithmetic, or al¬
gebra. Hence mathematics has been called the fcience
of quantity. The firnplicity of the objefl of the ma¬
thematician’s contemplation, and the unparalleled di-
flinflnefs wuth which he can perceive its modifications,
have enabled him to eref! a body of fcience, eminent
not only for its certainty, but alfo for the great length
to which he can carry his reafonings without danger of
error} and the intimate connection w7hich this fcience
has with the arts of life, and the important fervices
of as admitting of degrees of comparifon. We
perfectly well underflood when we lay that one pain,
heat, grief, kindnefs, is greater than another 5 and as
this is the diflinguithing charaCteriflic of quantity, and
as quantity is the fubjeCt of mathematical difcuffion, we
fuppole that thefe fubjeCts may be treated mathemati¬
cally. Accordingly, a very celebrated and excellent
philosopher* has faid, among many things of the fame * Fran-t
kind, that the greatnefs of a favour is in the
compound ratio oi the fervice performed and the dig-' Jn'
nity ol the performer, and in the inverfe ratio of the me-Which is
rit and rank of the receiver j that the value of a cha-‘mProPe,dy
racier is in the compound ratio of the talents and virtue, !ntroc*uce^
&-c. ; and he has delivered a number of formal propo'
filionson the mofl interefling queflions in morals, couch- 1 J ^
ed in this mathematical language, and even expreffed.by
algebraic formulae. But this is mere play, and conveys
no inflruClion. We underfland the words •, they con¬
tain no ablurdity; and in as far as they have a fenfe, we
believe the propofitions to be true. But they give no
greater precifion to our fentiments than the more ufual
exprefiions would do. If we attend clofely to the
meaning of any one of fuch propofitions, we fliall find
that it only- expreffes fome vague and indiflinCt notions
of degrees of thofe emoti©ns, fentiments, or qualities,
which would be jafl as well conceived by means of the
expreffions of ordinary language 5 and that it is only
by a fort of analogy or refemblance that this mathema¬
tical language conveys any notions whatever of the fub-
The objeCl of contemplation to the mathematician is The ma¬
nat whatever is fufceptible of greater and lefs, but what themati-
is meafurable •, and mathematics is not the fcience ofcian con"
magnitude, in its mofl abftra&ed and general accepta- onT^ouan
tion, but of magnitude which can be meafured. It is, titles that"'
indeed the SCIENCE of MEASURE, and whatever is are mea-
treated in the way of menfuration is treated mathema-^urab*e-
tic ally. Now, in the difeourfe of ordinary life and
ordinary men, many things are called quantities which
we cannot of elo not meafure. This is the cafe in the
inftances already given of the affections of the mind,
pleafure, pain, beauty, wifdom, honour, &c. We do
not fay that they are incapable of meafure ; but we
have not yet been able to meafure them, nor do we
think of meafuring them when we fpeak rationally and
ufefully about them. We therefore do not confider
them mathematically ; nor can w'e introduce mathema¬
tical precifion into our difeuflions of thefe fubjeCts till
we can, aim aClually do, meafure them. Pei Tons who
are precife in their expreflion will even avoid fuch phrafes
on thefe fubjefts as fuppofe, or ftriClly exprefs, fuch
meafurement. We ftiould be much embarraffed how to
anfvver the queftion, How much pain docs the tooth¬
ache give you juft now} and how much is it eafier fince
yefteiday }
QUA
'pjantny. ^ yefterday ? Yet the anfwer (if we had a meafure)
* Would be as eafy as to the queftion, How many guineas
did you win at cards ? or how much land have you
bought ? Nay, though we fay familiarly, “ I know
well how much fuch a misfortune would affecl you,”
and are underftood when we fay it, it wmuld he aukward
language to fay, “ I know wyell the quantity of your
grief.” It is in vain, therefore, to expedl mathematical
preciiion in our difcourfe or conceptions of quantities in
the mod abflrafted fenfe. Such precifon is confined
to quantity which may be and is meafured (a). It is
only trifling with the imagination when we employ ma¬
thematical language on fubjedls which have not this pro¬
perty.
It will therefore be of fome fervice in fcience to dif-
criminate quantities in this view j to point out what are
6 lufceptible of meafure, and w7hat are not.
Meafuring What is nleafuring ? It is one of thefe two things: It is
fixplaixed. either finding out fome known magnitude of the thing
meafured, which we can demonftrate to be equal to it }
or to find a knowm magnitude of it, which being ta¬
ken fo many times {hall be equal to it. The geometer
meafures the contents of a parabolic fpace when he ex¬
hibits a parallelogram of known dimenfions, and demon-
ilrates that this parallelogram is equal to the parabolic
{pace. In like manner, he meafures the folid contents
of an infinitely extended hyperbolic fpindle, when he
exhibits a cone of known dimenfions, and demonftrates
that three of thefe cones are equal to the fpindle.
In this procefs it will be found that he a&ually fub-
divides the quantity to be meafured into parts of which
it confifts, and dates thefe parts as aflually making up
the quantity, fpecifying each, and adigning its boun¬
daries. He goes on with it, piece by piece, demon-
drating the refpeftive equalities as he goes along, till he
has exhauded the figure, or confidered all its parts.—-
When he meafures by means of a fubmultiple, as w'hen
he {hows the furface of a fphere to be equal to four of
its great circles, he dops, after having demondrated the
equality of one of thefe circles to one part of the fur-
face : then he demondrates that there are other three
parts, each of which is precifely equal to the one he
has minutely confidered. In this part of the procefs he
exprefsly adigns the whole furface into its didinft por¬
tions, of which he demondrates the equality.
But there is another kind of geometrical meafurement
which proceeds on a very different principle. The geo¬
meter conceives a certain individual portion of his figure,
whether line, angle, furface, or folid, as known in re-
fpeft to its dimenfions. Tie conceives this to be lifted
from its place, and again laid down on the adjoining
part of the figure, and that it is equal to the part which
it now covers j and therefore that this part together
with the fird is double of the fird : he lifts it again, and
lays it down on the next adjoining part, and affirms that
this, added to the twro former, make up a quantity tri¬
ple of the fird. He goes on in this way, making fimi-
QUA
lar inferences, till he can demondrate that he has in this Quantity,
manner covered the whole figure by twenty applications, '"“""v ~ }
and that his moveable figure will cover no more ; and
he affirms that the figure is twenty times the part em¬
ployed.
This mode is precifely fimilar to the manner of prac¬
tical meafurement in common life : we apply a foot-rule
fucceffively to two lines, and find that 30 applications
exhaud the one, while it requires 35 to exhaud the
other. We fay therefore, that the one line is 30 and Euclid’s
the other 35 feet long j and that thefe two lines are to fourth pro.
each other in the ratio of 30 to 35. Having meafured i101*111011,
two fliorter lines by a fimilar application of a dick of an
inch long 30 times to the one and 35 times to the other,
we fay that the ratio of the two fird lines is the fame
wfith that of the two lad. Euclid has taken this method
of demondrating the fourth propofition of the fird book
of his celebrated elements.
But all this procefs is a fiflion of the mind, and it is
the fiftion of an impoffibility. It is even inconceivable,
that is, we cannot in imagination make this application
of one figure to another j and wye prefume to fay, that,
if the elements of geometry cannot be demondrated in
fome other way, the fcience has not that title to pure,
abdraft, and infallible knowledge, wffiich is ufually al¬
lowed it. We cannot fuppofe one of the triangles lifted
and laid on the other, without fuppofing it lomething
different from a triangle in abjlracio. The individuality
of fuch a triangle confilts folely in its being in the pre-
cife place where it is, and in occupying that portion of
fpace. If we could diftindUy conceive otherwife, wye
fhould perceive that, when wye have lifted the triangle
from its place, and applied it to the other, it is gone
from its former place, and that there is no longer a tri¬
angle there. This is inconceivable, and fpace has al¬
ways been acknowledged to be immoveable. There is
therefore fome logical defeft in Euclid’s demondration.
We apprehend that he is labouring to demondrate, or
rather illudrate, a fimple apprehenfion. This indeed is
the utmod that can be done in any demondration (fee
Metaphysics, N° 82.) : but the mode by which he
guides the mind to the apprehenfion of the truth of
his fourth propofition is not confident either with pure
mathematics or with the laws of corporeal nature. The
real procefs, as laid down by him, feems to be this.
We fuppofe fomething different from the abdrafl tri¬
angle } fome thing that, in conjunflion with other pro¬
perties, has the property of being triangular, with cer¬
tain dimenfions of two of its fides and the included an¬
gle. It has avowedly another property, not eflential to,
and not contained in, the abdraft notion of a triangle,
viz. mobility. We alfo fuppofe it permanent in ffiape
and dimenfions, or that although, during its motion, it
does not occupy the fame [pace, it continues, and all its
parts, to occupy an equal fpace. In ffiort, our concep¬
tion is very mixed, and does not perceptibly differ from
our conception of a triangular piece of matter, where
the
[ 592 1
(a) To talk intelligibly of the quantity of a pain, we diould have fome dandard by which to meafure it;
fome known degree of it fo well afeertained, that all men, when talking of it, flrould mean the fame thing.—
And we ffiould be able to compare other degrees of pain with this, fo as to perceive didinftly, not only whether
they exceed or fall ffiort of it, but alfo how much, or in what proportion; whether bv an half, or a fifth, or
a tenth. Reid.
1
Q u A [ 593
Quantity, the triangle is not the fubjeft, but an adjunct, a quali-
“—v- ty. And when we luppofe the application made, v.e
are not in fadl fuppohng two abflradt triangles to coin-
cide. This we cannot do with any thing like diftinft-
nels ; for our diftindl conception now is, not that of tw o
triangles coinciding, but of one triangle being now ex-
aclly occupied by that moveable thing which formerly
occupied the other. In Ihort, it is a vulgar meafurement,
reftridkd by fuppofitions which are inadmiflible in all
attual meafurements in the prefent univerfe, in which
no moveable material thing is known to be permanent,
either in Ihape or magnitude.
This is an undeniable confequence of the principle of
univerfal gravitation, and the compreffibility of every
kind of tangible matter with which we are acquainted.
Remove the brafs rule but one inch from its place ; its
gravitation to the earth and to the reft of the univerfe is
immediately changed, and its dimenfions change of con-
lequence. A change of temperature will produce a fimi-
lar effedt; and this is attended to and confidered in all
nice menfurations. We do the beft we can to allure our-
felves that our rule always occupies a fenfibly equal fpace;
and we mud be contented with chances of error which
we can neither perceive nor remove.
We might (were this a proper place) take notice of
fome other logical defedts in the reafoning of this cele¬
brated propolition : but they are belide our prefent pur-
pofe of explaining the different modes of mathematical
meafurement, with the view of difcovering that circum-
llance in wrhich they all agree, and which (if the only
8 one) mud therefore be the charadferidic of menfuration.
We think that the only circumdance in wrhich all
modes of menfuration agree, or the only notion that is
found in them all, is, that the quantity is conceived as
confiding of parts, didinguifliable from each other, and
feparated by affignable boundaries; fo that they are at
once conceived feparately and jointly. We venture to
aifert that no quantity is diredtly meafured which we
cannot conceive in this way, and that fuch quantities
only are the immediate objedls of mathematical contem¬
plation, and fhoald be didinguidied by a generic name.
Let them be called Mathematical quantities.
Extension, Duration, Number, and Proportion,
have this charadferidic, and they are the only quantities
which have it. Any perfon will be convinced of the fird
aflertion by attending to his own thoughts when con¬
templating thefe notions. He will find that he conceives
every one of them as made up of its own parts, which
are didinguidiable from each other, and have alfign-
«ible boundaries, and that it is only in confequence of
involving this conception that they can be added to
or fubtradled from each other 5 that they can be multi¬
plied, divided, and conceived in any proportion to each
other.
He may perhaps find considerable difficulty in acqui¬
ring perfedfly didindl notions of the menfurability, and
the accuracy of the modes of menfuration. He will find
that the way in which he meafures duration is very fimi-
lar to that in which he meafures fpace or extenfion.
He does not know, or does not attend to, any thing
which hinders the brafs foot-rule in his hand from con¬
tinuing to occupy equal fpaces during his ufe of it, in
meafuring the diilance of two bodies. In like manner
he felecls an event which nature or art can repeat con¬
tinually, and in which the circumftances which contri-
Vol> XVII. Part II,
Tiie cha-
rafteriltic
notion of
meni'ura-
tion.
1 QUA
bute to its acccmplifhment are invariably the fame, or Quantity,
their variations and their effedls are infenfible. He con-"y-”*—-’
eludes that it will always occupy an equal portion of
time for its accomplifitment, or always lafi: an equal
time.. 1 hen, obferving that, during the event whole
duration he willies to meafure, this ftandard event is ac-
complifhed 29-3- times, and that it is repeated 365k
times during the accomplilhmcnt of another event, he
affirms that the durations of thefe are in the ratio of 29*-
*-° 3^5t* ^ thus (and with the fame logical defedl
as in the meafuring a line by a brafs rod) that the aftro-
nomer meafures the celeftial revolutions by means of the
rotation of the earth round its axis, or by the vibrations
of a pendulum.
We are indebted for moft of the preceding obferva-
tions to Dr Pieid, the celebrated author of the Inquiry
into the Human Mind on the Principles of Common
Senfe, and of the Effays on the Intelleftual and A&ive
Powers of Man. He has publilhed a differtation on
this fubjeft in the 45th volume of the Philofophical
1 rantaefions, N° 489, which we recommend to our
philofophical readers as a performance eminent for pre-
cifion and acutenefs. If we prefume to differ from
him in any trivial circumftance, it is wfith that de¬
ference and refped wffiich is due to his talents and his
worth.
• • ^
Dr Held juftly obferves, that as nothing has proper- Characters
tion which has not either extenfion, duration, or num-^
ber, the characters of mathematical quantity may be re-matlta/,
ftriCted to thefe three. He calls them proper quanti-^"1 U
ties, and all others he calls improper. We believe
that, in the ulmofl: precifion of the Englifh language,
this denomination is very appofite, and that the word
quantity, derived from quantum, always fuppofes mea- 10
furement : But the word is frequently ufed in cafes Other
where its original is not kept in view, and we ufe other ciu; i tities
words as fynonymous with it, wfiien all menfuration,
whether poffible or not, is out of our thoughts. Accor- "deiedraal
ding to praCtice, therefore, the jus et norma loquendi, thematical-
there feems to be no impropriety in giving this name,ty*
in our language at leaft, to whatever can be conceived
as great or little. There is no impropriety in faying that
the pain occafioned by the ftone is greater than that of
the toothache j and when we fearch for the category to
which the affertion may be referred, we cannot find any
other than quantity. We may be allowed therefore to
fay, with almoft all our fcientific countrymen, that every
thing is conceivable in refpeCt of quantity which w?e can
think or fpeak of as greater and lefs 5 and that this no¬
tion is the charaClerittic of quantity as a genus, wffiile
meafurablenefs is the charaCleriftic of mathematical quan¬
tity as a fpecies.
But do wre not meafure many quantities, and confider
them mathematically, which have not this charaCleriftic
of being made up of their own diftinguiffiable parts ?
What elfe is the employment of the mechanician, wffien
fpeaking of velocities, forces, attractions, repulfions,
magnetic influence, chemical affinity, &c. &c. ? Are
not thefe mathematical feiences ? And if the precifion
and certainty of mathematics arife from the nature of
their fpecific objeCt, are not all the claims of the me¬
chanician and phyfical aftronomer ill-founded preten-
fions ? Thefe queftions require and deferve a ferious anfwer.
It is moft certain that we confider the notions wffiicli
are expreffed by thefe terms velocity, force, denfity, and
4 F the
Velocity,
force, den-
fity, how
meafured.
Q u A
Quantity, the like, as fufceptible of meafure, and
them mathematically.
Some of thele terras are nothing but names for rela-
. tions of meafurable quantity, and only require a little re-
deftion to Ihow themfelves fuch. Velocity is one of
thefe. It is only a name expreffing a relation between
the fpace defcribed by a moving body and the time
which elapfes during its defcription. Certain moderate
rates of motion are familiar to us. What greatly ex¬
ceeds this, fuch as the fight of a bird wrhen compared
with our walking, excites our attention, and this excefs
gets a name. A motion not fo rapid as we are familiar
with, or as we with, alfo gets a name ; becaufe in this
the excefs or defedt may intereft us. We wilh for the
flight of the hawk j wTe chide the tardy pace of our mef-
lenger : but it is fcientific curiofity which firft confiders
this relation as a feparate objedl of contemplation, and
the philofopher mult have a name for it. He has not
formed a new one, but makes ufe of a wrard of common
language, wThofe natural meaning is the combination of
a great fpace with a flrort time. Having once appro¬
priated it, in his fcientific vocabulary, to this very ge¬
neral ufe, it lofes with him its true fignification. Tardi¬
ly would have done juft as well, though its true mean¬
ing is diametrically oppofite \ and there is no greater
impropriety in faying the tardity of a cannon bullet than
in faying the velocity of the hour-hand of a watch. Ve¬
locity is a quality or affection of motion, the notion of
which includes the notions of fpace and duration (two
mathematical quantities), and no other. It does not
therefore exprefs a mathematical quantity itfelf, but a
relation, a combination of two mathematical quantities
of different kinds j and as it is meafurable in the quan¬
tities fo combined, its meafure muft be a unit of its own
kind, that is, an unit of fpace as combined with an unit
>«f time.
Density is another word of the fame kind, expref-
fmg a combination of fpace with number. Denfce arbo-
res means trees Handing at a fmall diftance from each
other 5 and the wrard is ufed in the fame fenfe when we
fay that quickfilver is denier than wTater. The expref-
fion always fuggefts to the reflefting mind the notions
of particles and their diftances. We are indeed fo habi¬
tuated to complicated views of things, that we can fee
j-emote connexions with aftonilhing rapidity ; and a
very few circumftances are fufficient for leading forward
the mind in a train of inveftigation. Common difcourfe
is a moft wonderful inftance of this. It is in this way
that we fay, that we found by weighing them that in¬
flammable air had not the fixth part of the denfity of
common air. Suppofing all matter to confift of equal
atoms equally heavy, and knowing that the weight of a
bladder of air is the fum of the weights of all the atoms,
and alfo knowing that the vicinity of the atoms is in a
certain proportion of the number contained in a given
bulk, we affirm that common air is more than fix times
denfer than inflammable air; but this rapid decifion is
entirely the effeX of habit, which makes us familiar
with certain groups of conceptions, and we inftantan-
eoufly diftinguiih them from others, and thus think and
difcourfe rationally. The Latin language employs the
word frequens to exprefs both the combination of fpace
and number, and that of time and number.
There are perhaps a few more words which exprefs
combinations of mathematical quantities of different
&nds j and the correfponding ideas or notions arc there-
[ 59+ 1 QUA
confider fore proper and immediate fubjeXs of mathematical dif- Quantity,
cuflion : But there are many words which are expreflive v ' }
of things, or at leaft of notions, to which this way of
confidering them will not apply. All thofe affeXions or
qualities of external bodies, by which they are conceived
to aX on each other, are of this kind : Impulsive
EORCE, WEIGHT, CENTRIPETAL AND CENTRIFUGAL
FORCE, MAGNETICAL, ELECTRICAL, CHEMICAL AT.
TRACTIONS AND REPULSIONS } in ffiort, all that we
confider as the immediate caufes of natural phenome¬
na. Thefe we familiarly meafure, and confider mathe¬
matically. 12
What was faid on this fubjeX in the article Physics Forcesmea»
will give us clear conceptions of this procefs of the t^e
mind. Thefe forces or caules are not immediate objeXs^
of contemplation, and are known only by and in the
phenomena which we confider as their effeXs. The
phenomenon is not only the indication of the agency of
any caufe, and the charaXeriftic of its kind, but the
meafure of its degree. The neceffary circumftances in
this train of human thought are, ift, The notion of the
force as fomething fufceptible of augmentation and dimi¬
nution. 2d, The notion of an infeparable connexion
of the force with the effeX produced, and of every de¬
gree of the one with a correfponding degree of the other.
From thefe is formed the notion that the phenomenon
or effeX is the proper meafure of the force or caufe. All
this is ftriXly logical.
But when w7e are confidering thefe fubjeXs mathe¬
matically, the immediate objeXs of our contemplation
are not the forces w’hich we are thus treating. It is
not their relations w'hich we perceive, and which wre
combine w'ith fuch complication of circumftances and
certainty of inference as are known in all other fci-
ences: by no means; they are the phenomena only,
which are fubjeXs of purely mathematical dilcuffion.
They are motions, which involve only the notions of
fpace and time j and when wre have finiffied an accurate
mathematical inveftigation, and make our affirmation
concerning the forces, wTe are certain of its truth, be¬
caufe we Juppofe the forces to have the proportions and
relations, and no other, which w7e obferve in the pheno¬
mena. Thus, after having demonftrated, by the geo¬
metrical comparifon of the lines and angles and furfaces
of an ellipfe, that the momentary defleXion of the moon
from the tangent of her orbit is the 3600th part of the
fimultaneous defleXion of a ftone from the tangent of its
parabolic path •, Newton affirms, that the force by which
a particle of the moon is retained in her orbit is the
3600th part of the weight of a particle of the ftone ;
and having farther ftrown, from faX and obfervation,
that thefe momentary defleXions are inverfely as the
fquares of the diftances from the centre of the earth, he
affirms, that all this is produced by a force which varies
its intenfity in this manner.
Now all this inveftigation proceeds on the two fuppo-
fitions mentioned above, and the meafures of the forces
are in faX the meafures of the phenomena. The whole
of phyfical aftronomy, and indeed the whole of mecha¬
nical philofophy, might be taught and underftood, with¬
out ever introducing the wrord force, or the notion wdiich
it is fuppofed to exprefs : for our mathematical reafonings
are really about the phenomena, which are fubjeXs pure¬
ly mathematical. *
The precifion, therefore, that w?e prefume to affirm
to attend thefe inveftigations, arifes entirely from the
meafurable
Q u A r S9S 1 QUA
tQuantity, meafureable nature of the quantities which are the real pie, &c. the effefbarenine times, 16 times, &c. greater*
v objeas of our contemplation, and the fuitablenefs and and, in fhort, are proportional, not to the’ velocity but
propriety of the meafures which we adopt in our com- to its fquare. This obfervation had been made before
parifons. _ by Dr Hooke, who has enumerated a prodigious variety
Since, then, the phenomena are the iTnmediate tub- of important cafes in which this proportion5 of eftba is
jeas of our diicuffion, and the operating powers are on- obferved. Leibnitz, therefore, affirmed, that the force
ly inferences from the phenomena confidered as effeas, inherent in a moving body is proportional to the fquare
/ the quantity afcribed to them muft alfo be an inference of the velocity.
from the quantity of the effea, or of fome circumftance It is evident that a body, moving with the fame ve¬
in the effea. 1 he meafure, therefore, of the caufe, or locity, has the fame inherent force, whether this be em-
natural power or force, cannot be one of its own parts 5 ployed to move another body, to bend fprings, to rife in
for the whole and the part are equally unperceived by oppofition to gravity, or to penetrate a mafs of foft mat-
us. Our meafure, therefore, muff be a meafure of fome ter. Therefore thefe meafures, which are fo widely dif-
interefting part, or of the only interefting part of the ferent, while each is agreeable to a numerous clafs of
phenomenon. It is therefore in a manner arbitrary, and fafts, are not meafures of this fomething inherent in the
depends chiefly on the intereft we take in the phenome- moving body which we call its force, but are the mea-
non. It muft, however, be fettled with precifion, fo that hires of its exertions when modified according to the
all men in ufing it may mean the fame thing. It muft circumftances of the cafe j or, to fpeak ftill more cau-
be fettled, therefore,by the defcription of that part or cir- tioufly and fecurely, they are the meafures of certain
cumftance of the phenomenon which js chara&eriftic of claffes of phenomena confequent on the a&ion of a mo-
of the natural power. This defcription is the definition ving body. It is in vain, therefore, to attempt to fup-
13 of the meafure. port either of them by a demonftration. The meafure
Meafures Thus Newton affumes as his meafure of the centri- itfelf is nothing but a definition. The Cartefian calls
Betd force. petal. Porce’ t!le momentary deviation from uniform that a double force which produces a double velocity
' rectilineal motion. Others, and fometimes Newton in the body on which it a£ts. The Leibnitzian calls
himfeff, affumes the momentary change of velocity, which that a quadruple force which makes a quadruple pene-
again is meafured by twice this deviation. Thefe mea- tration. The reafonings of both in the demonftration of
fures, being thus feleCted, are always proper in a mathe- a propofition in dynamics may be the fame, as alfo the
tnatical fenfe j and if ftriCtly adhered to, can never lead refult, though expreffed in different numbers,
us into any paralogifm. They may, however, be phyfi- But the two meafures are far from being equally pro-
cally wrong; there may not be that indiffoluble con- per : for the Leibnitzian meafure obliges us to do conti-
neftion between the phenomenon and the fuppofed caufe. nual violence to the common ufe of words. When two
But this is no mathematical error, nor does it invalidate bodies moving in oppofite directions meet, flrike each
any of our mathematical inferences : it only makes them other, and ftop, all men will fay that their forces are
ufelefs for explaining the phenomenon by the principle equal, becaufe they have the beft teft of equality which
which we adopted j but it prepares a modification of the we can devife. Or when two bodies in motion ftrike
phenomenon for fome more fortunate application of phy- the parts of a machine, fiich as the oppofite arms of a le-
fical principles. . rer, and are thus brought completely to reft, w'e and all
Requifites . All that can be defired in the definitions or deferip- men will pronounce their mutual energies by the inter-
meafm-e t*°nS t^ePe. mea^ures *s> that they may not deviate vention of the machine to be equal. Now, in all thefe
ures- from the ordinary ufe of the terms, becaufe this would cafes, it is well known that a perfeCt equality is found in
always create confufion, and occafion miftakes. Dr the produ&s of the quantities of matter and velocity.
Reid has given an example of an impropriety of this Thus a ball of two pounds, moving with the velocity
kind, which has been the fubjeCl of much debate among of four feet in a fecond, will ftop a ball of eight pounds
the writers on natural philofophy. We mean the mea- moving with the velocity of one foot per fecond.* But
fure of the force inherent in a body in motion. Def- the followers of Leibnitz fay, that the force of the firft
cartes, and all the writers of his time, affumed the ve- ball is four times that of the fecond.
locity produced in a body as the meafure of the force All parties are agreed in calling gravity a uniform
which produces it; and obferving that a body, in con- or invariable accelerating force; and the definition
fequence of its being in motion, produces changes in which they give of fuch a force is, that it always pro-
the ftate or motion of other bodies, and that thefe duces the fame acceleration, that is, equal accelerations
changes are in the proportion of the velocity of the in equal times, and therefore produces augmentations of
15 changing body, they afferted that there is in a moving velocity proportionable to the times in which they are
Controver- body a Vis insita, an INHERENT FORCE, and that this produced. The only effe<ft afcribed to this force, and
the’e Weef1 ” ProPor^ona^ *ts velocity ; faying that its force is confequently the only thing which indicates, chara&e-
ans and*'' twice or thrice as great, when it moves twice or thrice rifes, and meafures it, is the augmentation of velocitv.
I-eibnitzi. as at one time as at another. But Leibnitz obfer- What is this velocity, confidered not merely as a ma-
ans on this that a body which moves tw'ice as faft, rifes four thematical term, but as a phenomenon, as an event, a
'ibjedt. times as high, againft the uniform aftion of gravity j produftion by the operation of a natural caufe ? It
that it penetrates.four times as deep into a piece of uni- cannot be conceived any other way than as a determu
form clay 5 that it bends four times as many fprings, or nation to move on for ever at a certain rate, if nothing
a fpring four times as ftrong, to the fame degree; and lhall change it. We cannot conceive this very clearly,
produces a great many effefls wffiich are four times We feel ourfelves forced to animate, as it were, the
greater.than thofe produced by a body which has half body, and give it not only a wdll and intention to move
the initial velocity. If the velocity be triple, quadra* in this manner, but a real exerlion of fome faculty in
4 F 2 confequener
Quantity.
/
QUA
[ 596 ]
QUA
Quantity, confequence of this determination of mind. We are
 v  conlcious of inch a train of operations in ourielves} and
the laft ftep ot this train is the exertion or energy of
fome natural faculty, which we, in the utmoft propriety
of language, call rurce. By luch analogical conception,
we fuppole a fomething, an energy, inherent in the mo¬
ving body j and its only office is the prodmElion and
continuation of ibis motion, as in our own cafe. Sci¬
entific curioiity was among our lateit wants, and lan¬
guage was formed long before its appearance : as we
formed analogical conceptions, we contented ourfelves
with the words already familiar to us, and to this fome¬
thing we gave the name Force, which expreffed that
energy in ourfelves 'which bears fome refemblance (in
office at lead) to the determination of a body to move
on at a certain rate. This fort of allegory pervades the
» whole of our conceptions of natural operations, and v\e
can hardly think or fpeak of any operation without a
language, which fuppofes the animation of matter. And,
in the prefent cafe, there are fo many points of refem¬
blance between the effedls of our exertions and the ope¬
rations of nature, that the language is moft expreffive,
and has the ftrongeft appearance of propriety. By ex¬
erting our force, we not only move and keep in motion,
but we move other bodies. Juft fo a ball not only moves,
but puts other bodies in motion, or penetrates them,
&c.—This is the origin of that conception which lo
forcibly obtrudes ilfelf into our thoughts, that there is
inherent in a moving body a force by which it produces
changes in other bodies. No fuch thing appears in the
fame body if it be not in motion. We therefore con¬
clude, that it is the production of the moving force,
whatever that has been. If fo, it muft be conceived
as proportional to its producing caufe. Now this force,
thus produced or exerted in the moving body, is only
another way of conceiving that determination which we
call velocity, when it is conceived as a natural event.
We can form no other notion of it. The vis infra, the
determination to move at a certain rate, and the velo¬
city, are one and the fame thing, conftdered in different
relations.
Therefore the vis infra corpori movcnti, the determi¬
nation to move at a certain rate, and the velocity, (hould
have one and the famemeafure, or any one of them may
be taken for the meafure of the other. The velocity
being an obje£t of perception, is therefore a proper
meafure of the inherent force } and the propriety is
more evident by the perfedf agreement of this ufe of the
words with common language. For we conceive and
exprefs the a&ion of gravity as uniform, when we think
and fay that its effefls are proportional to the times of
its a£fion. Now all agree, that the velocity produced
by gravity is proportional to the time of its aftion. And
thus the meafure of force, in reference to its producing
caufe, perfeftly agrees with its meafure, independent of
this confideration.
But this agreement is totally loft in the Leibnitzian
doflrine ■, for the body which has fallen four times as
far, and has fuftained the aftion of gravity twice as long,
is faid to have four times the force.
The quaintnefs and continued paradox of expreffion
which this meafure of inherent force leads us into,
would have quickly exploded it, had it not been that
its chief abettors were leagued in a keen and acrimo¬
nious warfare with the Britiffi mathematicians who fun-
i5
Vis infita.
ported the claim of Sir Ilaac Newton to the invention Qi'anh'tj'v
of fluxions. They rejoiced to find in the elegant wri- v 
tings of Huyghens a phyfical principle of great extent,
fuch as this is, which could be fet in compaiifon with
fome of the wonderful difeoveries in Newton’s Princi-
pia. The fact, that in the mutual adlion of bodies on
each ether the product of the maffes and the Iquares
of the velocities remain always the fame (which they
call the confervatio vinum vivarum^) is of almoft yni-Confervatiw
verfal extent; and the knowledge of it enabled them tavirium vi-
give ready and elegant Ibluiions of the moft abffrufe andv ari:ir-
intricate problems, by which they acquired a great and
deferved celebrity. Dr Robert Hooke, whole obferva-
tion hardly any thing efcaped, was the firft (long before
Huyghens) who remarked *, that in all the caies ot the * Micogra-
gradual production and extinction of motion, the fenfiblephia. vis
phenomenon is proportional to the fquare ot the produ -re/iitutiva,
ced or extinguished velocity. ^ (• intu*
John Bernoulli brought all thefe faCts together, and m^uslU
fyftematizcd them according to the principle advanced Works,
by Huyghens in his treatife on the centre of ofcillation.
Fie and Daniel Bernoulli gave moft beautiful fpecimens
of the prodigious ufe ot this principle for the folutioiv
of difficult phyfical problems in their diflertations on
the motion and impulte of fluids, and on the ccmmu-
nication of motion, li was however very early objeCled
to them (we think by Marquis Poleni), that in the col-
liflon of bodies perfeclly hard there was no fuch confer¬
vatio virium v varum ; and that, in this cafe, the forces
muft be acknowledged to be proportional to the velo¬
cities. The obje&ions- were unanfwerable.— But John
Bernoulli evaded their force, by affirming that there
were and could be no bodies perfectly hard. This was
the origin of another celebrated doctrine, on which
Leibnitz greatly plumed himfelf, the Law OF Con- lS
TINUITY, viz. that nothing is obferved to change ab-Lo w of cor¬
ruptly, or per faltum. But no one will pretend to lay tffiuity.
that a perfectly hard body is an inconceivable thing •, on
the contrary, all will allow that loft in fs and Compref-
fibility are adjunCt ideas, and not in the leaft necefiary
to the conception of a particle of matter, nay totally
incompatible with our notion of an ultimate atom.
Sir Ifaac Newton never could be provoked to en¬
gage in this difpute. He always confidered it as a wil¬
ful abufe of words, and unworthy of his attention. He
guarded againft all poffibility ol cavil, by giving the
moft precife and perfpicuous definitions of thofe meafures
of forces, and all other quantities which he had occafion ^
to confider, and by carefully adhering to them. And Great flip*,
in one propofition of about 20 lines, viz. the 39th uonty of
of the ift book of the Principia, he explained every^ewt0B>
phenomenon adduced in fupport of the Leibnitzian doc¬
trine, (howing them to be immediate confcquences
of the aftion of a force meafured by the velocity which
it produces or extinguifhes. There it appears that the
heights to which bodies will rile in oppofition to the
uniform aCtion of gravity are as the fquares of the initial-
velocities : So are the depths to which they will pene¬
trate uniformly refilling matter : So is the number of
eqiral fprings which they will bend to the fame degree,
&c. &c. &c. We have had frequent oecafion to men¬
tion this propofition as the moft ex ten lively ufeful of all
Newton’s difeoveries. It is this which gives the imme¬
diate application of mechanical principles to the expla¬
nation of natural phenomena. It is inceffantly employed
QUA [ 597 ] QUA
Quantity, in every problem by the very peiTons who hold by the
Quaran- ot]ler mcafare of forces, although fuch condufl is virtu-
i , 1:i'ie' ally giving up that meaiure. They all adopt, in every
rnvefligation the two theorems an&fs — vv; both
of which flip pole an accelerating force _/’proportional to
the velocity v which it produces by its uniform adtion
during the time i, and the theorem j fs — v* is the
39th 1. Princip. and is the confervatio virium viva-
rum.
This famous difpute (the only one in the circle of
mathematical fcieuce) has led us fomewhat aiide. But
we have little more to remark with refpect to meafurable
quantity. We cannot fay what varieties of quantity are
fufceptible of itrift meaiure, or that it is impoffible to
give accurate meafures of every thing fufceptible of aug¬
mentation and diminution. We affirm, however, with
confidence, that pain, pleafure, joy, &c. are not made
op of their oven parts, which can be contemplated fepa-
rately : but they may chance to be ailbciated by na¬
ture with fomething that is meafurable; and we may
one day ‘be able to affign their degrees with as much pre-
cifion as tve now afcertain the degrees of warmth by the
expanfion of the fluid in the thermometer. There is one
fenfe in which they may all be meaiured, viz numeri¬
cally, as Newton mealures denfity, vis matrix, &c. We
can conceive the pain of each of a dozen men to be the
lame. Then it is evident that the pain of eight of thefe
men is to that of the remaining four as two to one •, but
from fuch menfuration we do not forefee any benefit
likely to ariie.
Quantity, in Grammar, an affection of a fyllable,
whereby its meafure, or the time wherein it is pronoun¬
ced, is afcertained ; or that which determines the fylla¬
ble to be long or fhort.
Quantity is alfo the objeft of profody, and diftin-
guifhes verfe from profe ; and the economy and arrange¬
ment of quantities, that is, the diftribution of long and
Ihort fyllables, makes what we call the number. See
Poetry, Part 111.
The quantities are ufed to be diiTinguifhed, among
grammarians, by the characters v, fhort, as per ; and ",
long, as ros. There is' alfo a common, variable, or du¬
bious quantity ; that is, fyllables that are at one time ta¬
ken for fhort ones, and at another time for long ones j
as the firlt fyllable in Atlas, patres, &c.
QUARANTINE, is a trial which fhips muft un¬
dergo when fufpedted of a peftilential infection. It
may be ordered by the king, with advice of the privy-
council, at fuch times, and under fuch regulations, as
he judges proper. Ships ordered on quarantine muft
repair to the place appointed, and muft continue there
during the time prefcribed (generallv fix weeks) ■, and
muft have no intercourfe with the fhore, except- for
neceflfary provifions, which are conveyed wuh every
poflible precaution. When the time is expired, and
the goods opened and expofed to the air as direfted, if
there be no appearance of infection, they are admitted to
port.
Ships infeifted with the peftilence muft proceed to St
Helen’s Pool, in the Scilly i(lands, and give notice of
their ' tuation to the cuftomhoufe officers, and wait till
the king’s pleafure be known.
Perfons giving falfe information to avoid performing
quarantine; or refilling to go to tho place appointed, or
efcaping, alfo officers appointed to fee quarantine per- Quarks,
formed, deferring their office, neglefling their duty, or Quarr es- ^
giving a falle certificate, fuffer death as felons. Y" " *
Goods from Turkey, or the Levant, may not be land¬
ed without licenfe from the king, or certificate that they
have been landed and aired at iome foreign port. See
Plague.
Q_U ARLES, Francis, the fon of James Quarles
clerk to the boaid of green cloth, and purveyor to
Queen Elifabeth, was born in 1592. He was educated
ar Cambridge j oceanic a member of Lincoln’s Inn ; and
w’as for tome time cup-bearer to the queen of Bohe¬
mia, and chronoioger to the city of London. It was
probably on the ruin of her affairs that he went to Ire¬
land as fecretary to Archbiihop Uiher ; but the troubles
in that kingdom forcing lura to return, and not find¬
ing affairs more at peace in England, fomc difquiets
he met with were thought to have haftened his death,
which happened in 1644. His works both in profe
and verle are numerous, and were formerly in great
eueem, particularly ins Divine Emblems : bat the ob-
folete quaintnels of his ftyle has caufed them to fall into
neglect, excepting among particular claffes of readers. ]jean]ev't
“ The memory of Quarles, fays a late author, has \szoxv [deEi Beau.
branded with more than common abufe, and he feems to ties of An-
have been cenfured merely from the want of being read. clent ^’g-
If his poetry failed to gain him friends and readers, his
piety thould at leaft have fecured him peace' and good¬
will. He too often, no doubt, miftook the enthu-
fialin of devotion for the infpiration of fancy j to mix
the waters of Jordan and Helicon in the lame cup,
was referved for the hand of Milton •, and for him, and
him only, to find the bays of Mount Olivet equally
verdant with thofe of Parnaffus. Yet, as the effuiions
of a real poetical mind, however thwarted by unto-
wardnefs of fubjecl, will be leldom rendered totally
abortive, we find in Quarles original imagery, ftriking
fenriment, fertility of expreflion, and happy combina¬
tions 5 together with a compreffion of ftyle that me¬
rits the obfervation of the writers of verfe. Grofs de¬
ficiencies of judgement, and the infelicity of his fubjedts,
concurred in ruining him. Perhaps 110 circumftance
whatever can give a more complete idea of Quarles’s
degradation than a late edition of his Emblems ; the
following paffage is extradled from the preface : ‘ Mr
Francis Quarles, the author of the Emblems that go
under his name, was a man of the moft exemplary piety,
and had a deep infight into the myfteries of our holy
religion. But, for all that, the book itfelf is written
in fo old a language, that many parts of it are fcarce
intelligible in the prefent age •, many of his phrafes are
fo affedled, that no perfon, who has any tafte for read¬
ing, can perufe them with the leaft degree of pleafure;
many of his expreffions are harfh. and fometimes whole
lives are included in a parenthefis, by which the mind
of the reader is diverted from the principal ohjedL His
Latin mottoes under each cut can be of no fervice to an
ordinary reader, becauie he cannot underhand them.
In order, therefore, to accommodate the public with an
edition of Quarles’s Emblems properly modernifed, this
work was undertaken.’ Such an exhibition of Quarles
is chaining Columbus to an oar, or making John Duke
of Marlborough a train-band corporal.”
QUARRIES, a name commonly given to an ex¬
traordinary cavern under the city of Paris, the exiffi.
cnce
QUA
Quames. cncc of which is known to few even of the inhabitants,
and many ox thofe wdio have heard of it confider the
whole as an idle ftory. Mr White vifited this cavern in
1784, having, with many others, obtained leave (which
is very cautioufly granted) to infpeft it, accompanied
by guides with torches. He gives the following account
of it in the fecond volume of the Manchelter Tranfac.
tions. “ At the entrance by the Obfervatoire Royal, the
path is narrow for a confiderable way j but foon we en¬
tered large and fpacious ftreets, all marked with names,
the fame as in the city $ different advertifements and
bills were found, as we proceeded, parted on the walls,
fo that it had every appearance of a large town fwal-
lowed up in the earth.
“ The general height of the roof is about nine or ten
feet ; but in fome parts not lefs than 30 and even 40.
In many places there is a liquor continually dropping
from it, wTich congeals immediately, and forms a fpecies
of tranfparent ftone, but not fo fine and clear as rock
cryftal. As we continued our peregrination, we thought
ourfelves in no fmall danger from the roof, which we
found but indifferently propped in fome places with
wood much decayed. Under the houfes, and many of
the ftreets, however, it feemed to be tolerably fecured
by immenfe ftones fet in mortar ; in other parts, where
there are only fields or gardens above it, it was totally
unfupported for a confiderable fpace, the roof being
perfectly level, or a plane piece of rock. After tra-
verfing about twro miles, we again defcended about 20
Heps, and here found fome workmen in a very cold and
• damp place, propping up a moft dangerous part, which
they were fearful would give way every moment. The
path here is not more than three feet in width, and the
loof fo low, that we were obliged t© ftoop confiderably.
“ On walking fome little diftance farther, we entered
into a kind of faloon cut out of the rock, and faid to be
exa&ly under the Eglife de St Jacques. This was illu¬
minated with great tafte, occafioned an agreeable fur-
prife, and made us all ample amends for the danger and
difficulty rve had juft before gone through. At one end
was a reprefentation in miniature of fome of the principal
forts in the Indies, with the fortifications, draw-bridges,
&c. Cannons were planted with a couple of foldiers to
each ready to fire. Centinels were placed in different
parts of the garrifon, particularly before the governor’s
houfe ; and a regiment of armed men was drawn up in
another place with their general in the front. The
whole was made up of a kind of clay which the place
affords, was ingenioufly contrived, and the light that
was thrown upon it gave it a very pretty effeft.
On the other fide of this hall was a long table fet
out with cold tongues, bread, and butter, and fome of
the beft Burgundy I ever drank. Now every thing was
hilarity and mirth j our fears were entirely difpelled,
and the danger we dreaded the moment before was now
no longer thought of. In fhort, we were all in good
fpints again, and proceeded on our journey about twTo
miles farther, when our guides judged it prudent for us
to afeend, as we were then got to the fteps which lead
up to the town. \Ve here found ourfelves fafe at the
Val de Grace, near to the Englifh Benediaine convent,
without the leaft accident having happened to any one
of the party. We imagined we had walked about two
French leagues, and were abfent from the fur face of the
earth betwixt four and five hours.
1 *98 ]
QUA
“ 1 here were formerly feveral openings into the
quarries, but the two I have mentioned, viz. the Obfer-
vatory and the Val de Grace, are, I believe, the only
ones left 5 and thefe the infpetrtors keep conftantly lock¬
ed, and rarely open them, except to ftrangers particu¬
larly introduced, and to workmen who are always em¬
ployed in fome part by the king. The police thought
it a neceffary precaution to fecure all the entrances into
this cavern, from its having been formerly inhabit¬
ed by a famous gang of robbers, who infefted the coun¬
try for many miles round the city of Paris.
“ As to the origin of this quarry, I could not, on the
ftridteft inquiry, learn any thing fatisfadtory j and the
only account I know publiftied is the following contain¬
ed in the Tableaux de Paris, nouvelle edition, torne pre¬
mier, chapitre yne, page lime.
“ For the firft building of Paris it was neceffary to
get the ftone in the environs 5 and the confumption of
it was very confiderable. As Paris was enlarged, the
fuburbs were infenfibly built on the ancient quarries, fo
that all that you fee without is effentially wanting in the
earth for the foundation of the city : hence proceed the
frightful cavities which are at this time found under the
houfes in feveral quarters. They ft and upon abyf-
fes. It would not require a Very violent ftiock to throw
back the ftones to the place fronf whence they have been
raifed with fo much difficulty. Eight men being fwal-
lowed up in a gulf of 150 feet deep, and fome other
lefs known accidents, excited at length the vigilance of
the police and the government, and, in fadl, the build¬
ings of feveral quarters have been privately propped up/
and by this means a fupport given to thefe obfeure fub-
terraneous places which they before wranted.
“ iUl the fuburbs of St James’s, Harp-ftreet, and
even the ftreet of Tournon, ftand upon the ancient
quarries 5 and pillars have been erefted to fupport the
weight of the houfes. What a fubjeft for reflexions,
in confidering this great city formed and fupported by
means abfolutely contrary ! Thefe towers, thefe fteeples,
the arched roofs of thefe temples, are fo many figns to
tell the eye that what we now fee in the air is wanting
under our feet.”
QUARRY, a place under ground, out of which are
got xharble, freeftone, flate, limeftone, or other matters
proper for building. See Strata.
Some limeftone quarries in Fife are highly worthy
the attention of the curious, on account of an amazing
mixture of organized marine produXions found in them.
One of this kind wras opened about the year 1759, at a
farm called Enderteel, in the neighbourhood of Kirkal-
dy, belonging to General St Clair.
The flakes of the ftone, wTich are of unequal thick-
nefs, moft: of them from eight to ten inches, lie hori¬
zontally, dipping towards the fea. Each of thefe
flakes, when broken, prefents to our view an amazing
colleXion of petrified fea bodies, as the bones of fifties,
ftalks of fea-weed, vaft quantities of ftiells, fuch as
are commonly found on thofe coafts, befides feveral
others of very uncommon figures. In fome places
the ftiells are fo numerous, that little elfe is to be feen
but prodigious clufters or concretions of them. In
the uppermoft ftratum the fliells are fo entire, that the
outer cruft or plate may be feraped off with the finger 5
and the ftalks of the fca-weed have a darkifli colour,
not that gloffy whitenefs which they have in the heart
of
Quarry.
1
QUA
Qii.irry. of the quarry. The fmalleft rays or vein# of the (hells
c are deeply indented on the ftone, like the impreffion
cl0n of a feal upon wax. In (hort, no fpot at the bottom
of the ocean could exhibit a greater quantity of fea-
bodies than are to be found in this folid rock; for we
have the fkeletons of feveral fifties, the antenna or
feelers of lobfters, the roots and (talks of fea-rveeds, with
the very capfula which contain the feed. The place
where all thefe curiofities are found is on an eminence
about an Englifti mile from the fea; and as the ground
is pretty deep the whole way, it may be 200 feet higher
at lead.
There are two or three things to be remarked here.
I. That among all the bodies we have mentioned,
there are none but what are fpecifically heavier than
•water. This holds fo conftantly true, that the fea-weed,
which floats in water when the plant is entire, has been
dripped of the broad leaves, which make it buoyant,
before it has been lodged here. 2. The (hells have been
all empty ; for the double ones, as thofe of the flat kind,
are always found (ingle, or with one fide only. 3. The
rock feems to have been gradually deferted by the fea,
and for a long time, wafhed with the tides \ for the up¬
per furface is all eaten, and hollowed in many places like
an honey-comb, jud as we obferve in flat rocks expofed
every tide to the accefs and recefs of the waters. See
the article Sea.
Quarry, or Quarrel, among glaziers, a pane of glafs
cut in a diamond form.
Quarries are of two kinds, fquare and long 5 each of
which are of different fizes, exprefled by the number
of the pieces that make a foot of glafs, viz. eighths,
tenths, eighteenths, and twentieths : but all the fizes
are cut to the fame angles, the acute angle in the
fquare quarrels being 770 19', and 67° 21' in the long
ones.
Quarry, among hunters, is fometimes ufed for a part
of the entrails of the bead taken, given by way of re¬
ward to the hounds.
Quarry, in falconry, is the game which the hawk is
in purfuit of, or has killed.
QUART, a meafure of capacity, being the fourth
part of fome other meafure. The Englifti quart is the
fourth part of the gallon, and contains two pints.
The quart of the Romans was the fourth part of their
congius. The French have various quarts, befides
their quart or pot confiding of tivo pints, and are
diflinguifhed by the whole of which they are quar¬
ters ; as quart de muid, and quart de boijfeau.
QUARTAN, a meafure containing the fourth part
of fome other meafure.
Quartan, a fpecies of intermitting fever. See Me¬
dicine Index.
QU AR T AT ION, is an operation by which the
quantity of one thing is made equal to a fourth part of
the quantity of another thing. Thus when gold alloyed
with filver is to be parted, we are obliged to facilitate
the action of the aquafortis, by reducing the quantity of
the former of thefe metals to one fourth part of the
whole mafs; which is done by (ufficiently increafing the
quantity of the filver, if it be neceffary. This operation
is called quartatwn, and is preparatory to the parting ;
and even many authors extend this name to the opera¬
tion of parting. See Ores, Ana/yjis of.
t 599 1
QUA
QUARTER, the fourth part of any thing, the frac- Quarter;
tional expreflion for which is v—
Quarter, in weights, is generally ufed for the
fourth part of an hundred weight avoirdupois, or
28 lb. & E >
Ufed as the name of a dry meafure, quarter is the
fourth part of a ton in weight, or eight buftiels.
Quarter, a term in the manege. To work from
quarter to quarter, is to ride a horfe three times in upon
the fird of the four lines of a (quare } then changing
your hand, to ride him three times upon the fecond:
and (o-to the third and fourth j always changing hands,
and obferving the fame order.
Quarters, with refpeft to the parts of a horfe, is
ufed in various fenfes: thus the (boulders and fore-legs
are called the fore-quarters, and the hips and hinder-legs
the hind quarters. The quarters of a horfe’s foot are
the (ides of the coffin, comprehending between the toe
and the heel; the inner quarters are thofe oppofite to
one another, facing from one foot to the other j and thefe
are always weaker than the outfde quarters, which lie
on the external Tides of the coffin. Falfe quarters, are
a cleft in the horn of a horfe’s hoof, extending from the
coronet to the (hoe. A horfe is faid to be quarter-cqfl
when for any diforder in the coffin we are obliged to cut
one of the quarters of the hoof.
Quarter, in Afronomij, the fourth part of the moon’s
period : thus, from the new moon to the quadrature is
the firft quarter; from this to full moon, the fecond
quarter, &c.
Quarter, in Hera/dnj, is applied to the parts or
members of the firfl: divifion of a coat that is quartered,
or divided into four quarters.
Franc QUARTER, in Heraldry, is a quarter (ingle
or alone j which is to poffefs one fourth part of the
field. It makes one of the honourable ordinaries of a
coat.
QUARTER of a Ship, that part of a (hip’s fide which
lies towards the (fern •, or which is comprehended be¬
tween the aftmofl: end of the main chains and the (ides
of the (fern, where it is terminated by the quarter-
pieces.
Although the lines by which the quarter and bow
of a (hip, with refpedl to her length, are only imagi¬
nary, yet experience appears fufficiently to have afcer-
tained their limits : fo that if we were to divide the
(hip’s (ides into five equal portions, the names of each
fpace would be readily enough expreffed. Thus the
firft, from the (fern, would be the quarter ; the fecond,
abaft the midftiips j the third, the midfhips ; the fourth,
before the midftiips; and the fifth, the bow. Whether
thefe divifions, which in reality are fomewhat arbitrary,
are altogether improper, may be readily difcovered by
referring to the mutual fituation or approach of two ad¬
jacent veffels. The enemy boarded us on the larboard
fide ! . Whereabouts ? Abaft the midftiips, before the
midftiips, &c.
Fig. 1. reprefents a geometrical elevation of a quar- Plate
ter of a 74 gun (hip. A the keel, with a the falfe keel ccccrvur.
beneath it.. B the ftern-’poft. DD the quarter-gallety, Fi^ u
with'its balluftrades and windows. EE the quarter-
pieces, which limit and form the outlines of the ftern.
F the taffarel, or upper pieces of the ftern. FG the
profile of the ftern, with its galleries, FI the gun-ports
of;
QUA [ 6
Quarter, of the lower deck j h the gun-ports of the upper and
U~"V ” quarter-deck. 1 the after-part of the mizen channel.
K the wing tranfom. KG the lower counter. LB the
ftation of the deck tranfom. L£) the after-part of the
main-wale. DR the after-part of the channel-wale, pa¬
rallel to the main-wale. SU the iheer-rail, parallel to
both wales. T t the rudder. A t F the rake of the
item. P i i the drift-rails. TU the after-part of the
load water line; h k l the curve of the feveral decks
correfponding to thofe reprefented in the head. See the
article Head.
As the marks, by which veffels of different conftruc-
tions are diltinguilhed from each other, are generally
more confpicuous on the ftern or quarter than any other
part, we have reprefented fome of the quarters, which
affurae the moft different fhapes, and form the greateft
Fig. 2. 3.4. con trait with each other. Fig. 2. (hows the ftern and
5- 6- 7* quarter of a Dutch flight. Fig. 3. the ftern and quar¬
ter of a cat. Fig. 4. is the ftern and quarter of a com¬
mon galley. Fig 5. exhibits the quarter of a firft-rate
galley, otherwife called a galleajje. Fig. 6. the quarter
of a Dutch dogger, or galliot. Fig. 7. reprefents the
ftern and quarter of a floop of war.
The quarters of all other fhips have a near affinity to
thofe above exhibited. Thus all fhxps of the line, and
Eaft-Indiamen, are formed with a quarter little differing
from the principal figure in this plate. Xebecs have
quarters nearly relembling thofe of galeaffes, only fome-
what higher. Hagboats and pinks approach the figure
of cats, the former being a little broader in the ftern,
and the latter a little narrower ; and the fterns and quar¬
ters of cats feem to be derived from thofe of fly-boats.
The fterns of Dutch doggers and galliots are indeed lin¬
gular, and like thofe of no other modern veffel : they
have neverthelefs a great refemblance to the fhips of the
ancient Grecians, as reprefented in medals and other
monuments of antiquity.
On the QUARTER, may be defined an arch of the ho¬
rizon, contained betwen the line prolonged from the
ftiip’s ftern and any diftant objeff, as land, fliips, &c.
Thus if the {hip’s keel lies on an eaft and weft line, the
ftern being weftward, any diftant objeft perceived on
the north-weft or fouth weft, is faid to be on the lar¬
board or itarboard quarter.
QUARTER-Bill, a roll, or lift, containing the diffe¬
rent stations, to which all the officers and crew of the
Ihip are quartered in the time of battle, and the names
of all the perfons appointed to thofe ftations. See
Quarters.
’Quarter-Mq/ler, an officer, generally a lieute¬
nant, whofe principal bufinefs is to look after the
quarters of the foldiers, their clothing, bread, am¬
munition, firing, &c. Every regiment of foot and ar¬
tillery has a quarter-mafter, and every troop of horfe
one, who are only warrant-officers, except in the
Blues.
QUARTER-Majfer-General, is a confiderable officer
in the army ■, and ftiould be a man of great judgment
and experience, and well Ikilled in geography. His
duty is to mark the marches and encampments of an
army : he ffiould know the country perfe&ly well,
with its rivers, plains, marfties, woods, mountains, de¬
files, paffages, &c. even to the fmalleft brook. Prior
to a march, he receives the order and route from the
commanding general, and appoints a place for the
o ] 0 U A
quarter-mafters of the army to meet him next morning, Quarter,
with whom he marches to the next camp ; where being
come, and having viewed the ground, he marks out to
the regimental quarter-mailers the ground allowed each
regiment for their camp : he choofes the head-quarters,
•and appoints the villages lor the generals of the army’s
quarters : he appoints a proper place for the encamp¬
ment of the train of artillery: he condudls foraging
parties, as likewife the troops to cover them againlt af-
faults, and has ;■ lhare in regulating the winter-quarters
and cantonments.
QUARTER Netting, a fort of net-work, extended along
the rails on the upper part of a Ihip’s quarter. In a
fhip of war thefe are -always double, being fupported
by iron cranes, placed at proper diltances. The inter¬
val is fome times filled with cork, or old fails; but chief¬
ly with the hammocks of the labors, fo as to form a pa¬
rapet to prevent the execution of the enemy’s fmallarms
in battle.
OyARTER-SeJJions, a general court held quarterly by RiackJI.
the juftices of peace of each county. This court is Comment.
appointed by flat. 1 Hen. V. c. 4. to be in the firftvoi-1V-
week after Michaelmas-day •, the firft week after the1" 2'1‘
Epiphany $ the firft week after the clofe of Eafter 5 and
in the week after the tranllation of Saint Thomas a
Becket, or the 7th of July. 'J he court is held before
two or more juftices of the peace, one of whom mult
be of the quorum. The jurifdidfion of this court by
34 Fid. III. c. 1. extends te the trying and. determining
of all felonies and trefpaffes whatfoever, though they
feldom, if ever, try any greater offence than imall fe¬
lonies within the benefit of clergy, their commiffion
providing, that if any cafe of difficulty arifes, they
lhall not proceed to judgment, but in the prefence of
one of the iuftices of the courts of king’s benca or
common pleas, or one of the judges of affize. And
therefore murderers and other capital felons are ufu-
ally remitted for a more folemn trial to the affizes.
They cannot alfo try any new7 created offence, without
exprefs power given them by the ftatute which creates
it. But there are many offences, and particular mat¬
ters, which by particular flatutes belong properly to
this jurifdiftion, and ought to be profecuted in this
court j as, the fmaller mifdemeanors againft the public
or commonwealth, not amounting to felony, and efpe-
ciaily offences relating to the game, highways, alehoufes,
baftard children, the fettlement and provifion for the
poor, vagrants, fervants wages, apprentices, and popifh
recufants. Some of thele are proceeded upon by in¬
dictment, and others in a fummary way .by motion and
order thereupon ; which order may, tor the moft part,
unlefs guarded againft by particular flatutes, be remo¬
ved into the court of king’s bench, by writ of certiorari
facias, and be there either quaff ed or ccnfirmed. The
records or rolls of the feffions are committed to the cuf-
tody of a fpecial officer, denominated the cttfos rctu-
lorutn. In moft corporation towns there are quarter-lef-
ficns kept before ji ftices of their ow n, within their re-
fpeCHve limits, which have exaCUy the fame authority
as the general quarter-feffions of the county, except in
very few inftances: one of the moft confiderable of
which is the matter of appeals from orders of removal
of the poor, which, though they be from the orders
of corporation juftices, mnft be to the feffions of the
county, by 8 and 9 Will. III. c. 30. In both corpo¬
rations
Quarter-
Staff;
Quarters.
QUA [ 60
rations and counties at large, there is fometimes kept a
fpecial or petty feffion, by a few juftices, for difpatch-
, ing fmaller bufmefs in the neighbourhood between
the times of the general fefTions, as for licenfing ale-
houfes, pafling the accounts of parith-officers, and the
like.
ARTER-Staff, a long ftaff borne by forefters, park-
keepers, &c. as a badge of their office, and occafionally
ufed as a weapon.
QUARTERS, a name given at fea to the feveral fta-
tions wrhere the officers and crew of a ffiip of war are
pofted in action. See Naval Tactics.
The number of men appointed to manage the ar¬
tillery is always in proportion to the nature of the
guns, and the number and condition of the ffiip’s
crew. They are, in general, as follow, when the
ihip is well manned, fo as to fight both fides at once oc¬
cafionally :
Pounder.
To a 42
32
24
18
12
No. of men.
6
5
4
3
No. of men. Pounder.
15 To a 9
13 6
11 4
9 3
7
This number, to which is often added a boy to bring
powder to every gun, may be occafionally reduced,
and the guns neverthelefs well managed. The number
of men appointed to the fmall arms, on board his Ma-
jelty’s ilups and Hoops of war, by order of the admiralty,
are.
Rate of the fh!p.
ift
2d
3d of 80 guns
—of 70 guns
4th of 60 guns
4th of 50 guns
5th
6th
Sloops of war
No. of men to the fmall arms.
150
120
100
80
70
- 60
50
40
30
The lieutenants are ufually Rationed to command the
different batteries, and diredd their efforts againff the
enemy. The mailer fuperintends the movements of
the fhip, and whatever relates to the fails. The boat-
fwain, and a fufficient number of men, are Rationed to
repair the damaged rigging *, and the gunner and car¬
penter, wherever neceffary, according to their refpe£live
offices.
The marines are generally quartered on the poop
and forecafile, or gang-way, under the dire&ion of
their officers •, although, on fome occafions, they af-
fifi at the great guns, particularly in dillant cannon¬
ading.
Quarters, at a liege, the encampment upon one of
the principal paffages round a place befieged, to pre¬
vent relief and convoys.
Head Quarters of an Army, the place where the
commander in chief has his quarters. The quarters of
generals of horfe are, if poffible, in villages behind the
right and left wings, and the generals of foot are often
in the fame place : but the commander in chief Ihould
be near the centre of the army.
QUARTERS of Rcf cfhment, the place or places where
Vox.. XVII. Part II.
Quaffia.
1 3 QUA
troops that hare-been much haraffed are put to recover Quarts
themfelves during fome part of the campaign.
Intrenched Quarters, a place fortified with a ditch
and parapet to fecure a body of troops.
Winter QUARTERS, fometimes means the fpace of
time included between leaving the camp and taking the
field j but more properly the places where the troops are
quartered during the winter.
The firR bulinefs, after the army is in winter-quar¬
ters, is to form the chain of troops to cover the quarters
well: which is done either behind a river, under cover
of a range of Rrong poRs, or under the proteftion
of fortified towns. Huffars are very ufeful on this fer-
It ffiould be obferved, as an invariable maxim, in
winter-quarters, that your regiments be difpofed in
brigades, to be always under the eye of a general offi¬
cer ; and, if poffible, let the regiments be fo diflri-
buted, as to be each under the command of its own
chief.
QUARTILE, an afpe<R of the planets when they
are at the diRance of 90° from each other, and it is de¬
noted by the charadler □ .
QUARTERING, in heraldry, is dividing a coat in¬
to four or more quarters, or quarterings, by parting,
couping, &c. that is, by perpendicular and horizontal
lines, &c.
QUARTO-DECIMANS, an ancient fe<R in the Chrif-
tian church, who taught that EaRer ffiould always be
celebrated according to the cuRom of the Jew’s, on the
fourteenth day of the moon in the month of March,
W’henfoever that day fell out. And hence they derived
their name quarto-decimam, q. d. Fourteenthers. The
Afiatics were mightily attached to this opinion, pre¬
tending that it was built on the authority of St John,
who was their apoRle j and Pope Viftor could never
bring them to obedience in this article, though he was
upon the point of excommunicating them : but it is
more probable he contented himfelf with menaces. See
Easter.
QUARTZ, a mineral compofed chiefly of filiceous
earths. See Mineralogy Index.
QUASHING, in Law, the overthrowing and an¬
nulling a thing.
QUASI-contract, in the civil lawq an aft with¬
out the flrift form of a contraft, but yet having the
force thereof. In a contraft there mufl be the mutual
confent of both parties, but in a quaji-contracl one party
may be bound or obligated to the other, without having
given his confent to the aft wdiereby he is obliged. For
example : I have done your bufinefs, in your abfence,
without your procuration, and it has fucceeded to your
advantage. I have then an aftion againR you for the re¬
covery of what I have diffiurfed, and you an aftion
againR me to make me give an account of my admini-
Rration, which amounts to a quafi cotitraB.
QUASI-Crime, or Quaft-deliB, in the civil law, the
aftion of a perfon wffio does damage, or evil, involunta¬
rily. The reparation of quaji-crimes confifls in making
good the damages, with interefl.
QUASS, a fermented liquor drunk in Ruffia. See
Peasant.
QUASSIA, a genus of plants, belonging to the
decandria clafs; and in the natural method ranking un¬
der the 14th order, Gruinales. See Botany Index.
dG QUATUOR-
Quat'.iorvir
II
Qiiebec.
Q U E f 6c2 ] Q U E
OUATUORViH, in antiquity, formerly written IIII.
VlR, a Roitian rriagiftrate, who had three colleagues
joined with him in the fame adminittration, and had the
care of conducing and fettling the colonies fent into the
provinces. 1 here were alfo quatuoiviri appointed to
infpe£t and take care of repairs, &c.
Q^U A\ ER, in Mufic, a meafure of time equal to half
a crotchet, or an eighth part of a femibreve.
QUAY. See Key.
QUEBEC, a handfome and large town of North
America, and capital of Canada. The firfl place taken
notice of upon landing here is a fquare of an irregular
figure, with well-built houfes on each fide ; on the back
of which is a rock j on the left it is bounded by a fmall
church j and on the right are two rows of houles, pa¬
rallel to each other. There is another between the
church and the harbour ; as aifo another long row on
the fide of the bay. This may be looked upon as a
kind of fuburb } and between this and the great ffreet
is a very fteep afcent, in which they have made fteps
for the foot paffengers to go up. This may be called
the Upper Town, wherein is the bilhop’s palace 5 and
between two large fquares is a fort where the gover¬
nor lodges. The Recolets have handfome houfes over-
againft it, and on the right is the cathedral church :
over-againlt this is the Jefuits college, and between
them are well built houfes 5 from the fort runs twTo
ftreets, which are crofied by a third, and between thefe
is a church and a convent. In the fecond fquare are
two defcents to the river of St Charles. The Hotel
Dieu is in the midw7ay •, and from thence are fmall
houfes, w'hich reach to the houfe of the intendant. On
the other fide of the Jeluits college, wdrere the church
ftands, is a pretty long flreet in wBich is a nunnery.
Almoft all the houfes are built of ftone, and there are
about 7000 inhabitants; the fort is a handfome build¬
ing, but not quite finifhed. Quebec is not regularly
fortified : but it cannot be eafily taken •, for the harbour
is Ranked udth two baftions, which at high tides are
almolt level with the water. A little above one of the
baftions is a demi-baftion, partly taken out of the rock 5
and above it, on the fide of the gallery of the fort, is
a battery of 25 pieces of cannon : fiill above this is a
fquare fort called the citadel; and the ways from one
fortification to another are difficult to pafs. To the
left of the harbour, on the fide of the mad, there are
large batteries of cannon, and fome mortars; befides
thefe, there are feveral other fortifications not very
eafy to be defcribed. In 1711 the Britilh fitted out a
fleet with a defign to conquer Canada, which failed
on account of the raffinefs of the admiral; wffio, con¬
trary to the advice of his pilot, went too near the
Seven ifles, ;Tnd fo loft his largeft ftiips, and 3000 of
his belt foldiers. It is about 300 miles north-weft
of Bofton in New7-England. On October, ] 8. 1759,
it was taken by the Britifh under the command of Ge¬
neral Wolfe, who loft his fife in the battle, after he
had the fatis*a6!ion to know that our troops were vic¬
torious. Admiral Saunders commanded a fquadron of
men of war, and did immenfe fervice in reducing this
place ; there being not a man in the navy but wffiat was
a&ive on this occafion, not excepting the failors belong¬
ing to the tranfport veffels. After this valuable acqui-
Stion, all Canada came under the jurifdiftion of the
crown of Great Britain. W. Long. 69. 48. N. Lat. 46.
55-
QUEDA, a kingdom of Afia, in the penin.ula be¬
yond the Ganges, and near the ftraks of Malacca. The
king is tributary to Siam. The principal town is ot the
lame name, and faid to contain about. 8000 inhabitants.
It has a harbour, and is 300 miles north of Malacca.
E. Long. 100. 5. N. Lat. 7. 5.
QUEDLINGBURG, a town of Germany, in the
circle of Upper Saxony, and on the confines of the duchy
of Brunfwick. Here is a famous abbey, whole abbels
is a princets of the empire, and who fends deputies to
the diets. Her contingent is one horfeman and ten
footmen. The inhabitants of the town live by brewing,
hulbandry, and feeding of cattle. It is 10 miles fouth-
eaft of Halberftadt, and 3 2 weft of Bernberg. E. Long.
1 1. 34. N. Lat. 52. 1.
QUEEN, a woman wdio holds a crown fingly.
'The title of queen is alfo given by w7ay of courtely
to her that is married to a king, who is called by way
of diftindlion queen-confort; the former being termed
queen-regent. The wfidow of a king is alfo called queen,
but with the addition of dowager. See ROTAL Fa¬
mily.
d^UEEN Charlotte‘'s Sound is fituated at the northern
extremity of the fouthern illand of New' Zealand, near
Cook’s Strait, lying in 41. 6. of fouth latitude, and
174. 19. of eaft longitude. The climate of this lound
is much more mild than at Duiky Bay ; and though
there is not fuch plenty of wild fowl and fiih, the de¬
feat is lufficiently compenfated by the abundance of ex¬
cellent vegetables. The hills about the found confift
mollly of an argillaceous ftone of a greenilh grey, or
bluilh or yellowufh brow7n colour. A green talkous
or nephritic (by the jew'ellers called jade) is likewife
very common, together with horn-flone, ihingle, feveral
forts of flinty Hones and pebbles, fome loole pieces of
bafaltes, ftrata of a compact mica or glimmer, wdih par¬
ticles of quariz. Hence, Mr Forrefter thinks, there
is reafon to believe that this part of New Zealand con¬
tains iron-ore, and perhaps feveral other metallic fub-
ftances. The country is not fb fteep as at Duiky Bay,
and the hills near the fea are generally inferior in
height, but covered with forefts equally intricate and
impenetrable. Captain Cook fow7ed the feeds of many
vegetables in this place, that have ufeful and nutritive
roots. He fowed alfo corn of feveral forts, beans, kid¬
ney-beans, and peafe. The dogs here are of the long¬
haired fort, with pricked ears, and refemble the common
ffiepherd’s cur, but they are very ftupid animals. They
are fed wiih fifh, and even dogs flelh, and perhaps hu¬
man fleffi, which the natives alfo eat. Captains Cook
and Furneaux left on thefe iflands a boar and two lows,
with a pair of goats, male and female, with fome geefe,
in order to benefit the natives and future generations
of navigators. They left likew’ife among them a num¬
ber of brafs medals gilt, on one fide of which was
the head of his prefent Majefty, with the infeription
“ George III. King of Great Britain, France, and Ire¬
land”, &c. On the reverfe, a reprefentation of two men
of war, writh the names Refolution and Adventure over
them ; and on the exergue, “ Sailed from England March
MDCCLXXII.”
^UEEN-Gold, is a royal duty or revenue belonging
4©
Q U E [
to every queen of England during her marriage to the
king, payable by peribns in this kingdom and Ireland,
on divers grants of the king by way of fine or oblation,
&c. being one full tenth part above the entire fines, on
pardons, contrafts, or agreements, which becomes a real
debt to tue queen, by the name of aurum regince, upon
the party’s bare agreement with the king for his fine,
and recording the fame.
^UEEN"1 s-County, a divifion of the province of Lein-
fter m Ireland*, fo called from the popifh Queen Mary,
in whofe reign it was firft made a county by the earl of
SulTex, then lord-deputy. It is bounded on the fouth
by Kilkenny and Catherlogh : by King’s county on the
north and weft 5 part of Kildare and Catherlogh on the
eaft 5 and part of Tipperary on the wTeft. Its greateft
length from north to fouth is 35 miles, and its breadth
near as much ; but it is unequal both ways. This coun¬
ty was anciently full of bogs and woods, though now
pretty well inclofed, cultivated, and inhabited. The
baronies contained in it are feven ; and it formerly fent
eight members to parliament.
QUEEN-Bee. See Bee, N° 3, &c.
QCJEENBOROUGH, a town of the ifle of Shep-
pey in Kent, which fends two members to parliament,
though confifting only of about 100 low brick houfes,
' and i'carce 350 inhabitants. The chief employment of
the people here is oyfter dredging ; oyfters being very
plentiful, and of a fine flavour. E. Long. o. co. N.
Lat. 51. 25. 
QUEENSFEPiRY, which is fometimes denominated
South Queensferry, is a royal borough in the fhire of
Linlithgow, on the coaft of the frith of Forth, about
9 miles to the weftward of Edinburgh. It obtained
the name from Margaret, queen of Malcolm Canmore,
who was in the habit of frequrnting the paffage of the
frith at this place, and was the principal patronefs of
the town. It is a fmall place, confifting of no more
than one irregular ftreet, the houfes of which are fmall,
and chiefly inhabited by people who lead a feafaring life.
The principal manufafture is that of foap, begun in the
year 1770, which from 1783 to 1789 was a trade of
confiderable extent, the works being then four in num¬
ber, and paying about 10,cool, annually of excife
duty.
The Hupping of the port has confiderably declined ;
and at prefent the chief confequence of the place may
be regarded as arifing from the ferry over the frith of
Forth, which is very much frequented. The river
here is about 2 miles broad, and on each fide has con¬
venient landing places. The paffage is both fafe and
expeditious, and with the exception of a very few
cafes, may be had at all times. It is one of five
boroughs that fend a member to the Britifh or Impe¬
rial parliament, the other four being Stirling, Dun¬
fermline, Inverkeithing and Culrofs. The parifh is
of very fmall extent, being confined to the borough. It
is an eredlionin the parifti ofDalmeny, which took place
in the year 1636. The inhabitants were 505 in the year
J792.
Queensferry, North, a village in Fifefhire, fitu-
ated on the forth, direftly oppofite to the borough
Queensferry, between which there are regular paf¬
fage boats. It lies in the parilh of Dunfermline, but is
annexed, quoad facra, to the pariih of Inverkeithing.
The inhabitants in 1793, were 312.
603 1 Q U E
QUEI-ling-fou, the capital of the province of Quel-ling-
Quangfi in China, has its name from a flower called ^ou
qua, which grows on a tree refembling a laurel \ it ex- qU(Jcus
hales fo Ivveet and agreeable an odour, that the wThole ■ y ■
country around is perfumed with it. It is fituated on G/oy?<?rV
the banks of a river, which throws itfelf into the Ta- General
ho ; but it flows with fuch rapidity, and amidft £0 nar- DfQ}y^m
row valleys, that it is neither navigable nor of any uti- ^
lity to commerce. This city is large, and the whole
of it is built almoft after the model of our ancient for-
treffes \ but it is much inferior to the greater part of the
capitals of the other provinces. A great number of
birds are found in the territories belonging to it, the
colours of which are fo bright and variegated, that the
artifts of this country, in order to add to the luftre
of their filks, interweave with them fume of their fea¬
thers, which have a fplendor and beauty that cannot be
imitated. Quei-ling has under its jurifclidfcion two ci¬
ties of the fecond clafs and feven of the third.
Quei, in NaturalHiftory, is a name given by the Chi-
nefe to a peculiar earth found in many parts of the eaft.
It is of the nature of an indurated clay, and in fome de¬
gree approaches to the talks, as our fteatites and the ga-
lafHtes do. It is very white and abfterfive, ufed by
the women of China to take off fpots from the fldn,
and render it foft and fmooth, as the Italian ladies ufe
talk of Venice. They fometimes ufe the fine powder
of this ftone dry, rubbing it on the hands and face after
walking j fomeiimes they mix it in pomatum.
OUELPAERT, anifland in the mouth of the chan¬
nel of Japan, fu :je£l to the king of Corea. Before the
laft voyage of the unfortunate La Peroufe, this ifland
was only known to the Europeans by the wreck of the
Dutch (hip Sparrow-hawk, in the year 1635. Some of
the crew of this Ihip were kept prifoners for about 18
years, during which period they were often feverely
treated; but having found means to efcape to Japan,
and from thence to Batavia, they at laft arrived in fafety
at Amfterdam. La Peroufe difcovered the ifland on the
21 ft of May 1787, the foulh point of which is in
N. Lat. 330 14', and E. Long. 1240 15' from Paris.
The land has a gradual Hope towards the fea, which
makes the habitations affume the appearance of an am¬
phitheatre. The foil appeared to be highly cultivated,
and the divilions of fields were perceived by the aflift-
ance of glaffes, which afforded a convincing proof of an
extenfive population. It is unfortunately inhabited by
a people who are prohibited from all intercourfe with
ftrangers, and wdio make flaves of all thofe who have
the misfortune to fuffer fhipwreck on their coafts.
QUERCI, a province of Guienne in France ; boun¬
ded on the north by Limofin, on the eaft by Rouergue
and Auvergne, on the fouth by Upper Languedoc,
and on the weft by Agenois and Perigord. It is di¬
vided into Upper and Lower ; and is fertile in corn,
wine, and fruits. Cahors is the capital town.
QUERCUS, a genus of plants belonging to the mo-
noecia clafs; and in the natural method ranking under
the 50th order, Amentacece. See Botany Index.
'Fhe robur, or common Englifh oak, grows from a-
bout 60 or 70 to i 00 feet high, with a prodigious large
trunk, and monftrous fpreading head ; oblong leaves,
broadeft towards the top, the edges acutely finuated,
having the angles oblufe. There is a variety, having
the leaves finely ftriped with white. This fpecies grows
4 G 3 in
Q U E [ 604 ] Q U E
Qjercus. In great abundance all over England, in woods, forefts,
1 v and hedge rows j is naturally of an amazing large
growth, there being accounts of fome above 100 feet
ftature, with wonderful large trunks and fpreading
heads ; and is fuppofed to continue its growth many
centuries.
The fuber, or cork-tree, grows 30 or 40 feet high,
having a thick, rough, fungous, cleft bark, and oblong-
oval undivided ferrated leaves, downy underneath. This
fpecies furnilhes that ufeful material cork*1, it being the
bark of the tree, which becoming of a thick fungous na¬
ture, under which, at the fame time, is formed a new
bark, and the old being detached for ufe, the tree ftill
lives, and the fucceeding young bark becomes alfo of the
fame thick fpongy nature in fix or feven years, fit for
barking, having likewife another frefh bark forming un¬
der it, becoming cork like the others in the like period
of time \ and in this manner thefe trees wonderfully fur-
nifh the cork for our ufe, and of which is made the corks
for bottles, bungs for barrels, and numerous other ufeful
articles. The tree grow's in great plenty in Spain and
Portugal, and from thefe countries we receive the cork.
The Spaniards burn it, to make that kind of light black
we call Spanilh black, ufed by painters. Cups made of
cork are faid to be good for hectical perfons to drink out
of. The Egyptians made coffins of cork ; which being
lined with a refinous compofition, preferved dead bodies
uncorrupted. The Spaniards line ftone-walls with it,
which not only renders them very warm, but corre&s
the moifture of the air.
Oak-trees, of all the above forts, may be employed in
gardening to diverfify large ornamental plantations in
out-grounds, and in forming clumps in fpacious lawns,
parks, and other extenfive opens the evergreen kinds
in particular have great merit for all ornamental pur-
pofes in gardens. But all the larger growing kinds, both
deciduous and evergreens, demand efteem principally as
firft-rate foreft-trees for their timber. The Englilh oak,
however, claims precedence as a timber-tree, for its pro¬
digious height and bulk, and fuperior worth of its wood.
Every poffeffor of confiderable eftates ought therefore to
be particularly affiduous in railing woods of them, which
is effefted by fowing the acorns either in a nurfery and
the plants tranfplanted where they are to remain, or
fowed at once in the places where they are always to
ftand. All the forts will profper in any middling foil
and open fituation, though in a loamy foil they are ge¬
nerally more profperous : however, there are but few
foils in which oaks will not grow \ they will even thrive
tolerably in gravelly, fandy, and clayey land, as may be
obferved in many parts of this country of the common
oak.
The oak is of the utmoft importance to Britain, and
its cultivation deferves the utmotl attention. Much, there-
rore to the honour of the members of the London Society
for encouraging Arts, ManufaBures, and Commerce, they
have excited particular attention to it \ and many exctl-
lent obfervations, drawn from practice, will be found in
their Tranfadfions.
The propagation of the ftriped-leaved varieties of
the common oak, and any particular variety of the
other fpecies, muft be effedted by grafting, as they
will not continue the fame from feed : the grafting may
fee performed upon any kind of oakling docks raifed
from the acorns, and train them for ftandards like the Quercm.
others. ——y—™
The oak is remarkable for its flownefs of growth,
bulk, and longevity. It has been remarked that the
trunk has attained to the fize only of 14 inches in dia¬
meter, and of fome to 20, in the fpace of fourfcore years.
As to bulk, we have an account of an oak belonging
to Lord Powis, growing in Broomfield wood, near
Ludlow in Shropftiire, in the year 1764, the trunk of
which meafured 68 feet in girth, 23 in length, and
which, reckoning 90 feet for the larger branches, con¬
tained in the whole 1455 feet of timber, round mea-
fure, or 29 loads and five feet, at 50 feet to a load.
The Greendale oak, &c. we have already mentioned
(fee Oak). In the opinion of many, the Cowthorp oak
near Wetherby in Yorklhire is the father of the foreft.
Dr Hunter, in his edition of Evelyn, has given an en¬
graving of it. Within three feet of the furface he fays
it mealiires 16 yards, and clofe to the ground 26. In
1776, though in a ruinous condition, it was 85 feet
high, and its principal limb extended 16 yards from the
bole. The foliage was very thin. If this meafurement
were taken as the dimenfion of the realJlem, the fize of
this tree would be enormous j but, like moll very large
trees, its Hem is fhort, fpreading wdde at the bafe, the
roots rifing above the ground like buttreffes to the »
trunk, which is fimilar not to a cylinder but to the fru-
ftum of a cone. Mr Marlham fays, “ I found it in
1768, at four feet, 40 feet fix inches \ at five feet, 36
feet fix inches ; and at fix feet, 3 2 feet one inch.” In
the principal dimenfions then, the Ji%e of the Jlem, it is
exceeded by the Bentley oak ; of which the fame writer
gives the following account: “^1759 the oak in Holt-
Foreft, near Bentley, was at feven feet 34 feet. There
is a large excrefcence at five and fix feet that would ren¬
der the meafure unfair. In 1778, this tree was increaf-
ed half an inch in 19 years. It does not appear to be
hollow, but by the trifling increafe I conclude it not
found.” Thefe dimenfions, however, are exceeded by
thole of the Boddington oak. It grows in a piece
of rich grafs land, called the Old Orchard Ground, be¬
longing to Boddington-Manor Farm, lying near the
turnpike-road between Cheltenham and Tewkfbury, in
the Vale of Gloucefter. The ftem is remarkably col¬
lected at the root, the fides of its trunk being much
more upright than thofe of large trees in general; and
yet its circumference at the ground is about 20 paces :
meafuring with a two-foot rule, it is more than 18
yards. At three feet high it is 43 feet, and where
fmalleft, i. e. from five to fix feet high, it is 36 feet.
At fix feet it fwells out larger, and forms an enormous
head, which has been furnifned with huge, and probably
exteniive, arms. But time and the fury of the wind
have robbed it of much of its grandeur 5 and the great-
eft extent of arm in 1783 was eight yards from the
ftem.
In the Gentleman’s Magazine for May 1794 we
have an account of an oak tree growing in Penfhurft
park in Kent, together with an engraving. It is called
the Bear or Bare oak, from being fuppofed to referable
that which Camden thought gave name to the county
of Berkftiire. The tradition at Penfhurft is that it is
the very tree planted on the day that the celebrated Sir
Philip Sydney was born. “ Some late writers (fays
Mr
Quercus.
Q U E [ 605 ] Q U E
Mr Rawlet) have quefUoned this, and think that to have
been a different tree, which rvas cut down f'ome years
ago, and was indeed much larger than this. I remem¬
ber being once in the hollow of the prefent oak with the
late Sir John Cullum •, and his opinion then was, that
its antiquity was greater than the period afiigned. But,
I affure you, the tradition of this place is conftant for
this tree 5 and, in confirmation of it, an old lady of 94
years of age, now living, has told me, that all the te¬
nants ufed to furnilh themfelves with boughs from this
tree, to flick in their hats, whenever they w7ent to meet
the earls of Leicefter, as was always the cuftom to do
at the end of the park when they came to refide at their
feat here. This fine old oak ftands upon a plain about
500 yards from their venerable manfion, near a large
piece of water called Lancut-well. Ben Jonfon and
Waller have particularly noticed it j and from the di-
ftinguifhed owners of this place, it may be truly faid to
ftand on claffic ground. Within the hollow of it there
is a feat, and it is capable of containing five or fix per-
fons writh eafe. The bark round the entrance w7as fo
much grown up, that it has lately been cut awTay to fa¬
cilitate the accefs. The dimenfions of the tree are
thefe:
Girth clofe to the ground
Ditto one foot from ditto
Ditto five feet from ditto
Height taken by fliadow
Girth of lowTeft, but not largeft, limb
Feet. Inches.
35 6
27 6
24 o
73 o
6 9
With refpeft to longevity, Linnaeus gives account of
an oak 260 years old : but wTe have had traditions of
fome in England (how far to be depended upon wTe
know not) that have attained to more than double that
age. Mr Marfham, in a letter to Thomas Beevor, Efq.
Bath Papers, vol. i. p. 79, makes fome very ingenious
calculations on the age of trees, and concludes from the
increafe of the Bentley oak, &c. that the Fortworth
chefnut is uoo years old.
Belides the grand purpofes to which the timber is
applied in navigation and architefture, and the bark in
tanning of leather, there are other ufes of lels confe-
quence, to which the different parts of this tree have
been referred. The Highlanders ufe the bark to dye
their yarn of a brown colour, or, mixed with copperas,
of a black colour. They call the oak the king of all the
trees in the forejl; and the herdfman wTould think him-
felf and his flock unfortunate if he had not a ftaff of it.
The acorns are a good food to fatten fwine and tur¬
keys ; and, after the fevere winter of the year 1709,
the poor people in France were miferably conftrained
to eat them themfelves. There are, however, acorns
produced from another fpecies of oak, which are eaten
to this day in Spain and Greece, with as much plea-
fure as chefnuts, without the dreadful compulfion of
hunger.
^UEBCUS Marina, the Sea Oak, in Botany, the name
of a broad-leaved dichotomous fea-fucus. . It is not
agreed, among the late botanifts, what was the fea-
oak of Theophraftus ; and the moft ancient botanifts,
Clufius and Ceefalpinus, fuppofe it to have been a fpe¬
cies of the fhrubby coralline j but that feems by no
means to have been the cafe, fince Theophraftus fays his
fea-oak had a long, thick, and ileftiy leaf 5 whence we
may much more naturally conclude it to have been of Qaena
the fucus clafs. Il
QJJERIA, a genus of plants, belonging to the tri-, e^Fl0’
andria clafs ; and in the natural method ranking under
the 2 2d order, Caryophillei. See Botany Index.
QUESNE, Abraham du, marquis of Quelne, ad¬
miral of the naval forces of France, and one of the
greateft men of the 17 th century, wras born in Norman¬
dy in 1610. He contributed to the defeating of the
naval power of Spain before Gattari; was dangeroufly
wounded before Barcelona in 1642, and on other occa-
fions: he went into the fervice of the Swedes, and be¬
came vice-admiral j gave the Danes an entire defeat,
killed their admiral, and took his Ihip. He was recal¬
led into France in 1647, and commanded the fquadron
fent to Naples. The fea-affairs of France being much
fallen, he fitted out divers fhips for the relief of the
royal army that blocked up Bourdeaux j which was the
principal caufe of the furrender of the town. He rvas
very fortunate in the laft wars of Sicily, where he beat
the Dutch thrice, and De Ruyter was killed. He alfo
obliged the Algerines to fue for peace from France in a
very humble manner. In fhort, Afia, Africa, and Eu¬
rope, felt the effedls of his valour. He was a Proteft-
ant \ yet the king beftowed on him the land of Bouchet,
and to immortalize his memory gave it the name of that
great man. Fie died in 1688.
(QUESTION, in Logic, a propofition ftated by way
of interrogation.
Question, or Torture. See Rack.
QUESTOR, or Qutestor, in Roman antiquity,
an officer who had the management of the public trea-
fure.
The queftorffiip was the firft office any perfon could
bear in the commonwealth, and have a right to fit in the
fenate.
At firft there were only two 5 but afterwards two
others were created, to take care of the payment of
the armies abroad, of idling the plunder, booty, &c.
for which purpofe they generally accompanied the con-
fuls in their expeditions 5 on which account they were
called peregrini, as the firft and principal two were called
urbani.
The number of queftors was afterwards greatly in-
creafed. They had the keeping of the decrees of the
fenate : and hence came the two officers of queforprin-
cipis, or augufli, fometimes called candidatus principis,
whpfe office refembled in moft refpeds that of our fe-
cretaries of ftate, and the quejlor palatii, anfwering in a
great meafure to our lord-chancellor.
QUEUE, in Heraldry, fignifies the tail of a beaft ;
thus, if a lion be borne with a forked tail, he is blazoned
double-queued.
^UEUE d'Aronde, or Swallows Tail, in Fortification,
a detached or outwork, the fides of which open towards
the champaign, or draw7 clofer towards the gorge. Single
or double tenailles are of this kind, and fome hornworks,
the fides of which are not parallel, but narrow at the
gorge, and open at the head, refembling a fwallow7,s
tail. "When the fides are lefs than the gorge, the work
is called centre queue d'aronde.
QUEUE d'Aronde, in carpentry, a method of jointing
alfo called dove-tailing.
QUEVEDO de Villegas, Francisco, a celebra¬
ted Spanifli poet, born ajt Madrid in 1570. He w7as
defeended
Q u I
Queyedo, defcended from a noble family, and was made a knight
jhyck. , Qf gt james . but -was thrown into prifon by order of
Count Olivarez, whole adminiftration he fatirized in
his verfes, and was not fet at liberty till after that mi-
nifter’s difgrace. £)uevedo wrrote fome heroic, lyric,
and facetious poems. He alfo compofed feveral trea-
tifes on religious fubjedts, and has tranflated fome au¬
thors into Spanidi. He died in 1644. ^ m°ft knowrn
of his works are, 1. The Spanilh Parnafl'us. 2. The
Adventurer Bufcon. 2. Vilions of Hell Reformed, &c.
Ouevedo was one of the greatefl fcholars and moll emi¬
nent poets of his time. His youth was fpent in the
fervice of his country in Italy, where he diflinguilhed
himfelf with the utmoft fagacity and prudence. His
moral difcourfes prove his found dodtrine and religious
fentiments, while his literary pieces difplay his infinite
judgement and refined tafte. His great knowledge of
Hebrew is apparent from the report of the hiftorian
Mariana to the king, rcquefting that Quevedo might
revife the new edition of the Bible of Arias Montanus.
His tranflations of EpiiRetus and Phocylides, with his
imitations of Anacreon, and other Greek authors, Ihow
how well he was verfed in that language : that he was
a Latin fcholar, his conltant correfpondence, from the
age of twenty, with Lipfius, ChifHet, and Scioppius,
will lufficiently illuftrate. As a poet, he excelled both
in the ferious and burlefque ftyle, arid was Angularly
happy in that particular turn we have fince admired in
Butler and Swift. His library, which crfnfilted of about
five thoufand volumes, was reduced at his death to
about two thoufand, and is preferved in the convent of
St Martin at Madrid.
QUICK or ^UICKSET Hedge, among gardeners, de¬
notes all live hedges, of whatever fort of plants they arc
compofed, to diftinguilh them from dead hedges ; but in
a more Uriel fenfe of the word, it is reflrained to thofe
planted with the hawthorn, under which name thofe
young plants or fets are fold by the nurfery-gardeners
who raife them for fale.
The following method of propagating the common
white thorn for hedges is recommended by Mr Taylor
of Mofton near Manchefter, in a letter addreffed to the
Society for the Encouragement of Arts, &c. After
premifing that we have fuccefsfutly repeated the experi¬
ment, we fhall give the account of the procefs in his
own words.
“ Every one of you, I think, will allow that fences
are material objefts to be attended to in agriculture *,
you mull alfo be convinced that there is no plant in this
kingdom of which they can fo properly be made as the
cratcegus oxyacantha Linncei, or common wrhite thorn.
In confequence of my being convinced of this, I have
been induced to make a few experiments to effeft the
better propagation of that valuable plant \ the refult of
which, along with fpecimens of my fuccefs, I beg leave
to fubmit to your infpeftion.
“ In the year 1801, I had occafion to purchafe a
quantity of thorns, and finding them very dear, I was
determined to try fome experiments, in order if poflible
to raife them at a lefs expence. I tried to propagate
them from cuttings of the branches, but with little or
no fuccefs. I likewife tried if pieces of the root would
grow \ and I cut from the thorns which I had purchaf-
ed about a dozen of fuch roots as pleafed me, and plant¬
ed them in a border along with thofe I had bought.
Q, U T
T. o my great aftonilhment, not one of them died 5 and
in two years they became as good thorns as the average
of thofe I had purchafed. The thorns I purchafed were
three years old when I got them. In April 1802, I
had occaiion to move a fence, from which I procured
as many roots of thorns as made me upwards of two
thoufand cuttings, of which I did not lofe five in the
hundred.
“ In the fpring of 1803, 1 likewife planted as many
cuttings of thorn roots as I could get. In 1804, I
did the lame ; and this year I fhall plant many thou-
fands.
“ I have fent for your infpedtion fpecimens of the
produce of 1802, 1803, ancl 1804, railed after my me¬
thod, with the belt 1 could get of thofe railed from
haws in the common way, which generally lie one year
in the ground before they vegetate. They are exactly
one, two, and three years old, from the day they were
planted.—1 was fo pleafed with my fuccefs in railing fo
valuable an article to the farming interefl of this king¬
dom, at fo trifling an expence, (for it is merely that of
cutting the roots into lengths and planting them), that
I was determined to make it known to the world, and
could think of no better method than communicating it
to your fociety ; and fhould you fo far approve of this
method of railing thorns, as to think me entitled to any
honorary reward, I fhall receive it with gratitude, but
fhall feel myfelf amply repaid for any trouble I have
been at, fhould you think it worthy a place in the next
volume of your Tranfadtions.
“ The method of railing the thorns from roots of the
plant, is as follows.
“ I would advife every farmer to purchafe a hundred
or a thoufand thorns, according to the fize of his farm,
and plant them in his orchard or garden, and when they
have attained the thicknefs of my three-year-old fpeci¬
mens, which is the fize I always prefer for planting in
fences, let him take them and prune the roots irTthe
manner I have pruned the fpecimen fent you, from
which he will upon an average get ten or twelve cut¬
tings from each plant, which is as good as thorns of the
fame thicknefs j fo that you will eafily perceive that in
three years he will have a fucceflion of plants fit for ufe,
which he may if he pleafes increafe tenfold every time he
takes them up.
“ Tlie fPr«\g (fay in all April) is the belt time to
plant the cuttings, which mull be done in rows half a
yard afunder, and about four inches from each other in
the row ; they ought to be about four inches long, and
planted with the top one-fourth of an inch out of the
ground, and wTell fattened j otherwife they will not fuc-
ceed fo well.
“ The reafon why I prefer fpring to autumn for
planting the roots, is, that were they to be planted in
autumn, they would not have got fufficient hold of the
ground before the frott fet in, which would raife them
all from the ground ; and, if not entirely dettroy the
plants, would oblige the farmer to plant them afrefh.
“ I have attached the produce of- my three-vear-old
fpecimen to the plants it came from, cut in the way I
always practife 5 on the thick end of the root I make
two, and on tire other end one cut, by which means the
proper end to be planted uppermoft, which is the thick
one, may eafily be known.
“ Although I recommend the roots to be planted in
April,
r 606 ]
Q u I t6o7 ] Q u I
Qukk April, yet the farmer may, where he pleafes, take up Villa Rica, where fuch a quantity cf cinnabar, and na-Quickfilver.
Oui kfi’ve ^^iorris may 1'vant> and put the roots he has prun- tive running mercury are found near the lurface of the “
■ ' ed off into fand or mould, where they will keep until earth, that the black Haves often colledt it in good quan-
he has leifure to cut them into proper lengths for plant- titles, and fell it for a trifling price to the apothecaries
ing *, he Will likewiie keep them in the fame way until but none of thefe mines have ever been worked or taken
planted. ^ notice of by the owners. Gold naturally amalgamated
“ The great advantage of my plan is : firft, that in with mercury is likewife met with in the neighbourhood
cafe any one has raifed from haws a thorn with remark- of that place 5 and it is laid that almoft all the gold
ably large piickles, of vigorous growth, or pofTeffing mines of that country are worked out by limply walking
any other qualification requifite to make a good fence, them out with running water, after reducing into pow^-
he may propagate it far better and fooner, from roots, der the hard ores, which are fbmetimes imbedded in
than any other way. Secondly, in three years he may quartzofe and rocky matrices.
raife from roots a better plant than can in fix years be In the duchy of Deux Fonts and in the Lower Au-
i'abed from haws, and with double the quantity of Aria the quickiiiver flows from a fchifiofe or ftony ma-
rools ", my three-year-old fpecimen would have been trice, and is probably, fays Mr Kirwan, mixed with
half as big again, had I not been obliged to move all fome other metal, as its globules are not perfe&ly fphe-
my cuttings the fecond year after they were planted. rical. The mines of Friuli are all in limiiar beds or
“ It would not be a bad way, in order to get roots, to ftrata. The metal is likewife found vilibly diffufed
plant a hedge in any convenient place, and on each fide through mafles of clay or very heavy ftone, of a w'hite,
trench the ground two yards wide, and tw’o grafts deep; red, or blue colour ; of which laft kind are the mines of
from which, every two or three years, a large quantity Spain, fome of Idria, and of Sicily. Mafcagni found
of roots might be obtained, by trenching the ground fluid quickfilver, as well as native cinnabar and mineral
over again, and cutting away what roots w'ere found, ethiops, near the lake of Travale in the duchy of Sien-
which would all be young and of a proper thicknefs.” na ; but the quantity was fo fmall as not to be worth
QUICKLIME, a general name for all calcarous fub- the expence of working. On the other hand, the fol-
fiances when deprived of their fixed air ; fuch as chalk, lowing mines afford profits to the owners after clearing
limeftone, oyfter-fiiells, &c calcined. See Lime, ChiT- all expences, viz. thofe at Kremnitz in Flungary ; at
MISERY, for an account of the properties and combina- Horowitz in Bohemia ; Zorge in Saxony; W olfiteim,
tions of lime. Stahlberg, and Moefchfeld in the Palatinate. Mercury
QUICKSILVER, or Mercury, one of the metals, is alfo brought from Japan in the Eail Indies ; but the
and fo fufible that it cannot be icduced to a foil’d fiate greateft part of what is fold in Europe as Japan cinna-
but at a degree of cold, equal to 40 below o of Fahren- bar is faid to be manufactured in Holland,
heit’s thermometer. For the method of extracting Lemery, Pomet, and others, lay down fome external
quickfilver from its ore, &c. fee ORES, ReduEiion of. marks by which thofe places are diitinguilhed where
lor the various preparations, &c. fee Chemistry and there are mines of quickfilver, viz. thick vapours like
Materia Medica Index; and for the natural hiftory of clouds arifing in the months of April and May; the
the ores of quickfilver or mercury, fee Mineralogy plants being much larger and greener than in other
Index. places : the trees leldom bearing flowTers or fruit, and
Mines of quickfilver are very rare, infomuch that, ac- putting forth their leaves more flowly than in other
cording to the calculations of Hoffman, there is 50 times places; but, according to Neumann, thefe marks are
more gold got every year out of the mines than mercury far from being certain. They are not met with in all
and its ores. But Dr Lewis, in his notes upon Newmann, places where there is quickfilver, and are obferved in
fays, that Cramer fufpefts that Hoffman only meant five places where there is none. Abundance of thefe cloudy
times inftead of 50 ; but neither the Latin nor the Eng- exhalations are met with in the Hariz forett in Ger-
lifh edition of this author expreffes any fuch thought; on many, though no mercury has ever been found there;
the contrary, he adopts the fame opinion ; and only adds, to winch we may add, that through vaft quantities of
that mercury is much more frequently met with than is mercurial ores are found at Almaden in Spain, none of
commonly believed ; but being fo volatile in the fire, it the above-mentioned indications are there to be met
often flies off in the roafting of ores, and efcapes the at- with.
tention of metallurgifts. Native mercury was formerly fought from the mines
According to NewTmann, the mines of Idria have pro- of Idria with great avidity by the alchemifts for the pur-
duced at the rate of 231,778 pounds weight of mercury pofe of making gold ; and others have {bowed as ridi-
per annum ; but thofe of Almaden in Spain produce culous an attachment to the Hungarian cinnabar, flip-
much more. The chemifts of Dijon inform us, that pofing it to be impregnated with gold ; nay, we are in-
their annual produce is five or fix thoufand quintals, or formed by Newmann, that not only the cinnabar, anti-
between five and fix hundred thoufand pounds weight. monyf and copper of Hungary, but even the vine trees
In the year 1717 there were upwards of 2,500,000 of that country were thought to be impregnated with
pounds of quickfilver fent from them to Mexico, for the the precious metal. Not many yeai'S ago a French che-
amalgamation of the gold and filver ores of that coun- miff advertifed that he had obtained a confiderable quan-
try. tity of gold from the allies of vine twigs and ftems, as
At Guan^avelica in Brafil the annual produce of the well as of the garden foil where they grew : but the
mines, according to Bomare, amounts to one million of falfehood of thefe affertions was demonffrated by the
pounds, which are carried overland to Lima, thence to count de Lauragais to the fatisfadfion of the Royal Aca-
Arica, and laftiy to Potofi for the fame purpofe. demy of Sciences.
Befldes thefe mines there are others in Brafil near The redudlion of mercury into a folid flate, fo that
it
Qm; ufts.
Q U I [608
Quickfilvei' it might be employed like filver, was another favourite
1 alchemical purfuit. But all procefles and operations of
this kind, fays Newmann, if they have mercury in them,
are no other than hard amalgams. When melted lead
or tin are juft becoming conliftent after fufion, if a flick
be thruft into the metal, and the hole filled with quick-
filver, as loon as the whole is cold, the mercury is found
folid. Macquer informs us, that mercury becomes equal¬
ly folid by being expofed to the fumes of lead. Mau¬
rice Huffman, as quoted by Newmann, even gives a pro-
ceis for reducing mercury, thus coagulated, to a ftale of
malleability, viz. by repeatedly melting and quenching
it in linfeed oil. Thus, he tells us, we obtain a metal
which can be formed into rings and other utenfils. But
here the mercury is entirely diflipated by the repeated
fufions, and nothing but the original lead is left. Wal-
lerius, after mentioning ftrong foap-leys, or cauftic lixi¬
vium, and fome other liquors proper for fixing quick-
filver, tells us, that by means of a certain gradatory wa¬
ter, the compofition of which he learned from Creuling
dc Aureo Ve/lere, he could make a coagulum of mercury
whenever he pleafed, of fuch confiftency that great part
of it would refill cupellation 5 but what this gradatory
water was, he has not thought proper to lay before the
public.
QUICK-match, among artillery men, a kind of
combuftible preparation formed of three cotton ftrands
drawn into length, and dipped in a boiling compofi.
tion of white-wine vinegar, faltpetre, and mealed pow¬
der. After this immerfion it is taken out hot, and laid
in a trough where fome mealed powder, moiftened with
fpirits of wine, is thoroughly incorporated into the twills
of the cotton, by rolling it about therein. Thus pre¬
pared, they are taken out feparately, and drawn through
mealed powder ; then hung upon a line and dried, by
which they are fit for immediate fervice.
QUID pro quo, in Law, q. d. “ what for what,”
denotes the giving one thing of value for another j or
the mutual confideration and performance of both par¬
ties to a contra£l.
Quib pro quo, or Qui pro quo, is alfo ufed in phyfic
to exprefs a miftake in the phyfician’s bill, where quid
is wrote for quo, i. e. one thing for another ; or of the
apothecary in reading quid for quo, and giving the pa¬
tient the wrong medicine. Hence the term is in the ge¬
neral extended to all blunders or miftakes committed in
medicine, either in the prefeription, the preparation, or
application of remedies.
QUIDDITY, quidditas, a barbarous term ufed
in the fchools for ejjence. The name is derived hence,
that it is by the eflence of a thing that it is a tale quid,
fuch a quid, or thing, and not another. Hence what is
effential to a thing is faid to be quiddative.
QUIETISTS, a religious febl, famous towards the
clofe of the lafl century. 1 hey were fo called from a
K-ind of abfolute reft and inadtion, which they fuppofed
the. foul to be in when arrived at that Hate of perfedlion
which they called the unitive life ; in which Hate they
imagined the foul wholly employed in contemplating its
God, to whofe influence it was entirely fubmiflive ; fo
that he could turn and drive it where and how he would.
In this.ftate, the foul no longer needs prayers, hymns,
&c. being laid, as it were, in the bofom and between
the arms of its God, in whom it is in a manner fwallow-
ed up.
] QUI
Molinos, a Spanifh prieft, is the reputed author of (hretift*.
Quictifm j though the Illuminati in Spain had certain-
ly taught fomething like it before. The fentiments of
Molinos were contained in a book which he publifhed
at Rome in the year 1681, under the title of the Spi¬
ritual Guide; for which he was call into prifon in
1685, and where he publicly renounced the errors of
which he was accufed. This folemn recantation, how¬
ever, was followed by a fentence of perpetual imprifon-
ment, and he died in prifon in the year 1696. Moli¬
nos had numerous difciples in Italy, Spain, France, and
the Netherlands. One of the principal patrons and
propagators of Quietifm in France was Marie Bouvi-
eres de la Mothe Guyon, a woman of falhion, remark¬
able for goodnefs of heart and regularity of manners j
but of an unfettled temper, and lubjefl to be drawn
away by the feduftion of a warm and unbridled fancy.
She derived all ideas of religion from the feelings of
her own heart, and deferibed its nature to others as Ihe
felt it herfelf. Accordingly her religious fentiments
made a great noife in the year 1687 ; and they were de¬
clared unfound, after accurate inveftigation, by feveral
men of eminent piety and learning, and profeffedly con¬
futed, in the year 1697, ^7 ^ celebrated Boffuet.
Hence arofe a controverly of greater moment between
the prelate laft mentioned and Fenelon archbilhop of
Gambray, who feemed difpofed to favour the fyftem of
Guyon, and who in 1697 publilhed a book contSining
feveral of her tenets. Fenelon’s book, by means of
Boffuet, was condemned in the year 1699, by Innocent
XII. and the fentence of condemnation was read by Fe¬
nelon himfelf at Cambray, who exhorted the people to
refpedl and obey the papal decree. Notwithftanding
this feeming acquiefcence, the archbilhop perfifted to
the end of his days in the fentiments, which, in obedi¬
ence to the order of the pope, he retraced and condemn¬
ed in a public manner.
A fedl fimilar to this had appeared at Mount Athos
in Theffaly, near the end of the 14th century, called
Hefychqfis, meaning the fame with Quietifts. They
were a branch of the myftics, or thofe more perfedl
monks, who, by long and intenfe contemplation, endea¬
voured to arrive at a tranquillity of mind free from every
degree of tumult and perturbation. In conformity to
an ancient opinion of their principal doftors (who
thought there rvas a celeftial light concealed in the
deepeft retirements of the mind), they ufed to fit every
day, during a certain fpace of time, in a folitary-corner,
with their eyes eagerly and immoveably fixed upon the
middle regions of the belly, or navel ; and boafted, that
while they remained in this pofture, they found, in ef¬
fect, a divine light beaming forth from their foul, which
diffufed through their hearts inexpreflible fenfations of
pleafure and delight. To fuch as inquired what kind
of light this was, they replied, by way of illuftration,
that it was the glory of God, the fame celeftial radiance
that furrounded Chrift during his transfiguration on the
Mount. Barlaam, a monk of Calabria, from whom the
Barlaamites derived their denomination, ftyled the monks
who adhered to this inftitution MaJJ'alians and Euchites ;
and he gave them alfo the new name of Umbilicani.
Gregory Palamas, archbilhop of Theffalonica, defended
their caufe againft Barlaam, who was condemned in a
council held at Conftantinople in the year 1341.—See
Tendon's Max. des Saints.
The
4
Q, U l
The IV^ahometans feem to be no Grangers to quietifm.
They expound a paffage in the 17th chapter of the Ko¬
ran, viz. “ O thou foul which art at reft, return unto
thy Lord, See.” of a foul which, having, by puifuing
the concatenation of natural caufes, raifed itfelf to the
knowledge of that being which produced them and
exifts of neceflity, refts fully contented, and acquiefces
in the knowledge, &c. of him, and in the contemplation
of his perfection.
QUILLET, Claude, an eminent Latin poet of
the 17th century, was born at Chinon, in Touraine,
and practifed phylic there with reputation : but ha¬
ving declared againft the pretended poffeflion of the
nuns of Loudun, in a manufeript treatife, the original
of which was depofited in the library of the Sorbonne,
he was obliged to retire into Italy, where he became fe-
cretary to the marlhal d’Eftrees, the French ambaffador
at Rome. In 1655 Quillet having publiftred in Holland
a Latin poem, entitled Ca/lipccdia, under the name of
•Galvidius La-tus, he there inlerted fome verfes againft
the cardinal Mazarine and his family ; but that cardi¬
nal making him fome gentle reproaches, he retrenched
what related to the cardinal in another edition, and
dedicated it to him, Mazarine having, before it was
printed, given him an abbey. He died in 1661, aged
59, after having given Menage all his writings, and
500 crowns to pay the expence of printing them j
but the abbe took the money and papers, and publiftr¬
ed none of them. His Cal/ipcedia, or the art of get¬
ting beautiful children, has been tranflated into Englilh
verfe.
QUILLS, the large feathers taken out of the end
of the wing of a goofe, crow, &c. They are denomi¬
nated from the order in which they are fixed in the
wing j the fecond and third quills being the beft for
writing, as they have the largeft and roundeft barrels.
Crow-quills are chiefly ufed for drawing. In order to
harden a quill that is foft, thruft the barrel into hot
aftres, ftirring it till it is foft, and then taking it out,
prefs it almoft flat upon your knee wdth the back of a
penknife, and afterwards reduce it to a roundnefs with
your fingers. If you have a number to harden, fet wra-
ter and alum over the fire, and while it is boiling put
in a handful of quills, the barrels only, for a minute, and
then lay them by.
QUIN, James, a celebrated performer on the En-
glilh ftage, w^as born at London in 1693. He was in¬
tended for the bar ; but preferring Shakefpeare to the
ftatutes at large, he on the death of his father, when
it was neceffary for him to do fomething for himfelf, ap¬
peared on the ftage at Drury-lane. In 1720, he firft
riifplayed his comic powers in the character of Falftaflf,
and foon after appeared to as great advantage in Sir
John Brute 5 but it was upon Booth’s quitting the ftage
that Quin appeared to full advantage, in the part of
Cato He continued a favourite performer until the
year 1748* when, on fome difguft between him and Mr
Rich the manager, he retired to Bath, and only came
up annually to aft for the benefit of his friend Ryan j
until the lofs of two front teeth fpoiled his utterance
for the ftage. While Mr Quin continued upon the
ftage, he conftantly kept company with the greateft
geniufes of the age. He was well known to Pope and
Swift and the earl of Chefterfield frequently invited
VOL. XVII. Part IL
[ 609 1
Q U I
him to his table : but there was none for whom he en¬
tertained a higher efteem than for the poet Thom-
fon, the author of the Seafons, to whom he made him¬
felf knowm by an aft of generefity that does the greateft 1
honour to his charafter; and for an account of which
fee our life of Thomson. Mr Quin’s judgement in the
Englilh language recommended him to his royal high-
nefs Frederick prince of Wales, who appointed him to
inftruft his children in fpeaking and reading with a
graceful propriety; and Quin being informed of the
elegant manner in which his prefent Majefty delivered
his firft gracious fpeech from the throne, he cried out in
a kind of eeftafy, “ Ay—I taught the boy to fpeak ! ”
Nor did his majefty forget his old tutor ; lor, foon after
his acceftion to the throne, he gave orders, without any
application being made to him, that a genteel penfion
ftrould be paid to Mr Quin during his life. Mr Quin,
indeed, was not in abfolute need of this royal benefac¬
tion $ for, as he wras never married, and had none but
diftant relations, he lirnk 2C00I. which was half his for¬
tune, in an annuity, for which he obtained 200I. a-year j
and with about 2000I. more in the funds, lived in a de¬
cent manner during the latter part of his life at Bath,
from wTence he carried on a regular correfpondence
with Mr Garrick, and generally paid a vifit to his friends
in the metropolis once a-year, when he conftantly palled
a week or two at Mr Garrick’s villa at Hampton. He
died of a fever in 1766.
QUINARIUS, wras a fmall Roman coin equal to
half the denarius, and confequently wTorth about three¬
pence three farthings of our money. See Money. It
was called quinarius, becaufe it contained the value of
five afles, in the fame manner as the denarius wras named
from its containing ten.
QUINAUT, Philip, a celebrated French poet,
born of a good family at Paris in 1635. He cultivated
poetry from his infancy, and 16 dramatic pieces of his
were afted between the years 1653 and 1666. In the
mean time, Quinaut wras not fo much devoted to poetry
but that he applied himlelf to the ftudy of the law ; and
made his fortune by marrying the widow of a rich mer¬
chant to whom he had been ufeful in his profeflion.
Ouinaut afterwards turned his attention to the compo-
fing of operas, which w^ere fet to mufic by the famous
Lully ; and Lully was charmed with a poet whefe verfes
wrere not too nervous to yield to the capricious airs of
mufic. He died in 1688, after having for many years
enjoyed a handfome penfion from Louis XIV. : and
W’e are told he w’as extremely penitent in his laft illnefs
for all thofe of his compofitions which tended to infpire
love and pleafure.
QUINCE, in Botany. See Cydonia.
QUINCUNX, in Roman antiquity, denotes any thing
that confifls of five-twelfths of another } but particular¬
ly of the as.
Quincunx Order, in gardening, is a plantation of
trees, difpofed originally in a fquare confifting of five
trees, one at each corner, and a fifth in the middle;
which difpofition, repeated again and again, forms a re¬
gular grove, wTood, or wildernefs.
QUINDECAGON, in Geometry, a plain figure with
15 fides and 15; angles.
QUINDECEMVIRI, in Roman antiquity, a col¬
lege of 15 magiftrates, w hofe bufinefs it was to prefide
4 H over
Quin
II
Q^iinde-
cemviri.
q u i
Quinqfta,-
nan us
Quin ten
ever the facrifiees. They tvere alfo the inlerpreters of
the Sybil’s books 5 which, however, they never confult-
ed but by an exprefs order of the lenate.
OUINOUAGENABIUS, in Roman antiquity, an
officer who had the command of 50 men.
O UiNpUAGESiMA Sunday, Shrove Sunday, fo
called as being about the 50th day before Rafter.
QUIN^HJATRIA, or Ouinquatrus, was a feftival
kept at Rome in honour of Minerva, which began on
the 13th of March, or, as others will have it, on the
19th, and lafted five days. On the firft day they offer¬
ed lacrifices and oblations without the eftufion of blood 3
the fecond, third, and fourth, were fpent in (hows ot
gladiators 3 and on the fifth day they went in proceflion
through the city. Scholars had a vacation during the
lolemnity, and prefented their mailers at this time with
a gift or fee, called Minerval. Boys and girls ufed now
to pray to the goddefs Minerva for wifdom and learning,
of which Ore had the patronage. Plays were added, and
difputations held, at this feali, on lubjedls of polite li¬
terature. The quinquatria were fo called, becaufe they
laffed for five. days. There feerns to be a ftrong re-
femblance betwixt this fedival and the panathenoea of the
Greeks.
QUINQUENNALIS, in Roman antiquity, a magi-
.flrate in the colonies and municipal erties of that empire,
who had much the fame office os the gedile at Rome.
pUINQUEREMIS, in the naval architefture of
the ancients, a name given to a galley which had five
rows of oars. They divided their veffels in general in-
* See Toly- to monocrota and polycrota*. The former had only one
c>ota. t;r2 0f rowers : - t'he latter had feveral tires of them,
from two or three up to 20, 36, or even 40 3 for fuch a
veffei rve have an account of in the time of Philopater,
which required no lefs than 4000 men to row it.
Meibom has taken off from the imaginary improba¬
bility of there ever having been fuch a veffel, by redu¬
cing the enormous height fuppofed neceffary for Inch a
number of rows of oars and men to work them, by find¬
ing a better way of placing the men than others had
thought of. The quinqueremes of the ancients had
420 men in each 3 300 of which were rowers, and the
red foidiers. The Roman fleet at Medina confided of
330 of thtfe (hips 3 and the Carthaginian, at Lilyboeum,
of 330 of the fame fize. Each veffel was 1 co feet
long. Thus 1 30,000 men were contained in the one,
and 150,000 in the other, with the apparatus and pro-
vifiems neceffary for fuch expeditions as they were intend¬
ed for. This gives fo grand an idea of the ancient na¬
val armaments, that fome have quedioned the truth of
the hidory : but we find it related by Polybius, an hi-
llorian too authentic to be queftloned, and who expreffes
his wonder at it while he relates it.
QUINQUEVIRI, in Roman antiquity, an order of
five prieds, peculiarly appointed for the facrifices to the
dead, or celebrating the rites of Erebus.
QUINQUINA. See Cinchona, Botany and Ma¬
teria Medica Index.
QUINSY, or Quinzy. See Medicine, n° 177—
j83-
QUINTEN, a town of France, in Bretagne, with
a handfome caftle. It is feated in a valley near the ri¬
ver Guy, and near a large fored of the fame name, eight
miles fouth of St Brieux, and 200 weft of Paris. It had.
W. Long. 2. 40. N. Quint of¬
fence
[ 610 ] q u
formerly the title of a duchy.
Lat. 48. 26.
QUINTESSENCE, in Chemiflnj, a preparation con-
fitting of the effential oil of tome vegetable fubftance, „
mixed and incorporated with {’pint ot wine.
Quintessence, in Alchemy, is a myfterious term,
figr ntying the fifth or lad and higheft cftence of power
in a natural body.—Or when divettedof its alchemiiiical
fignification, and employed to exprefs iomethmg that is
intelligible, the word denotes merely the highett ftate of
purification in which any body can be exhibited.
Q UINTAL, the weight of loolbs. inmoft coun¬
tries, but in England it is the cwt. or 112 lbs. Quin¬
tal was formerly uled for a weight of lead, iron, or other
common metal, ufually equal to 100 lbs. at fix Icores to
the hundred.
QUINTILE, in AJlronomy, an afpe£f of the planets
when they are 72 degrees aidant from one another, or
a fifth part of lire zodiac.
QUINTILIANUS, Marcus Fabius, a celebrated
Latin oraror, and the moil judicious critic of his time,
was a native oi Calagurris, or Calahorra, in Spain 3 and
was the difciple of Domnins A ter. who died in the year
59. He taught rhetoric at Rome for 20 years with
great applaui'e : and not only laid down rules for fpcak¬
ing, but exhibited his eloquence at the bar. Some au¬
thors imaeine, but with little foundation, that he am-
O 7 . . . .
ved at the con uhhip 3 but tt is more certain that he was
preceptor to the grandibns of the emperor Domitian’s
fider. There is dill extant his excellent work, intitled,
Injlitutiones Orator ice, which is a treatife of rhetoric in
12 books 3 where his precepts, judgment, and tade, are
judly admired. Thefe inditutions were found entire by
Poggius, in an old tower of the abbey of St Gal, and
not in a grocer’s ihop in Germany as feme authors have
afferted. There is alfo attributed to Quintilian a dia¬
logue De caujis corruptee eloquenlue ; but it is more
commonly aicribed to Tacitus. The bed editions of
Quintilian’s works are thofe of Mr Obreight, publithed
at Strafburg in 2 vols qto, in 1698, and of M. Cap-
peronier, in folio. There is an Englith tranilation by
Mr Guthrie.
Quintilian had a fon of the fame name, on whom he
bedows great praids. This fon ought not to be con¬
founded with Quintilian the father, or rather the grand¬
father, of him who is the fnbjeft of this article, and who
wrote 145 declamations. Ugolin of Parma publithed
the firlt 1 36 in the 15th century 3 the nine others were
publithed in 1563 by Peter Ayrault, and afterwards by
Peter Pithou in 1580. There have alfo been 19 other
declamations printed under the name of Quintilian the
Orator ; but, in the opinion of Voffius, they were writ¬
ten neither by that orator nor his grandfather.
QUINTILIANS, a feel of antient heretics, thus
called from their prophetefs Quintilia. In tins feft the
women were admitted to perform the faceidotal and epif-
copal functions. They attributed extraordinary gifts to
Eve for having fird eaten of the tree of knowledge 3
told great things of Mary the lider ol Mofes, as having
been a prophetefs, &c. They added, that Philip the
deacon had four daughters, who were all propheteffes,
and were of their feft. In thefe affemblies it was ufual
to fee the virgins entering in white robes, perfonating
propheteffes.
QUINTIN
Quintin
II
Quiritff.
Q U I f Cn ] Q U I
()UINTJN MATSYS, alfo called the Farrier of Ant¬
werp, famous for being transformed, by the force of
love, from a blackfmith to a painter. He had followed
the trade of a blackfmith and farrier for near twenty
years •, when falling in love with a painter’s daughter
who was very handfcme, and diiliked nothing but his
trade, he quitted it, and betook himielt. to painting, in
which he made very great progrefs. Ho-was a diligent
and careful imitator or ordinary life, and lucceeded bet¬
ter in reprefeuling the deietts than the beauties of na¬
ture. Some hiftoiical performances of this matter deferve
commendation, particularly a Defcent from the Crofs, in
the cathedral at Antwerp : but his belt known pifture
is that of the two Miters it) the gallery at Vv indfor. He
died in 1529.
QU INTIN IE, John df. la, a celebrated French
gardener, born at Poidiers in 1626. Pie was brought
up to the law j and acquitted himfelf fo well at the bar
as to acquire the efteem of the chief magiftrate. M.
Tamboneau, prefident of the chamber of accounts, en¬
gaged him to undertake the precepiorfhip of his only
ton, which Quintinie executed entirely to his falisfac-
tion ; applying Iris leifure hours to the fludy of writers
on agriculture, ancient and modern, to which he had a
ftrong inclination. He gained new lights by attending
his pupil at Italy ; for all the gardens about Home be¬
ing open to him, he failed not to add praftice to his the¬
ory. On his return to Paris, M. Tamboneau gave up
the management of his garden entirely to him } and
puintinie applied fo clofely to it, that he became fa¬
mous all over France. Louis XIV. creeled a new of¬
fice purpofely for him, that of direclor of the royal fruit
and kitchen gardens; and thefe gardens, while he lived,
were the admiration of the curious. He lived to a good
old age; we have not learned the time of his death ; his
Hi regions for the management of Fruit and Kitchen
Gardens have been much efteemed.
QUINTUS CALABER, a Greek poet, who wrote a
large Supplement to Homer’s Iliad, in 14 bocks, in
which a relation is given of the Trojan w ar from the
death of Heftor to the deftruftion of Troy. It is con-
je£lured, from his ftyle and manner, that he lived in the
fifth century. Nothing certain can be colle&ed either
concerning his perfon or country. His poem was firit
made known by Cardinal Beffanon, w7ho difeovered it
in St Nicolas’s church, near Otranto in Calabria; from
whence the author w'as named Quintus Calaber. It was
firii publithcd at Venice by Aldus, but it is not laid in
what year.
QUINTUS Curtius. See CurFius.
QUINZY, QuiNSEY, or Angina Pectoris. See Me¬
dicine, N° 409.
QUIRE of Paper, the quantity of 24 (heels.
QUIRINALIA, in antiquity, a feaft celebrated a-
mong the Romans in honour of Romulus.
QUIRITES. in Roman antiquity. In confequence
of the agreement entered into by Romulus and latius
king of the Sabines, Rome was to retain its name, taken
from Romulus, and the people were to be called ^uiri¬
tes, from Cures, the principal town of the Sabines, a
name ufed in all public addrefles to the Roman people.
 Dion. Hal. fays,' that each particular citizen was
to be called Romanus, and the colleftive body of them
Quirites; yet it appears by this ancient form of w'ords
ufed at funerals, Ollus ^uiris letho datus ejty that each
private citizen was alio called d^uiris.
The origin of the word ^uirites, which was at fil'd
peculiar to the Sabines, and became, in Romulus’s time,
the general name of the inhabitants of Rome, has been
much fought for •, and the molt probable account antiqui¬
ty gives us of it, is this : The word ^uiris, according
to Plutarch and fome others, fignified, in the Sabine
language, both “ a dart,” and “ a warlike deity armed
with a dart.” It it uncertain whether the god gave
name to the dart, or the dart to the god. But be that
as it will, this Quins, or Quirinus, was either Mars or
fome other god of war j and the worfhip of Qjiiris con¬
tinued in Rome all Romulus’s reign : but after his death
he was honoured with the name Qgiinnus, and took the
place of the god Quins.
QUIRK, in a general fenfe, denotes a fubtilty or art¬
ful didindfion.
Quirk, in building, a piece of ground taken out of
any regular ground-plot, or door : thus, if the ground-
plot were oblong or fquare, a piece taken out of a cor¬
ner to make a court or yard, &c. is called a quirk.
QUI3QUALIS, a genus of plants belonging to the
decandria clafs, and in the natural method ranking un¬
der the 3 id order, Veprccutce. See Botany Index.
QUITO, a town of South America, in Peru (fee
Pi.Ru),feated between twochains of high mountains call¬
ed Cordillera de los Andes, on much higher ground than
the red of habitable Peru. It is 300 yards higher than
the level of the fea according to the exacted obfervations.
The town is 1600 yards long and 1200 broad, and is
the feat of a bifhop. It contains about 35,000 inhabi¬
tants, one-third of whom are originally Spaniards.
Among the inhabitants are fome perfons of high rank
and didindtion, defeended either from the original con¬
querors, or perfons who at different times came from
Spain invefted with fome lucrative pod. The number
of thefe, however, is but fmall. The commonalty, be-
fides Spaniards, confid of Medizos, Indians, and Ne¬
groes ; but the lad are not proportionally numerous.
Merchandiies and commodities of all forts are ex¬
tremely dear, partly on account of the difficulty of bring¬
ing them.
There are feveral religious communities at Quito, and
two colleges or univerfities governed by Jefuits and Do¬
minicans.
The principal courts held at Quito are that,,of the
royal audience, which esnfifts of the prefident, who is
governor of the province with regard to law affairs;
four auditors, who are at the fame time civil and cri¬
minal judges } a royal fifeal, who, befides the caufes
brought before the audience, takes cognizance of every
thing relating to the revenue; and an odicer dyled the
proteBor of the Indians, who folicits for them, and when
they are injured pleads in their defence. The next is
the treafury, the chief officers of which are an account¬
ant, a treafurer, and a royal fifeal. The tribunal of
the Croifade, which has a commiffary, who is generally
fome dignitary of the church, and a treafurer. There
is alfo a treafury for the effefts of perfons deceafed : an
inditution edablidied all over the Indies, for receiving
the goods of thofe whofe lawful heirs are in Spain, in
order to fecure them from thofe accidents t@ which
they might be liable in private hands. There is like-
4 H 2 wife
\
R A A [6
Quitter- wife a commiffary of the inquifition, with an alguazil-
b°ne major and familiars, appointed by the inquifition of Li-
Rj*ab ma. The corporation confifts of a corregidor, two
  - ■ ordinary alcaldes, chofen annually, and regidores. The
latter fuperintend the eleftion of the alcaldes, which
is attended with no finall diflurbance, the people being
divided into two parties, the Creoles and Europeans.
QUITTER-bone. Sec Farriery, N° 347.
QUIT-RENT (quietus redd it us, i. e. “ quiet rent,”)
is a certain fmall rent payable by the tenants of manors,
in token of fubjeftion, and by which the tenant goes
quiet and free. In ancient records it is called ’white rent
becaufe paid in filver money, to diftinguilh it from rent-
corn, &c.
QUOIN, or Coin, on board a flriip, a wedge fa¬
ttened on the deck dole to the breech of the carriage of
a gun, to keep it firm up to the (hip’s fide. Cantic
quoins are ftrort three-legged quoins put between caiks
to keep them fteady.
Quoins, in ArchiteElure, denote the corners of brick
or ilone walls. The word is particularly ufed for the
ttones in the corners of brick buildings. When thefe
(land out beyond the brick-work, their edges being
chamfred off, they are called rujiic quoins.
QUOTIDIAN, any thing which happens every
day. Hence, when the paroxyfms of an ague recur
every day, it is called a quotidian ague. See Medicine,
N° 161—164.
2 ] R A B
QUOTIDIANA deceptiva. See Medicine,Quotidiana
N° 150. . _ II
QUOAD hoc, is a term ufed in the pleadings and Rabat‘ .
arguments of lawyers j being as much as to fay, As to
this thing the law is fo and fo.
QUORUM, a word frequently mentioned in our fla-
tutes, and in commiflions both of juftices of the peace
and others. It is thus called from the words of the
commiffion, quorum A. B. ununi e()'e volumus. For an
example, where a commiflion is diredted to feven per-
fons, or to any three of them, whereof A. B. and C. D.
are to be two} in this cafe, they a*re faid to be of
the quotum, becaufe the reft cannot proceed without
them: fo a juftice of the peace and quorum is one with¬
out whom the reft of the juftices in fome cafes cannot
proceed.
QUOTIENT, in Arithmetic, the number refulting
from the divifion of a greater number by a fmaller,
and which ihows how often the fmaller is contained in
the greater, or hpw often the divifor is contained in
the dividend. The word is formed from the Latin quo-
ties ; q. d. How often is fuch a number contained in
fuch another ?
In divifion, as the divifor is to the dividend, fo is
unity to the quotient—Thus the quotient of 12 divided
by 3 is 4 ■, which is thus difpofed, 3) 12 (4 quotient.
See Arithmetic.
R.
Ror r, a liquid confonant, being the 17th letter of
5 our alphabet. Its found is formed by a guttural
extrufion of the breath vibrated through the mouth,
with a fort of quivering motion of the tongue drawm
from the teeth, and canulated with the tip a little ele¬
vated towards the palate. In Greek words it is fre¬
quently afpirated with an h after it, as in rhapfody, rhe¬
toric, &c. otherwife it is always followed by a vowel at
the beginning of words and fyllables.
In the notes of the ancients, R. or RO. fignifies
Roma, R. C. Romana civitas ; R. G. C. rei gerendee
caufa ; R. F. E. D. reBe facium et diBum; R. G. F.
regis fdius ; R. P. res publica, or Romani principes ; and
R. R. R. F. F. F. res Romana met ferro,fame,Jlamma.
Ufed as a numeral, R anciently ftood for 80 ; and
with a dalh over it thus R, for 80,000 ; but the Greek
r, €, with a fmall mark over it, fignified 100 •, with the
fame mark under it, it denoted 1000 X I0 ? thus g
fignified 100,000. In the Hebrew numeration 1 de¬
noted 200: and with two horizontal points over it
1000 x 200 ; thus i — 200,000.
In the preferiptions of phyficians, R or ]£> (lands for
recipe, i. e. “ take.”
RAAB, a town of Lower Hungary, capital of Ja-
vern, with a cattle and a bifliop’s fee. It is a ftrong
frontier bulwark againft the Turks, and has two bridges,
one over a double ditch, and another that leads towards
Alba Regalis. The furrounding country is plain, and
there is nothing that feems to command it but a fmall
hill at fome diftance, which is undermined and may be
blown up. It wTas taken by Amurath III. with the
lofs of 20,000 men *, but was furprifed foon after by
Count Palfi, who killed all the Turks that were found
therein. It is feated at the confluence of the rivers Rab
and Rabnitz, not far from the Danube, 32 miles weft of
Gran, and 55 fouth-eaft of Vienna. E. Long. 17. 25.
N. Lat. 47. 48.
RAB AC, a fmall port on the Arabian coaft of the
Red fea, in N. Lat. 22° 35' 40", by Mr Bruce’s ac¬
count. The entry to the harbour is from the E. N. E.
and is about a quarter of a mile broad. The port ex¬
tends about two miles in length to the eaftward. The
mountains are about three leagues to the north, and the
town about four miles north by eaft from the entrance
to the harbour. The water is good, and all (hips may
be fupplied here from the wells which are in the neigh¬
bourhood of the town. The country is bare and uncuL
tivated j but from the appearance of it, and the frefhnefs
of the water, Mr Bruce fuppofes that it fometimes rains
among the mountains here, which is the more probable
as it is confiderably within the tropic.
RABAT, a large and handfome fea-port town of
Africa,
R A B [6
Rabat Africa, in the kingdom of Fez and province of Treme-
R t fen. It has fine mofques and handfome palaces, and is
. : feated at the mouth of the river Burrigrig, almoft in the
mid-way between Fez and Tangier. W. Long. 5. 28.
N. Lat. 34. 40.
Raba, together with Sallee, which is oppofite to it,
was formerly famous for fitting out piratical veflelsj
but the late emperor Sidi Mahomet fubdued them both,
and annexed them to the empire j fince which time the
harbour of Rabat has been fo filled with the fand wathed
in by the fea as to render it unfit to carry on fuch pira¬
cies in future.
The town of Rabat, whofe walls inclofe a large fpace
of ground, is defended on the fea-fide by three forts to¬
lerably wellfinilhed, which were ere£led fome little time
ago by an Englifh renegade, and furnilhed with guns
from Gibraltar. The houfes in general are good, and
many of the inhabitants are wealthy. The Jews, who
are very numerous in this place, are generally in better
circumltances than thofe of Larache or Tangier, and
their women are extremely beautiful.
The callle, which is very extenfive, contains a ftrong
building, formerly ufed by the late emperor as his prin¬
cipal treafury, and a noble terrace, which commands an
extenfive profpeft of the town of Sallee, the ocean, and
all the neighbouring country. There are alfo the ruins
of another caftle, which is faid to have been built by
Jacob Almanzor, one of their former emperors, and of
which at prefent very little remains but its walls, con¬
taining within them fome very Itrong magazines for
powder and naval ftores. On the outfide of thefe walls
is a very high and fquare tower, handfomely built of cut
ftone, and called the tower of Hajfen. From the work-
manlhip of this tower, contrafted with the other build¬
ings, a very accurate idea may be formed how greatly
the Moors have degenerated from their former fplendour
and tafte for archite&ure.
RABBETTING, in Carpentry, the planing or cut¬
ting of channels or grooves in boards, &c.
In (hip-carpentry, it fignifies the letting in of the
planks of the (hip into the keel *, which, in the rake and
run of a (hip, is hollowed away, that the planks may
join the clofer.
RABBI, or Rabbins, a title which the Pharifees and
doftors of the law among the Jews affumed, and literally
fignifies majters or excel/ents.
There were feveral gradations before they arrived at
the dignity of a rabbi; which was not conferred till
they had acquired the profoundeft knowledge of the
law and the traditions. It does not, however, appear
that there was any fixed age or previous examination
neceflary ; but when a man had diftinguiihed himfelf by
his (kill in the written and oral law, and paffed through
the fubordinate degrees, he was faluted a rabbin by the
public voice. -
Among the modern Jews, for near 700 years pad,
the learned men retain no other title than that of rabbi,
or rabbins; they have great refpeft paid them, have the
firft places or feats in their fynagogues, determine all
matters of controverfy, and frequently pronounce upon
civil affairs j they have even power to excommunicate
the difobedient.
RABBINISTS, among the modern Jews, an appel¬
lation given to the doftrine of the rabbins concerning
3 1 . 11 A B
traditions, in oppofition to the Caraites j who reject all Rabelais,
traditions. See Caraite. , Ral)blt. „
RABJtLAIS, Francis, a French writer famous for
his facetioufnefs, was born at Chinon in Touraine about
the year 1483. He was firft a Francifcan friar *, but
quitting his religious habit itudied phyfic at Montpelier,
where he took his dodlor’s degree. It is faid, that the
chancellor du Pratt having abolifhed the privileges of
the faculty of phyfic at Montpelier by a decree of the
parliament, Rabelais had the addrefs to make him re¬
voke what he had done ; and that thofe who were made
dodlors of that univerfity wore Rabelais’s robe, which
is there held in great veneration. Some time after, he
came to Rome, in quality of phyfician in ordinary to
Cardinal John du Bellay archbilhop of Paris. Rabelais is
faid to have ufed the freedom to jeer Pope Paul III. to
his face. He had quitted his religious connexions for
the fake of leading a life more agreeable to his tafte 5
but renewed them on a fecond journey to Rome, when
he obtained, in 1536, a brief to qualify him for hold¬
ing ecclefiaftical benefices; and, by the intereft of his
friend Cardinal John du Bellay, he was received as a fe-
cular canon in the abbey of St Maur near Paris. His
profound knowledge in phyfic rendered him doubly ufe-
iul ; he being as ready, and at leal! as well qualified, to
preferibe for the body as for the foul : but as he was a
man of wit and humour, many ridiculous things are laid
to his charge, of which he was quite innocent. He
publifhed feveral things j but his chief performance is
a ftrange incoherent romance, called the Hi/lory of Gar-
gantua and Pantagruel, being a fatire Upon priefts, popes,
fools, and knaves of all kinds. This work contains a
wild, irregular profufion of wit, learning, obfeenity,
low conceits, and arrant nonfenfe ; hence the flirewd-
nefs of his fatire, in fome places where he is to be un-
derftood, gains him credit for thofe where no mean¬
ing is difcoverable. Some allufions may undoubtedly
have been fo temporary and local as to be now quite
loft : but it is too much to conclude thus in favour of
every unintelligible rhapfody ; for we are not without
Englifh writers of great talents, whofe fportive geniufes
have betrayed them into puerlities, no lefs incoherent at
the times of writing than thofe of Rabelais appear above
two centuries after. He died about 1553.
RABBIT, in Zoology. See Lepus, Mammalia Index.
The buck rabbits, like our boar cats, will kill the
young ones if they can get at them •, and the does in the
warrens prevent this, by covering their (locks, or nefts,
with gravel or earth, which they clofe fo artificially up
with the hinder part of their bodies, that it is hard to
find them out. They never fuckle their young ones at
any other time than early in the morning and late at.
night ; and always, for eight or ten days, clofe up the
hole at the mouth of the neft, in this careful manner,
when they go out. After this they begin to leave a
fmall opening, which they increafe by degrees 5 till at
length, when they are about three weeks old, the mouth
of the hole is left wholly open that they may go out ;
for they are at that time grown big enough to take care
of themfelves, and to feed on grafs.
People who keep rabbits tame for profit, breed them
in hutches •, but thefe mull be kept very neat and clean,
elfe they will be always fubjedt to difeafes. Care mud
be taken alfo to keep the bucks and does apart till the
latter
R A B
latter bavejuil: kindled; then they are to be turned to
the bucks again, and to remain with them till they fliun
and run from them.
The general direftion for the choofmg of tame rab¬
bits is, to pick the largeft and faireft ; but the breeder
fhould remember that the Ikins of the filver-haired ones
fell better than any other. The food of the tame rab¬
bits may be colewort and cabbage-leaves, carrots, parf-
neps, apple-rinds, green corn, and vetches, in the time
of the year ; alfo vine-leaves, grafs, fruits, oats, and
oatmeal, milk-thiftles, fuw-thirties, and the like : but
with thefe moift foods they muft always have a propor¬
tionable quantity of the dry foods, as hay, bread, oats,
bran, and the like, oilier wile they will grow pot-bellied,
and die. Bran and grains mixed together have been
alfo found to be very good food. In winter they will
eat hay, oats, and chaff, and thefe may be given them
three times a-day ; but when they eat green things, it
muft be obferved that they are not to drink at all, for it
would throw them into a dropfy. At all other times a
very little drink ferves their turn, but that muft always
be frefh. When any green herbs or grafs are cut for
their food, care muft be taken that there be no hem¬
lock among it ; for though they will eat this greedily
among other things when offered to them, yet it is hidden
poifon to them.
Rabbits are fubjeff; to two principal infirmities.
Firft, the rot, which is caufed by giving them too large
a quantity of greens, or from giving them frefti gather¬
ed with the dew or rain hanging in drops upon them.
Excefs of moifture always caufts this difeafe. The
greens therefore are always to be given dry ; and a fuf-
ficient quantity of hay, or other dry food, intermixed
with them, to take up the abundant moifture of their
juices. On this account the very beft food that can be
given them, is the fhorteft and fweeteft hay that can be
got, of which one load wall ferve 200 couples a year ;
and out of this flock of 200, 200 may be eaten in the
family, 200 fold in the markets, and a fufficient num¬
ber kept in cafe of accidents.
The other general difeafe of thefe creatures is a fort
of madnefs : this may be known by their wallowing and
tumbling about with their heels upwards, and hopping
in an odd manner into their boxes. This diftemper is
fuppofed to be owing to the ranknefs of their feeding ;
and the general cure is the keeping them low, and gi¬
ving them the prickly herb called tare thijUe to eat.
The general computation of males and females is,
that one buck-rabbit will fefve for nine does : ibme al¬
low ic to one buck ; but thofe who go beyond this al¬
ways fuffer for it in their breed.
Wild rabbits are either to be taken by fmall cur-dogs,
or by fpaniels bred up to the fport; and the places of
hunting thofe who ftraggle from their burrows, is under
clofe hedges or bufhes, or among corn-fields and frefli
pallures. The owners ufe to courfe them with fmall
greyhounds; and though they are feidom killed this
way, yet they are driven back to their burrows, and
are prevented from being a prey to others. The com¬
mon method is by nets called purfe-ncts, and ferrets.
The ferret Is fent into the hole to fetch them out; and
the purfe-net being fpread over the hole, takes them as
they come out. The ferrets mouths muft be muffled, and
then the rabbit gets no harm. For the more certain ta¬
king of them, it may not be improper to pitch up a hay-
R A B
net or two, at a imall diftance from the burrows that are
intended to be hunted: thus very few of the number
that are attempted will efcape.
Some who. have no ferrets fmoke the rabbits out of
their .holes with burning brimftone and orpiment. This
certainly brings them out into the nets ; but then it is
a very troublefome and offenfive method, and is very
detrimental to the place, as no rabbit will for a lung
time afterwards come near the burrows which have been
fumed with fuch ingredients.
I he following obfervations on the breeding and ma¬
nagement of rabbits and fume other animals appear to
us to be of fuch importance, that we fhali give them a
place in the words of the author.
“ In my travels through America,” fays the author,
“ I have often been furprifed that no attempt has been
made to introduce, for the purpofe of propagation, that
ufeful little animal, the warren rabbit, of fuch vaft im¬
portance to the hat manufaftpry of England. It is chiefly
owing to the fur cf this animal that the Englilh hats are
fo much efteemed abroad. It is a fa£l well known
amongft the hatters, that a hat compofed of one half of
coney wool, one-fixth old coat beaver, one-fixth pelt
beaver, and one-fixth Vigcnia wool, will wear far pre¬
ferable to one made all of beaver, as it will keep its
fliape better, feel more firm, and wear bright and black
much longer.
“ I he value of the coney wool, the produce of the
united kingdom only, is not lefs, I will venture to fay,
than .250,000!. per annum ; but the quantity is much
diminiftied, owing to the banifhment and perfecution
they meet with on every fide, and fo many fmall war¬
rens taken in for grain land ; in confequence of which
it is time that fome protection fhould be afforded, if
portable, to that important branch of Britifh manufac¬
tory (in which coney wool is ufed) from fuffering any
inconvenience in the want of fo effential an article, and
the accomplifhment of this grand object I conceive per¬
fectly eafy.
“ General Obfervations.—When I fpeak of the war¬
ren rabbit, I have to obferve, that there are in England,
as well as in moft parts of Europe, three other kinds,
viz. the tame rabbit, of various colours, the fur of which
-is of little value, except the white ; the fliock rabbit,
which has. a long fhaggy fur of little value ; the bulh
rabbit, like thofe of America, which commonly fits
as a hare, and the fur of which is of a rotten inferior
quality.
“ To return to the warren rabbit.—There are two
forts in refpedl to colour, that is, the common gray,
and the filver gray, but little or no difference in refpeft
to the ftrength and felting qualities of the fur. The
nature of this animal is to burrow deep in fandy ground,
and there live in families, nor will they fuffer one from
a neighbouring family to come amongft them without
a fevere conteft, in which the intruders are generally
glad to retire with the lofs of part of their coat, un-
lefs when purfued by an enemy, when they find protec¬
tion.
“ It is fcarcely worth while for me to mention 3
thing fo generally known, viz. that rabbits, particularly
thofe of the warren, are the moft prolific of all other
four-footed animals in the world ; nor do I apprehend
any difficulty would attend the exporting this little
quadruped with fafety to any diftance, provided it
was
[ 6-4 ]
K A B [ 615 ] RAC
RaW-.it. was J^ept dry, and regularly fupplied with clean fwcet
food, and a due regard to the cleanlinefs of the boxes or
places of confinement.
“ Twelve or fifteen pair of thefe valuable animals
taken to Upper Canada, and there eticlufed within a
final] fpace of ground fuitable to their nature, but fur-
rifiled with a few artificial burrows at the firft by way
of a nurfery, fpread over th.ofe now ufelefs plains, iflands,
and peninfulas, fo well calculated to their nature, would,
I will make bold to fay, the eighth year after their in¬
troduction, funddi the Britifh market with a valuable
raw material, amounting to a large fum, incrtenfing
every year with aftonifhing rapidity, fo as to become,
in a few years, one amongft the firft of national ob¬
jects.
“ It may be fuppofed by fome, that the above project:
is magnified beyond poffibility, or even probability ;
but the ferious attention I have paid to the fubjebt,
thefe many years paft, as to all points for and againft,
leaves no room to accufe myielf of being too fanguine ;
for, if properly managed a few years at the firit, I
cannot find a tingle thing likely to interrupt their pro-
grefs.
“ Some idea of the aftonilhing increafe of the rabbit
may be had from the following facts :
“ An old doe rabbit will bring forth young nine times
in one year, and from four to ten each time 5 but to al¬
low for cafualities, ftalc the number at five each litter.
In nine months ----- 45
1 he females of the firft litter will bring forth five
times, the proportion of which is 2 [ females pro¬
duce - - - - - - 62
Thofe of the fecond litter four times produce 50
Ditto of ditto third ditto three ditto ditto - 37
Ditto of ditto fecond ditto two ditto ditto - 25
Total in one year from cne pair - 219
“ The third female race of the old dam, and the fe¬
cond of the firft litter, feldom breed the firft year, but
are early breeders in the fpring following, when we
might expect an'increafe of the whole in proportion to
the firft pair, if properly attended to and protected.
“ It is geneially allowed, that hares are not more
than one-fourth as prolific as rabbits, not withftanding,
agreeable to an experiment tried by Lord Ribblefdale,
who enclofed a pair of hares for one year, the offspring
■was (as I have been credibly informed) 68 : thefe ani¬
mals could they be exported to Upper Canada with fafety,
and there pro reeled within enclofures for a few years,
would foon after fpread over a large extent of country :
the fur is nearly as valuable as that of the rabbit.
“ In that part of Upper Canada within the 4 ; degrees
of north latitude, and the fouthern and weftern boun¬
daries, the climate is nearly the fame as that of Eng¬
land, a little hotter a few days in fummer, and a little
colder a few days in winter, agreeable to Fahrenheit’s
thermometer, which I have paid great attention to for
fome years, comparing the fame with the obfervations
of the Englifh.
“ The increafe of moft animals appears much greater
in propetion in America than in England, mankind
not ex-^euted : that of fheep is very apparent to thofe
that pay attention to their breeding flock, which gives
me hopes, that in a few years we {hall be able to pay RaMft
for our woollen cloths in wool. Finding the effeeft of H
foil and climate fo falutary to fheep, &c., it may be rea- , R‘~ce‘ ,
fonabiy fuppofed, that rabbits will anfwer the moit fan¬
guine ex peedations, as I underftand the wool of the fheep
retains all its nature the fame as in England, particu¬
larly its ftrength, and felting qualities among the hat¬
ters, which allures me that rabbit wool from thofe bred
in Upper Canada will do the fame 5 and there are fome
millions of acres within the latitude and boundaries
which I have before deferibed, foiled to the nature of
the warren rabbit 5 nor do I apprehend that the wolves,
foxes, &c., of Upper Canada will be half fo defliudive
as the poachers in England.
“ Theguanaco, or camel {beep of South America, no
doubt will be a national objeft at fome future period.
1 his is a tame, domelhc animal, very hardy, and ufed
with much cruelty by the natives in travelling over the
mountains with their burthens; it fliears a fleece of wool
of from 2lb. to 31b., which is of dufoy red on the back ;
on the fides inclined to white, and under the belly quite
white; its texture is very fine, yet ftrong; its felting
qualities very powerful, and is worth, when ready for
ufe, from five to fifteen fhillings per pound. This ani¬
mal would no doubt thrive, and do well in England,
Upper Canada, and in particular I fhould fuppofe in
New Holland.
“ The beaver might be propagated to great advantage
in Scotland, Ireland, and northern parts of England. +
It is an animal, when tamed, very familiar, and will
eat bread and milk, willow flicks, elm bark, &c., and
no doubt might be imported with fafety ; but as thefe
two lafl-mentioned animals are not likely to be attended
to immediately, I fltall fay no more refpefling them for
the- prefent*.” _ ° * Tmnf of
I? ABIR'IUS, C. a Roman knight, who lent an im- Sac. for en.
menfe fum of money to Ptolemy Auletes king of Egypt.
The monarch afterwards not only refufed to repay
but even confined him, and endangered his life. Rabi-for
r>us efcaped from Egypt with difficulty ; but at his re¬
turn to Rome he was accufed by the fenate df having
lent money to an African prince for unlawful purpofes.
He was ably defended by Cicero, and acquitted with
difficulty.—There was a Latin poet of the fame name
in the age of Auguflus. He wrote a poem on the
viffory which the emperor had gained over Antony at
AcHum. Seneca has compared him to Virgil for ele¬
gance and majefty ; but Quintilian is not fo favourable
to his poetry.—And there was an architeff in the reign
of Domitian called Rabtrius. He built a celebrated pa¬
lace for the emperor, of which the ruins are full feen at
Rome.
RACCOON. See Ursus, Mammalia Index.
RACE, in genera], figriifies running with others in
order to obtain a prize, either on foot, or by riding on
hcrfeback, in chariots, &c.
The race was one of the exercifes among the ancient
Grecian games, which was performed in a courfe con¬
taining 125 paces; and thofe who contended in thefe
foot-races were frequently clothed in armour. Cha¬
riot and horfe-races alfo made a part of the ancient
games.
Races were known in England in very early times.
Fitz-Stephen, who wrote in the days of Henry II.
mentions the great delight that the citizens of London
RAC [ 616 ] RAC
Race, took in the diverfion. But by his words, it appears not
Raclne- to have been dehgned for the purpofes of gaming, but
merely to have iprung from a generous emulation of
ihowing a fuperior {kill in horfemanihip.
Races appear to have been in vogue in the reign of
Queen Elizabeth, and to have been carried to fuch ex-
cefs as to injure the fortunes of the nobility. The fa¬
mous George earl of Cumberland is recorded to have
wafted more of his eftate than any of his anceflors,
and chielly by his extreme love to horle-races, tiltings,
and other expenfive diverftons. It is probable that the
parfimonious queen did not approve of it ; for races are
not among the diverfions exhibited at Kennelworth by
her favourite Leicefter. In the following reign, places
were allotted for the fport. Croyden in the fouth, and
Garterly in Yorkfhire, were celebrated courfes. Cam¬
den alfo fays, that in 1607 there were races near York,
and the prize was a little golden bell. See Racing.
Race, in genealogy, a lineage or extradtion continued
from father to fon. See Descent.
RACINE, John, a celebrated French poet, member
of the French academy, treafurer of France in the gene¬
rality of Moulins, and fecretary to his majefty, was
born at Ferre Milon in i 639. He had a fine genius
for the belles lettres, and became one of the firft poets
of the age. He produced his Thebaide when but very
young, and afterward other pieces, which met with
great fuccefs, though they appeared when Corneille wTas
in his higheft reputation. In his career, however, he did
not fail to meet with all that oppofition which envy and
cabal are ever ready to fet up againft a fuperior genius.
It was partly owing to a chagrin from this circumftance
that he took a refolution to quit the theatre for ever ;
although his genius was ftill in full vigour, being not
more than 38 years of age. But he had alfo imbibed in
his infancy a deep fenfe of religion *, and this, though it
had been fmothered for a while by his conneftions with
the theatre, and particularly with the famous aflrefs
Champmelle, whom he greatly loved, and by whom he
had a fon, now at length broke out, and bore down all
before it. In the firft place, he refolved not only to
write no more plays, but to do a rigorous penance for
thofe he had written •, and he actually formed a defign
of becoming a Carthufian friar. His religious direc¬
tor, however, a good deal wafer than he, advifed him to
think more moderately, and to take meafures more fuit-
able to his char after. He put him upon marrying, and
fettling in the wrorld : with which propofal this humble
and traftahle penitent complied } and immediately took
to wafe the daughter of a treafurer of France for Ami¬
ens, by whom he had feven children.
He had been admitted a member of the French aca¬
demy in 1673, in the room of La Mothe le Vayer de-
ceafed \ but fpoiled the fpeech he made upon that oc-
cafion by pronouncing it wuth too much timidity. In
1677, he was nominated with Boileau, with whom he
was ever in ftrift friendlhip, to write the hiftory of
Louis XIV. \ and the public expefted great things from
twro writers of their diftinftion, but wrere difappointed.
Boileau and Racine, after having for fome time laboured
at this work, perceived that it was entirely oppofite to
their genius.
He fpent the latter years of his life in compofing a
hiftory of the houfe of Port-Royal, the place of his
education, which, however, though finely drawn up,
4
as many have afferted, has not been publilhed. Too
great ienfibility, fay his friends, but more properly an
impotence of ipirit, ftiortened the dajs of this poet.—
Though he had converted much with the court, he had
not learned the wifdom, which is ufually learned there,
of difguifing his real fentiments. Having drawn up a
well-reafoned and well-written memorial upon the mife-
ries of the people, and the means of relieving them, he
one day lent it to Madame de Maintenon to read j when
the king coming in, and demanding what and whofe it
wTas, commended the zeal of Racine, but difapproved
of his meddling wdth things that did not concern him,
and faid with an angry tone, “ Becaufe he knows how
to make good verfes, does he think he knows every
thing ? And wbuld he be a minifter of ftate, becaule
he is a great poet ?” Thefe words hurt Racine greatly :
he conceived dreadful ideas of the king’s difpleafure 5
and his chagrin and fears brought on a fever, of which
he died the 2 2d of April 1699.
The king, who was fenfible of his great merit, and
ahvays loved him, fent often to him in his illnefs j and
finding after his death that he had more glory than rich¬
es, fettled a handfome penfion upon his family.—There
is nothing in the French language written with more wit
and elegance than his pieces in profe. Befides his plays,
feveral of his letters have been publilhed ; he alfo wrote
fpiritual fongs, epigrams, See. Racine’s works were
printed at Amfterdam in 1722, in 2 vols 1 2mo, and the
next year a pompous edition was printed in 2 vols
Racing,
quarto.
RACING, tire riding heats for a plate, or other pre¬
mium. See Plate. The amufement of horfe-racing,
which is now fo common, was not unknown among the
great nations of antiquity, nor wholly unpraftifed by our
anceftors in Britain, as we have already mentioned in
the article Race. In 1599, private matches between
gentlemen, who were their own jockies and riders, were
very common *, and in the reign of James I. public races
were eftablilhed at various places, when the difeipline,
and mode of preparing the horfes for running, &c. were
much the fame as they are now. The moft celebrated
races of that time were called bell-courfes, the prize of
the conqueror being a bell : hence, perhaps, the phrafe
bearing the bell, when applied to excellence, is derived.
In the latter end of Charles I.’s reign, races were per¬
formed in Hyde-Park. Newmarket was alfo a place for
the fame purpofe, though it was firft ufed for hunting.
Racing was revived foon after the Reftoration, and
much encouraged by Charles II. wTho appointed races
for his ow n amufement at Dachet Mead, when he refided
at Windfor. Newmarket, howrever, now became the
principal place. The king attended in perfon, eftabliflr-
ed a houfe for his own accommodation, and kept and
entered herfes in his own name. Inftead of bells, he
gave a filver bowl or cup value 100 guineas ; on which
prize the exploits and pedigree of the fuccefsful horfe
were generally engraved. Inftead of the cup or bowl,
the royal gift is now a hundred guineas. William III.
not only added to the plates, but even founded an aca¬
demy for riding ; and Queen Anne continued the boun¬
ty of her anceftors, adding feveral plates herfelf. George
I. towards the end of his reign, difeontinued the plates,
and gave in their room a hundred guineas. An aft.
was paffed in the 13 th year of the reign of George II.
for fuppreffing races by poneys and other fmall and weak
horfes,
R A C
•Racing horfes, See. by which all matches for any prize under
the value of 50I. are prohibited, under a penalty of
1 200I. to be paid by the owner of each horfe running,
and 1 col. by i'uch as advertife the plate ; and by which
each horfe entered to run, if five years old, is obliged
to carry ten Hones ; if fix, eleven ; and if feven, twelve.
• It is alfo ordained, that no perfon (hall run any horfe at
a courfe unlefs it be his own, nor enter more than one
horfe for the fame plate, upon pain of forfeiting the hor-
fes j and alfo every horfe-race mult be begun and ended
in the fame day. Horfes may run for the value of 50I.
with any weight, and at any place, 13 Geo. II. cap. 19.
18 Geo. II. cap. 34. Pennant’s Britifh Zoology, vol. i.
p. 6, &c. JBerrenger’s Hiltory and Art of Horfeman-
fhip, vol. i. p. 185, &c. At Newmarket there are two
courfes, the long and the round : the firlt is exaftly four
miles and about 380 yards, i. e. 7420 yards. The fe-
cond is 6640 yards. Childers, the fwifteft horfe ever
known, has run the firft courfe in feven minutes and a
half, and the fecond in fix minutes forty feconds j which
is at the rate of more than forty-nine feet in a fecond. But
all other horfes take up at leaft feven minutes and fifty
feconds in completing the firft and longeft courfe, and
feven minutes only in the (horteft, which is at the rate of
more than forty-feven feet in a fecond. And it is com¬
monly fuppofed that thefe couriers cover, at every bound,
a fpace of ground in length about twenty-four Englifh
feet. Race horfes have for fome time been an objedl of
taxation.
RACHITIS, the Rickets. See Medicine In¬
dex.
RACK, Edmund, a perfon well known in the lite¬
rary world by his attachment to, and promotion of, a-
gricultural knowledge : he was a native of Norfolk, a
(Quaker. His education was common, and he was ap¬
prenticed originally to a fhopkeeper : his fociety was
felecl in this fituation, and by improving himfelf in
learning, his converfation was enjoyed by a refpedlable
acquaintance. Ele wrote many effays, poems, and let¬
ters, and fome few controverfial tradb. At length he
fettled, about his 40th year, at Bath in 1775, and was
loon introduced to the moft eminent literati of that
-place, among whom Dr Wilfon and Mrs Macaulay
highly eftcemed him for his integrity and abilities. In
1777 he publifhed Mentor’s Letters, a moral work,
which has run through many editions. But this year
. he gained great celebrity by his plan of an agricultural
fociety, which wTas foon adopted by four counties. He
ftill further advanced his fame by his papers in the Far¬
mer’s Magazine, and his communications in the Bath So¬
ciety’s papers ; a work remarkable for its ingenuity and
fpirit. His laft engagement was in the Hiftory of So-
merfetfhire, where the topographical parochial furveys
were his. This work, in 3 vols 4to, wTas publithed in
1791, by his colleague the Reverend Mr Collinfon.
• —Mr Rack died of an afthma in February 1787,
aged 52.
Rack, an engine of torture, furniftied with pulleys,
cords, &c. for extorting confeffion from criminals.—
The trial by rack is utterly unknown to the law of
England : though once, when the dukes of Exeter
. and Suffolk, and other minifters of Henry VI. had laid
a defign to introduce the civil law into this kingdom as
she rule of government •, for a beginning thereof they
^reeled a rack for torture, which was called in cjerifipi?
VtU. XVII Part H.
RAD
the duke of Exeter’s daughter, and ftill remains in the Rad;
Tower of London, where it "was occafionally ufed as II
an engine of ftate, not of law, more than once in the a c ’
reign of Queen Elizabeth. But when, upon the affaf-
fination of Villiers duke of Buckingham, by Felton, it
was propofed in the privy council to put the aflaffin to
the rack in order to difeover his accomplices ; the
judges, being confulted, declared unanimoully, to their
own honour and the honour of the Englifii law, that
no fuch proceeding was allowable by the laws of Eng¬
land. It feems altonithing that this ufage of ad mini-
ftering the torture ftiould be faid to arife from a tender-
net’s to the lives of men ; and yet this is the reafon
given for its introdudlion in the civil law, and its fub-
fequent adoption by the French and other foreign na¬
tions, viz. becaufe the laws cannot endure that any man
ftiould die upon the evidence of a falfe or even a fingle
witnefs, and therefore contrived this method that inno¬
cence flrould manifeft itfelf by a ftout denial, or guilt
by a plain confeflion 5 thus rating a man’s virtue by the
hardinefs of his conftitution, and his guilt by the fenfi-
bility of his nerves. The Marquis Beccaria, in an ex-
quifite piece of raillery, has propofed this problem, with
a gravity and precifion that are truly mathematical :
“ The force of the mufcles and the fenfibilily of the
nerves of an innocent perfon being given ; it is requi¬
red to find the degree of pain neceflary to make him
confefs himfelf guilty of a given crime”. See Act of
Faith, Inquisition, and Torture.
Rack, a fpirituous liquor made by the Tartars pf
Tongufia. This kind of rack is made of mare’s milk,
which is left to be four, and afterwards diftilled twice
or thrice between two earthen pots clofely flopped ;
whence the liquor runs through a fmall wooden pipe.
This liquor is more intoxicating than brandy diftillcd
from wine.
Rack, or Arack. See Arack.
To Rack Wines, 'b'c. To draw them off from their
lees, after having flood long enough to ebb and fettle.
Hence rack-vintage is frequently ufed for the fecond
voyage our wine-merchants ufed to make into France
for racked wines.
RACKOON, a fpecies of urfus. See Ursus, Mam¬
malia Index.
RACONI, a populous town of Italy, in Piedmont,
feated in a pleafant plain, on the road from Savillan to
Turin, on the rivers Grana and Macra. It belongs to
the prince of Carignan, who has a handfome caftle here.
It is fix miles from Savillan, and fix from Carignan.
E. Long. 7. 46. N. Eat. 44. 39.
RADCLIFFE, Dr John, an Englifh phyfician of
great eminence in his time, born at Wakefield in
Vorkfhire in 1650. He was educated at Oxford, and
enrolled himfelf upon the phyfical line ; but it was re¬
markable that he recommended himfelf more by his
ready wit and vivacity, than by any extraordinary ac-
quifitions in learning. He began to praclife at Oxford
in 1675 ■, but never paid any regard to eftablifhed rules,
which he cenfured whenever he thought fit, with great
freedom and acrimony } and as this drew7 all the old
practitioners upon him, he lived in a continual ftate of
huftility with them. Neverthelefs, his reputation in-
creal’ed with his experience ; fo that, before he had been
two years in bufinefs, his pradlice was very extenfive
among perfons of high rank. In 1684 he removed to
4 I London,
t 6i7 ]
R A D [ 618 ] RAG
ftatklifll: London, and fettled in JBow-fireet, Covent Garden,
i> where in lefs than a year he got into great employment.
Rac ncr. tpe prjncefs Anne of Denmark made him
her phyiician : yet nhen her hulhand and the joined the
prince of Orange, Radcliffe, either not chooiing to de¬
clare himfelf, or unwilling to favour the meafures then
in agitation, excufed himfelf from attending them, on
the plea of the multitude of his patients. Neverthelefs,
lie was often fent for to King William and other great
perfonages, though he did not incline to be a courtier.
He incurred fwme cenfure for his treatment of Queen
Mary, who died ol tire imallpox •, and foon after loft his
place about the princeis Anne, by his attachment to his
bottle. He alfo totally loft the favour of King William
by his uncourtly freedom ; lor, in 1699, w^en the
king fhowed him his fwollen ankles, while the reft of his
body was emaciated, and afked him what he thought of
them? “ Why truly I would not have your majefty’s
two legs for your three kingdoms,” replied Kadclifte.
He continued increafing in bufinefs and infolence as
long as he lived, continually at war with his brethren
the phyficians ; who confidered him in no other light
than that of an aftive ingenious empiric, whom conftant
pradlice had at length brought to fome degree of fkill
in his profeflion. He died in 1714; and if he never
attempted to write any thing himlelf, has perpetuated
his memory by founding a fine library at Oxford, to pre-
ferve the writings of other men.
RADIAL IS, the name of two mufcles in the arm.
See Anatomy, Table of the Mufcles.
RADIANT, in Optics, is any point of a vifiblc ob¬
ject from whence rays proceed.
RADIATED FLOWERS, in Botany, are fuch as
have feveral ferniflofcules fet round a difk, in form of a
radiant ftar ; thofe which have no fuch rays are called
(life on s flowers.
RADIATION, the aft of a body emitting or dif-
fufing rays of light all round as from a centre.
RADICAL, in general, fomething that ferves as a
bafis or foundation. Hence phyficians talk much of
a radical moifture. In grammar, we give the appella¬
tion radical to primitives, in contradiftinftion to com¬
pounds aad derivatives. Algebraifts alfo fpeak of the
radical fign of quantities, which is the charafter expref-
ling their roots.
RADICLE, that part of the feeds of all plants
which upon vegetating becomes their root, and is dif-
ooverable by the microfcope. See Plant.
RADISH. See Raphanus, Botany Index; and for
the mode of culture fee Gardening Index.
RADIUS, in Geametrif, the femidiameter of a circle,
or a right line drawn from the centre to the circumfe¬
rence.
In Trigonometry, the radius is termed the whole fine,
•r fine of 90°. See Sine.
Radius, in Anatomy, the exterior bone of the arm,
defeending along with the ulna from the elbow to the
wrift.
RADNOR, the county-town of Radnorfiiire, in
South Wales. It is a fmall town, diftant from London
about 1 qo miles. It is fituated near the fpringbead @f
the river Somergil, in a fruitful valley at the bottom of
a hill, where there are fheep grazing in abundance. It
is a very ancient borough-town, whofe jurifdiftion ex¬
pends near 1 % miles round about: the government of
it is veiled in a bailiff and 25 burgeiTes. Though it is
the county-town, the affizes are held at Prefteign : it
has one privilege, however, that is very extraordinary,
befidcs that of fending one member to parliament ; and
that is, it keeps a court of pleas for all aftions, with¬
out being limited to any particular fum. It was form¬
erly fenced with a wall and Itrong caftle ; but both
were in a great meaiure demolilhed by Owen Glen-
dower, when he affumed the title of Prince of Wales,
upon the depofitkm of King Richard II. W. Long. 2.
4 5. N. Lat. 52. 10.
RADNORSHIRE, a county of South Wales, is
bounded on the north by Montgomeryfhire •, on the
eait by Shropfhire and Herefordlhire \ on the loulh and
fouth-weft by Brecknockfhire •, and on the weft by Car-
diganlhire ; extending 30 miles in length and 25 in
breadth. This county is divided into fix hundreds, in
which are contained three market-towns, 52 pariihes,
about 3160 houfes, and 19,050 inhabitants. It is feat-
ed in the diocefe of Hereford, and fends two members
to parliament, one for the county and one for the town
of Radnor. The air of this county is in winter cold
and piercing. The foil in general is but indifferent j
yet fome places produce corn, particularly the eafteru
and fouthern parts ; but in the northern and weftern,
■which are mountainous, the land is chiefly flocked with
horned cattle, fheep, and goats.
RADIX. See Root.
RAFT, a fort of float, formed by an affemblage of
various planks or pieces of timber, fattened together
fide by fide, fo as to be conveyed more commedioufiy
to any fhort diftance in a harbour or road than if they
were feparate. The timber and plank with which
merchant-fhips are laden, in the different parts of the
Baltic fea, are attached together in this manner, in or¬
der to float them off to the ihipping.
RAFTERS, in building, are pieces of timber which,
Handing by pairs on the reafon or railing piece, meet
in an angle at the top, and form the roof of a building.
See Architecture.
Rowley RAGG, a variety of whinftone or green-
ftone of a d 11 Iky or dark gray colour, with many fmall
Ihining cryftals, having a granular texture, and ac¬
quiring an ochry cruft by expofure to the air.
RAGMAN’S roll, Reftius Ragimund’s roll, fo
called from one Ragimund a legate in Scotland, who
calling before him all the beneficed clergymen in that
kingdom, caufed them on oath to give in the true va¬
lue of their benefices •, according to which they were
afterwards taxed by the court of Rome $ and this roll,
among other records, being taken from the Scots by
Edward I. was redelivered to them in the beginning of
the reign of Edward III.
RAGOUT, or RagOO, a fauce, or feafoning, intend¬
ed to roufe the appetite when loft or languifiling.
This term is alfo ufed for any high-feafoned dilh pre¬
pared of flefh, fifli, greens, or the like: by ftewing them
with bacon, fait, pepper, cloves, and the like ingredients.
We have ragouts of celery, of endive, afparagus, cock’s
combs, giblets, craw fifli, &c.
The ancients had a ragout called garum, made of
the putrified guts of a certain filh kept till it diffolved
into a mere fanies, which was thought fuch a dainty,
that, according to Pliny, its price equalled that of the
richeft perfumes.
RAGSTONE,
Radnor .
ihire
Raaout.
It A I [6
RAGSTONE, a coarfe kind of fandftone which is
ufed as a whetftone for coarfe cutting tools. It is
found in the hills about Newcaftle, and many other parts
of England, where there are large rocks of it.
RAGULED, or Ragged, in Heraldry, jagged or
knotted. This term is applied to a crofs formed of the
trunks of two trees without their branches, of which
they fnow only the flumps. Raguled differs from in¬
dented, in that the latter is regular, the former not.
RAG USA, an ancient towm of Sicily, in the Val di-
Noto, near the river Maulo, x 2 miles north of Modica
E. Long. 14. 59. N. Lat. 37. o.
RaGUSA, a city of Dalmatia, and capital of Ragu-
fen. It is about two miles in circumference, is pretty
well built, and ftrong by fituation, having an inaccef-
fible mountain on the land-flde, and on the fide of the
fea a ffrong fort. It has an archbilhop’s fee and a re¬
public, and has a doge like that of Venice, but he con-
•tinues a month only in his office. It carries on a con-
fiderable trade with the Turks, and is 6o miles north-
weft of Scutari, and no north of Brindifi. E. Long.
18. TO. N. Lat. 42. 50.
RAGUSEN, a territory of Europe in Dalmatia,
lying along the coaft of the gulf of Venice, about 55
miles in length, and 20 in breadth. It was formerly
a republic under the proteffion of the Turks and Vene¬
tians, but has fallen under the dominion of the French.
Ragufa is the capital town.
RAJA, or Rajah, the title of the Indian black
princes, the remains of thofe who ruled there before the
Moguls. Some of the rajas are faid to preferve their
independency, efpecially in the mountainous parts 5 but
moft of them pay an annual tribute to the Mogul. The
Indians call them rai; the Perfians, raian, in the plural j
and our travellers rajas, or ragias.
Raja, the Ray-Fijh, in Ichthyology, a genus of fillies
belonging to the cartilaginous order.
RAIANIA, a genus of plants belonging to the di-
oecia clafs ; and in the natural method ranking under the
xxth order, Sarmentacce. See Botany Index.
RAIETEA, one of the South fea illands, named
alfo Ulietea.
RAIL. See Rallus, Ornithology Index.
RAILLERY, according to Dr Johnfon, means flight
fatire, or fatirical merriment j and a beautiiul writer
of the laft century compares it to a light which dazzles,
and which does not burn. It is fometimes innocent and
pleafant, and it ffiould always be fo, but it is moft fre¬
quently offenftve. Raillery is of various kinds j there is
a ferious, fevere, and good-humoured raillery 5 and there
is a kind which perplexes, a kind which oftend’s, and a
kind wffiich pleafes.
To rally well, it is abfolutely neceffary that kindnefs
run through all you fay; and you muft ever preferve
the charafter of a friend to fupport your pretenfions to
be free with a man. Allufions to pall follies, hints to
revive what a man has a mind to forget for ever, ffiould
never be introduced as the fubjecfs of raillery. This is
not to thruft with the {kill of fencers, but to cut with
the barbarity of butchers. But it is below the character
of men of humanity and good breeding to be capable
of mirth, while there ig any in the company in pain and
diforder.
RAIN, the defcent of water from the atmofphere
in the form of drops of ^ confiderable fize. By this
9 ] R A I
circumftance it is diftinguifhed from dew and fog : in
the former of which the drops are fo fmall that they '
are quite invifible } and in the latter, though their fize
be larger, they feem to have very little more fpecific
gravity than the atmofphere itfelf, and may therefore
be reckoned hollowr fpherules rather than drops. Some
of the more general fadts relative to the phenomena of
rain have been already given under Meteorology.
We {hall here add feme account of the (peculations of
philofophers on the fame fubjefl, in attempting to ac¬
count for thofe phenomena.
It is univerfally agreed, that rain is produced by the
water previouily ablbrbed by the heat of the fun, or
otherwife, from the terraqueous globe, into the atmo¬
fphere ; but very great difficulties occur when we begin
to explain why the wrater, once fo elofely united with
the atmofphere, begins to feparate from it. We cannot
aferibe this feparation to cold, ftnee rain often takes
place in very warm weather j and though we ftiould
fuppofe the condenfation owing to the fuperior cold of
the higher regions, yet there is a remarkable faft which
will not allow us to have recourfe to this fuppofition.
It is certain that the drops of rain increafe in fize con-
fiderably as they defeend. On the top of a hill, for in-
ftance, they will be fmall and inconfiderable, forming
only a drizzling fhower 5 but at the bottom of the fame
hill the drops will be excefiively large, defeending in
an impetuous rain ; which ftiows that the atmofphere
is difpofed to condcnfe the vapours, and aiRually does
fo, as rvell where it is warm as where it is cold.
For fome time the fuppofitions concerning the caufe
of rain were exceedingly infufficient and unfatisfac-
tory. It was imagined, that when various congeries
of clouds were driven together by the agitation of
the winds, they mixed, and run into one body, by
which means they were condenfed into water. The
coldnefs of the upper parts of the air alfo was thought
to be a great means of colledling and condenfing the
clouds into water; which, being heavier than the air,
muft necelTarily fall down through it in the form of
rain. The reafon why it falls in drops, and not in
large quantities, was faid to be the refiftance of the air j
whereby being broken, and divided into fmaller and
fmaller parts, it at laft arrives to us in fmall drops. But
tins hypothefis is entirely contrary to almoft all the
phenomena : for the weather, when coldeft,' that is, in
the time of fevere froft, is generally the moft ferene ;
the moft violent rains alfo happen where there is little
or no cold to condenfe the clouds •, and the drops of
rain, inftead of being divided into fmaller and fmaller
ones as they approach the earth, are plainly increafed
in fize as they defeend.
Dr Derham accounted for the precipitation of the
drops of rain from the veficulae being full of air, and
meeting with an air colder than they contained, the
air they contained w^as of confequence con traded into
a fmaller fpace; and confequently the -watery (hell ren¬
dered thicker, and thus fpecifically heavier, than the
common atmofphere. But it has been thorvn, that
the veficulae, if fuch they arc, of vapour, are not filled
with air, but with fire, or heat •, and confequently,
till they part with this latent heat, the vapour cannot
be condenfed. Now, cold is not always fufficient to
effed this, fince in the moft fevere frofts the air is very
often ferene, and parts with little or ngne of its vapour
413 for
R A I [ 620 ] RAT
Rain. for a very confiderable time. Neither can we admit
“"V“—' the winds to have any confiderable agency in this mat¬
ter, lines we find that blowing upon vapour is fo far
from condenfing it, that it unites it more clofely with
the air, and wind is found to be a great promoter of
evaporation.
According to Rohault, the great caufe of rain is the
heat of the air ; which, after continuing for fome time
near the earth, is raifed on high by a wind, and there
thawing the fnowy villi or Hocks of half-frozen vefi-
culm, reduces them to drops ; which, coalelcing, de-
feend. Here, however, we ought to be informed by
what means thefe veficulae are fufpended in their half-
frozen ftate $ fince the thawing of them can make but
little difference in their fpecific gravity, and it is cer¬
tain that they afeended through the air not in a frozen
but in an aqueous Hate.
Dr Clarke and others aferibe this defeent of the rain
rather to an alteration of the atmofphere than of the
veficuloe; and fuppofe it to arife from a diminution of
the elaftic force of the air. This elafticity, which,
they fay, depends chiefly or wholly upon terrene ex¬
halations, being weakened, the atmofphere finks un¬
der its burden, and the clouds fall. Now, the little
veficles being once upon the defeent, will continue there¬
in, notwithftanding the increafe of refiftance they
every moment meet wuth. For, as they all tend to the
centre of the earth, the farther they fall, the more
coalitions they wall make ; and the more coalitions,
the more matter wall there be under the fame furface j
the furface increafing only as the fquares, but the foli-
dity as the cubes •, and the more matter under the fame
furface, the lefs refiftance will there be to the fame mat¬
ter. Thus, if the cold, wind, &c. aft early enough
to precipitate the afeending veficles before they are ar¬
rived at any confiderable height, the coalitions being
but few, the drops will be proportionably fmall 5 and
thus is formed a dew. If the vapours be more copious,
and rife a little higher, wre have a mill or fog. A
little higher ftill, and they produce a fmall rain if
they neither meet with cold nor wind, they form a
heavy thick dark fky. This hypothefis is equally un-
fatisfaftory with the others; for, granting that the de¬
feent and condenfation of the vapours are owing to a di¬
minution of the atmofphere’s elafticity, by what is this
diminution occafioned ? To fay that it is owing to ter¬
rene exhalations, is only folving one difficulty by ano¬
ther 5 fince we are totally unacquainted both with the
nature and operation of thefe exhalations. Befides,
let us fuppofe the caufe to be what it will, if it afts
equally and at once upon all the vapour in the air, then
all that vapour muft be precipitated at once ; and thus,
inftead of gentle {honkers continuing for a confiderable
length of time, we fiiould have the moft violent w^ater-
ipouts, continuing only for a few minutes, or perhaps
feconds, which, inftead of refrefhing the earth, wTould
drown and lay wafte every thing before them.
Since philofopners have admitted the eleftric fluid
to fuch a large fhare in the operations of nature, al-
moft all the natural phenomena have been accounted
.or by the aftion of that fluid 5 and rain, among others,
has been reckoned an effeft of eleftricity. But this
word, unlefs it is explained, makes us no wifer than
we were before •, the phenomena of artificial eleftricity
having been explained on principles which could fcarce
apply in any degree to the eleftricity of nature : and Ra;n-
therefore all the folution we can obtain of the natural —-*v—
appearances of which wre fpeak, comes to this, that rain
is occafioned by a moderate eleftrification, hail and fnow
by one more violent, and thunder by the moft violent
of all ; but in wffiat manner this eleftrification is occa¬
fioned, has not yet been explained. The principles of
eleftricity neceflary to be attended to in the folution of
the phenomena under confideration are the following :
1. The eleftric fluid and folar light are the fame fub-
ftances in twTo different modifications.
2. Eleftricity is the motion of the fluid when running,
or attempting to run, in a continued ftream from one
place to another : heat is when the fluid has no ten¬
dency but to vibrate outwards and inwards to and from
a centre ; or at leaft when its ftreams converge to a
point or focus.
3. The fluid afting as eleftricity, like w-ater, or any
other fluid, always tends to the place where there is
leaft refiftance.
On thefe three principles may the phenomena of at-
mofpherical eleftricity, and the defeent of rain by its
means, be explained as follows :
1. The light or heat of the fun, afting in that pe¬
culiar manner which wre call heat, unites itfelf with
the moifture of the earth, and forms it into vapour,
which thus.becomes fpecifically lighter than air, and
of confequence afeends in the atmofphere to a certain
height.
2. Befides the quantity of light which is thus united
to the water, and forms it into vapour, a very confider¬
able quantity enters the earth, where it affumes the na¬
ture of eleftric fluid.
3. As the earth is always full of that fluid, every
quantity which enters muft difplace an equal quantity
which is already there.
4. This quantity which is difplaced muft efcape ei¬
ther at a diftance from the place where the other en¬
ters, or very near it.
5. At whatever place a quantity of eleftric matter
efcapes, it muft eleftrify the air above that place
where it has efcaped ; and as a confiderable quantity
of light muft always be reflefted from the earth into
the atmofphere, where it does not combine with the
aqueous vapour, wx have thence another fource of
eleftricity to the air) as this quantity muft undoubt¬
edly affume the aftion of eleftric fluid, efpecially af¬
ter the aftion of the fun has ceafed. Hence the rea-
fon why in ferene weather the atmofpherical eleftricity
is always ftrongeft, and rather more fo in the night than
in the day.
6. From thefe confiderations, wre fee an evident rea-
fon why there muft commonly be a difference between
the eleftricity of the earth and that of the atmofphere,
excepting when an earthquake is about to enfue. The
confequence of this muft be, that as the aftion of the
folar light continues to bring down the eleftric matter,
and the earth continues to difeharge an equal quantity
of it into the atmofphere, fome part of the atmofphere
muft at laft become overloaded with it, and attempt to
throw it back into the earth. This attempt wall be
vain, until a vent is found for the eleftricity at fome
other place ; and as foon as this happens, the eleftrified
atmofphere begins to throw off its fuperfluous eleftricity,
and the earth to receive it. As the almofphere itfelf
is
R A I [62
is a bad. conduftor, and the more To the drier it is,^ the
eleftric matter attacks the fmall aqueous particles which
are detained in it by means of the latent heat. Ihefe
being unable to bear the impetus of the fluid, throw out
their latent heat, which eaflly efcapes, and thus makes a
kind of vacuum in the electrified part of the atmofphere.
The confequences of this are, that the aqueous par¬
ticles being driven together in large quantity, at laft
become vifible, and the Iky is covered with clouds} at
the fame time a wind blows againfl: thefe clouds, and,
if there is no refiftance in the atmofphere, will drive
them away.
7. But if the atmofphere all round the cloud is ex¬
ceedingly eleCtrified, and the earth is in no condition
to receive the fuperfluous fluid excepting in tiiat place
which is direCtly under the cloud, then the whole elec¬
tricity of the atmofphere for a valt way round will tend
to that part only, and the cloud will be eleCtrified to
an extreme degree. A wind will now blow againfl: the
cloud from all quarters, more and more of the vapour
will be extricated from the air by the eieClric matter,
and the cloud will become darker and thicker,, at the
fame time that it is in a manner ftationary, as.being aCl-
ed upon by oppofite winds; though its fize is enlarged
with great rapidity by the continual fupplies of vapour
brought by the winds.
8. The vapours which were formerly fufpended in-
vifibly by means of the latent heat are now fufpended
vifibly by the eleClric fluid, which will not let them
fall to the earth, until it is in a condition to re¬
ceive the eleClric matter defcending with the rain.—-
It is eafy to fee, however, that thus every thing is
prepared for a violent llorm of thunder and lightning
as well as rain. I he furface of the earth becomes
eleCfrified from the atmofphere : but when this has con¬
tinued for fome time, a zone of earth confiderably be¬
low the furface acquires an eleClricity oppofite to that
of the clouds and atmofphere ; of confequence the elec¬
tricity in the cloud being violently preffed on all fides,
will at laft burfl: out towards that zone where the re¬
fiftance is leaft, as explained under the article Light-
jg-jNG. The vapours now having loft that which fup-
ported them, will fall down in rain, if there is not a
fufficient quantity of eleClric matter to keep them m
the fame ftate in which they were before :. but if this
happfens to be the cafe, the cloud will inftantly be
charged again, while little or no rain will fall} and
hence very violent thunder fometimes takes place with¬
out any rain at all, or fuch as is quite inconfiderable in
quantity.
9. When the electricity is lefs violent, the rain will
defeend in vaft quantity, especially after.every flafti of
lightning; and great quantities of eleClric matter will
thus be conveyed to the earth, infomuch that fometimes
the drops have been obferved to ftnne as if tney weie
on fire, which has given occafion to the reports of fiery
rain having fallen on certain occafions. If the quantity
of eleClric matter is fmaller, fo that the rain can. convey
it all gradually to the ground, there will be rain with¬
out any thunder \ and the greater the quantity of eleClri-
citv the more violent will be the rain.
From this account of the caufes of rain, we may fee
the reafon why in w'arm climates the rains are excef-
five, and for the moft part accompanied with, thunder 5
for there the eleClricity of the atmofphere is immenfely
i ] 11 a r
greater than it is with us. We may alfo fee why in
certain places, according to the fituation of moun¬
tains, feas, &c. the rains will be greater than in others,
and likewife why fome parts of the wmrld are exempted
from rain altogether; but as a particular difeuflion
of thefe would necefi'arily include an explanation of
the caufes and phenomena of Thunder, wTe fhall for
this reafon refer the whole to be treated of under that
article.
Whether this theory be juft, however, it would be too
affuming in us to fay. It may admit of difpute, for w^e
muft grant that in the very beft fyftems, though an oc¬
currence fo frequent, the theory of rain is but very im-
perfeCtly underftood. Dr Hutton, whofe fpeculations
are ahvays ingenious, though generally extraordinary,
and much out of the common way, has given a new
theory of rain in the firft volume of the TranfaClions
of the Royal Society of Edinburgh. It is well known
that atmofpheric air is capable of diffolving, wdth a
certain degree of heat, a given quantity of w^ater. The
DoClor afeertains the ratio of the diffolving po-wer of
air, in relation to water, in different degrees of heat *
and (hows, that by mixing a portion of tranfparent humid
warm air wdth a portion of cold air, the mixture becomes
opake, and part of the w’ater will be precipitated; or,
in other wmrds, the vapour wdll be condenfed into rain.
The ratio which he ftates, however, does not appear to
us to be fupported by experience. Whether the elec¬
tricity of the air changes in confequence of its depofiting
the water diffolved in it, or the change is a caufe of this
depofition, muft remain uncertain 5 but, in either viewq
there muft be an agent different from heat and cold, fince
the changes in thefe refpefts do not in other operations
change the ftate of eleftricity. Dr Hutton fuppofes
that heat and folution do not increafe by equal incre¬
ments 5 but that, in reality, if heat be fuppofed to in¬
creafe by equal increments along a ftraight line, folution
will be expreffed by ordinates to a curve whofe convex
fide is turned towards that line. That the power of
folution is not increafed in the fame ratio wdth heat, is,,
however, hypothetical, except when wre rife pretty high
in the fcale, wdien its proportional increafe is a little
doubtful ; and it is not, in this paper, fupported by ex¬
periment. The condenfation of the breath in air is not
an obfervation in point, except in air already faturated
with vapour. It can amount, in any view, to no more
than this, that to render- it vifible, the heat muft be di-
miniftied in a greater proportion than can be compen-
fated by the power of folution in the body of air, in
which the portion expired is at firft immerfed. To ex¬
plain rain from this caufe, we muft ahvays fuppofe a
conftant diminution of heat to take place at the mo¬
ment of the condenfation of the vapour ; but we actu¬
ally find that the change from a ftate of vapour to the
fluid ftate is attended with heat ; fo that rain muft at
once oppofe its ow-n caufe, and continued rains w-ould
be impoflible, w ithout calling in the aid of other caufes.
From his own fyftem, Dr Hutton endeavours to ex¬
plain the regular and irregular feafons of rain, either
refpeCling the generality of its appearance, or the re¬
gularity of its return. And to obviate the apparent ex¬
ceptions of the theory, from the generality of rain,
he explains the proportional quantities of rain, and adds
a comparative eftimate of climates, in relation to rain,
with the meteorological obfervations made in our own.-
climate..
11 A I [62
climate. As liis principle is at leafl infutTicient, and we
think erroneous, it would be ufelefs, even were this a
proper place for it, to purfue thefe various branches,
which muft partake of the errors of the fyftem. In thefe
branches we ought to obferve, that there are feveral juft
obfcrvations, mixed with errors, becaufe evaporation and
condenfation muft at laft be the great bafis of every the¬
ory : the miilakes arife from not being aivare of all
the caufes, and mifreprefenting the operation of thofe
w'hich do exift.
In a work entitled Thoughts on Meteorology, vol. ii.
M. de Luc conftders very particularly the grand pheno¬
menon of rain, and the numerous circumftances connect¬
ed with it. He examines the feveral hypothefes with
confiderable care \ but thinks them, even if admiftible,
utterly infufficient to account for the formation of rain.
The grand queftion in this inquiry is, what becomes of
the water that rifes in vapour into the atmofphere ; or
what ftate it fubfifts in there, between the time of its
evaporation and its falling down again in rain. If it
continues in the ftate of watery vapour, or fiich as is
the immediate produCI of evaporation, it muft poffefs the
diftinCHve charafters effential to that fluid : it muft make
the hygrometer move towards humidity, in propor¬
tion as the vapour is more or lefs abundant in the air :
on a diminution of heat, the humidity, as fhown by the
hygrometer, muft increafe ; and on an increafe of the
heat the humidity muft diminilh ; and the introduction
of other hygrofcopic iubftances, drier than the ah, muft
have the fame effeCt as an augmentation of heat. Thefe
are the properties of watery vapour, on every hypolhefis
of evaporation j and therefore all the water that exifts in
the atmofphere without poffeffing thefe properties, is no
longer vapour, but muft have changed its nature.
M. de Luc fhows, that the water which forms rain,
though it has ever been confidered and reafoned upon as
producing humidity, does not poffefs thefe properties,
and muft therefore have paffed into another ftate. As
he thinks that the vapour paffes into an invifible ftate in
the interval between evaporation and its falling again in
rain, and that in that ftate it is not fenfible to the hy¬
grometer, he confiders the law’s of hygrology as infuffi¬
cient for explaining the formation of rain ; but he does
not pretend to have difeovered the immediate caufe of
the formation of clouds and rain. If it is not in the im¬
mediate produCI of evaporation that rain has its fource ;
if the vapours change their nature in the atmofphere, fo
as no longer to be fenfible to the hygrometer, or to the
eye ; if they do not become vapour again till clouds ap¬
pear 5 and if, when the clouds are formed, no alteration
is perceived in the quality of the air—we muft acknow¬
ledge it to be very probable, that the intermediate ftate
of vapour is no other than air—and that the clouds do
not proceed from any diftinCI fluid contained in the at¬
mofphere, but from a decompofition of a part of the air
itfelf, perfectly fimilar to the reft.
L appears, to us at leaft, that M. de Luc’s mode of
reafoning on this fubjeft agrees better with the ph eno-
inena than Dr Hutton’s. The Doftor, however, thinks
differently, and publilhed anfwers to the objeCHons of
M. de Luc with regard to his theory of rain j to which
M. de Luc replied in a letter which was printed in the
Appendix to the 81ft volume of the Monthly Review :
but it would extend our article beyond its due bounds,
to give a view of this controverfy.
]
R A I
As to the general quantity of rain that falls, and its
proportion in leveral places at the lame time, and in the
lame place at feveral times, we have many oblervations,
journals, &.c. in the IVIemoirs of the french Academy,
the Philofophical IranfaCHons, &c. Upon meafuring,
then, the rain falling yearly, its depth, at a medium, and
its proportion in feveral places, is found as in the follow¬
ing table :
At I ownley, in Lancaffiire, obferved bv Mr
Townley - - .
Upminifter, in Effex, by Dr Derham
Zurich, in Swifferland, by Dr Scheuchzer
Pifa, in Italy, by Dr Mich. Ang. Tilii
Paris, in France, by M. de la Hire
Lille, in Flanders, by M. de Vauban
Inchf~.
42*'
J9f
32t
24
At Upminfter.
1700 19 Inch.
18
1701
1 702
1703
1704
1'/°S
23
ii
16
•°3
.69
•38
•99
.80
•93
from the Meteorological Journal of the Royal Socie-
ty, kept by order of the prefident and council, it ap¬
pears that the whole quantity of rain at London, in
each of the years fpecified below, was as fellows.
Inches.
x774
i?7i
1776
1777
1778
1779
1780
26
24
20
25
20
26
i?
.328
.083
•354
•371
.772
•785
•3 i3
ihe quantity of rain in the four following years at Lon¬
don was Inches.
In 1789 - - 2i .976
179° ” - 16 .0^2
1791
1792
i9
.310
.489
Proportion oj the Rain of the feveral Seafons to one ano¬
ther.
1708
Jan.
Feb.
Mar.
April
May
June
Depth at
Pifa.
Inch.
6 .41
3 -28
2 .65
1 .23
3 -33
4 -9°
Half
Year
2i .82
Depthat
Upniirf.
Inch.
2 .88
o .46
2 0.3
O .96
2 .02
2 .32
10 .67
Depthat
Zurich.
Inch.
I .64
I .65
1 -i1
4 -69
I .91
5 -91
i? -3i
1708
July
Aug.
jSept.
|oa.
Nov.
Dec.
jDepth ai
Pifa.
Inch.
O .20
2 .27
7 .21
5 -33
o .13
o .00
Half
Depthat
Up m inf.
Inch.
1 .11
2 -94
1 .46
o .23
o .86
1 .97
lYeari'4 M 8 -57
Depthat
Zurich.
Inch.
3 -50
3 -15
3 -02.
2 .44
o .62
2 .62
ii -35
See Philofophical Tranfa&ions abridged, vol. iv. part ii,
p. 81, &c. and alfo Meteorological Journal of the Royal
Society, publilhed annually in the Philofophical Tranf-
aftions.
As to the ufe of rain, we may obferve, that it moi-
ftens
R A I [ 623 ] R A I
Rain, ftens and foftcns the earth, and thus fits it for affording
■—V"—' nourifhment to plants ; by falling on high mountains, it
carries down with it many particles of loofe earth, which
ferve to fertilize the lurrounding valleys, and purifies
the air from noxious exhalations, which tend in their
return to the earth to meliorate the foil; it moderates
the heat of the air } and is one means of fupplying foun¬
tains and rivers. However, vehement rains in many
countries are found to be attended with barrennefs and
poornefs of the lands, and nrifcarriage of the crops in
the fucceeding year : and the reafon is plain j for thefe
exceffrve llorms walh away the fine mould into the ri¬
vers, which carry it into the fea, and it is a long time
before the land recovers itfclf again. The remedy to
the famine, which fome countries are fubject to from
this fort of mifchief, is the planting large orchards and
groves of fuch trees as bear efculent fruit; for it is an
old obfervation, that in years, when grain fucceeds
word:, thefe trees produce mod fruit of all. It may
partly be owing to the thorough moideningof the earth,
as deep as their roots go by thefe rains, and partly to
their trunks dopping part of the light mould carried
down by the rains, and by this means furniihing them-
felves with a coat of new earth.
Preternatural RsllNS. We have numerous accounts,
in the hidorians of our own as well as other countries,
of preternatural rains ; fuch as the raining of bones, of
dud, of blood, nay, and of living animals, as young
. frogs, and the like. We are not to doubt the truth of
what thofe who are authors of veracity and credit relate
to us of this kind, fo far as to fuppofe that the falling
of bones and dud never happened ; the whole midake
is, the fuppofing them to have fallen from the clouds :
but as to the blood and frogs, it is very certain that they
never fell at all, but the opinion has been a mere decep¬
tion of the eyes. Men are extremely fond of the mar¬
vellous in their relations ; but the judicious reader is to
examine ftrittly whatever is reported ox this kind, and
is not to fuffer himfelf to be deceived.
There are two natural methods by which quantities
of bones and dud may fall in certain places, without
their having been generated in the clouds or fallen as
rain. The one is by means of hurricanes : the wind
which we frequently fee tearing off the tiles of hoofes,
and carrying them to confiderable didances, being equal¬
ly able to take up a quantity of bones, and drop them
again at fome other place. But the other, which is much
.the mod powerful, and probably the mod ufual way,
is for the eruptions of volcanoes and burning mountains
to tofs up, as they frequently do, a vad quantity of
bones, allies, and cinders, to an immenfe height in the
air : and thefe, being hurried away by the hurricanes
and impetuous winds which ufually accompany thofe
eruptions, and being in themfelves much lighter than
common bones, as being half calcined, may eafily be
thus carried to vad didances j and there falling in pla¬
ces where the inhabitants know nothing of the occafion,
they cannot but be fuppofed by the vulgar to fall on
them from the clouds. It is well known, that, in the
great eruptions of /Etna and Vefuvius, {bowers of afhes,
dud, and fmall cinders, have been feen to obfeure the
air, and overfpread the furface of the fea for a great
way, and cover the decks of blips ; and this at fuch a
d’dance, as it biould appear fcarce conceivable that they
ftiQuid have been carried to: and probably, if the ac-
courtts ot all the ihowers of thefe fubdances mentioned R-i'-1’-
by authors be colle&ed, they will all be found to have v 
fallen within Inch didances of volcanoes} and if com¬
pared as to the time of their falling, will be found to
correipond in that alfo with the eruptions of thofe
mountains. We have known indances of the afhes from
Vefuvius having been carried thirty, nay, forty leagues,
and peculiar accidents may have carried them yet far¬
ther. It is not to be fuppoied that thefe blowers of
bones and dud fall for a continuance in the manner of
blowers of rain, or that the fragments or pieces are as
frequent as drops of water j it is fufficient that a num¬
ber of bones, or a quantity of dud, fall at once on a
place, where the inhabitants can have no knowledge of
the part from wdience they came, and the vulgar will
not doubt their dropping from the clouds. Nay, in
the canton of Berne in Swifferland, the inhabitants ac¬
counted it a miracle that it rained earth and fulphur up-
pon them at a time that a fmall volcano terrified them
and even while the wind was fo boiderous, and hurri¬
canes fo frequent, that they faw almod every moment
the dud, land, and little bones torn up from the furface
of the earth in whirlwinds, and carried to a confiderable
height in the air, they never conlidered that both the
fulpi mr thrown up by the volcano, and the dud,
carried from their feet mud fall foon after fomewhere.
It is very certain that in fame of the terrible dorms of
large hail, where the haildones have been of many
inches round, on breaking them there have been found
what people have called Jlones in their middle; but
thefe obfervers needed only to have waited the diffolving
of one of thefe haildones, to have feen the done in its
centre difunite alfo, it being only formed of the parti¬
cles of loofe earthy matter, which the water, exhaled by
the fun’s heat, had taken up in extremely fmall mole-
culae with it} and this only having ferved to give an
opaque hue to the inner part of the congelation, to which
the freezing of the water alone gave the apparent hard-
nefs of done.
The raining of blood has been ever accounted a more
terrible fight and a more fatal omen than the other pre¬
ternatural rains already mentioned. It is very certain
that nature forms blood nowhere but in the veffels of
animals ; and therefore Ihowers of it from the clouds are
by no means to be credited. Thofe who fuppofe that
what has been taken for blood has been a finally feen
failing through the air, have had recourfe to" Hying in¬
fers for its origin, and fuppofe it the eggs or dung of
certain butterflies difeharged from them as they were
high up in the air. But it feems a very wild conjec¬
ture, as we know of no butterfly whofe excrements or
eggs are of fuch a colour, or whofe abode is fo high,
or their flocks fo numerous, as to be the occafion of
this.
It is mod probable that thefe bloody waters w’ere
never feen falling ; but that people feeing the danding
waters blood-coloured, were affured, from their not
knowing how it diould elfe happen, that it had rained
blood into them. A very memorable indance of this
took place at the Hague in the year 1670. Swam¬
merdam, who relates it, tells us, that one morning the
whole towai w'as in an uproar on finding their lakes and
ditches full of blood, as they thought ; and having been
certainly full of water the night before, thev agreed it
mud have raiped blood in the night: but a certain phy-
fitiau.
R A I r 624 ] R A I
Rain, flcian went down to one of the canals, and taking home
a quantity of this blood-coloured water, he examined it
by the microfcope, and found that the water was water
hill, and had not at all changed its colour $ but that it
was full of prodigious fwarms of fmall red animals, all
alive, and very nimble in their motions, whofe colour
and prodigious number gave a red tinge to the whole
body of the water they lived in, on a lefs accurate in-
fpe£tion. The certainty that this wras the cafe, did not
however perfuade the Hollanders to part with the mi¬
racle : they prudently concluded, that the hidden ap¬
pearance of fuch a number ot animals wras as great a
prodigy as the raining of blood would have been $ and
are allured to this day, that this portent foretold the
fcene of war and deitruftion which Louis XIV. after¬
wards brought into that country, which had before en¬
joyed 40 years of uninterrupted peace.
The animals which thus colour the water of lakes and
ponds are the pulices arborefccntes of Sivammerdam, or
the water-deas with branched horns. Thefe creatures
are of a reddilh-yellow or dame colour : they live about
the tides of ditches, under -weeds, and among the mud ;
and are therefore the lefs viiible, except at a certain
time, which is in the end or beginning of June : it is at
this time that thefe little animals leave their recedes to
doat loofe about the water, to meet for the propagation
of their fpecies, and by that means become vifible in
the colour they give the w'ater. This is vilible, more
or lefs, in one part or other of almoft all Handing wa¬
ters at this feafon ) and it is always at this feafon that
the bloody waters have alarmed the ignorant.
The raining of frogs is a thing not lefs wonderful in
the accounts of authors who love the marvellous, than
thofe of blood or Hones } and this is fuppofed to happen
fo often, that there are multitudes who pretend to have
been eye-witneffes of it. Thefe rains of frogs always
happen after very dry feafons, and are much more fre¬
quent in the hotter countries than in the cold ones.
In Italy they are very frequent; and it is not uncom¬
mon to fee the flreets of Rome fwarming both with
young frogs and toads in an indant in a Hrower of rain •,
they hopping everyrvhere between the people’s legs as
they walk, though there was not the lead appearance of
them before. Nay, they have been feen to fall through
the air down upon the pavements. This feems a flrong
circumHance in favour of their being rained down from
the clouds ; but, when Hriftly examined, it comes to
nothing : for thefe frogs that are feen to fall, are always
found dead, lamed, or bruifed by the fall, and never
hop about as the refl ; and they are never feen to fall,
except dole under the walls of houfes, from the roofs
and gutters of which they have accidentally flipped down.
Some people, who love to add 'o Hrange things yet
ftranger, affirm that they have had the young frogs fall
into their hats in the midfl of an open field } but this is
idle, and wholly falfe.
Others, who cannot agree to their falling from the
clouds, have tried to folve the difficulty of their Hidden
appearance, by fuppofing them hatched out of the egg,
or fpawn, by thefe rains. Nay, fome have fuppofed
them made immediately out of the dufl : but there are
unanfwerable arguments againfl all thefe fuppofitions.
Lquivocal generation, or the fpontaneous produdion of
animals out of dufl, is now wholly exploded. The fall
from the clouds muH deflroy and kill thefe tender and
1
foft-bodied animals: and they cannot be at this time Rann
hatched immediately out of eggs •, becaufe the young 'v~""
frog does not make its appearance from the egg in form,
but has its hinder legs enveloped in a fkin, and is what
we call a tadpole ; and the young frogs are at leaft 100
times larger at the time of their appearance, than the
egg from which they fliould be hatched.
It is beyond a doubt, that the frogs which make their
appearance at this time, were hatched and in being long
before : but that the dry feafons had injured them, and
kept them fluggiihly in holes or coverts \ and that all
the rain does, is the enlivening them, giving them new
fpirits, and calling them forth to feek new habitations,
and enjoy the element they were deflined in great part
to live in. Theophraftus, the greatell of all the natu-
ralifls of antiquity, has affirmed the fame thing. We
find that the error of fuppofing thefe creatures to fall
from the clouds was as early as that author’s time ; and
alfo that the truth, in regard to their appearance, was
as early known ; though, in the ages fince, authors have
taken care to conceal the truth, and to hand down to us
the error. We find this venerable fage, in a fragment
of his on the generation of animals which appear on a .
hidden, bantering the opinion, and afferting that they
were hatched and living long before. The world owes,
however, to the accurate Signior Redi the great proof
of this truth, which Theophraftus only has affirmed :
for this gentleman, diffefting fome of thefe new-appear¬
ing frogs, found in their Homachs herbs and other half-
digefted food } and, openly (bowing this to his credu¬
lous countrymen, alked them whether they thought that .
nature, which engendered, according to their opinion,
thefe animals in the clouds, had alfo been fo provident
as to engender grafs there for their food and nourilh-
ment ?
To the raining of frogs we ought to add the raining
of grafskoppers and loctjls, which have fometimes ap¬
peared in prodigious numbers, and devoured the fruits
of the earth. There has not been the leaft pretence for
the fuppofing that thefe animals defcended from the
clouds, but that they appeared on a hidden in prodigi¬
ous numbers. The naturalift, who knows the many ac¬
cidents attending the eggs of thefe and other the like
animals, cannot but know that fome feafons will prove
particularly favourable to the hatching them, and the
prodigious number of eggs that many infefts lay could
not but every year bring us fuch abundance of the young,
were they not liable to many accidents, and had not pro¬
vident nature taken care, as in many plants, to continue
the fpecies by a very numerous Hock of feeds, of which
perhaps not one in 500 need take root in order to con¬
tinue an equal number of plants. As it is thus alfo in
regard to infedls, it cannot but happen, that if a favour¬
able feafon encourage the hatching of all thofe eggs, a
very fmall number of which alone was neceffary to
continue the fpecies, we muft, in fuch feafons, have a
proportionate abundance of them. There appeared
about 50 years ago, in London, fuch a prodigious fwarm
of the little beetle called the lady-cotv, that the very
pofts in the ftreets were everywhere covered with them.
But thanks to the progrefs of philofophy among us, we
had nobody to afiert that it rained cow-ladies, but con¬
tented ourfelves with faying that it had been a favour¬
able feafon for their eggs. The prodigious number of
a fort of grub which did vaft mifchief about the lame
period
R A I [ (
perioJ among the corn and grafs by eating off their
roots, might alfo have been fuppofed to proceed from
its having rained grubs by people fond of making every¬
thing a prodigy ; but our knowledge in natural hillory
affured us, that thefe were only the hexapode worms of
the common hedge beetle called the cockchafer.
I he raining of fijhes has been a prodigy alfo much
talked of in France, where the ftreets of a town at fome
difiance from Paris, after a terrible hurricane in the
night, which tore up trees, blew down houfes, &c. were
found in a manner covered with fillies of various fizes.
Nobody here made any doubt of thefe having fallen from
the clouds ; nor did the abfurdity of fifh, of five or fix
inches long, being generated in the air, at all ftartle the
people, or drake their belief in the miracle, till they
found, upon inquiry, that a very well-flocked fiflr-pond,
which flood on an eminence in the neighbourhood, had
been blown dry by the hurricane, and only the great
fifh left at the bottom of it, all the fmaller fry having
been toffed into their flreets.
Upon the whole, all the fuppofed marvellous rains
have been owing to fubflances naturally produced on the
earth, and either never having been in the air at all, or
cnly carried thither by accident.
In Silefia, after a great dearth of wheat in that coun¬
try, there happened a violent florm of wind and rain,
and tire earth was afterwards covered, in many places,
with fmall round feeds. The vulgar cried out that Pro¬
vidence had fent them food, and that it had rained mil¬
let : but thefe were, in reality, only the feeds of a fpe-
cres of veronica, or fpeedwell, very common in that
country ; and whofe feeds being juft ripe at that time,
the wind had diflodged them from their capfules, and
Mattered them about. In our own country, we have
hiftories of rains of this marvellous kind, but all fabu-
lous. It was once faid to rain wheat in Wiltfhire ; and
the people were all alarmed at it as a miracle, till Mr
Cole fhovved them, that what they took for wheat was
only the feeds or kernels of the berries of ivy, which be¬
ing then fully ripe, the wind had diflodged from the
fides of houfes, and trunks of trees, on which the ivy
that produced them crept.
And we even once had a raining of fifties near the
coaft of Kent in a terrible hurricane, wuth thunder and
lightning. The people w’ho faw fmall fprats ftrewed
all about afterwards, would have it that they had fallen
from the clouds ; but thofe who confidered how far the
high winds have been known to carry the fea-w’ater, did
not wonder that they fhould be able to carry fmall fifh
with it fo fmall a part of the way.
In the Philofophical T ran factions far 1782 wre have
the following account of a preternatural kind of rain
by Count de Gioeni : “ The morning of the 24th in-
ftant there appeared here a moil lingular phenomenon.
.Every place expofed to the air was found wet with
a coloured cretaceous gray w^ater, which, after evapora¬
ting and filtrating away, left every place covered with
it to the height of two or three lines ; and all the iron¬
work that was touched by it became rufly.
“ 1 he public, inclined to the marvellous, fancied va¬
rious caufes of this rain, and began to fear for the ani¬
mals and vegetables.
“In places where rain-water was ufed, they abftain-
cd from it : fome fufnedling vitriolic principles to be
Vol. XVII. Part II.
25 ] R A I
mixed with it, and ethers predidling fome epidemical
diford er.
“ I hofe who had obferved the explofions of Etna 20
days and more before, were inclined to believe it origi¬
nated from one of them.
“ The fliower extended from N. ^ N. E. to S. A S. W.
over the fields, about 70 miles in a right line from the
vertex of Etna.
“ There is nothing new in volcanoes having thrown
up fand, and alfo Hones, by the violent expanfive force
generated within them, which fand has been carried by
the ivind to diftant regions.
“ But the colour and fubtilty of the matter occafion-
ed doubts concerning its origin ; which increafed from
the remarkable circumftance of the water in which it
came incorporated ; for which reafons fome other prin¬
ciple or origin was fufpefted.
“ It became, therefore, neceffary by all means to af-
certain the nature of this matter, in order to be convin¬
ced of its origin, and of the effefts it might produce.
This could not be done without the help of a chemical
analyfis. io do this then with certainty, I endeavour¬
ed to colleft this rain from places where it -was molt pro¬
bable no heterogeneous matter would be mixed with it.
I therefore chofe the plant called brajjica capitata, which
having large and turned-up leaves, they contained
enough of this coloured water : many of thefe I emptied
into a veffel, and left the contents to fettle till the water
became clear.
_ “ This being feparated into another veffel, I tried it
with vegetable alkaline liquors and mineral acids; but
could obferve no decompofition by either. I then eva¬
porated the water in order to reunite the fubftances that
might be in folution ; and touching it again with the
aforefaid liquors, it Ihowed a flight effervefcence with
the acids. When tried with the fyrup of violets, this
became a pale green ; fo that I was perfuaded it con¬
tained a calcareous fait. With the decoftion of galls no
precipitation wTas produced.
“ The matter being afterwards dried in the ftiade, it
appeared a very fubtile fine earth, of a cretaceous colour
but inert, from having been diluted by the rain.
“ I next thought of calcining it with a flow fire, and
it affumed the colour of a brick. A portion of this
being put into a crucible, I applied to it a ftronger heat;
by which it loft almoft all its acquired colour. Again,
I expofed a portion of this for a longer time to a very
violent heat (from wdiich a vitrification might be ex¬
pelled) ; it rerfiained, however, quite foft, and was
eafily brmfed, but returned to its original dufky co¬
lour.
“ From the mofl accurate obfervations of the fmoke
from the three calcinations, I could not difeover either
colour or fmell that indicated any arfenical or fulphure-
ous mixture.
“ Haying therefore calcined this matter in three por¬
tions, with three different degrees of fire, I prefented a
good magnet to each : it did not aft either on the firft
or fecond ; a flight attra£lion was vifible in many places
on the third : this perfuaded me, that this earth contains
a martial principle in a metallic form, and not in a vi¬
triolic fubftance.
“ The nature of thefe fubftances then being difeover-
ed, their volcanic origin appears $ for iron, the more it
4 K is
R A I [ 626 ] H A I
Rain, is expofed to violent calcination, the more it is divided
.Rainbow, by bie l0fs cf its phlogiilic principle j which cannot
naturally happen but in the great chimney of a volcano.
Calcareous fait, being a marine fait combined with a
calcareous fubltance by means of violent heat, cannot be
otherwife compofed than in a volcano.
“ As to their dreaded effedls on animals and vegeta¬
bles, every one knows the advantageous ufe, in medi¬
cine, both of the cne and the other, and this in the fame
form as they are thus prepared in the great laboratory
of nature.
“ Vegetable?, even in flower, do not appear in the
lead macerated, which has formerly happened from on¬
ly {bowers of land.
“ How this volcanic produdtion came to be mixed
with water may be conceived in various ways.
“ /Etna, about its middle regions, is generally fur-
rounded with clouds that do not always rife above its
fummit, which is 2900 paces above the level of the fea.
This matter being thrown out, and defcending upon
the clouds below it, may happen to mix and fall in rain
with them in the ufual way. It may alio be corjedlu-
red, that the thick fmoke which the volcanic matter
contained might, by its rarefaftion, be carried in the
atmofphere by the winds over that tra£l of countiy j
and then cooling fo as to condenfe and become fpecifi-
cally heavier than the air, might defcend in that colour¬
ed rain.
“ I mud, however, leave to philofophers (to whom
the knowledge of natural agents belongs) the examina¬
tion and explanation of Rich phenomena, confining my-
felf to obfervation and chemical experiments.”
Rain, a well built and fortified town of Bavaria, one
of the keys of this deflorate, on the Lech, 20 miles
wed of Ingollladt. N. Lat. 48. 51. E. Long. 11. 12.
RAIN-Bird. ■ See CucuLUS, ORNITHOLOGY Index.
RAINBOW. See Optics.
In the Philofophical Tranfadions for 1793, we have
the following account of two rainbows feen by the Rev.
Mr Sturges.
“ On the evening of the 9th of July 1792, between
feven and eight o’clock, at Alverdroke, near Gofport,
on the fea-coad of Hampthire, there came up, in the
fouth-ead, a cloud with a thunder fhower \ while the
fun {hone bright, low in the horizon to the north-
Plate vveft-
fcccLvin. “ In this fhower tw7o primary rainbows appeared,
Fig. a AB and AC, not concentric, but touching each other
at A, in the fouth part of the horizon \ with a fecon-
dary bow to each, DE and DF (the lad very faint, but
difcernible), which touched likewife at D. Both the
primary w7ere very vivid for a confiderable time, and at
different times nearly equally fo \ but the bow AB w7as
mod permanent, was a larger fegment of a circle, and
at lad, after the other had vanifhed, became aimed a
femicircle •, the fun being near fetting. It was a perfed
calm, and the fea was as fmooth as glafs.
“ Lr I might venture to offer a folution of this ap¬
pearance, it w’ould be as follows. I confider the bow
AB as the true one, produced by the fun itfelf j and
the other, AC, as produced by the refledion of the fun
from the fea, wLich, in its perfedly fmooth date, aded
as a fpeculum. The diredion of the fea, between the
Ifle of Wight and the land, was to the north-wTed in a
l^ne with the fun, as it was then fituated. The image
refleded from the w7ater, having its rays liming from a Rainbow,
point lower than the real fun, and in a line coming from u—v*—'
beneath the horizon, would confequently form a bow
higher than the true one AB. And the ihores, by
w7hich that narrow part of the lea is bounded, would be¬
fore the fun’s adual fetting intercept its rays from the
furface of the water, and caufe the bow AC, wdiich I
fuppofe to be produced by the refledion, to difappear
before the other.”
The marine or fea bow is a phenomenon vrhich may
be frequently obferved in a much agitated fea, and is
occaiioned by the wind fwceping part of the waves, and
carrying them aloft j which when, they fall down are
refraded by the fun’s rays, which paint the colours of
the bow juft as in a common {bower. Thefe bows are
often feen when a veffel is failing with confiderable force,
and dafhing the waves around her, which are raifed
paitly by the adion of the ftvip and partly by the force
of the wind, and, falling down, they form a rainbow j
and they are alfo often occaiioned by the dafliing of the
waves againft the rocks on ftiore.
In the Philofophical Tranfadions, it is obferved by
F. Bourzes, that the colours of the marine rainbow are
lefs lively, lefs diftind, and of ftiorter continuance, than
thofe of the common bow j that there are Icarcely above
two colours diftinguilhable, a dark yellow on the fide
next the fun, and a pale green on the oppofite fide.
But they are more numerous, there being fometimes 20
or 30 feen together.
To this clai's of bows may be referred a kind of white
or colourlefs rainbows, which Mentzelius and others af¬
firm to have feen at noon-day. M. Marlotte, in his
fourth EJfai de Physique, fays, thefe bows are formed in
mills, as the others are in fhowers; and adds, that he
has feen feveral both after funrifing and in the night.
The want of colours he attributes to the fmallnefs of the
vapours which compofe the mift •, but perhaps it is ra¬
ther from the exceeding tenuity of the little veficulse of
the vapour, which being only little watery pellicles
bloated with air, the rays of light undergo but little re-
fradion in paffing out of air into them ; too little to ie-
parate the differently coloured rays, &:c. Hence the rays
are refleded from them, compounded as they came, that
is, white. Rohault mentions * coloured rainbows on * Trade de
the grafs 5 formed by the refradions of the fun’s rays in Fhy/iquc.
the morning dew. Rainbows have been alfo produced
by the refledion of the fun from a river j and in the
Philofophical Tranfadlions, vcl. 1. p. 294. we have an
account of a rainbow, which mull have been formed by
the exhalations from the city of London, when the fun
had been fet 20 minutes, and confequently the centre of
the bow was above the horizon. The colours were the
fame as in the common rainbow, but fainter.
It has often been made a fubjed of inquiry among the
curious how there came to be no rainbow before the
flood, which is thought by fome to have been the cafe
from its being made a fign of the covenant which the
Deity was pleafed to make with man after that event.
Mr Whitehurft, in his Inquiry into the Original State
and Formation of the Earth, p. 173, &c. endeavours to
eftablifh it as a matter of great probability at leaft, that
the antediluvian atmofphere was fo uniformly temperate
as never to be fubjed to ftorms, tempefts, or rain, and
of courfe it could never exhibit a rainbow. For our own
part, wre cannot fee how the earth at that period could
do
R A t
Rainbow, do without rain any more than at prefent; and it appears
^ to us from Scripture equally probable that the rainbow
was feen before the flood as after it. It was then, how¬
ever, made a token of a certain covenant; and it would
unqueflionably do equally well for that purpole if it had
exifted before as if it had not.
Lunar RAINBOW. The moon fometimes alfo exhi¬
bits the phenomenon of an iris or rainbow by the re¬
fraction of her rays in drops of rain in the night time.
This phenomenon is very rare. In the Philolophical
TranfaCtions for 1783, however, we have an account of
three feen in one year, and all in the fame place, com¬
municated in two letters by Marmaduke lunftall, Efq.
The firft was feen 27th February 1782, at Greta
Bridge, Yorkfliire, between feven and eight at night,
and appeared in tolerably diftinCt colours, fimilar to a
folar one, but more faint: the orange colour leemed to
predominate. It happened at full moon ; at which time
alone they are faid to have been always feen. Though
Ariflotle is faid to have obferved two, and fome others
have been feen by Snellius, &c. I can only find two de-
fcribed with any accuracy j viz. one by Plot, in his Hi-
ftory of Oxfordthire, feen by him in (675, though with¬
out colours •, the other feen by a Derbylhire gentleman
at Glapwell, near Chefterfield, defcribed by Thorefby,
and inferted in N° 331. of the Philofophical Tranfac-
tions : this was about Chriftmas, 1710} ant^ hiid to have
had all the colours of the Iris Solaris. The night was
windy •, and though there was then a drizzling rain and
dark cloud, in which the rainbow was reflected, it pro¬
ved afterwards a light frofl:.,,
Two others were afterwards feen by Mr 1 unftall ;
one on July the 30th, about 1 x o’clock, which lafted
about a quarter of an hour, without colours. The other,
which appeared on Friday OCtober 18. was “ perhaps
the moA extraordinary one of the kind ever feen. It
was firfl: vifible about nine o’clock, and continued, though
with very different degrees of brilliancy, till paft two.
At firft, though a ftrongly marked bow, it was without
colours •, but afterwards they were very confpicuous
and vivid in the fame form as in the folar, though faint¬
er ; the red, green, and purple, were moft diftinguifh-
able. About twelve it was the moft fplendid in ap¬
pearance ; its arc was confiderably a fmalier fegment of
a circle than a folar ; its fouth-eaft limb firft began to
fail, and a confiderable time before its final extinftion :
the wind was very high, nearly due weft, moft part of
the time, accompanied with a drizzling rain. It is a
Angular circumftance, that three of thefe phenomena
fhould have been feen in fo Ihort a time in one place, as
they have been efteemed ever fince the time of x\riftotle,
who is faid to have been the firft obferver of them,
and faw only twro in 50 years, and fince by Plot and
Thorelby, almoft the only two Englilh authors who
have fpoke of them, to be exceeding rare.. They feem
evidently to be occafioned by a refraClion in a cloud or
turbid atmofphere, and in general are indications of
ftormy and rainy weather : fo bad a feafon as the late
fummer having, I believe, feldom occurred in England.
Thorelby, indeed, fays, the one he obferved was fuc-
ceeded by feveral days of fine ferene weather. One
particular, rather lingular, in the fecond, viz. of July
the 30th, was its being fix days after the full of the
moon} and the laft, though of fo long a duration, was
r <i27 i
R A I
three days before the full: that of the 27th of !Febru- Rainbow*
ary was exaCtly at the full, which ufed to be judged the <
only time they could be feen, though in the Encyclo-
pedia there is an account that Weidler obferved one in
1719, in the firft quarter of the moon, with faint co¬
lours, and in very calm weather. No lunar iris, I ever
heard or read of, lafted near fo long as that on the 18th
inftant, either with or without colours.”
In the Gentleman’s Magazine for Auguft 1788 we
have an account of a lunar rainbow by a correfpondent
who faw it. “ On Sunday evening the 17th of Au¬
guft (fays he), after two days, on both of which, par¬
ticularly the former, there had been a great deal of
rain, together with lightning and thunder, juft as the
clocks were linking nine, 23 hours after full moon,
looking through my window', I was ftruck with the ap¬
pearance of fomething in the Iky, which feemed like a
rainbow. Having never feen a rainbow by night, I
thought it a very extraordinary phenomenon, and ha-
ftened to a place ■where there were no buildings to ob-
ftruft my view' of the hemifphere : here I found that
the phenomenon was no other than a lunar rainbow;
the moon was truly ‘ walking in brightnefs,’ brilliant
as fire could be ; not a cloud was to be feen near her ;
and over againft her, toward the north-weft, or perhaps
rather more to the north, wms a rainbow, a vaft arch,
perfect in all its parts, not interrupted or broken as
rainbows frequently are, but unremittedly vifible from
one horizon to the other. In order to give fome idea
of its extent, it is neceflary to fay, that as I Hood to¬
ward the w'eftern extremity of the parilh of Stoke
Newington, it feemed to take its idfe from the weft of
Hampftead, and to end, perhaps, in the river Lea,
the eaftern boundary of Tottenham } its colour was
white, cloudy, or greyiih, but a part of its weftern leg
feemed to exhibit tints of a faint fickly green. I con¬
tinued view'ing it for fome time, till it began to rain }
and at length the rain increafing, and the Iky growing
more hazy, I returned home about a quarter or 20 mi¬
nutes paft nine, and in ten minutes^came out again ; but
by that time all wras over, the moon wms darkened by
clouds, and the rainbow7 of courfe vaniftred.”
Marine RAINBOW, or Sea-bove. See the article
Rainbow.
Rainbow Stone. See Moon-Stone.
RAISINS, grapes prepared by fuffering them to
remain on the vine till they are perfectly ripe, and then
drying them in the fun, or by the heat of an oven.
The difference between raifins dried in the fun and
thofe dried in ovens, is very obvious : the former are
fweet and ple&fant, but the latter have a latent acidity
with the fweetnefs that renders them much lefs agree¬
able.
The common wray of drying grapes for raifins, is to
tie two or three bunches of them together while yet on
the vine, and dip them into a hot lixivium of wood-
afhes, with a little of the oil of olives in it. This dif-
pofes them to ftirink and wrinkle ; and after this they
are left on the vine three or four days feparated on
fticks in an horizontal fituation, and then dried in the
fun at leifure, after being cut from the tree. The fineft
and belt raifins are thofe called in fome places Damaf-
cus and Jube rai/ins; which are diftineuithed from the
others by their fize and figure : they are flat and wrinkled
4 K 2 on
\
HAL
Raifms on the furface, foft and juicy within, and near an inch
H. long ; and, when fredi and growing on the bunch, are
of the fize and ihape of a large olive.
The railing of the fun, and jar-railins, are all dried
by the heat of the fun } and thefe are the forts ufed in
medicine. However, all the kinds have much the fame
virtues : they are all nutritive and balfamic ; they are
' allowed to be attenuant, are faid to be good in nephri¬
tic complaints, and are an ingredient in peftoral decoc¬
tions : in which cafes, as alfo in all others where aflrin-
gency is not required of them, they Ihould have the
Hones carefully taken out.
Raisin-Wine. See Wine.
RAKKATH, in Ancient Geography, a town of Upper
Galilee, thought to be Tiberias, (Talmud): but this is
denied by Reland, wdio fays that Rakkath was a town
of the tribe of Naphthali.
RAKE is a ■well known inftrument with teeth, by
which the ground is divided. See Agriculture, /«-
Jlruments.
Rake alfo means a loofe, diforderly, vicious, and
thoughtlefs fellow.
RAKE of a Ship, is all that part of her hull which
hangs over both ends of her keel. That which is be¬
fore is called the fore rahe, or rake forward, and that
part which is at the fetting on of the ftern-polt is called
the rake-aft or afterward.
RALEIGH, Sir Walter, fourth fon of Waller
Raleigh, Elq. of Fardel, in the parifh of Cornwood in
Devonfiiire, was born in 1552 at Hayes, in the pariih
of Budley, a farm belonging to his father. About the
year 1568, he was fent to Oriel college in Oxford,
where he continued but a Ihort time 5 for in the follow'-
mg year he embarked for France, being one of the
hundred volunteers, commanded by Henry Champer-
non, who, wdth other Englifh troops, were fent by
Queen Elizabeth to affift the queen of Navarre in de¬
fending the Protetfants. In this fervice he continued
for five or fix years ; after which he returned to Lon¬
don, and probably refided in the Middle Temple- But
his enterprifing genius would not fuffer him to remain
long in a ftate of inaflivity. In 1577 or 1578, he
embarked for the Low Countries with the troops fent
by the queen to aflift the Dutch againft the Spaniards,
and probably (hared the glory of the decifive vidfory
over Don John of Auftria in 1578. On his return to
England, a new enterprife engaged his attention. His
half brother, Sir Humphrey Gilbert, having obtained a
patent to plant and inhabit fome parts of North Ame¬
rica, Mr Raleigh embarked in this adventure ; but,
meeting with a Spanilh fleet, after a fmart engagement
they returned, without fuccefs, in 1579.
I he following year, the king of Spain, in conjunc¬
tion with the pope, having projedted a total conquefl:
of the Englifh dominions, lent troops to Ireland to af-
firt the Defmonds in the Munfter rebellion. Raleigh
obtained a captain’s commiflion under Lord Grey of
Wilton, then deputy of Ireland, and embarked for that
kingdom ; where, by hB condudt and refolution, he was
principally inftrumental in putting an end to the rebel¬
lious attempt. He returned to England ; and attradf-
cd the notice of Queen Elizabeth, owing, as wre are
told in Naunton’s Tragmenta Regalia, to the following
accidental of piece of gallantry. The queen, as (he was
one day taking a walk, being flopped by a fplafhy place
HAL
in the road, our gallant young foldier took off his new RaMj-fc
plufh mantle, and Ipread it on the ground. Her majefly —“
trod gently over the fair foot-cloth, furprifed and pleat¬
ed wdth the adventure. He was a handfome man, and
remarkable for his gentility of addrels.
The queen admitted him to her court, and employed
him firfl as an attendant on the French arnbaffador Si-
mier on his return home, and afterwards to efcort the
duke of Anjou to Antwerp. During this excurfion he
became perfonally known to the prince of Orange ;
from whom, at his return, he brought fpecial acknow¬
ledgments to the queen, who now' frequently converled
with him. But the inactive life of a courtier did not
fuit the enterprifing (pint of Mr Raleigh. In the year
1583, he embarked with his brother, Sir Humphrey
Gilbert, on a fecond expedition to Newfoundland, in a
(flip called the Raleigh, which he built at his own ex>-
pence •, but was obliged to return on account of an in-
feffious diftemper on board. Fie was, however, lo
little afledfed by this dilappointment, that he now laid
before the queen and council a propofal for, exploring
the continent of North America j and in 1584 obtained
a patent empowering him to pcffefs iuch countries as he
(hould dikover in that part of the globe. Accordingly
Mr Raleigh fitted out twro (hips at his own expence,
which failed in the month of April, and returned to
England about the middle of September, reporting that
they had diicovered arid taken poffeflion of a fine coun¬
try called Windangocoa, to which the queen gave the
name of Virginia. About this time he was defied
knight of the (hire for the county of Devon, and foon
after received the honour of knighthood ; and to en¬
able him to carry on his defigns abroad, the queen
granted him a patent for licenfing the venders of wine
throughout the kingdom. In 1585 he fent a fleet of
feven (hips to Virginia, ccmmanded by his relation Sir
Richard Greenville, who left a colony at Roanah of 107
perfons, under the government of Mr Lane ; and by the
eftabliftiment of this colony he firft imported tobacco into
England. See Nicgtiana. In the fame year Sir Wal¬
ter Raleigh obtained a grant of 12,000 acres of the
forfeited lands in the county of Corke in Ireland.—
About the fame time he was made fenefchal of the duchy
of Cornwall, and warden of the ftanneries-; and grew
into fuch favour with the queen, that even Leiceiler was
jealous of his influence.
In 1587, he fent another colony of 150 men to Vir¬
ginia, with a governor, Mr John White, and 12 aflifl-
ants. About this time wre find our knight diftinguilh-
ed by the titles of Captain of the queen's guards, and
Lieutenant general of Cornwall. From this period to the
year 1594, he was continually engaged in projecting
new expeditions, fending fuccours to the colonies abroad,
defending the kingdom from the infults of the Spani¬
ards, and tranfafting parliamentary bufinefs, with equal
ability and refolution. Whilft thus employed, he was
publicly charged, in a libel written by the infamous
Jefuit Parfons, with being an Atheift; a groundlefs
and ridiculous imputation. In 1594, he obtained from
the queen a grant of the manor of Sherborne in Dor-
fetfhire, where he built a magnificent heufe : but Sir
Walter fell under the queen’s difpleafure on account of
an intrigue wilh the daughter of Sir Nicholas Throg¬
morton, one of the maids of honour 5 however, he mar¬
ried the lady, and lived with her in great conjugal har¬
mony.
[ 6*8 ]
II A L [ 629 ] RAM
Raleigh mony. Daring his difgrace at court, he projefted the
il conquefi of Guiana in South America, and in 1595
, failed for that country j of which having taken poffel-
fon, after defeating the Spaniards who were fettled
theie, he returned to England the lame year, and foon
after publilhed an account of his expedition. In the
following year he was one of the admirals in the fuccefs-
ful expedition a gain it Cadiz, under the command of
Howard and the earl of Effex \ and in 1597 fehed
with the fame commanders againft the Azores. Soon
after thefe expeditions, we find him. affiduoufly engaged
in parliamentary bufinefs, an<d a diftinguilhed perlonage
in joufts and tournaments. In 1600 he was fent on a
joint embaffy with Lord Cobham to Flanders, and at
his return made governor of Jerley.
Queen Elizabeth died in the beginning of the year
1603 ; and with her Raleigh’s glory and felicity funk,
never to rife again. Upon the acceffion of James, Sir
Walter loll his interelt at court, was ftripped of his pre¬
ferments, and accufed of a plot againft the king. He
was arraigned at Winchefter, and, on his trial, infulted
with the moil fhocking brutality by the famous Coke,
attorney-general, whole fophiilical vociferation influen¬
ced the jury to couvidl him without the leaft proof of
guilt. After a month’s imprifonment, however, in daily
expedlation of his execution, he was reprieved, and lent
to the Tower 5 and his eftates were given to Car, earl of
Somerfet, the king’s favourite. During this confine¬
ment, he wrote many of his moil valuable pieces, parti¬
cularly his Hillory of the World. In March, 1615, af¬
ter 16 years imprifonment, he obtained his liberty, and
immediately began to prepare for another voyage to
Guiana. In Auguft 1616, the king granted him a very ^
ample commiffion for that purpofe } and in July the
year following, he failed from Plymouth: but, flrange
as it may appear, it is moll certain that the whole fcheme
was revealed to the Spaniards by the king himfelf, and
thus neceflarily rendered abortive.
He returned t<? England in 1618, where he was foon
after feized, imprifoned, and beheaded ; not for any pre¬
tended mifdemeanor on the late expedition, but in con-
fequence of his former attainder. The truth of the
matter is, he was facrificed by the pufillanimous monarch
to appeafe the Spaniards ; rvho, whilft Raleigh lived-,
thought every part of their dominions in danger. He
was executed in Old Palace Yard, and buried in St
Margaret’s adjoining, in the 66th year of his age. His
behaviour on the fcaffold was manly, unaffedled, cheer¬
ful, and eafy. Being alked by the executioner which
way he would lay his head, he anfwered, “ So the heart
be right, it is ns matter which way the head lies.” He
was a man of admirable parts, extenfive knowledge, un¬
daunted refolution, and ftridl honour and honefty. He
was the author of a great many works, fome of which
have not been printed.
RALLUS, the Rail, a genus of birds belonging to
the order of grallae. See Ornithology Index
RALPH, James, an ingenious hiftorical and political
writer, of whofe birth and country nothing is exactly
known. Ha was firft known as a fchoolmafter in Phila¬
delphia in North America. He came to England about
the beginning of the reign of George I. and wrote
fome things in the dramatic way, which were not re¬
ceived with great applaufe; but though he did not fuc-
ceed as a poet, he was a very ingenious profe-vmter.
He wrote A Hiftory of England, commencing with the Ralph
the Stuarts, which is much efteemsd ; as were his poli- „ .
tical enays and pamphlets, fome of which were looked ' “J
upon as mailer-pieces. His latt publication, The Cafe
of Authors by Profeflion, is an excellent and entertain¬
ing performance. Fie died in 1762.
RAM. See Ovis, Mammalia Index.
Battering RAM, in antiquity, a military engine uftd
to batter down the walls of beiieged places. See BAT¬
TERING Ra?n.
Ram's Head, in a fliip, is a great block belonging
to the fore and main haulyards. It has three ftiivers in
it, in which the haulyards are put; and in a hole at the
end are reeved the ties.
RAMADAN, a iblemn feafon of falling among the
Mahometans. See Mahometanism.
RAM AH, in Ancient Geography, a town of Benja¬
min, near Gibea, (Judges) j called Ra7na of Saul (1 Sam.
xxii.), fix miles from jerufalem to the north ; memora¬
ble for the itory of the Levite and his concubine: Taken
and fortified by Baafa king of Ifrael, in order to annoy
the kingdom of Judah. This Rama is mentioned Ifa. x.
Jer. xxxi. and Math. ii. and is to be diftinguilhed from
Rama of Samuel, 1. Sam. xix. called alio Ramatha, 1 Sam.
i. 19. and Ramathaim Zophim, ibid. i. 1. which lay a
great way to the weft, towards Joppa, near Lydda, 1 Mac-
cab. ii. the birth-place of Samuel 5 adjoining to the
mountains of Ephraim, and the place of his refidence,
I Sam. xv. &c. (Jofeph.). Called Ratnula in the lower
age, (Gul. Tyrius). There is here a convent of the Fa¬
thers of the Holy Land, inhabited only by Portuguefe,
Spaniards, and Italians.
RAMATH-MIZFE, (Jolhua xiii.) ; Ramoth-Mafphe,
(Septuagint, Vulgate) j Ratnoth in Gilead, or Remmoth
Galaad, (Seventy); a town in that trail of Gilead called
Mafpha, or Mvzpe, one of the cities of refuge.
RAMAZZINI, Bernardin, an Italian phyfician,
born at Carpi near Modena in 1633. He was profefTor
of phytic in the univerfity of Modena for 18 years; and
in 1700 accepted an invitation from Padua, where he
was made redlor of the college; and died in 1714.
Flis works were colledled and publiflied in London;
1716 ; of which, his treat! fe De Morbis Artifcum, “ Of
the peculiar maladies of artificers,” will always be efteern-
ed ufeful and curious.
RAMEKINS, a fortrefs of the United Netherlands;
on the fouth coaft of the ifland of Walcherin, in the pro¬
vince of Zealand. One of the cautionary towns given
to Queen Elizabeth for the repayment of the charges
tire had been at for the defence of this republic in its
infancy. Four miles eaft of Fiuftung ; in N. Lat. 51.
34' E- Lo11F- 4- 24.
RAMESSE, in Ancient Geography, a town built by
the U’raelites during their bondage in Egypt, and from
which the Exodus took place, and which muft have
been towards and not far from the Arabian gulf,
feeing in the third ftation the Ifraelites arrived on its
ftiore.
Rameses, king of the Lower Egypt when Ja¬
cob went thither with his family, m the I7c6th year
before the Chrillian era. Ancient authors mention fe-
veral other kings of Egypt of the fame name ; and it is
thought that one of thofe princes erefted in the temple
of the fun at Thebes, the magnificent obelilk which the
emperor Conftantine caufed to be removed to Alexan-
R A M l 630 ] R A M
Ramefes dria in the year 334 j and that prince dying, his Ton
p 1 Conftantius had the obeliik tranfported from Alexan-
h" '.dria to Rome In 352, where it was erected in the grand
Circus. Its height wras 132 feet. When the Goths
facked the city of Rome in 409, they overthrew this
obeliik, which continued buried in the fand tiil the time
of Sixtus V. in 15S7, when it was found broken in three
pieces; which being joined together, it was fet up in
the fquare of St John de Lateran. On the four fides of
this wonderful obeliik are a number of figures and hie-
roglyphical characters, which, according to the expli¬
cation of Ammianus Marcellinus, contain the praifes of
Ramefes. -
RAMIFICATION, the produftion of boughs or
branches, or of figures refembling branches.
RAMILLIES, a fmall village of Brabant, in the
Auftrian Low Countries, 12 miles north of Namur, and
.22 fouth-eaft of Brufiels. Lat. 50. 51. Long. 4. 48.
Famous for the battle fought by the allies commanded
by the duke of Marlborough and M. d’Auverquirque,
againft that of the two crowns, commanded by the duke
of Bavaria and Marihal Villeroy, the 22d of May 1706.
See Britain, N° 357.
The troops deftined to compofe the army of the al¬
lies being joined at the camp of Borchloon the 20th of
May, halted the 21ft. On the 22d the army marched
from Borchloon in four columns, and polled itlelf the
fame day, with the right towards the mill of Quorem,
extending with the left towards Blehen : from this camp
was difeovered the army of the two crowns, which was
encamped with the left at Over-Efpen, and the right
towards the wood of Chapiaraux, HeyliiTem in their front,
and Tirlemont in their rear. It was refolved the fame
day to march the next morning towards the plain of
Meerdorp or Mierdau, to view the pofture of the ene¬
mies, and determine what would be the mod proper means
of attacking them according to the movement they (hould
make, io this end, an advanced guard of 600 horfe
and all the quarter-mailers of the army were fent for¬
ward on the 23d at break of day.
_ The fame morning about four, the army marched in
eight columns toward the aforefaid plain. The advan¬
ced guard and the quarter-mailers arrived about eight
at the height of Meerdorp or Mierdau; from whence
the army or the enemy was feen in motion : a little after
it was perceived that the enemy was marching through
the plain or Mount St Andrew in four columns, of which
information was given to the duke of Marlborough and
M. d’Auverquirque, who immediately repaired to the
laid height; and by the time thefe generals were ar¬
rived there, the head of the enemy’s army already ap¬
peared at the tomb of Ottomont upon the caufeway, near
the Mehaigne : whereupon the duke of Marlborough
and M. d’Auverquirque made the army advance with
all expedition.
Tne enemy, as fall as they advanced, ranged in order
of battle, with their right towards the tomb of Otto¬
mont upon the Mehaigne, extending with their left to
Autr Eglife; having Tranquiers in front of the right,
into which they had thrown feveral battalions of infan¬
try and 14 fquadrons of dragoons, who had difmounted
thew horfes to fupport them. They had placed many
of their infantry and a confiderable part of their artille-
ry in the village of Ramillies, which fronted the right
Oi their main body, as well as into the village of Oifuz,
3
which fronted the left of their infantry, and into the Ramillies,
village of Autr’Eglife, quite on their left. The front RainiFc-
between the village of Ramillies and Autr’Eglife was 1 a^n' .
covered by a Imall ilream of water, which rendered the
meadows in fome places marlhes, and alfo by feveral
roads covered with hedges ; which difikulcies prevent¬
ed our cavalry of the right wing from coming to ac¬
tion. As fall as the army of the allies anived it was
ranged in order of battle ; with the left towards Bonnef,
and the right towards Folz, and every thing was difpo-
fed in order to attack. To this end, four battalions were
detached to attack the village of Franquenies, and 12
battalions to attack the village of Ramillies, which were
to be fupported by the whole infantry.
Our artillery began to cannonade the enemy at one ;
at about two, the attack began with the poll of Fran¬
quenies, where our infantry had the good fortune to drive
the enemy from the hedges, where they were advanlage-
oufiy pelted, and at the fame time all the cavalry ol our
left wing advanced to attack that of our enemy’s right;
foon after all was in action. Whilil the cavalry were
engaged, the village of Ramillies was likewife attacked,
and forced after a vigorous refinance.
The battle lafted about two hours, and was pretty
obfiinate ; but fo foon as our cavalry bad gained ground
enough to attack the enemy in flank, they began to
give way ; at the fame time all their infantry were put
in diforder, fo that the whole retreated, in great confu-
fion. The cavalry of their left wing formed a little
upon the high ground, between OfFuz and Mount St
Andrew, to favour their retreat; but after the infantry
and cavalry of our right wing had filed off between the
bottom of the village of Ramillies and Offuz, the whole
army marched in feveral columns to attack the enemy
anew ; but they gave way before we could come up with
them, and retired in great confufion, fome towards the
defile of the abbey De la Ramee and towards Dongel-
berge, others towards Judogne, and others again towards
Hougarda. They were purfued all night fo clofely that
they were obliged to abandon all their artillery and bag¬
gage, part of which was found at Judogne and at Hou-
garde, wdth their cherts of ammunition.
The enemy loft above 30,000 men, 60 cannon, eight
mortars, ftandards, colours, baggage, fkc.; we about
3000. The reft of the campaign was fpent in the fieges
of Oftend, Menin, and Aeth. In fourteen days the
duke defeated and difperfed the heft appointed army the
French ever had, and recovered all Spanifh Brabant, the
marquifate of the holy Roman empire. The army of the
enemy confifted of 76 battalians and 142 fquadrons, in¬
cluding the king’s houfhold troops (La Mdifon du Roi);
and the army of the allies was 74 battalions and 123
fquadrons. Confidering the importance of the vidlory,
the lofs of the allies was very fmall, not above 1100 be¬
ing killed, and 2600 wounded.
RAMISSERAM, a fmall ifland about 20 miles from
that of Manaar, and the neareft channel of communica¬
tion between Cevlon and the continent of India. When
Mr Cordiner and his companions landed here in 1804,
they entered the neareft choultry, or place erefted for
the accommodation of ftrangers, half a mile beyond
which is the grand pagoda, or temple of Shivven, hav¬
ing nothing remarkable in its external appearance,when
feen from a difiance ; but on a nearer infpeftion it is al-
moft impofiible to deferibe the ornaments and laboured
workmanlhip
Rampha
Itos.
II A M [
RamilTe- workmanfhip that ftrike the eye. Yet thefe are far
iam outdone by the magnificence of the interior parts of the
pagoda. Upon this iiland there are great numbers of
hnali horfes, coniiantly employed in conveying travel-
' lers and in tranlporting goods.
After dinner a number of brahmins with five well
dreffed dancing girls waited upon Mr Cordiner and his
companions at ihe choultry, who very agreeablv amuled
and entertained them for upwards of an hour, and would
have continued much longer, had they not been inform¬
ed that they were at liberty to depart
The men of this iiland are flout, and the females have
fomething in their appearance very engaging ; they are
remarkably clean, and drefs with great neatnefs. They
are leen only by accident, for they keep out of the way
of travellers with as much caution as poflible. The or¬
dinary drefs of the brahmins confiits only of a piece of
inuflin folded about the middle, and a tiring compofed
ot nine threads is ufed as an ornament for the neck.
They {have their heads quite bare, and in general wear
them uncovered 5 but turbans and jackets are occafion-
ally worn by fomc of them.
So abundant are black catttle on this fmall ifland,
that it is no uncommon thing to fee numbers of them
lying in the ilreets, none of which are ever killed, the
food ol the inhabitants being entirely compofed of milk
and vegetable productions. The ifland being almoit
wholly covered with fhrubs, is verdant and beautiful,
yet no veftige of a corn field is to be met with, nor any
other appearance of cultivation, if we except the large
trees by which the roads are 1 haded, and a few groves of
cocoa nut-trees. The nature of the foil in general is
fandy, like that of Manaar, and the circumference of
the whole ifland does not appear to exceed 20 miles.
The houfes on it are far fuperior to the ordinary dwell¬
ings of India; but the buildings facred to divine wor-
fhip, and the choultries for the accommodation of ilran-
gers, are truly magnificent, and mull have been very
expenfive.
In a word when Ramifferam is contrafled with the
indigent and barren ifland of Manaar, only 20 miles dif-
tant, it mull be pronounced rich, fruitful, and luxuriant,
exhibiting fo much liberty and plenty as warm the heart,
and kindle in the bofom of every beholder a lively flame
of pleafure.
RAMLA, the modern name of Arimathea. See
Arimathea.
RAMMER, an inftrument ufed for driving down
ftones or piles into the ground ; or for beating the earth,
in order to render it more folid for a foundation.
RAMMER of a Gun, the Gun-fick; a rod ufed in
charging of a gun, to drive home the powder, as alfo
the fliot, and the wad which keeps the fhot from rolling
out.
RAMPANT, in Heraldry, a term applied to a lion,
leopard, or other beafl that Hands on its hind legs,
and rears up his fore-feet in the pofture of climbing,
fhowing only half his face, as one eye, &c. It is different
from faliant, in which the beaft feems fpringing forward
as if making a fally.
Rampart, in Fortification, is an elevation of the earth
round a place capable of refilling the cannon of an ene¬
my ; and formed into baftions, curtins, &c.
RAMPHASTOS, the Toucan. See Rhamphas-
tos, Ornithology Index.
631 ] It A M
RAMSAY, Allan, a Scottifli poet, was horn at R aim ay.
Leadhillsin Lanarklhire, in Odtober 1686. His father was 1 " v ““
employed in the management of Lord Hopeton’s mines
at that place ; but died while the poet was yet in his in¬
fancy, in confequence of which and the marriage of his
mother foon alter his fatheUs death, it leems probable
that during the earlier part of bis life he continued in
rather a detlitute lituation. He remained at Leadhills
till he reached his fifteenth year, and as we have been
allured by the relations of lome very old perfons who
were the contemporaries of Ramfay, and who died not
many years ago, he was employed in walhing, preparing
the lead ore for fmelting, and other operations about the
works in which the children of miners and young perfons
are ulually occupied. The period of his relidence on his
native Ipot is fixed by himlelf in the following delcrip-
tive veifes which are part of a petition addreffed to a
Club in Edinburgh to be admitted a member.
Of Crawford Moor, bom in Leadhill,
Where mineral fprings Glengoner fill,
Which joins Ivveet-flowing Clyde.
Native of Clydefdale’s upper ward,
Bred fifteen fummers there.
The extent of Ramfay’s education, it may well be
prefumed, did not exceed what he could derive from the
parilh fchoolmader ; and even the acquilition of what
little could thus be obtained, from the circumftances
that attended his early life, mull have been often and
greatly interrupted.
In 1701, when he was in his 15th year, he was bound
apprentice to a wigmaker in Edinburgh, and it appears
from the record of his children’s birth in the paiifli regif-
ter that he continued in the fame humble profeffion till
the year 1716: for in that regifter his defignation is
wigmaker. One of the earlieil of Ramfay’s productions
now known, an addrefs to the moil happy members of
the Eafy Club, appeared in 1712, when he was 26 years
of age, and three years after he was humoroufly appoint¬
ed their poet lauieat. Many of his poems about this
time were publiflied in the form of feparate pamphlets.
When he had followed the occupation of a wigmaker for
a confiderable time, he at lail abandoned it for that of a
bookfeller, as being more congenial to the literary turn
of his mind. His detached pamphlets were afterwards
publifhed by him in the yfcar 1721, in one volume 410,
which was encouraged by a very liberal fubfcription.
It was advertifed as follows in the Edinburgh Evening
Courant. “ The Poems of Allan Ramfay, in a large
quarto volume 5 fairly printed, with notes, and a com¬
plete gloffary, (as promifed to the fubfcribers) being
now finilhed ; all who have genercufly contributed to
carrying on of the defign, may call for their copies as
foon as they pleafe, from the author, at the Mercury, .
oppofite to Niddry’s wynd, Edinburgh.” The firft vol
Inme of his well known colleClion, “ The Tea-table
Mifcellany,” waspublilhed in 1724, after which a fe-
cond volume foon made its appearance ; a third in 1727,
and a fourth after another interval of time. He foon af¬
ter publiflied what is called the Evergreen, being a col-
leflion of Scots poems written by the ingenious prior to
the year 1600. In 1725 appeared his Gentle Shepherd,
part of which, called Patie and Roger, was printed in
1721, and Jenny and Meggy in 1723, the great fuccefs
of,
R A M
.Rarnfay of which induced him to form them afterwards into a
i~' regular drama.
In the year 1728, he publilhed a fecond volume of
his poems, which was afterwards reprinted in 8vo. Thefe
performances fo rapidly enlarged the circle of his fame
and reputation, that in 1731, an edition of his poeti¬
cal works was publifhed by the bookfellers of London,
and two years after they appeared at Dublin. He held
an extendve correfpondence witli cotemporary poets, a-
mong whom w?e find the facetious Hamilton of Gilbert-
field, and the celebrated author of the Chace fent him
two epiftles- From his Ihop oppofite to Niddry ftreet,
he removed to one at the eaft end of the Luckenbooths.
In this (hop he continued to fell and lend out books till
he was far advanced in years •, and w7e are informed that
he was the firft perfon who eftablilhed a circulating lib¬
rary in Scotland. His colleflion of Fables appeared in
1730, after which period he may be faid to have almoft
difcontinued the occupation of an author.
Such, however, was his enterprifing fpirit, that he
built at his own expence, the firft theatre for dramatical
performances ever known in Edinburgh, which took
place in what is called Carubber’s clofe, in the year
1736 } but he did not long enjoy his charadler of mana¬
ger, for the magifirates of Edinburgh required him to (hut
it up, as an a£t of parliament prohibited all fuch amufe-
ments without a fpecial licence and his Majefty’s letters
patent. It is generally underftood that he relinquiihed
the trade of a bookfeller about the year ty being
then 69 years of age, and lived the remainder of his days
in a fmall houfe erefted by himfelf on the north fide of
the Caftle-hrll. A fcorbutic complaint attended with
excruciating pain, deprived him of his teeth, and after
corroding one of his jaw bones, put a period to his exif-
tence on the 7th of June ^ 758, in the 71(1 year of his
age.
Ramfay poffeiTed a confiderable (hare of poetical ge¬
nius : Of this his Gentle Shepherd, which will conti¬
nue to be admired as long as the language in which it
is written (hall be underftood, and efpecially by the
natives of North Britain, to whom only the peculiari¬
ties of dialed by which it is difiinguifiied can be fa¬
miliar, affords the bell proof. Some of his fongs may
contain farfetched tfilufions and childilh conceits ; but
many of them are equal, if not fuperior for their pa-
ftoral fimnlicity, to produdions of a fimilar nature in
any other language. Some of the imitations of the an¬
cients by this poet are extremely happy, in particu¬
lar Horace’s Ode F/Wrs ut vita f.et nive &c. •, and fome of
his tales have all the excellencies of that fpecies of com-
pofition. But of a great proportion of his other produc¬
tions, it may be pronounced with truth that they are
mere profaic compofitions filled with the moft common
place obfervations, and deftituteeven of the ornament of
fmooth verfification and corred rhimes.
Ramsay, Andrew Michael, generally known by
ti e name of the Chevalier Ramfay, was a polite Scots
writer, hern of a good family at Ayr in 1686. His
good parts and learning recommended him to be tutor
II A M
to the fon of the earl of Wemyfs •, after which, concei- Ramfay.
ving a difgufi at the religion in which he had been edu- 'V—
cated, he in the fame ill humour reviewed other Chri-
ftian churches ; and, finding none to his liking, relied
for a while in Deilm. While he was in this uncertain
Hate of mind, he went to Leyden ; where, falling into
the company of one Poiret a myilic divine, he received
the infedion of myfticifm : which prompted him to con-
fult M. Fenelon, the celebrated archbifhop of Cambray,
who had imbibed principles of the fame nature \ and
who gained him over to the Catholic religion in 1709.
The fubfequent courfe of his life received its diredion
from his friendfnip and connedions with this prelate ^
and being appointed governor to the duke de Chateau
Thierry, and the prince de Turenne, he was made a
knight of the order of St Lazarus. He was fent for
to Rome by the .chevalier de St George, to undertake
the education of his children ; but lie found fo many*
intrigues and diffenfions on his arrival there in 1724,
that he obtained the chevalier’s leave to return to Paris.
He died in I743> in the office of intendant to the duke
of Bouillon, prince de Turenne. The moft capital work
of his writing is the Travels of Cyrus, which has been
feveral times printed in Englilh.
Ramsay, The Reverend James, fo juftly celebrated for
his philanthropy, was born on the 25th of July 1733,
at Fraferfburgh, a fmall town in the county of Aberdeen,
North Britain. His defeent was honourable, being,
through his father, from the Ramfays of Melrofe in
Banffshire, and through his mother, from the Ogilvies
of Purie in Angus. His parents were of charafters the
mofl: refpe&able, but in circumftances by no means af¬
fluent. From his earliefl: years he difeovered a ferious
difpofition, and a ftrong thirft for knowledge ; and af¬
ter palling through the courfe of a Scotch grammar
fchool education, he was inclined to purfue the ftudies
requifite to fit him for the profeffion of a clergyman j
an inclination with which the wilhes of his mother, a
woman of eminent piety, powerfully concurred. Seve¬
ral circumftances, however, confpired to divert him for
a time from his favourite purfuit.
_ Fie was educated in the epifcopal perfuafion 5 and ha¬
ving been unhappy enough to lofe his father while yet
very young, he found, upon his advancing towards the
Hate of manhood, that the joint fortunes of himfelf and
his mother could not bear the expence of a regular edu¬
cation in either of the univerfities of Oxford er Cam¬
bridge, which he doubtlefs thought abfolutely neceffary
to one who afpired to refpeftability in the church of
England. Yielding therefore to necelfity, he refolved
to ftudy furgery and pharmacy •, and was with this view
bound apprentice to Dr Findlay, a phyfician (a) in Fra-
ferlburgh. But though obliged to relinquilh for a time
his favourite ftudies, he did not think ignorance excu-
fable in a furgeon more than in a clergyman, or conceive
that he could ever become eminent in the profeffion in
which circumftances had placed him, merely by Ikill in
fetting a bone or compounding a medicine. He deter¬
mined therefore, with the full approbation of his mailer,
who
^nd tpotheca6 rCm°te t0WnS °f Scctland 1116 fairiC man {generally a&s in the triple capacity of phyfician, furgeon
f 632 ]
2
RAM [ 633 ] R A M
Ramfay. wlio very foon difcovered his talents far literature, to
*”-~v make himfelf acquainted with at lead the outlines of the
liberal arts and fciences $ and with this view he repaired
in 1750 to the King’s College and univerfity oi Aber¬
deen, where he obtained one of the burfaries or exhibi¬
tions which are there annually bellowed upon fuch can¬
didates for them as diiplay the mod accurate knowledge
of the Latin language. The fmall fum of five pounds,
however (which none of thefe burfaries exceed), was
dill inadequate to the expence of refidence in college j
but our young dudent was loon to obtain a more valu¬
able exhibition, and to obtain it likewife by his own
merit.
During the long vacation he returned to his mader
Dr Findlay, and was by him intruded with a very def-
perate cafe in furgery, ot which his management may be
laid to have laid the foundation of his future fortunes.
A female fervant of one of the judges of the Court of
Seffion, who, when the court was not fitting, redded in
the neighbourhood of Fraferiburgh, had been fo dread¬
fully gored by a bull, that hardly any hopes were en¬
tertained of her recovery ; but Mr Ramfay, to whofe
care die was entirely left, treated the wound with fuch
fkilful attention, that, contrary to general expedlation,
his patient recovered. This attracted the judge’s no¬
tice, who having informed himfelf of the young man’s
circumltances and charadler, recommended him fo effec¬
tually to Sir Alexander Ramfay of Balmain, that he
prefented him with a burfary of 15 pounds a-year, which
commenced at the next fejjion or term, in the fame col-
lege.
Fie nowr profecuted his dudies with comfort ; and
though he wTas detained in college a year longer than
is ufual, being obliged, upon his acceptance of a fecond
burfary, to begin his courfe anew, he always confidered
this as a fortunate circumllance, becaufe it gave him
the celebrated Dr Reid three years for his preceptor.
To that great and amiable philofopher he fo recom¬
mended himfelf by his talents, his induftry, and his vir¬
tues, that he was honoured with his friendfhip to the
day of his death. Nor was it only to his mailers that
his condudl recommended him ; Sir Alexander Ramfay
whom he vilited during fome of the vacations, wras fo
well pleafed with hrs converfation, that he promifed him
another burfary, in his gift, of 25I. a-year, to commence
immediately on the expiration of that which he enjoy¬
ed. This promife he performed in the beginning of the
year 1755 ; and at the felicitation of Dr Findlay, even
paid the money per advance to enable the exhibitioner
to travel for the purpofe of improving himfelf in his pro-
feflion.
Thus provided, Mr Ramfay went to London, and
fludied furgery and pharmacy under the aufpices of Dr
Macaulay; in whofe family he lived for two years, careffed
and efleemed both by him and by his lady. Afterwards,
having paffed the ufual examination at Surgeons-hall,
he ferved in his medical capacity for feveral years in the
royal navy j but how long he was continued in the 11a-
tion of a mate, or when and by w7hom he was firfl: ap¬
pointed furgeon, wre have not been able to learn. We
can fay, however, upon the bell authority, that by his
humane and diligent difeharge of his duty in either Ra¬
tion, he endeared himfelf to the feamen, and acquired
the efteem of his officers.
Of his humanity there is indeed one memorable in-
Vol. XVII. Part II,
fiance, w’hich muft not be omitted. Whiift he aefed as Rairfay.
furgeon of the Arundel, then commanded by Captain ^
(now7 Vice-admiral Sir Charles) Middleton, a llave-fiiip
on her pallage from Africa to the Weft indies fell in
with the fleet to which the Arundel belonged. An
epidemical dhtemper, too common in fuch veiiels, had
fwept away not only a great number of the unfortunate
negroes, but alfo many of the {hip’s crew, and among
others the furgeon. In this diftrefled fituation the
commander of the Guinea fhip applied to the Engliffi
commodore for medical afhtlance •, but not a furgeon or
furgeon’s mate in the whole fleet, except Mr Ramfay,
would expofe hinifelf to the contagion of fo dangerous
a diftemper. Prompted, however, by his own innate
benevolence, and fully authorized by his no lels bene¬
volent commander, the iurgeon of the Arundel, regard-
lefs of perfonal danger, and trufiing in that God to
whom mercy is more acceptable than facrifice, went on
board the infedled fhip, viiited all the patients, and re¬
mained long enough to leave behind him written direc¬
tions for their future treatment. If a cup of cold water
given in charity be entitled to a reward, how much
more fuch an action as this ? But the rewards of Chri-
flianity are not immediate. Mr Ramfay indeed efcaped
the contagion ; but on his return to his own fhip, jull
as he had got cn the deck, he fell and broke his thigh¬
bone ; by w7hich he was confined to his apartment for
ten months, and rendered in a fmail degree lame through
the remainder of his life.
The fearlefs humanity which he difplayed on this
occafion gained him the friendship and ellecm of Sir
Chari es Middleton, which no future action of his life
had the fmalleft tendency to impair 3 but the fradture
of his thigh-bone and his fubfequent lamenefs determin¬
ed him to quit the navy, and once more turn his
thoughts towards the church. Accordingly, while the
Arundel lay at St Chriffopher’s, he opened h:s views to
fome of the principal inhabitants of thatifland, by whom
he was fo ftrongly recommended to the biihop of Lon¬
don, that on his coming home with Sir Charles Mid¬
dleton, who warmly joined in the recommendation, he
was admitted into orders ; after which he immediate¬
ly returned to St Chrillopher’s, where he was prefent¬
ed by the governor to two redories, valued at 700I. a-
year.
As foon as he took poffeffion of his livings, in 1763,
he married Mifs Rebecca Akers, the daughter of a
planter of the heft family-connedions in the ifland, and
began to regulate his houfehold on the pious plan incul¬
cated in his Ejjay on the Treatment and Converjion of the
African Slaves in the Briti/h Sugar Colonies. Fie fum-
moned all his own (laves daily to the prayers of the fa¬
mily, when he took an opportunity of pointing out to
them their duty in the plained terms, reproving thofe
that had done amifs, and commending fuch as had fhown
any thing like virtue; but he confeffed that his occa-
fions for reproof were more frequent than for commen¬
dation. As became his office and charader, he incul¬
cated upon others what he pradifed himfelf, and knew
to be equally the duty of all. “ On his firft fettlement
as a minifter in the Weft Indies, he made fome public
attempts to inftrud flaves. He began to draw up fome
eafy plain difeourfes for their inftrudion. He invited
them to attend on Sundays, at particular hours. He
appointed hours at home to inftrud; fuch fenfible flaves
4 L %s
RAM [ 5.34 ] RAM
Ramfay. as would of tliemfelves attend. He repeatedly exhorted
-—  ' their mailers to encourage Inch in their attendance. He
recommended the French cuftom, of beginning and end¬
ing work by prayer. But inconceivable is the liillefT-
nefs with which he was heard, and bitter was the cen-
fure heaped on him in return. It was quickly fuggeft-
ed, and generally believed, that he wanted to interrupt
the work of Haves, to give them time, forfooth, to fay
their prayers j that he aimed at the making of them
Chriftians, to render them incapable of being good
Haves. In one word, he flood, in opinion, a rebel con-
vi£t againft the intereit and majefty of planterflrip. And-
as the Jews fay, that in every punifliment, with which
they have been proved, lince the bondage of Egypt,
there has been an ounce of the golden calf of Horeb ^
fo might he fay, that in every inltance of prejudice (and
they were not a few) with which, till within a year or
two of his departure from the country, he was exercifed,
there was an ounce of his fruitlefs attempts to improve
the minds of Haves. In the bidding prayer, he had in-
ferted a petition for the converHon of thofe perfons. But
it was deemed fo difagreeable a momento, that feveral
white people, on account of it, left off attending divine
fervice. He was obliged to omit the prayer entirely, to
try and bring them back. In ihort, neither were the
Haves, at that time, defirous of being taught, nor were
their makers inclined to encourage them.”
That he was hurt by this negledf cannot be queHion-
ed, for he had a mind benevolent, warm, and irritable ;
but he Hill retained many friends amongfl: the moil wor¬
thy members of the community ; and as he was confci-
ous of having done nothing more than his duty, he con-
loled hijnfelf with rcflefting, that thofe are “ blefled
■whom men revile, and perfecute, and fpeak all manner
of evil again!! falfely, for the fake of the gofpel.”
Although his ferious fludies were now theological,
lie confidered himfelf as anfwerable to God, his country,
and his own family, for a proper ufe of every branch of
knowledge which he pofleffed. He therefore took the
charge of feveral plantations around him in the capaci¬
ty of a medical practitioner ; and attended them with
unremitting diligence, and with great fuccefs. Thus he
lived till the year 1777, when relinquilhing the practice
of phyfic entirely, he paid a vifit to the place of his na¬
tivity, which he had not feen fince 1755. His mother,
whofe latter days he had made comfortable by a hand-
fome annuity, had been dead for fome years 3 but he re-
tvarded all wdio had been attentive to her, or in early
life ferviceable to himfelf 3 and he continued the penfion
to a filter who had a numerous family, for which her
hufband was unable to provide.
After remaining three weeks in Scotland, and near a
year in England, during which time he wras admitted
into the confidence of Lord George Germaine, fecre-
tary of Hate for the American department, Mr Ramfay
was appointed chaplain to Admiral Barrington, then
going out to take a command in the Welt Indies. Un¬
der this gallant officer, and afterwards under Lord Rod¬
ney, he was prelent at feveral engagements, where he
difplayed a fortitude and zeal for the honour of his
country which would not have difgraced the oldeft ad¬
miral. To the navy, indeed, he feems to have been
itrongly attached 3 and he wrote, at an early period of
his life, an F-.JJ'oy on the Duty and Qiia/ifications of a Sea-
oficer, with fuch a knowledge of the fervice as would
have done honour to the pen of the mofl: experienced Ramfay.
commander. Of the firlt edition of this eflay the pro- v
fits were by its benevolent author appropriated to the
Magdalen and Britilh lying-in hofpitals, as thofe of the
fecund and third (which laft was publilhed about the
period of which we now write) were to the maritime
ichool, or, in the event of its failure, to the marine fo-
ciety.
Although carefled by both the admirals under wThom
he ferved, and having fuch influence with the latter as
to be able to render eflential fervices to the Jews and
other perfons wdiom he thought harlhly treated at the
capture of St Euflatius, Mr Ramfay once more quitted
the fea-fervice, and retired to his pafloral charge in the
ifiand of St Chriftopher’s. There, however, though
the former animoiities again!! him had entirely fubfided,
and though his friend (hip w7as now folicited by every
perfon of confequence in the ifland, he remained but a
little while. Sick of the life of a planter and of the
profpefl of Havery around him, he refigned his livings,
bade adieu to the ifiand, and returned to England with
his wife and family in the end of the year 1781. Im¬
mediately on his arrival, he was, through the intereit
of his Heady friend Sir Charles Middleton, prefented to
the livings of Teilon and Nettlefiead in the county of
Kent.
Here he was foon determined, by the advice of thofe
whom he moH refpefted, to publifh an EJfay, which had
been written many years before, on the Treatment and
Converfion of African Slaves in the Britijh Sugar Colo¬
nies. The controverfy in which this publication invol¬
ved him, and the acrimony with which it was carried
on, are fo frefii in the memory of all our readers, that
no man wdio thinks of the narrow limits within w’hich
our biographical articles mufi be confined, will blame
us for not entering into a detail of the particulars 
Torrents of obloquy were poured upon the benevolent
author by writers who were unfair enough to conceal
their names 3 and it mufi be confefied, that his replies
abounded with farcafms, which the mol! rational friends
to the caufe which he fupported would not have been
ferry to fee blotted from his pages. The provocation,
however, which he received was great 3 and Mr Ram¬
fay, though an amiable, virtuous, and pious man, had
a warmth of temper, \vhich, though not deferving of
praife, will be ceniured by none who refledl on the frail¬
ties of our common nature. That the particular calumnies
propagated againft him on this occafion were wholly
groundlefs, it is impoffible to doubt, if we admit him
to have been poffeffed of common underflanding. When
fome years ago a fiory was circulated, of Swift’s ha¬
ving, when prebendary of Kilroot, been convifted be¬
fore a magiftrate of an attempt to commit a rape on
the body of one of his pariftneners, it was thought a
fufficient confutation of the calumny to put the retailer
of it in mind, that the dean of St Patrick’s, though
detefted by the moft powerful faction in the kingdom,
lampooned without dread, and with great feverity, the
dean of Ferns for the very crime, of wdiich, had this
anecdote been true, he mufi have been confcious that
all Ireland knew himfelf to be guilty ! Such condud!
cannot be reconciled to common fenfe. Had Swift
been a ravifirer, though he might have been penitent,
and reafoned in general terms againft giving way to
fuch licentious paflions, he would never have fatirifed
a
/
RAM
Machine.
Ramfay,^ a particular pcrfon for the crime of which he himfelf
Ramfden’s ft00d conviaed. In like manner, had Mr Ramfay been
a tyrant to his own Haves, though he might have argued
againll flavery in the abftraft, on the broad balls of vir¬
tue and religion, he never could have arraigned for li-
milar cruelty a number ef individuals in the very iHand
which witneffed his own enormities.
But the melancholy part of the narrative is behind.
The agitation given to his mind by thefe calumnies,
and the fatigues he underwent in his endeavours to re-
fcue from mifery the moll helplefs portion of the human
race, contributed to fliorten a life in no common degree
uieful. He had been for fome time afflicted with a pain
in his ftomach, for which he was prevailed upon, though
with great reluctance, to try the effefts of air and ex-
ercife, by attempting a journey of 100 miles. But in
London, being leized with a violent vomiting of blood,
he w-as unable either to proceed or to be removed home;
and in the houle of Sir Charles Middleton lie ended his
days, on the 20th of July 1789, amidlt the groans of
his family, and the tears of many friends.— Thus died a
man, of whom it is not too much to fay, that “ the blef-
hng of many that were ready to perilh came upon him
for whatever be the fate of the Have-trade (fee Sla¬
very), it is certain that his writings have contributed
much to meliorate the treatment of Haves. He left be¬
hind him a widow and three daughters : and his works,
befides thole to which we have alluded, conlift of a vo¬
lume of Sea-fermons, preached on board his majefty’s
ihip the Prince of Whies, which fliow him to have been
a mailer of true pulpit-eloquence ; and a Treatife on Sig¬
nals, which Was certainly wmitten, and we think printed,
though we know not whether it was ever publiflied.
RAMSDEN’s Machine for Dividing Mathema¬
tical Instruments, is an invention by which thefe
divifions can be performed with exceeding great accu-
racy, fuch as would formerly have been deemed incre¬
dible. On difcovering the method of conlfru&ing this
machine, its inventor, Mr Ramfden of Piccadilly, re¬
ceived 6151. from the commiHioners of longitude ; en-
gaging himfelf to inltruct a certain number of perfons,
not exceeding ten, in the method of making and ufing
this machine from the 28th Odfober 1775 to 28th Oc^
tober 1777 : alfo binding himfelf to divide all odlants
and fexants by the fame engine, at the rate of three Ihil-
lings for each oftant, and fix fiiillings for each brafs fex-
tant, with Nonius’s divifions to half minutes, for as loner
time as the commiHioners Ihould think proper to let the
engine remain in his pofleflion. Of this Him of 61 5I.
paid to Mr Ramfden, 300I. was given him as a reward
for the improvement made by him in difcovering the
engine, and the remaining q r d. for his giving up the
property of it to the commiHioners. The following
defeription of the engine, is that given upon oath by Mr
Rarofden himfelf.
“ 1 his engine confifis of a large wheel of bell-metal,
mpported on a mahogany Hand, having three legs which
are firongly conneffed together by braces, fo as to make
it perfectly Heady. On each leg of the Hand is placed
a conical friction pulley, whereon the dividing-wheel
relrs: to prevent the wheel from Hiding off the fridlion-
pulieys, the bell-metal centre under it turns in a locket
on the top of the Hand.
“ The circumference of the wheel is ratched or cut
f by a method which will be deferibed hereafter) into
[ 635 1
RAM
2160 teeth, in which an endlefs ferew a6ts. Six fevo- Ramfdervs
lutions of the ferew will move the wheel a fpace equal Machine;
to one degree. - ——v-- .w
Now a circle of brafs being fixed on the ferew arbor,
haying its. circumference divided into 60 parts, each
divifion will confequently anfwef to a motion of the
wheel of 10 feconds, fix of them will be equal to a mi¬
nute, &c.
“ Several different arbors of tempered fteel are truly
ground into the focket in the centre of the wheel. The
upper parts of the arbors that Hand above the plane are
turned of various fizes, to fuit the centres of "different
pieces of work to be divided.
“ When any inftrument is to be divided, the centre
of it is very exadlly fitted on one of thefe arbors ; and
the inftrument is fixed down to the plane of the divid¬
ing wheel, by means of ferews, which fit into holes
made in the radii of the wheel for that purpofe.
“ I'he inftrument being thus fitted on the plane of
the wheel, the frame which carries the dividing-point
is connedled at one end by finger-ferews with the frame
which carries the endlefs ferew ; while the other end
embraces that part of the fteel arbor, which Hands above
the inftrument to be divided, by an angular notch in a
piece of hardened fteel; by this means both ends o^
the frame are kept perfectly fteady and free from any
ftiake.
“ The frame carrying the dividing-point, or tracer, is
made to Aide on the frame which carries the endlefs
ferew to any diftance from the centre of the wheel, as
the radius of the inftruraent to be divided may require,
and may be there faftened by tightening two clamps ;
and the dividing-point or tracer being connected with
the clamps by the double-jointed frame, admits a free
and eafy motion towards or from the centre for cutting
the divifions, without any lateral fhake.
“ From what has been faid, it appears, that an in¬
ftrument thus fitted on the dividing-wheel may be mov¬
ed to any angle by the ferew and "divided circle on its
arbor, and that this angle may be marked on the limb
of the inftrument with the greateft exa&nefs by the di¬
viding-point or tracer, which can only move in a diredl
line tending to the centre, and is altogether freed from
thole inconveniences that attend cutting by means of a
ftraight edge. I his method of drawing lines will alfo
prevent any error that might arife from an expanfion
or contraction of the metal during the time of divid-
ing.
The fciew-frame is fixed on tne top of a conical
pillar, which turns freely round its axis, and alfo moves
freely towards or from the centre of the wheel, fo that
the ferew-frame may be entirely guided by the frame
which connects it with the centre: by this means any
eccentricity of the wheel and arbor would not produce
any error in the dividing ; and, by a particular contri¬
vance (which will be deferibed hereafter), the ferew
when preffed againft the teeth of the wheel always moves
parallel to itfelf; fo that a line joining the centre of the Plate
arbor and the tracer continued, will always make equalCCccLI^-
angles with the ferew. plate
_ “ Figure x. reprefents a perfpedive view of the en- c''CCGLx:’
Sme- , # Fig. 2.
, Tig. 2. is a plan, of which fig. 3. reprelents a fee-
tion on the line IT A.
“ The Iarge wheel A is 45 inches in diameter, and
4 T* 2 haV
Raml'len’:
Machine.
Fig- 3-
Fig- T, 2,
and 3.
Fig- b
Fig. 4.
rig. i. &
rig. 4.
Fig- 4-
F»g- 5*
Fig- 1, 2.
At 5-
R A M [ 63
has ten radii, each being iupported by edge-bars, as
reprefented in fig. 3. Thefe bars and radii are con-
nefted by the circular ring B, 24 inches in diameter
and three deep } and, for greater itrength, the whole is
call in one piece in bell-metal.
“ As the whole weight of the wheel A refts on its
ring B, the edge-bars are deepeft where they join it ■,
and from thence their depth diminithes, both towards
the centre and the circumference, as reprefented in
%• 3;,
“ The furface of the wheel A was worked very even
and flat, and its circumference turned true. The ring
C, of fine brafs, was fitted very exactly on the circum¬
ference of the wheel; and was faftened thereon with
ferews, which, after being ferewed as tight as poflible,
were well rivetted. The face of a large chuck being
turned very true and flat in the lathe, the flattened fur-
face A of the wheel was faffened againfl: it with hold-
fafts ; and the two furfaces and circumference of the
ring C, a hole through the centre and the plane part
round (b) it, and the lower edge of the ring B, were
turned at the fame time.
“ D is a piece of hard bell-metal, having the hole,
which receives the fteel-arbor d, made very flraight
and true. This bell-metal was turned very true on
an arbor} and the face, which refts on the wheel at
was turned very flat, fo that the fteel arbor d might
ftand perpendicular to the plane of the wheel : this
bell metal was faftened to the wheel by fix Heel
ferews /.
“ A brafs focket Z is faftened on the centre of the
mahogany ftand, and receives the lower part of the
bell-metal piece D, being made to touch the bell-
metal in a narrow part near the mouth, to prevent any
obliquity of the wdieel from bending the arbor : good
fitting is by no means neegffary here j fince any fhake
in this locket will produce no bad efteft, as will appear
hereafter when we deferibe the cutting frame.
“ The wheel w7as then put on its ftand, the lower
edge of the ring B refting on the circumference of
three conical friftion-pulleys W, to facilitate its mo¬
tion round its centre. The axis of one of thefe pulleys
is in a line joining the centre of the wheel and the
middle of the endlefs ferew, and the other two placed
fo as to be at equal diftances from each other.
“ F is a block of wood ftrongly faftened to one of the
legs of the ftand j the piece g is ferewed to the upper
fide of the block, and has half holes, in which the
tranfverfe axis h turns: the half holes are kept toge¬
ther by the ferews f.
4- “ The lower extremity of the conical pillar P termi¬
nates in a cylindrical fteel-pin k, which paffes through
and turns in the tranfverfe axis /i, and is confined by
a cheek and ferew.
“ lo the upper end of the conical pillar is faftened
the frame G, in which the endlefs ferew turns : the
pivots of the ferew are formed in the manner of two
fruftums of cones joined by a cylinder, as reprefented
at X. Thefe pivots are confined between half poles,
which prefs only on the conical parts, and do not touch
the cylindric parts : the half holes are kept together by
ferews a, which may be tightened at any time, lo pre¬
vent the fevew from {baking in the frame.
“ On the ferew-arbor is a fmall wheel of brafs K,
having its outfide edge divided into 60 parts, and num-
3
6 ] "RAM
bered at every 6th divifion with 1, 2, &c. to 10. The Ramfclen’s
motion of this wheel is fhown by the index y on the Machine.^
ferew-frame G. Fig. 4. 8c
“ H reprefents a part of the ftand, having a parallel pig. It
flit in the direction towards the centre of the wheel,
large enough to receive the upper part of the conical
brafs pillar P, which carries the ferew and its frame :
and as the refiftance, when the wheel is moved by the
endlefs ferew, is againft. that fide of the flit FI which
is towards the left hand, that fide of the flit is faced
with brafs, and the pillar is prefled againft it by a
fteel fpring on the oppofite fide : by this means the
pillar is ftrongly fupported laterally, and yet the ferew
may be eafily prefled from or againft the circumference
of the wheel, and the pillar will turn freely on its axis
to take any direction given it by the.frame L.
“ At each corner of the piece I are ferews « of Fig. 4.
tempered fteel, having poliihed conical points : two of
them turn in conical holes in the fciew-frame near 0,
and the points of the other two ferews turn in holes
in the piece j the ferews f> are of fteel, which being
tightened, prevent the conical pointed ferews from un¬
turning when the frame is moved.
“ L is a brafs frame, which ferves to connect the end- r> 2»
lefs ferew, its frame, &c. with the centre of the wheel :
each arm of this frame is terminated by a fteel ferew,
that may be palled through any of the holes y in the ^
piece Q, as the thickneis of work to be divided on
the wheel may require, and are faftened by the finger-p;.r x ^ 3
nuts r.
“ At the other end of this frame is a flat piece of
tempered fteel b, wherein is an angular notch : when Fig. 6.
the endlefs ferew is prefled againft the teeth on the cir¬
cumference ot the wheel, which may be done by turn-
ing the finger-ferew S, to prefs againft the fpring t, 1‘ ^
this notch embraces and preffes againft the fteel arbor d. Fig. 2.
This end of the frame may be railed or deprefled by mov¬
ing the prifmatic Aide u, which may be fixed at any height
by the four fteel-fcrews v. Fig. r, 2, 6.
“ The bottom of this Aide has a notch b, whofe Fig. 1. &. 6*
plane is parallel to the endlefs-fcrew •, and by the point
of the arbor d refting in this notch, this end of the Fig. 3.
frame is prevented from tilting. The ferew S is pre¬
vented from unturning, by tightening the finger- I»?*
nut w.
“ The teeth on the circumference of the wheel were
cut by the following method :
“ Having confidered what number of teeth on the
circumference would be moft convenient, which in this
engine is 2i6d, or 360 multiplied by 6, I made two
ferews of the fame dimenfions, of tempered Heel, in
the manner hereafter delcribed, the interval between
the threads being fuch as I knew by calculation
would come within the limits of what might be turned
off the circumference of the wheel : one of the ferews,
which was intended for ratching or cutting the teeth,
was notched acrofs the threads, fo that the ferew, when
prefled againtt the edge of the wheel and turned round,
cut in the manner of a law. Then having a fegment
of a circle a little greater than 60 degrees, of about
the lame radius with the wheel, and the circumference
made true, from a very fine centre, I defcribtd an arch
near the edge, and fet off the chord of 60 degrees on
this arch. This fegment was put in the place of the
wheel, the edge of it was ratched, and the number of
revolutions
Ramfdeo’s
Machine.
RAM [ 637 ] R
revolutions and parts of the fcrew coi'itained between coincide with the fixed wire
A M
rig- 7-
Fig. 7.
Fig- 3-
Fig- 1, 2, 3
the interval of the 60 degrees were counted. The
radius was correifted in the proportion of 360 revolu¬
tions, which ought to have been in 60 degrees, to the
number actually found ; and the radius, fo corrected,
was taken in a pair of beam-compaffes : while the
wheel was on the lathe, one foot of the compaffes was
put in the centre, and with the other a circle was de-
fcribed on the ring •, then half the depth of the threads
of the fcrew being taken in dividers, was fet from this
circle outwards, and another circle was defcribed cut¬
ting this point} a hollow was then turned on the edge
of the wheel of the fame curvature as that of the fcrew
at the bottom of the threads : the bottom of this hol¬
low was turned to the fame radius or diftance from the
centre of the wheel, as the outward of the trvo circles
before-mentioned.
“ The wheel was now taken oft the lathe ; and the
bell-metal piece 1) was fcrewed on as before directed,
which after this ought not to be removed.
“ From a very exaft centre a circle was defcribed
on the ring C, about four-tenths of an inch within where
the bottom of the teeth would come. This circle was
divided with the greatell exaftnels I was capable of, firft
into five parts, and each of thefe into three. Thefe
parts were then bifecled four times : (that is to fay)
fuppofing the whole circumference of the veheel to con¬
tain 2160 teeth, this being divided into five parts, each
would contain 432 teeth; which being divided into three
parts, each of them would contain 144 ; and this fpace
bifedted four times would give 72, 36, iS, and 9 : there¬
fore each of the laft divifions would contain nine teeth.
But, as I was apprehenfive fome error might arife from
quinquefedlion and triieClion ; in order to examine the
accuracy of the divifions, I defcribed another circle on
the ring C, one-tenth of an inch within the former, and
divided it by continual bifeftions, as 2160, 1080, 540,
270, 135, 67!, and 33-i ; and as the fixed wire (to be
defcribed prefently) croffed both the circles, I could
examine their agreement at every 135 revolutions; (af¬
ter ratching, could examine it at every 33^) : but, not
finding any fenfible difference between the two lets of
divifions, I, for ratching, made choice of the former;
and, as the coincidence of the fixed wire with an inter-
feflion could be more exactly determined than with a
dot or divifion, I therefore made ufe of interfeftion in
both circles before defcribed.
“ The arms of the frame L were connefled by a thin
piece of brafs of three-fourths of an inch broad, having a
hole in the middle of four-tenths of an inch in diameter;
acrofs this hole a filver wire was fixed exa£Hy in a line
to the centre of the wheel; the coincidence of this wire
with the interfeftions was examined by a lens feven-
tenths of an inch focus, fixed in a tube which w'as at¬
tached to one of the arms L (a). Now a handle or
winch being fixed on the end of the fcrew, the divifion
marked on the end of the fcrew, the divifion marked 10
on the circle K was fet to its index, and, by means of
a clamp and adjufting fcrew for that purpofe, the inter-
feflion marked 1 on the circle C was fet exa&ly to
the fcrew was then care- Ramfden's
fully preffed againft the circumference of the wheel, by Machine.^
turning the finger-ferew S ; then, removing the clamp,
I turned the fcrew by its handle nine revolutions, till
the interfe£tion marked 243 came nearly to the wire ;
then, unturning the finger-lcrew S, I releafed the fcrew
from the wheel, and turned the wheel back till the in-
terfeflion marked 2 exactly coincided with the wire,
and, by means of the clamp before-mentioned, the di-
vifion 10 on the circle being fet to its index, the fcrew
was preffed againft the edge of the wheel by the finger-
ferew S ; tftg clamps were removed, and the fcrew turn¬
ed nine revolutions till the interfeftion marked 1
nearly coincided with the fixed wire ; the fcrew wras
releafed from the wheel by unturning the finger-ferew
S as before, the wheel was turned back till the inter-
fetftion 3 coincided with the fixed wire ; the divi-
lion 10 on the circle being fet to its index, the fcrew
was preffed againft the wdieel as before, and the fcrew
was turned nine revolutions, till the interfe&ion 2
nearly coincided with the fixed wire, and the fcrew
was releafed ; and I proceeded in this manner till the
teeth were marked round the whole circumference of
the wheel. This was repeated three times round, to
make the impreffion of the fcrew deeper. I then ratch-
ed the wdieel round continually in the fame direfticn
without ever difengaging the fcrew; and, in ratching
the wheel about 300 times round, the teeth were fi-
nilhed.
“ Now it is evident, if the circumference of the wheel
was even one tooth or ten minutes greater than the
fcrew would require, this error would in the firft in-
ftance be reduced to Pai‘t a revolution, or two
feconds and a half; and thefe errors or inequalities of
the teeth were equally diftributed round the wheel at
the diftance of nine teeth from each other. Now, as
the fcrew in ratching had continually hold of feveral
teeth at the fame time, and, thefe conftantly changing,
the above-mentioned inequalities foon corrected them-
felves, and the teeth were reduced to a perfect equality.
The piece of brafs which carries the wire was now ta¬
ken away, and the cutting fcrew ivas alfo removed,
and a plain one (hereafter defcribed) put in its place :
on one end of the fcrew is a fmall brafs circle, having
its edge divided into 60 equal parts, and numbered at
every fixth divifion, as before-mentioned. On the other
end of the fcrew is a ratchet-wheel C, having 60 teeth,
covered by the hollowed circle r/, which carries twro Fig. 5.
clicks that catch upon the oppofile fides of the ratchet
when the fcrew is to be moved forwards. The cylin¬
der S turns on a ftrong fteel arbor F, which paffes
through and is firmly fcrewed to the piece Y : this
piece, for greater firmnefs, is attached to the ferew-
frame G by the braces v; a fniral groove or thread F'g- 4".
is cut on the outfide of the cylinder S, which ferves
both for holding the ftr’ng, and alio giving motion to
the lever J on its centre by means of a fteel tooth n,
that works between the threads of the fpiral. To the
lever is attached a ftrong fteel pin m, on which a
brafs focket r turns : this focket paffes through a flit
(a) The interfe£lions are marked for the fake of illuftration, though properly invifible, becaufe they lie under
the brafs plate.
Pi A M t 63S ] RAM
Ramfden*s in tLe piece /», and may be tiglilened in any part of
, Maclnne. finger.nut f this piece ferves to regu¬
late the number of revolutions of the fcrew for each
tread of the treadle R.
Fig. 1. “ T is a brafs box containing a fpiral llringrj a llrong
gut is faftened and turned three or forr times round the
circumference of this box , the gut then pafles feveral
times round the cylinder S, and from thence down to
the treadle R. Now7, when the treadle is prefled down,
the firing pulls the cylinder S round its axis, and the
clicks catching hold of the teeth bn the ratchet carry
the fcrew round wdth it, till, by the tooth ti working in
Fig. 4. the fpiral groove, the lever J is brought near the wheel
r/, and the cylinder flopped by the fcrew-head x linking
on the top of the lever J •, at the fame time the fpring is
wound up by the other end of the gut palling round the
box T. Now7, when the foot is taken oft' the treadle,
the fpring unbending itfelf pulls back the cylinder, the
Fig. x. clicks leaving the ratchet and fcrew at reft till the piece
t ftrikes on the end of the piece /> : tire number of revo¬
lutions of the fcrew at each tread is limited by the num¬
ber of revolutions the cylinder is allow7ed to turn back
before the flop ftrikes on the piece />.
“ When tire endlefs fcrew was moved round its axis
with a confiderable velocity, it would continue that mo-
Fig. 1. Sc 4. tion a little after the cylinder S was flopped : to prevent
this, the angular lever jj was made j that when the lever
.1 comes near to flop the fcrew x, it, by a fmall chamfer,
preffes dowrn the piece x of the angular lever ; this brings
the other end « ol the fame lever forwards, and flops the
endlefs fcrew by the Heel pin y. linking upon the top of
it \ the foot of tire lever is raifed again by a fmall fpring
preffing on the brace v.
Fig- r, 2, 6. “ D, two clamps, connecled by the piece Aide one
on each arm of the frame L, and may be fixed at plea-
lure by the four finger-fcrew7s s, which prefs againft Heel
fprings to avoid fpoiling the arms : the piece q is made
to turn without ftiake between tw’o conical pointed fcrew’S
f, which are prevented from unturning by tightening
the finger-nuts N.
PI g “ The piece M is made to turn on the piece q by
the conical pointed fcrervsy'refting in the hollow cen¬
ters e.
“ As there is frequent occafion to cut divifions on in¬
clined planes, for that purpofe the piece y, in which the
tracer is fixed, has a conical axis at each end, which
turns in half holes : when the tracer is fet to any inclina¬
tion, it may be fixed there by tightening the fteel fcrews /3.
Defcription of the Engine bij which the endlefs fcrew of
the Dividing Engine Was cut.
11 Fig. 9. reprefents this engine of its full dimenfions
feen from one fide.
“ Fig. 8. the upper fide of the fame as feen from a-
bove.
“ A reprefents a triangular bar of fteel, to which the
triangular holes in the pieces B and C are accurately
fitted, and may be fixed on any part of the bar by the
fcrews D.
“ E is a piece of fteel whereon the fcrew is intended
to be cut j which, after being hardened and tempered,
has its pivots turned in the form of two fruftums of cones,
as reprefented in the drawings of the dividing engine
(%• 5-)' Thefe pivots were exaflly fitted to the
half holes F, and T, which w7ere kept together by the RamCJen4*
fcrew Z. Machine,
“ FI reprefents a fcrew of untempered fteel, having a , Ran‘li'-V'
pivot I, which turns in the hole K. At the other end " v
of the fcrew is a hollow centre, which receives the har¬
dened conical point of the fteel pin M. When this point
is fufficiently prefled againft the fcrew, to prevent its
fhaking, the fteel pin may be fixed by tightening the
ferew's Y.
“ N is a cylindric nnt, moveable on the ferew^ H j
which, to prevent any (hake, may be tightened by the
ferdws O. This nut is connedted with the faddle-piece
P by means of the intermediate univerfal joint W,
through which the arbor of the fcrew H pafles. A front
view of this piece, with the fedfion acrofs the fcrew ar¬
bor, is reprelented at X. This joint is connedted with
the nut by means of tw7o fteel flips S, which turn on pins
between the cheeks T on the nut N. The other ends
of thefe flips S turn in like manner on pins a. One axis
of this joint turns in a hole in the cock b, which is
fixed to the faddle-piece ; and the other turns in a hole d,
made for that purpofe in the lame piece on which the
cock b is fixed. By this means, ‘when the fcrew is tur¬
ned round, the faddle-piece w7ill Hide uniformly along
the triangular bar A.
“ K is a fmall triangular bar of well-tempered fteel,
which Aides in a groove of the fame form on the faddle-
piece P. The point of this bar or cutter is formed to
the ftiape of the thread intended to be cut on the end¬
lefs fcrew7. When the cutter is fet to take proper
hold of the intendecTfcrew, it may be fixed by tighten¬
ing the fcrew e, which prefles the tw7o pieces of brafs G
upon it.
“ Having meafured the circumference of the dividing-
wheel, I found it would require a fcrew about one thread
in a hundred coarfer than the guide-ferew H. The
wheels on the guide-ferew arbor H, and that on the
fteel E, on which the fcrew was to be cut, were pro¬
portioned to each other to produce that effeft, by giving
the wheel L 198 teeth, and the wheel £) 200. Thefe
wheels communicated with each other by means of the
intermediate wheel R, wdiich alfo ferved to give the
threads on the tw7o fcrews the fame direction.
“ The faddle-piece P is confined on the bar A by
means of the pieces g, and may be made to Aide with a
proper degree of tightnefs by the fcrew7s /i.”
For Ramfden’s equatorial or portable obfervatory, lee
Optics, N° 89. and Astronomy, N° 364. See alfo a
long account of an equatorial inftrument made by Mr
Ramfden by the direttion of Sir George Shuckburgh in
the Philofophical TranfacHons for 1793, art. x. p. 67.
In this inftrument the circle of declinations is four feet
in diameter, and may be obferved nearly to a fecond,
'I he glafs is placed between fix pillars, which form the
axis of the machine, and turn round by tw7o pivots pla¬
ced on two blocks of ftone. See alfo Barometer.
RAMSEY, A town of Huntingdonftiire, 68 miles
north of London, and 12 north-eaft of Huntingdon.
It is fituated as it were in an iftand, being everywhere
encompafled with fens, except on the weft, where it is
separated fromjthe terra frma by a caufeway for two miles.
The neighbouring meers of Ramfey and Whitlefey,
which are formed by the river Nyne, abound with fifli,
efpecially eel and large pikes. It was once famous for
a
4
i’late CCC( jLJX.
1\ A MS DiDiSr s A La cl, i n e.
. //„/?-a/,
)
- '/./A///?',
" • A,r .
w -‘5
II
V
Ram fey
II
Ramtrut
RAM
a very rich abbey, part of the gatehoufe of which is ftill
Handing, and a neglefted ftalue of Ailwin 5 the epitaph
on whofe tomb, which is reckoned one of the oldeft pie¬
ces of Englifh iculptnre extant, Hyles him “ kinfman of
the famous King Edward, alderman of all England,
and miraculous founder of this abbey.” It w-as dedicated
to St Dunllan, and its abbots were mitred and fat in
parliament j and fo many kings of England were bene-
fadlors to, it, that its yearly rents, fays Camden, were
Toool. I he town was then called Rajnfey the Rich;
but by the diffoluLon of the abbey it foon became poor,
and even loft its market for many years, till about 185
years ago it recovered it. It is held on Saturday, and is
reckoned one of the moft plentiful and cheapeft in Eng¬
land. In the year 1721 a great number of Roman coins
was found here, fuppofed to have been hid by the monks
on fome incurfion of the Danes. There is a charity
Ichool m the town for poor girls. W. Lonn o 10 El
Lat. 52. 26. '
Ramsey, an ifland of South Wales, on the coaft of
Pembrokefhire, about two miles in length, and a mile
and a half broad. Near it are leveral fmall ones, known
by the name of the bifhop and his clerks. It is four miles
weft of St David’s, and 17 north-eaft of Milford haven.
It belongs to the bifhopric of St David’s, and was in the
laft age, fays Camden, famous for the death of one Ju-
ftinian,, a moft holy man, who retiring hither from Brit-
anny, in that age rich in faints, and devoting himfelf
entirely to God, lived a long while in folitude, and be¬
ing at laft murdered by his fervant was enrolled amonp-
the martyrs. , W. Long. 5. 20. N. Lat. 51. 55.
Ramsey, in ,the Me of Man, to the north, a moft
noted, and fpacious haven, in which the greateft fleet
may ride at anchor with fafety enough from all winds
but the north-eaft, and in that cafe "they need not be
embayed. I his town Handing upon a beach of loofe fand,
or ftiingle, is in danger, if not timely prevented, of be¬
ing waftied away by the fea.
RAMSGATE, a fea-port town of Kent, in the ifte
of Thanet, five miles from Margate, where a very fine
pier has been lately built for the fecurity of fliips that
come into the harbour, being feated near the Downs be¬
tween the north and fouth Foreland, 10 miles north-eaft
of Canterbury. The town is fituated in the cove of a
chalky cliff. It was formerly but an obfcure fifiling vil¬
lage, but fince the year 1688 has been improved and en¬
larged by a fuccefsful trade to Ruflia and the eaft coun¬
try. But what renders it moft; worthy of notice, and
attrafts multitudes of ftrangers, is the new' harbour,
which is one of the moft capacious in England, if not in
Europe. It was begun in the year 1750, but delayed
by various interruptions. It confifts of two piers; that
to the eaft is built ivholly of Purbeck ftone, and extends
itfelf into the ocean near 800 feet before it forms an an¬
gle ; its breadth on the topis 26 feet, including a ftrong
parapet wall, w’hich runs along the outfide of it. The
other to the weft is conftrufted of wrood as far as the low-
water mark, but the reft is of ftone. The angles, of
which there are five in each pier, confift of 160 feet ea: h,
with oflagons at the end of 60 feet diameter, leaving an
entrance of 200 feet into the harbour, the depth of which
admits of a gradual increafe of 18 to 36 feet. E. Long.
I. 30. N. Lat. 51. 22.
RAMTRUT, a deity worftripped by the Ranazins of
Hindoftan, where he has a celebrated temple at Onor.
t 639 1
K A M
Lie is reprefented as more relembling a monkey than a Ramrs.
man.
RAM US, in general, denotes a branch of any thing,
as ot a tree, an artery, &c. In the anatomy of plants
it means the firft or lateral branches, which go off from
the petiolum, or middle rib of a leaf. The fubdivifions
ot thele are called>W/; and the final divifions into the
moft minute of all, are by fome called capillamenta; but
both kinds are generally denominatedfnrculus.
Ramus, Peter, was one of the moft famous profeffors
of the 16th century. He was born in Picardy in 1 <-r 5.
A thirft for learning prompted him to go to Paris when
very young, and he was admitted a fervant in the col¬
lege of Navarre. Spending the day in waiting on his
mailers, and the greateft part of the night in ttudy, he
made fuch furprifing progrefs, that, when he took his
mailer of arts degree, he offered to maintain a quite op-
pofite doarine to that of Ariftotle. This railed him
many enemies; and the two firlt books he publilhed,
Injiitutiones Dia/ediicre, and Ariftotelicce Animadver/tonesy
occafioned great difturbances in the univerfity of Paris:
and the oppofition again!! him was not a little heighten-
tened by his deferting the Romifti religion, and profef-
fing that of the Reformed. Being thus forced to retire
from Paris, he vifited the univerfities of Germany, and
leceived great honours wherever he came. Lie return¬
ed to France in j 571, and loft his life miferably in the hor-
nd maffacie of St Bartholomew’s day. He was a great
orator, a man of univerfal learning, and endovred with
veiy fine moral qualities. He publiftied many books,
which Teiflier enumerates. Ramus’s merit in his oppo-
fi.ion to Ariftotle, and his firmnefs in undermining his
authority, is unqueftionably great. But it has been
doubted, and wuth much reafon, whether he was equal¬
ly fuccefsfully in his attempts after a new logical inftitute.
We have the following general outline of his plan in Dr
Enfield’s Hillory of Philofophy. “ Confidering dialec¬
tics as the art of deducing conclufions from premifes, he
endeavours to improve this art, by uniting it wuth that
of rhetoric. Of the feveral branches of rhetoric, he con-
fiders invention and difpofition as belonging equally to
logic. Making Cicero his chief guide, he divides" his
treat! fe on diale&ics into two parts, the firft of which
treats of the invention of arguments, the fecond of judg¬
ments. Arguments he derives not only from wEat the
Ariftotelians call middle terms, but from any kind of
pro’.ofition, which, conne61ed with another, may ferve
to prove any affertion. Of thefe he enumerates various
kinds. Judgments he divides into axioms, or felf-evi-
dent propofitions, diano'ia, or dedudlions by means of a
feries of arguments. Both thefe he divides into various
claljes j and illuftrates the whole by examples from the
ancient orators and poets.
“ In the logic of Ramus, many things are borrowed
from Ariftotle, and only appear under new names ; and
many others are derived from other Grecian lources,
particularly from the dialogues of Plato, and the logic
of the Stoics. The author has the merit of turning the
art'of reafoning from the futile fpeculations of the fchools
to forenfic and common ufe ; but his plan is defective in
confining the whole dialectic art to the Angle objedl of
difputation, and in omitting many things, which refpect
the general culture of the underftanding and the invefti-
gation of truth. Notwithftanding the defedls of his fyf-
tem, we cannot, however, fubfcribe to the fevere cen-
furer
RAN
[ 640 ]
R A N
Ramus Cure Xvliicli has been paiTed upon Ramus by i^ord Bacon
II i and others ; for much is, we think, due to him for hav-
Ran:4oipL w't^ rQ much firmnefs and perfeverance afferted the
v ' natural freedom of the human underftanding. The lo¬
gic of Ramus obtained great authority in the fchools of
Germany, Great Britain, Holland, and France j and
long and* violent contefts arofe between his followers and
thoie of the Stagy rite, till his fame vanifhed be tore that
of Defcartes.”
RAN, in the old Englilh writers, means open or pub¬
lic robbery, fo manifeft as not to be denied. Ran diet-
tur aberta rapina qua vegan non poteji. Lamo.
Leg. Canut. cap. 58. Hence it is now commonly laid
of one who takes “the goods of another injurioufly and
violently, that he has taken or fnatcbed all he could rap
and ran.
RANA, or Ranula. See Ranula.
Rana, the frog } a genus of reptiles belonging to
the order of amphibia. See Er.petol.ogy Index.
RANAI, one of the Sandwich iiknds difcovered by
Captain Cooke, is about nine miles diftant from MowEE
and MOROTOI, and is lituated to the fouth-weih ol the
paffage between thofe two illes. Ihe country towards
the fouth is elevated and craggy 5 but the other parts of
the ifland had a better appearance, and feemed to be
well inhabited. It abounds in roots, inch as fweet po¬
tatoes, taro, and yams ; but produces very few7 plantains
and bread fruit trees. Tne fouth point of Ranai is in
the latitude of 20° 46' north, and in the longitude of
203° 8' eaft.
RANCID, denotes a fatty fubftance that is become
rank or mufty, or that has contradled an ill fmell by be¬
ing kept clofe.
RANDIA, a genus of plants belonging to the pentan-
dria clafs 3 and in the natural method ranking with thofe
of which the order is doubtful. See Botany Index.
RANDOLPH, Thomas, an eminent Englilh poet
in the I’yth century, wras born in Northamptonlhire 1605.
He was educated at Weftminfter and Cambridge, and
very early dillinguilhed for his excellent genius ; for at
about nine or ten years of age he wrote the Hiftory of
the Incarnation of our Saviour in verfe. His fubfequent
writings eftablilhed his character, and gained him the
efteem and friendlhip of fome of the greateft men of that
age, particularly of Ben Johnfon, who adopted him one
of his fons in the mufes. He died in 1634, and was ho¬
nourably interred. He wrote, 1. The Mufes Look-
ing-glafs, a comedy. 2. Amyntas, or the Impoflible
Dowry, a paftoral, a&ed before the king and queen.
3. Ariftippus, or the Jovial Philofopher. 4. The Con¬
ceited Pedlar. 5. The Jealous Lovers, a comedy. 6. Random
Hey for Honefty, down with Rmavery, a comedy j and
feveral poems. _ _
RANDOM SHOT, in Gunnery, is a fhot made
when the muzzle of a gun is railed above the hori¬
zontal line, and is not deiigued to ihoot dircclay 01 point
blank.
The utmoft random of any piece is about ten times
as far as the bullet wall go point-blank. 1 he bullet
will go fartheft when the piece is mounted to about 450
above the level range. See Gunnery and Projec¬
tiles.
RANGE, in Gunnery, the path of a bullet, or the
line it defcribes from the mouth of the piece to the point
where it lodges. If the piece lie in a line parallel to
the horizon, it is called the right or level range : if it
be mounted to 430, it is faid to have the uttnojl range i
all others between 00 and43° are called the inlet mediate
ranges.
RANGER, a fworn officer of a foreft, appointed by
the king:sletters patent •, whole bufineisisto walk through
his charge, to drive back the deer out of the purlieus,
&c. and to prefent all trefpalfes within his jurildiction at
the next foreft court. r • 1 1
RANK, the order or place affigned a perfon fuitable
to his quality or merit. .
Rank, is a ftraight line made by the fouhers ol a
battalion or fquadron, drawn up fide by fide : this order
was eftablilhed for the marches, and for regulating the
different bodies of troops and officers which compofe an
army.
RANK and Precedence, in the army and navy, are as
follow: _
Engineers RANK. Chief, as colonel } director, as
lieutenant-colonel} fub-dire£tor, as major ; engineer in
ordinary, as captain j engineer extraordinaiy, as captain-
lieutenant fub-engineer, as lieutenant; praftitioner en¬
gineer, as enfign. .
Navy Rank. Admiral, or commander in chief of
his Majefty’s fleet, has the rank of a field-marlhal ; ad¬
mirals, with their flags on the main-top-maft-head, rank
with generals of horfe and foot; vice-admirals, with
lieutenant-generals ■, rear-admirals, as major-generals j
commodores, with broad pendants, as brigadier-gene-
rals y captains of poft-fhips, after three years from the
date of their firft commiffion, as colonels ; other cap¬
tains, as commanding poft-lhips, as lieutenant-colonels j
captains, not taking poll, as majors j lieutenants, as
captains.
ii
Rank.
Rank,
/
RAN [ 641 ] RAP
Rank between the Army, Navy, and Governors.
Army.
General in Chief
Generals of horfe
Lieutenant-generals
Major-generals
Colonels
Lieutenant-colonels
Majors
Captains
Navy.
Admiral in chief
Admiral with a flag at
the main-top-malt
Vice-admirals
Rear-admirals
Poft-captains of3 years
Poll-captains
Captains
Lieutenants
Governors.
Commander in chief of the forces in America
Captain-general of provinces
Lieutenant generals of provinces
Lieutenant-governors and preiidents
Lieutenant-governors not commanding
Governors of charter colones
Deputy-governors
Eftablilhed by the king, 1760
Rape.
Doubling of tli* RANKS, is the placing two ranks in
one, frequently ufed in the manoeuvres of a regiment.
RANKS and Files, are the horizontal and vertical lines
<of foldiers when drawn up for fervice.
RANSOM, a fum of money paid for the redemption
of a Have, or the liberty of a prifoner of war. In our
law books, ranfom is alfo ufed for a fum paid for the
pardon of fome great offence, and to obtain the offender’s
liberty.
RANULA, a tumor under a child’s tongue, which,
like a ligature, hinders it from fpeaking or fucking.
RANUNCULUS, crowfoot 5 a genus of plants
of the polygamia order, belonging to the polyandria
clafs ; and in the natural method ranking under the 26th
order, Multijiliquce. See Botany Index.
RAPACIOUS animals, are fuch as live upon
prey.
RAPE, in Law, the carnal knowledge of a woman
forcibly and againft her will. This, by the Jewifh law,
was punifhed with death, in cafe the damfel was be¬
trothed to another man : and, in cafe fhe was not be¬
trothed, then a heavy fine of fifty fhekels was to be paid
to the damfel’s father, and fhe was to be the wife of
the ravifher all the days of his life $ without that power
of divorce, which was in general permitted by the Mo-
faic law.
The civil law punifhes the crime of raviihment with
death and confifcation of goods : under which it includes
both the offence of forcible abduftion, or taking away
a woman from her friends 5 and alfo the prefent offence
of forcibly diflionouring her j either of which, without
the other, is in that law fufficient to conflitute a capital
crime. Alfo the ftealing away a woman from her pa¬
rents or guardians, and debauching her, is equally penal
bv the emperor’s edift, whether fhe confent or is forced.
And this, in order to take away from women every
opportunity of offending in this way; whom the Ro¬
man laws fuppofe never to go aftray without the fe-
dubtion and arts of the other fex ; and therefore, by
reftraining and making fo highly penal the folicitations
of the men, they meant to fecure effectually the honour
4>f the women. But our Englifh law does not enter-
Vol. XVIL Part II.
tain quite fuch fublime ideas of the honour of either
fex, as to lay the blame of a mutual fault upon one of
the tranfgreffors only ; and therefore makes it a neceffary
ingredient in the crime of rape, that it mult be againit
the woman’s will.
Rape was punifned by the Saxon laws, particularly
thofe of King Athelflan, with death ; which was alfo
agreeable to the old Gothic or Scandinavian conftitu-
tion. But this was afterwards thought too hard : and
in its Head another fevere, but not capital, punifhment
was inflibted by William the Conqueror, viz. catiration
and lofs of eyes; which continued till after BraCton
wrote, in the reign of Henry III. But in order
to prevent malicious accufations, it was then the law,
(and, it feems, ftill continues to be fo in appeals of
rape), that the woman fliould, immediately after, go to
the next town, and there make difcovery to fome cre¬
dible perfons of the injury fire has fuffered ; and after¬
wards fliould acquaint the high conftable of the hun¬
dred, the coroners, and the ftieriif, with the outrage.
This feems to correfpond in fome degree with the laws
of Scotland and Arragon, which require that complaint
mult be made within 24 hours : though afterwards by
llatute Weftm. I. c. 13. the time of limitation in Eng¬
land was extended to 40 days. At prefent there is no
time of limitation fixed : for, as it is ufually now punifli-
ed by indictment at the fuit of the king, the maxim of
law takes place, that “ nullum tempus occurrit regi
but the jury will rarely give credit to a Rale complaint.
During the former period alfo it was held for law, that
the woman (by confent of the judge and her parents)
might redeem the offender from the execution of his
lenience, by accepting him for her hufband ; if he alfo
was willing to agree to the exchange, but not other-
wife.
In the 3 Edw. I. by the Ratute WeRm. 1. c. 13.
the punilhment of rape wr3s much mitigated : the of¬
fence itfelf, of ravilhing a damfel w’ithin age, (that is,
twelve years old) either with her confent or without, or
of any other woman againfl her will, being reduced to
a trefpafs, if not profecuted by appeal within 40 days,
and fubjeCting the offender only to two years imprifon-
4 ^ ment.
Rape.
RAP r 642 1 RAP
ment, and a fine at the king’s will. Eat this lenity-
being productive of the moft terrible coniequenccs, it
was, in ten years afterwards, 13 Edw. I. found neceffa-
rv to make the offence of forcible rape felony by ftatute
Weftm. 2. c. 34. And by ftatute 18 Ekz. c. 7. it is
made felony without benefit of clergy : as is alio the
abominable wickednefs of carnally knowing or abufing
any woman-child under the age ot ten years 5 in which
cafe the content or non-confent is immaterial, as by rea-
fon of her tender years the is incapable of judgment and
difcretion. Sir Matthew Hale is indeed ot opinion, that
fuch profligate aftions committed on an infant under the
age of twelve years, the age of female difcretion by the
common law, either with or without confent, amount to
rape and felony 5 as well fince as before the ftatute of
Queen Elizabeth : but that law has in general been held
only to extend to infants under ten •, though it fhould
feem that damfels between ten and twelve are ftill un¬
der the protection or the ftatute Weftm. 1. the law with
refpeCt to their feduftion not having been altered by ei¬
ther of the fubfequent ftatutes.
A male infant, under the age of fourteen years, is
prefumed by law incapable to commit a rape, and there¬
fore it feems cannot be found guilty of it. For though
in other felonies “ nialitia fupplet a^tatem yet, as to
this particular fpecies of felony, the law fuppofes an im-
becillity of body as well as mind.
The civil law feems to fuppofe a proftitute or common
harlot incapable of any injuries of this kind : not allow7-
ing any punifhment for violating the chaftity of her,
who hath indeed no chaftity 'At all, or at leaft hath no
regard to it. But the lawr of England does not judge
fb hardly of offenders, as to cut off all opportunity of
retreat even from common ftrumpets, and to treat
them as never capable of amendment. It therefore
holds it to be felony to force even a concubine or
harlot ; becaufe the woman may have forfaken that
unlawful courfe of life : for, as Brafton wTell ob-
ferves, “ licet meretrix fuerit antea, eerie tunc tempo-
ris non fuit, cum reclamando nequitise ejus confentire
noluit.”
As to the material faffs requifite to be given in evi¬
dence and proved upon an indictment of rape, they are
of fuch a nature, that, though neceffary to be known
and fettled, for the conviftion of the guilty and prefer-
vation of the innocent, and therefore are to be found in
fuch criminal treatifes as difeourfe of thefe matters in
delail, yet they are highly improper to be publicly dir-
cuffed, except only in a court of juftice. We fliall
therefore merely add upon this head a few remarks from
Sir Matthew7 Hale, with regard to the competency and
credibility of witneffes 5 which may, fa/vo pudore, be
confidered.
And, firft, the party ravifhed may give evidence upon
oath, and is in law a competent wdtnefs : but the credi¬
bility of her teftimony, and how far forth flie is to be
believed, muff be left to the jury upon the circumflances
of faff that concur in that teftimony. For inftance:
if the vvitnefs be of good fame; if (he prefently difeover-
ed the offenre, and made fearch for the offender*, if the
party accufed fled for it; thefe and the like are con¬
curring circumftances, which give greater probability
to her evidence. But, on the other fide, if (he be of
evil fame, and ftand unfupported by others; if fhe con¬
cealed the injury for any confiderable time after (he had
opportunity to complain ; if the place, where the faff
was alleged to be committed, w7as where it was pofliole
fhe might have been heard, and (he made no outcry :
thefe and the like circumftances carry a ftrong, but not
conclufive, prefumplion that her teftimony is falfe or
feigned.
Moreover, if the rape be charged to be committed
on an infant unuer 12 years of age, fhe may ftill be
a competent witnefs, if fhe hath fenfe and underftand-
ing to know the nature and obligations of an oath,
and, even if fhe hath not, it is thought by Sir Mat¬
thew7 Hale, that fhe ought to be heard without oath,
to give the court information } though that alone will
not be fufficient to conviff the offender. And he is of
this opinion, firft, Becaufe the nature of the offence
being lecret, there may be no other poffible proof of
the aftual faff} though afterwards there may be con¬
current circumftances to corroborate it, proved by
other witneffes : and fecondly, Becaufe the law al¬
lows rVhat the child told her mother, or other rela¬
tions, to be given in evidence, fince the nature of the
cafe admits frequently of no better proof 5 and there
is n*uch more reafon for the court to hear the narra¬
tion of the child herfelf, than to receive it at fecond-
hand from thofe who fwear they heard her fay fo.
And indeed it feems now to be fettled, that in thele
cafes infants of any age are to be heard ; and, if they
have any idea of an oath, to be alfo fvvorn: it being
found by experience, that infants of very tender years
often give the cleareft and trueft teftimony. But in
any of thefe cafes, wFeiher the child be fworn or not,
it is to be wflfhed, in order to render her evidence cre¬
dible, that there flioutd be tome concurrent teftimony
of time, place, and circumftances, in order to make
out the faff; and that the conviction fhould not be
grounded fingly on the unfupported accufation of an
infant under years of difcretion. There may be there¬
fore, in many cafes of this nature, wfltneffes who are
competent, that is, who may be admitted to be heard \
and yet, after being heard, may prove not to be cre¬
dible, or fuch as the jury is bound to believe. For one
excellence of the trial by jury is, that the jury are triers
of the credit of the witneffes, as w'ell as of the truth of
the faft.
“ It is true (fays this learned judge), that rape is a
moft deteftable crime, and therefore ought feverely and
impartially to be punifhed with death ; but it muft be
remembered, that it is an accufation eafy to be made,
hard to be proved, but harder to be defended by the
party accufed, though innocent.” He then relates two
very extraordinary cafes of malicious profecution for this
crime, that had happened within his owm obfervation ;
and concludes thus : “ I mention thefe inflances, that
we may be the more cautious upon trials of offences of
this nature, wherein the court and jury may with fo
much eafe be imnofed upon, wdthout great care and vi¬
gilance *, the heinoufnefs of the offence many times tranf-
portlng the judge and jury wflth fo much indignation,
that they are over-haftily carried to the conviction of
the perfons accufed thereof, by the confident teftimony
of fometimes falfe and malicious witneffes.”
RAPHAEL D’Urbino, the greateft’, moft fublime,
and moft excellent painter that has appeared, fihee the
revival of the fine arts, w’as the fon of an. indifferent
painter named Sanzio, and was born at Urbino on Good
Friday
RAP [ 643 ] RAP
Raphael Friday 1481. The popes Julius II. and Leo X. who
|| employed him, loaded him with wealth and honour j
Ra^in. aiu] it
is faid that Cardinal de St Bibiana had fuch a
v value for him, that he offered him his niece in marriage.
His genius is admired in all his pictures; his contours
are free, his ordonnances magnificent, his defigns cor-
redl, his figures elegant, his expreftions lively, his atti¬
tudes natural, his heads graceful; in fine, every thing
is beautiful, grand, fubhme, juft, and adorned with
graces. Thefe various perfediions he derived not only
from his excellent abilities, but from his ftudy of anti¬
quity and anatomy; and from the friendfhip he con-
tradced with Ariofto, who contributed not a little to the
improvement of his tafte. His pictures are principally
to be found in Italy and Paris. That of the Transfigu¬
ration, preferved at Rome in the church of St Peter
Monterio, palfes for his mafterpiece. Fie had a hand-
fbme perf’on, was well proportioned, and had great
fweetnefs of temper j was polite, affable, and modeft.
Fie, however, lived in the utmoft fplendor 5 mcft of the
eminent mailers of his time were ambitious of working
under him 5 and he never wrent out without a crowd of
artifts and others, who followed him purely through re-
fpect. Fie was not only the belt painter in the world,
but perhaps the beft architedl too ; on which account
Leo X. charged him with building St Peter’s church at
Rome : but he was too much addidled to pleafure, which
occafioned his death at 37 years of age. FJe left a great
number of difciples ; among whom were Julio Rornano
and John Francis Penni, who were his heirs. Many
able engravers, as Raimondi, George Mantuan, and Bloe-
marf, engraved after Raphael. See Painting.
RAPHAIM, or Rephaim, (Mofes), a name figni-
fying Giants, as they really were, and an actual people
too, fituated in Bafan or Batanea, beyond Jordan, fe-
parated from the Zanzummim by the liver Jabbok. Al¬
io a valley near Jerufalem •, Joihua x.
RAPHANUS, Radish •, a genus of plants belong¬
ing to the tetradynamia clafs ; and in the natural me¬
thod ranking under the 39th order, Siliquofce. See Bo¬
tany Index ; and for the method of culture, fee Gar¬
dening.
RAPHANIDOSIS, a punifhment inflidfed at A-
thens upon adulterers. The manner of it was this:
The hair was plucked off from the privities of the of¬
fenders, hot-allies laid upon the place, and a radifh or
mullet thruft up his fundament, as has been mentioned
under ADULTERY. To this Juvenal alludes, Sat. x.
ver. 317. -djiofJam machos et mugilis intrat. Perfons
who had been thus puniihed were called tw^oHclot. The
word raphanrdojis is derived from “ a radifti.”
RAPHIDIA, a genus of infefts, of the neuroptera
order. See ENTOMOLOGY Index.
RAPIER, formerly fignified a long old-fafhioned
fword, fuch as thofe worn by the common foldiers : but
it now denotes a fmall fword, as coniradiflinguiihed from
a back-fword.
RAPIN, Rene, a Jefuit and eminent French writer,
was born at Tours in 1621. He taught polite litera¬
ture in the fociety of the Jefuits with great applaufe,
and was juftly efteemed one of the beft Latin poets and
greateft wits of his time. He died at Paris in 1687.
Fie wrote, 1. A great number of Latin poems, which
have rendered him famous throughout all Europe \
among which are hisHortorum libri quatuov, which is rec- R- pin
koned his mafterpiece. 2. Refleflions on Eloquence, ,
Poetry, Hiftory, and Philofophy. 3. Companions be-
tween Virgil and Homer, Demofthenes and Cicero,
PIat6 and Anftotle, Thucydides and Titus Livius.
4. The FXiftory of Janfenifm. 5. Several works on reli¬
gious fubjefts. The beft edition of his Latin poems is
that of Paris in 1723, in 3 vols. i2mo.
Rapin de Thc’jras, Paul de, a celebrated hiftorian,
was the fon of James de Rapin lord of Thoyras, and
was bom at Caftres in 1661. He was educated at firit
under a tutor in his father’s houfe ; and afterwards fent
to Puylaurens, and thence to Samur. In 1679 he re¬
turned to his father, with a defign to apply himfelf to
the ftudy of the law, and was admitted an advocate :
but fome time after, reflefting that his being a Prote-
ftant would prevent his advancement at the bar, he re-
folved to quit the profefiion of the law, and apply him¬
felf to that of the fword ; but his father would not con-
fent to it. The revocation of the edi£l of Nantes in
1685, and the death of his father, which happened two
months after, made him relblve to come to England 5
but as he had no hopes of any fettlement here, his Hay
was but fhort. He therefore foon after went to Hol¬
land, and lifted himfelf in the company of French vo¬
lunteers at Utrecht, commanded by M. Rapin his cou-
fin-german. He attended the prince of Orange into
England in 1688: and the following year the lord
Kingfton made him an enfign in his regiment, with
which he went into Ireland, where he gained the efteem
of his officers at the fiege of Catrickfergus, and had foon
a lieutenant’s commiffion. He was prefenl at the battle
of the Boyne, and was ftiot through the fhouider at the
fiege of Limerick. He was foon after captain of the
company in which he had been enfign } but, in 1693,
refigned his company to one of his brothers, ’in order to
be tutor to the earl of Portland’s fon. In 1699, ^ie
married Marianne Teftard ; but this marriage neither
abated his care of his pupil, nor prevented his accompa¬
nying him in his travels. Having finilhed this employ¬
ment, he returned to his family, which he had fettled
at the Hague ; and here he continued fome years. But
as he found his family ’ncreafe, he refolved to retire to
fome cheap country 5 and accordingly removed, in 1707,
to Wefel, where he wrote his Hiftory of England, and
fome other pieces. Though he was of a ftrong confti-
tution, yet 17 years application (for fo long was he in
compofing the hiftory juft mentioned) entirely ruined
his health. He died in 1725. He wrote in French,
I. A Differtation on the Whigs and Tories. 2. His
Hiftory of England, printed at the Hague in 1726 and
1727, in 9 vols 4to, and reprinted at Trevoux in 1728,
in 10 vols 4to. This laft edition is more complete than
that of the Hague. It has been tranftated into Englifh,
and improved with Notes, by the reverend Mr Tindal,
in 2 vols folio. This performance, though the work of
a foreigner, is defervedly efteemed as the fulleft and
moft impartial colle&ion of Englilh political tranfaftions
extant. The readers of wit and vivacity, however, may
be apt to complain of him for being fometimes rather te¬
dious and dull.
RAPINE, in Law, the taking away another’s goods,
&c. by violence.
RAPPERSWIL, a town of Swifferland, on the
4 Ma confines
HAS [ 644 ] HAS
Rappol- conaaes of the canton of Zurich, and of the territory of
item Garter, with an old caftle. It is ftrong by fituation,
R'h S<-m being feated on a neck of land which advances into the
y—«. lake of Zurich, and over which there is a bridge 850
paces long. It is fubject to the cantons of Zurich and
Berne. E. Long. 8. 57. N. Lat. 47. 20.
RAPP0LSTE1N, a town of France in Upper Al-
face, which, before the revolution, had the title of a
barony. All the murtcians of Alface like wife depended
upon this baron, and were obliged to pay him a certain
tribute, without which they could not play upon their
inftruments. F. Long. 7. 28. N. Lat. 48. 15.
RAPTURE, an ecftafy or tranfport of mind. See
Extasy.
RARE, in Physic, Hands oppofed to denfe j and de¬
notes a body that is very porous, whofe parts are at a
great diftance from one another, and which is fuppofed
to contain but little matter under a large bulk. See the
following article.
RAREFACTION, in Physics, the a<R whereby a
body is rendered rare ; that is, brought to poffefs more
room, or appear under a larger bulk, without accef-
rton of any new matter.—This is very frequently the
effedt of fire, as has long been univerfally allowed. In
many cafes, however, philofophers have attributed it
to the action of a repulfive principle. However, from
the many difcoveries concerning the nature and proper¬
ties of the eledlric fluid and fire, there is the greateft
reafon to believe, that this repulfive principle is no other
than elementary fire. See Repulsion.
RAS-el-Feel, one of the frontier provinces of A.-
byflinia, of which the late celebrated traveller Mr Bruce
w?as made governor wdrile in that country. It is but of
final] extent, and in its moft profperous ftate contained
only 39 villages. The climate is extremely hot, in Mr
Bruce’s opinion one of the hotteft in the world. Fie in¬
forms us, that on the firft day of March, at three
o’clock in the afternoon, the thermometer flood at 1140
in the fhade, and in the evening at 82° •, though at fun-
rife it had been no higher than 61. Notwithftanding
this appearance of extreme heat, however, the fenfation
was by no means intolerable ; they could hunt at mid¬
day, and felt the evenings rather cold. The foil is a
fat, loofe, black earth, which our author fays is the
fame from 130 to 160 of north latitude \ at leaft till we
come to the deferts of Atbara, where the tropical rains
ceafe. This country divides that of the Shangalla into
two parts, nearly equal. Thefe people inhabit a belt
of land about 60 miles broad, all along the northern
frontier of Abyffinia, excepting two large gaps or fpaces
which have been left open for the fake »f commerce,
and which are inhabited by ftrangers, to keep the Shan¬
galla in awe. The latter trade in gold, which they
pick up in the flreams as it is wafhed dowm from the
mountains \ for there are no mines in their country,
neither is there any gold in Abyflmia, excepting what
is imported from this or fome other country. The
Shangalla are the natural enemies of the inhabitants of
Ras-el-Feel, and much blood has been flied in the va¬
rious incurfions they have made upon one another j
though of late thofe of Ras-el-Feel, by the afliftance of
the emperors, have been enabled to keep the Shangalla
at bay.
RAS-Sem, a city of Tripoli in Barbary, concerning
which a number of fables were told by the Tripoline
ambaflador, all of which were believed in England and RaUiy
other parts of Europe in the beginning of this century.
(See Petrified City). Mr Bruce informs us, that it f ^
is fituated about five days journey fouth from Bengazi ;
but has no water excepting one fountain, which has a
difagrceable tafte, and feems to be impregnated with
alum. Hence it has obtained the name of Ras-Sem, or
the fountain of poifon. The only remains of antiquity
in this place confift of the ruins of a tower or fortifica¬
tion, which, in the opinion of Mr Bruce, is as late as
the time of the Vandals •, but he fays he cannot imagine
what ufe they made of the wrater, and they had no
other wfithin two days journey of the place.—Here our
traveller faw many of the animals called jerboa, a kind
of mice ; .which, he fays, feem to partake as much of
the nature of a bird as of a quadruped.
RASAY, one of the Hebrides iilands, is about 13
miles long and twm broad. It contains 700 inhabitants,
has plenty of limeflone and freeflone ; feeds great num¬
bers of black cattle; but has neither deers, hares, nor
rabbits. The only appearance of a harbour in Rafay is
at Clachan bay, where Mr Macleod the proprietor of
the ifland refides. Rafay prefents a bold Ihore, which
rifes to the height of mountains j and here the natives
have, with incredible labour, formed many little com
fields and potato grounds. Thefe heights decreafe at
the foulh end, where there are fome farms and a good-
looking country. Mr Macleod is foie proprietor of this
ifland, and of Rona and Fladda at the north end of it,
which are only proper for grazing.
The houfe of Rafay> is pleafantly fituated near the
fouth-wTeft end of the ifland, which is the mort level
part of it. It has an extenfive and excellent garden,
and is furrounded with foreft trees of confiderable mag¬
nitude ; another proof that trees will grow upon the
edge of the fea, though it muft be allowed that the
channel here is narrow7. Immediately behind the houfe
of Rafay are'the ruins of an ancient chapel, now ufed
as the family burying-place.
RASCIANS, a poor oppreffed people who dw’elt on
both fides of the Danube, and who, about the year 1594,
being w^eary of the Turkilh thraldom, firft took 13 of
their veffels upon that river ; and then drawing together
a body of 15,000 men between Buda and Belgrade,
twice defeated the pallia of Temefwar with a body of
14,000 Turks. They afterwards took Baczkerek, four
miles from Belgrade, and the caftle of Ottadt; then
laying fiege to that of Beche, on the Theyfla, the old
pafha of Temefwar marched to relieve it with 11,000
men 5 but the Rafcians encountering them, flew near
10,000, and took 18 pieces of cannon. The confe-
quence of this vidlory wras the redudlion of Werfetza ,«
and Lutz. Then, fending to the archduke for aid and
gunners, they offered to put themfelves and their coun¬
try under the emperor’s proteflion.
RASOR-bill, afpecies of alca. See Alca, Orni¬
thology Index.
RASOR-FiJh, a genus of Ihell-fifh. See Solen, CoN-
CHOLOGY Index.
RASTALL, John, a printer and mifcellaneous wri¬
ter, w7as born in London, probably about the end of the
15th century, and educated at Oxford. Returning from
the univerfity, he fettled in the metropolis, and com¬
menced printer, “ then efteemed (fays Wood) a profef-
flon fit for any fcholar or ingenious man.” Fie married
RAT [ 645 ] RAT
Raftall the fifter of Sir Thomas More, with whom, we are told,
il he was very intimate, and whofe writings he ftrenuouily
Rat‘ defended. From the title-page of one of his books, he
appears to have lived in Cheapfide, at the fign of the
Mermaid. Fie died in the year 1 536 ; and left two fons,
William and John : the firft of whom became a judge
in Queen Mary’s reign, and the latter a jutfice of peace.
This John Raftall, the fubjeft of the prefent article, was
a zealous Papift •, but Bale fays, that he changed his re¬
ligion before his death. Fie wrote, 1. Natura naturata.
Pits calls it a copious (prohxa) and ingenious comedy,
defcribing Europe, Alia, and Africa j with cuts. What
fort of a comedy this was, is not eafy to conceive. Pro¬
bably it is a coimographical defcription, written in dia¬
logue, and therefore ftyled a co?nedy. 2. The paftyme
of the people 5 the cronycks of diverfe realmys, and
molt efpecially of the realm of England, brevely com¬
piled and emprinted in Cheapefyde, at the fign of the
mearmaid, next Pollyfgate, cum pnvilegio, fol. 3. Ec-
clefia Johannis Rqfiall, 1542, was one of the prohi¬
bited books in the reign of Flenry VIII. 4. Lcgum
Anglicanarum vocabula explicata. French and Latin.
Loud. 1567, 8vo. And fome other works.
RASTADT, a town of Germany, in the circle of
Suabia and marquifate of Baden, with a handfome caftle.
It is remarkable for a treaty concluded here between the
French and imperialifts in 1714; and near this place
the French defeated the imperial troops in July 1796 ;
in 1798 a congrefs wras held here for the conclufion of a
peace between France and Germany 5 but it broke up in
1799, when, not far from Rallradt, the French plenipo¬
tentiaries, on their return, wrcre murdered by a party of
Auftrian huffars. Fee France, N° 501. Raftadt is
feated on the river Merg, near the Rhine. E. Long.
S. 14. N. Lat. 48. 54.
RASTENBURG, a fine city in Prufiia, on the Gu-
ber, furrounded with a wall, and fince 1629 alfo with a
rampart. It is 46 miles fouth-eaft; of Koningfberg.
E. Long. 21. 30. N. Lat. 54. 20.
RAT. See Mus, Mammalia Index; and for an
account of the methods of deftroying rats, fee Vermin,
Deflrudiion of.
RAT-Ifland, a fmall detached part of the ifiand of
Lundy, off the north coaft of Devon. Though noted
in Donn’s map of the county, it is not worth mention
here, but as giving opportunity to fubjoin a farther no¬
tice of Lundy, which ifiand w7as purchafed a few years
fince by Mr Cleveland, M. P. for about 1200 guineas,
who has a fmall villa on it : not more than 400 acres
are cultivated : it is let altogether for 70I. a-year. The
foil is good, though no trees will grow on the ifiand.
It has fine fprings of water : the houfes are feven : the
inhabitants, men, women, and children, do not exceed
24. The bird called murr, whofe eggs are very large
and fine, the Lundy parrot, and rabbits, are the chief
produce ; thefe abound, and are taken for the feathers,
eggs, and fkins, principally. They have now (1794)
70 bullocks and 400 fheep, but the latter do not thrive.
They pay no taxes : fithing fkiffs often call with necef-
faries: the fituation is very pleafant, and the rocks
around, which are large, and partly granite, are wild
and romantic. It had probably more inhabitants once,
as human bones have been ploughed up. It has no
place of worftiip, and no public-houfe 5 but flrangers
are always welcome. Eight cannon lie on the battle¬
ments on the top of a very fleep precipice, under which Ratana
is a curious cavern. Lord Gow'er, Mr Benfon, and Sir
J. B. Warren, K. B. have been former proprietors. See . - .
Lundy.
RAT- Tails, or Arrejls. See FARRIERY Index.
RATAFIA, a fine fpirituous liquor, prepared from
the kernels, &c. of feveral kinds of fruits, particularly
of cherries and apricots.
Ratafia of cherries is prepared by bruifing the cher¬
ries, and putting them into a veffel wdierein brandy has
been long kept j then adding to them the kernels of
cherries, with ftrawberries, fugar, cinnamon, white pep¬
per, nutmeg, cloves ; and to 20 pounds of cherries 10
quarts of brandy. The veflel is left open 10 or 12
days, and then flopped clofe for tw7o months before it
be tapped. Ratafia of apricots is prepared tvro ways,
viz. either by boiling the apricots in white-wine, adding
to the liquor an equal quantity of brandy, -vj'ith fugar,
cinnamon, mace, and the kernels of apricots; infufing
the whole for eight or ten days ; then {training the li¬
quor, and putting it up for ufe : or elfe by infufing the
apricots, cut in pieces, in brandy, for a day or two, pal-
fing it through a {training bag, and then putting in the
ufual ingredients. ,
RATCH, or rash, in clock-work, a fort of wheel
having twelve fangs, which ferve to lift up the detents
every hour, and make the clock Itrike. See Clock.
RATCHETS, in a wTatch, are the Imall teeth at the
bottom of the fufy, or barrel, which {tops it in winding
UP*
RATE, a ftandard or proportion, by vdiich either
the quantity or value of a thing is adjufted.
RATES, in the navy, the orders or claffes into wdiich
the (hips of war are divided, according to their force
and magnitude.
The regulation, wdiich limits the rates of men of war
to the fmalleft number poflible, feems to have been dic¬
tated by confiderations of political economy, or of that
of the fimplicity of the fervice in the royal dock-yards.
The Britifh fieet is accordingly diftributed into fix rates,
exclufive of the inferior veffels that ufually attend on na¬
val armaments; as {loops of war, armed fiiips, bomb-
ketches, fire-lhips and cutters, or fchooners command¬
ed by lieutenants.
Ships of the firft rate mount 100 cannon, having 42-
pounders on the lower deck, 24-pounders on the middle
deck, 12-pounders on the upper deck, and 6-pounders
on the quarter-deck and fore-caftle. They are manned
with 850 men, including their officers, feamen, marines,
and fervants.
In general, the fhips of every rate, befides the cap¬
tain, have the mafter, the boatfwain, the gunner, the
chaplain, the purfer, the furgeon, and the carpenter 5
all of whom, except the chaplain, have their mates or
affiftants, in wFich are comprehended the fail-maker, the
mafter at arms, the armourer, the captain’s clerk, the
gunfmith, &c.
The number of other officers is always in proportion,
to the rate of the {hip. Thus a firft-rate has fix lieu¬
tenants, fix mailer’s mates, tvTeRty-four midihipmen,
and five furgeon’s mates, who are confidered as gentle¬
men : befides the following petty officers ; quarter-maf-
ters and their mates, fourteen ; boatfwain’s mates and
yeomen, eight *, gunner’s mates and afliftants, fix 5 quar¬
ter gunners, twenty-five ) carpenter’s mates, two, befides
fourteen:
RAT [ 646 ] RAT
fourteen affiflants ; with one fteward and fteward’s
mate to the purfer.
If the dimenlions of all fhips of the f^me rate were
equal, it would be the fimpleit and moft perfpicuous
method to collect them into one point of view in a table:
but as there is no invariable rule for the general dimen¬
lions, we muft content ourfelves with but a few re¬
marks on (hips of each rate, fo as to give a general idea
of the difference between them.
'Idle Viftory, one of the lafl built of our firfl: rates,
is 222 feet 6 inches in length, from the head to the
ftern j the length of her keel, 151 feet 3 inches ; that
of her gun-deck, or lower deck, 186 feet; her extreme
breadth is 51 feet 10 inches; her depth in the hold, 21
feet 6 inches ; her burden, 2162 tons; and her poop
reaches 6 feet before the mizen-maft.
Ships of the fecond rate carry 90 guns upon three
decks, of which thofe on the lower battery are 32*
pounders; thofe on the middle, 18-pounders; on the
Upper deck, 12-pounders ; and thofe on the quarter¬
deck, 6 pounders, which ufually amount to four or fix.
Their complement of men is 750, in which there are fix
lieutenants, four mailer’s mates, 24 midfhipmen, and
four furgeon’s mates, 14 quarter-mailers and their mates,
eight boatfwain’s mates and yeomen, fix gunner’s mates
and yeomen, with 2 2 quarter-gunners, two carpenter’s
mates, with 10 affiilants, and one lleward and fteward’s
mate.
Ships of the third rate carry from 64 to 80 cannon,
which are 31, 18, and 9 pounders. The 80-gun fhips,
however, begin to groiv out of repute, and to give way
to thofe of 74, 70, &c. which have only two whole
batteries ; whereas the former have three, with 28 guns
planted on each, the cannon of their upper deck being
the fame as thole on the quarter-deck and fore-caltle of
the latter, which are 9 pounders. The complement in
a 74 is 650, and in a 64, 300 men ; having, in peace,
four lieutenants, but in war, five; and when an admiral
is aboard fix. They have three mailer’s mates, 16
midlhipmen, three furgeon’s mates, 10 quarter-mailer,
and their mates, fix boatfwain’s mates and yeomen, four
gunner’s mates and yeomen, with 18 quarter-gunners,
one carpenter’s mate, with eight aflilknts, and one llew¬
ard and lleward’s mate under the purfer.
Ships of the fourth rate irount from 60 to 50 guns,
upon two decks, and the quarter-deck. The lower
tier is compofed of 24-pounders, the upper tier of 12-
pounders, and the cannon on the quarter-deck and
fore-cafile are 6-pounders. The complement of a 50
gun fiiip is 350 men, in which there are three lieute¬
nants, two mailer’s mates, 10 midfhipmen, two fur¬
geon’s mates, eight quarter-mailers and their mates,
four boatfwain’s mates and yeomen, one gunner’s mate
and one yeoman, with 12 quarter-gunners, one carpen¬
ter’s mate and fix affillants, and a lleward and lleward’s
mate.
All veffels of war, under the fourth rate, are ufually
comprehended under the general name of frigates,
and never appear in the line of battle. They are di¬
vided into the 5th and 6th rates; the former mounting
from 40 to 32 guns, and the latter from 28 to 20.
The larged of the fifth rate have two decks of cannon,
the lower battery being of 18-pounders, and that of
the upper deck of 9-pounders; but thofe of 36 and 32
guns have one complete deck of guns, mounting 12-
2
pounders, befides the quarter-deck and fore-cadle, which Ratos
carry 6-pounders. The complement of a Ihip of 44 ii
guns is 280 men; and that of a frigate of 36 guns., Ratcen'
240 men. The fird has three, and the fecond two- v
lieutenants ; and both have two mailer’s mates, fix mid-
ihipmen, two furgeon’s mates, fix quarter-maders and
their mates, two boatfwain’s mates, and one yeoman,
one gunner’s mate and one yeoman, with xo or ix quar¬
ter-gunners, and one purler’s lleward.
Frigates of the 6th rate carry 9-pounders, thcfe of
28 guns having 3 pounders on their quarter-deck, with
200 men for their complement ; and thofe of 24, 160
men : the former has two lieutenants, the latter, one ;
and both have two reader’s mates, four midlhipmen,
one furgeon’s mate, four quarter-mailers and their males,
one boatfwain’s mate and one yeoman, one gunner’s
mate and one yeoman, with fix or feven quarter-gunners,
and one purfer’s deward.
The Hoops of war carry from 18 to 8 cannon, the
larged of which have fix-pounders ; and the fmalleil,
viz. thofe of 8 or 10 guns, four-pounders. Their offi¬
cers are generally the fame as in the 6th rates, with
little variation ; and their complements of men are from
1 20 to 60, in proportion to their force or magnitude.
N. B. Bomb-veflels aie on the fame edablilhment as
fioops ; but fire-diips and hofpital Ihips are on that of
fifth rates.
Nothing more evidently manifeds the great improve¬
ment of the marine art, and the degree of perfeftion to
which it has arrived in Britain, than the facility of ma-
naging our fird rates ; which were formerly edeemed
incapable of government, unlefs in the mod favourable
weather of the furnmer.
Ships of the fecond rate, and thofe of the third,
which have three decks, carry their fails remarkably
well, and labour very little at fea. They are excellent
in a general a£tion, or in cannonading a fortrefs. Thofe
of the third rate, which have two tiers, are fit for the
line of battle, to lead the convoys and fquadrons of Ihips
of war in a61ion, and in general to fuit the different exi¬
gencies of the naval fervice.
The fourth-rates may be employed on the fame occa-
fions as the third-rates, and may be alfo deltined amongft
the foreign colonies, or on expeditions of great di¬
dance ; fince thefe veffels are ufually excellent for keep¬
ing and fudaining the fea.
Veffels of the fifth rate are too weak to differ the
diock of a line of battle ; but they may be dedined to
lead the convoys of merchant dfips, to proted the com¬
merce in the colonies, to cruize in different dations, to
accompany fquadrons, or be fent exprefs with neceffarv
intelligence and orders. The fame may be obferved of
the fixth rates.
The frigates, which mount from 28 to 38 guns
upon one deck, with the quarter-deck, are extremely
proper for cruizing againlt privateers, or for fiiort
expeditions, being light, long, and ufually excellent
failers.
RATEEN, or Ratten, in commerce, a thick
woollen duff, quilled, woven on a loom with four
treddles, like ferges and other duffs that have the whale
or quilling. There are fome rateens dreffed and prepa¬
red like cloths ; others left fimply in the hair and
others where the hair or knap is frized. Rateens are
chiefly manufadured in France, Holland, and Italy, and
RAT [ 647 ] RAT
Ratification are rr.oftly ufed in linings. The frize is a fort of coarfe
!! rateen, and the drugget is a rateen half linen half wool-
len.
RATIFICATION, an a£I of approving and con¬
firming fomething done by another in our name.
RATIO, in Arithmetic and Geometry, is that rela¬
tion of homogeneous things which determines the quan¬
tity of one from the quantity of another, without the in¬
tervention of a third.
The numbers, lines, or quantities, A and B, being
propofed, their relation one to another may be confider-
ed under one of thefe two heads : 1. How much A ex¬
ceeds B, or B exceeds A ? And this is found by taking
A from B, or B from A, and is called arithmetic rea-
fon or ratio. 2. Or how many times, or parts of a
time, A contains B, or B contains A ? and this is cal¬
led jwwe/nh reafon or ratio ; (or, as Euclid defines it,
it is the mutual habitude, or refpeci, of two magnitudes
of the fame kind, according to quantity ; that is, as to
how often the one contains, or is contained in, the
other) ; and is found by dividing A by B, or B by
A. And here note, that that quantity which is referred
to another quantity is called the antecedent of the ratio :
and that to which the other is referred is called the con-
fequent of the ratio ; as, in the ratio of A to B, A is
the antecedent, and B the confequent. Therefore any
quantity, as antecedent, divided by any quantity as a
confequent, gives the ratio of that antecedent to the
ccnfequent.
Thus the ratio of A to B is but the ratio of B
to A is j and, in numbers, the ratio of 12 to 4 is
12 .41
—=2, or triple ; but the ratio ot 4. to 12 is — ~ —7
4 or r 7 ” ‘ 12 3
or fubtriple.
And here note, that the quantities thus compared
muft be of the fame kind ; that is, fuch as by multipli¬
cation may be made to exceed one the other, or as thefe
quantities are faid to have a ratio between them, which,
being multiplied, may be made to exceed one another.
Thus a line, how fhort foever, may be multiplied, that is,
produced fo long as to exceed any given right line j and
confequently thefe may be compared together, and the
ratio expreffed : but as a line can never, by any multi¬
plication whatever, be made to have breadth, that is,
to be made equal to a fuperficies, how frnall foever $
thefe can therefore never be compared together, and
confequently have no ratio or refpeft to one another,
according to quantity 5 that is, as to how often the
one contains, or is contained in, the other. See Quan¬
tity.
RATIOCINATION, the aft of reafoning. See
Reasoning.
RATION, or Rattan, in the army, a portion of
ammunition, bread, drink, and forage, diftributed to
each foldier in the army, for his daily fubfillence, &c.
The horfs have rations of hay and oats when they can¬
not go out to forage. The rations of bread are regu¬
lated by weight. The ordinary ration of a foot fbldier
is a pound and a half of bread per day. The officers
have feveral rations according to their quality and the
number of attendants they are obliged to keep.—When
the ration is augmented on occalions of rejoicing, it is
called a double ration. The {hip’s crews have alfo their 'Rationale
rations or allowances of biiket, pulfe, and water, proper-
tioned according to their Hock. , Ratll:-e?- <
RA1IONALE, a folution or account of the princi¬
ples of fome opinion, aftion, hypolhefis, phenomenon or
the like.
RA1IBOR, a town of Germany, in Silefia, and ca¬
pital ol a duchy ol the fame name, with a caille. It
has been twice taken by the Swedes, and is feated on
the river Oder, in a country fertile in corn and fruits,
1 $ miles north-eait of Troppaw, and 142 eafi of Prague,
E. Long. 22. 24. N. Lat. 50. 14.
RATISBON, an ancient, large, rich, handfome,
and itrong city of Germany, in Bavaria, free and im¬
perial, with a biffiop’s lee, whole biihop is a prince of
the empire. It is called by the Germans Regenfburg,
from the river Regens, which runs under a fine {tone
bridge, and throws itlelf into the Danube below the
city \ and the rivers Luber and Nab mix with it above
the city. I he French call it Ratilbon, in imitation of
the Latins; it hath formerly been fubjeft to the kings
of Bavaria, who made it the place of their refidence ;
but it was declared free by the emperor Frederick I.
which does not, however, hinder the dukes of Bavaria
from dividing the toll with the citizens, according to an
agreement between them. Thefe princes have alfo the
criminal jurifdiftion, lor which the magillrates of the
city pay them homage. It is the firft city of the bench
of Suabia, and contains at prefent within its walls five
different free Hates of the empire 5 namely, the biihop,
the abbot of St Emmeran, the abbeffes of the Low and
High Munfter, and the city. The inhabitants of Ra-
tiibon have the privilege not to be cited before other tri¬
bunals, urdefs for aftions above 400 florins. The lenate
is compoled of 17 members, and there is a council of
10, which is charged with the government of the Hate.
The citizens have a right to eleft a chief, who judges of
the affairs of police. The catholics have the exercife oT
their religion in the cathedral church and others, and
the Lutherans in three churches which they have built.
The magiftrates and officers of,the city are all Protef-
tantsj and it is to be remarked, that although there are
about 22 Catholic churches, yet there are very few Ca¬
tholic citizens, the magiftracy not allowing the freedom
of the town to be given to Catholics living there. As
this city is large, elegant, and full of magnificent houfes,
it has been chofen many years for the place of holding
the diet, upon account of the conveniencv, to many
neighbouring princes and Hates, of fcnding'their provi-
fions by land and water, without great expence. The
town-houie, in the midH of which the diet meets, is ex¬
tremely magnificent. In the year 1740, however, when
there was a war in Germany, the diet met at Frankfort
on^ the Main, till after the death of the emperor Charles
VII. Provifions are very plentiful at Rablbon in time
of peace. The inhabitants have a good deal of trade
the river on which it Hands being navigable, and com¬
municating with a great part of Germany. It is ^5 •
miles fouth-eafl of Nuremberg, 62 north of Munich,
and 103 weft: of Vienna. E .Long. 12. 5. N. Lat. 48
59*
RATLINES, or, as the failors call them, ratlins,
thofe lines which make the ladder fteps to go up the
Ihroods and puttocks, hence called the ratlins of the
Jhrouds.
RATOLFZEL
R A V f 648 ] R A V
llatolfzel RATOLFZEL, a ftrong town of Germany, in Sua-
II bia, near the weft end of the lake Conftance. It is
Rtvcnna ^eaj-e(j on ^aj- part of it called Bodenfee, and belongs to
the houfe of Auftria, who took it from the duke of
Wirtemburg, after the battle of Nordlingen. It is 12
miles weft of the city of Conftance. It is defended by
the impregnable caftle of Hohen Dwel, on an inaccel-
ftble hill in the middle of a plain, the rock of which is
flint, fo that a few men may hold it out againft an
army.
RATTLESNAKE. See Crotalus, Ophiology
Index.
Rattlesnake Root, See Polygala, Botany
Index.
RATZEBURG, or Ratzemburg, an ancient town
of Germany, in the circle of Lower Saxony, and in the
duchy of Lawrenburg, with a bilhop’s fee and a caf¬
tle. The town depends on the duchy of Lawenburg,
and the cathedral church on that of Ratiburg. It is
feated on an eminence, and almoft furrounded with a
lake 2 $ miles in length and three in breadth. The
duke of Lawenburg feized and fortified it in 1689, and
the king of Denmark took it in 1693; but it was dif-
mantled, and reftored in 1700 to the duke, who re¬
fortified it. This town has been frequently pillaged,
particularly in 1552, by Francis duke of Saxe Lawen¬
burg, becaufe the canons refufed to eledl his fon Mag¬
nus their biftiop. It is nine miles fouth of Lubec. This
place is noted for its excellent beer. E. Long. 10. 58.
N. Lat. 53. 47.
RAVA, a town of Great Poland, and capital of a
palatinate of the fame name, with a fortified caftle,
where they keep ftate prifoners. The houfes are built
of wood, and there is a Jefuit’s college. It is feated in
a morafs covered with water, wLich proceeds from the
river Rava, with which it is furrounded. It is 45 miles
fouth of Blolko, and 50 fouth-weft of Warfaw. The
palatinate is bounded on the north by that of Blolko, on
the eaft by that of Mazovia, on the foutli by that of
Sandomer, and on the weft by that of Lencieza.
RAVELIN, in Fortification, was anciently a flat
baftion placed in the middle of a curtain j but now a
detached work compofed only of two faces, which
make a faliant angle without any flanks, and raifed
before the counterfcarp of the place. See Fortifica¬
tion.
RAVEN. See Corvus, Ornithology Index.
Sea RAVEN, or corvo marine of Kongo in Africa, in
Ichthyology, is about fix feet long •, but the moft lingu¬
lar circumftance appertaining to this creature is the ftone
found in its head, to which the natives aferibe fome me¬
dicinal virtues, and the delicate tafte of its hard roe,
which is ftill much admired, when died in the fun, and
becomes as hard as a ftone.
RAVENGLAS, a town of Cumberland in England,
fituated between the rivers Irt and Elk, which, with the
fea, encompafs three parts of it. It is a well built place,
and has a good road for Ihipping, which brings it fome
trade. E. Long. o. 5. N. Lat. 54 20.
RAVENNA, in Ancient Geography, a noble city of
Gallia Cifpadana ; a colony of Theffahans, on the Adri¬
atic, in waflies or a boggy fituation, which proved a
natural fecurity to it. The heufes were all of wood, the
-communication by bridges and boats, and the town kept
fweet and clean by the tides carrying away the mud and
4
foil, (Strabo). Anciently it had a port at the mouth of Ravenna
the Bedefis ; Auguftus added a new port, capacious to II
hold a fleet, for the fecurity of the Adriatic, between, ^ l!K ‘,
which and the city lay the Via Caefaris. In the lower
age it was the feat of the Oftrogoths for 72 years j but
being recovered by Narfes, Juitinian’s general, it be¬
came the refidence of the exarchs, magiftrates fent by
the emperor from Conftantinople, for 173 years, when
it was taken by the Longobards. It is ftill called Ra¬
venna, capital of Romania. The feat of the weftern or
Roman empire was by Honorius tranflated to Ravenna
about the year 404, and hence the country in which it
flood was called Romania, in the pope’s territory. It
had a very tlourilhing trade till the fea withdrew two
miles from it, which has been a great detriment. The
fortifications are of little importance, and the citadel is
gone to ruin. It is now moft remarkable for the excel¬
lent wine produced in its neighbourhood. The maufo-
leum of Theodoric is ftill to be feen, remarkable for
being covered by a fingle ftone 28 feet in diameter and
15 thick. It was at Ravenna that the duke of Nemours
fell, after having gained a moft decifive victory over the
confederate army, in 1511. See France, N° j 29, and
Modern Univerfal Hiftory, vol. xx. p. 324. &c.
RAVENSBURG, a county of Germany, in Weft-
phalia, bounded on the north by the biflioprics of Ofna-
burg and Minden, on the eaft by Lemgow, on the fouth
by the bifhopric of Paderborn, and on the w'eft by that
of Munfter. It belongs to the king of Pruflia, and has
its name from the caftle of Ravenfburg. The population
amounts to about 81,812.
Ravensburg, a free and imperial town of Ger¬
many, in Algow, in the circle of Suabia. It is well
built, and the public ftru£lures are handfome. The in¬
habitants are partly Proteftants and partly papifts. It is
feated on the river Chenfs, in E. Long. 9. 46. N. Lat.
47. 44.
RAVET, an infeft fliaped like a may-bug, or cock¬
chafer, (fee ScARABiEUs), with which the ifland of
Guadaloupe is much peftered. It has a ftinking fmell,
preys upon paper, books, and furniture, and whatever
they do not gnaw is difcoloured by their ordure. Thefe
rally infefls, which are very numerous, and appear
chiefly by night, would be intolerable, w7ere it not for
a large fpider, fome of them as long as a man’s fill,
which intangles them in its web, and otherwife furprifes
them. On which account the inhabitants of the ifland
are very careful of thefe fpiders.
RAVILLIAC, Francis, the infamous aflaflin of^0^. \Jniv,
Henry IV. of France, wTas a native of Angoulefme, Jiijl. vol.
and at the time of his execution was about one or two P- I47*
and thirty years of age. See France, N° 146, andnote A’Si'c’
Henry IV. of France. Ravilliac was the for. of parents
who lived upon alms. His father was that fort of infe¬
rior retainer to the lawr, to which the vulgar give the
name of a pettifogger, and his fon had been bred up in
the fame way. Ravilliac had fet up a claim to an eftate,
but the caufe went againft him : this difappointment af-
fe6ied his mind deeply : he afterrvards taught a fchool,
and, as himfelf faid, received charitable gifts, though
but of a very fmall value, from the parents of thofe
whom he taught j and yet his diftrefs was fo great, that
he bad much ado to live. "When he was feized for the
king’s murder, he was very loofely guarded j all were
permitted to fpeak with him who pleafed; and it was
thought
R A V
[ 649 1
RAY
Ravilliac. tliouglit very remarkable that a Jefult flrould fay to him,
v,“—“ Friend, take care, whatever you do, that you don’t
charge honeft people.” He was removed next day from
the houfe of Efpernon to the Conciergerie, the proper
prifon of the parliament of Paris. When he was firft
interrogated, he anfwered with great boldnefs, “ That
he had done it, and would do it if it were to do again.”
When he was told that the king, though dangeroufly
wounded, was living, and might recover, he laid that
he had ifruck him home, and that he was lure he was
dead. In his fubfequent examinations he owned that he
had long had an intention to kill the king, becaufe he
fullered two religions in his kingdom ; and that he en¬
deavoured to obtain an audience of him, that he might
admonilh him. He alfo faid that he underllood the king’s
great armament to be again!! the pope, and that, in his
opinion, to make war againlt the pope, was to make
war*hgainft God. We have no diftincl account of the
three Taft examinations; but he is faid to have perlifted,
in the moft folemn affeverations, that he had no accom¬
plices, and that nobody had perfuaded him to the iadl.
He appeared furprifed at nothing fo much as at the
univerfal abhorrence of the people, which, it leems,
he did not expeft. They were forced to guard him
ftridtly from his fellow-prifoners, who would otherwife
have murdered him. Ihe butchers of Paris delired to
have him put into their hands, affirming that they would
flay him alive, and that he ihould Hill live 12 days.
When he was put to the torture, he broke out into
horrid execrations, and always infilled that he did the
fa<ft from his own motive, and that he could accufe
nobody. On the day of his execution, after he had
made the amende honourable before the church ol Notre
Dame, he was carried to the Greve j and, being brought
upon a fcaffold, was tied to a wooden engine in the
ffiape of a St Andrew’s crofs. The knife with which
he did the murder being faftened in his right hand, it
was firft burnt in a flow fire fthen the ftelliy parts
of his body were torn with red-hot pincers, and melted
lead, oil, pitch, and rofin, poured into the wounds,
and through a clay funnel into his bowels by the navel.
The people refufed to pray for him 5 and when, ac¬
cording to the fentence pronounced upon him, he came
to be dragged to pieces by four horfes, one of thofe that
were brought appearing to be but weak, one of the Ipec-
tators offered his own, with which the criminal was much
moved : he is laid to have then made a confeffion, which
was fo written by the greffier Voifin, that not fo much as
one wTord of it could ever be read. He was very earneft
for abfolution, which his confeffor refufed, unlefs he
would reveal his accomplices ; “ Give it me condi¬
tionally (faid he), upon condition that I have told the
truth,” which they did His body was fo robuft, that
it refilled the force of the horfes ; and the executioner
was at length obliged to cut him into quarters, which
the people dragged through the ftreets. Ihe houfe in
which he was born was demolilhed, and a column of
infamy ere£led •, his father and mother were banilhed
from Angoulefme, and ordered to quit the kingdom
upon pain of being hanged, if they returned, without
any form of procefs; his brothers, filters, uncles, and
other relations, were commanded to lay afide the name
of Ravilliac, and to affume fome other. Such was the
fate of this execrable monfter, who, according to his
own account, fuffered himfelf to be impelled to fuch
Vol. XVII. Part II.
a faft by the feditious fermons and books of the Tefuits, Ravilhae
whom Henry, rather out of fear than love, had recal¬
led and careffed, and to whom he had bequeathed his
heart.
Neither the dying words of Ravilliac, nor fo much
of his procefs as was publiihed, were credited by his
cotemporaries. Regalt the hiftorian fays, that there
were two different opinions concerning this affaffination j
one, that it was condufted by fome grandees, who facri-
ficed that monarch to their old refentments j the other,
that it was done by the emiffaries of the Spaniards. Let¬
ters from Bruffels, Antwerp, Mechlin, and other places,_
were received before the 15th of May, with a report of
the king’s death. Though nothing occurs in the exami¬
nations of Ravilliac that were firft publilhed, in reference
to his journeys to Naples and other places ; yet as thefe
are fet down as certain truths by good authors, fo there
are probable grounds to believe that they were not fi£li-
tious. It appears from Sir Ralph Winwood’s Memorials,
that Ravilliac had been not long before at Bruffels. A-
mongft other circumftances that created a very great
doubt, whether the affaffin fpoke truth, were the things
found in his pocket at the time he was feized 3 among!!
which was a chaplet, the figure of a heart made in cot¬
ton, in the centre of which he faid there was a bit of
the true crofs, but when cut there was none, winch he
affirmed was given him by a canon at Angoulefme, a
piece of paper with the arms of France painted upon it,
another full of charadters, and a third containing verfes
for the meditation of a criminal going to execution.
The provoft of Pluviers, or Petiviers, in Beauce, about
fix miles from Paris, had faid openly on the day that
Henry IV. was murdered, “ This day the king is either
{lain or dangeroully wounded.” After the king’s death
was known, he was feized and fent prifoner to Paris j
but, before he was examined, he w’as found hanged in
the firings of his drawers. His body was, notwith-
ftanding, hung up by the heels on the common gibbet
on the 19th of June. What increafed the fufpicions
grounded on this man’s end, wras his having twro fons
Jefuits, and his being a dependent on the family of
Monfieur d’Entragues.
RAUN, a town of fome ftrength, upon the river
Miza, remarkable for a bloody fkirmilh between the
Pruffians and Auftrians, in Auguft 1744. The king
of Pruffia, intending to get poffeflion of Beraun, fent
thither fix battalions, with eight cannon, and 800 huf-
fars ; but General Feftititz being there with a great
party of his corps, and M. Lnchefi with 1000 horfe,
they not only repulfed the Pruffians, but attacked them
in their turn, and, after a warm difpute, obliged them
to retire with confiderable lofs.
RAURICUM, in Ancient Geography, a town of the
Raurici, fituated over again!! Abnoba, a mountain from
which the Danube takes its rife. A Roman colony led
by L. Manutius Plancus the fcholar and friend of Ci¬
cero : called Colonia Rauriaca (Pliny), Raurica (In-
fcription), Augujla Rauricorum. The tow n was deftroy-
ed in Julian’s time. It is now' commonly called Aug/l,
a village greatly decayed from what it formerly was.
It is fituated on the Rhine, diftant about two hours
to the call of Bafil. The country is now the canton of
Bafil.
RAY, John, a celebrated naturalift, was the fon of
Mr Roger Rav a blackfmith, and was born at Black
- 4 N Notly
\
RAY [ 650 ] RAY
Notly in EiTex in 1628. He received the firft rudi-
ments of learning at the grammar-fchool at Brain¬
tree ; and in 1644 was admitted into Catharine-Hall
in Cambridge, from whence he afterwards removed
to Trinity college in that univerfity. He took the de¬
gree of mafter of arts, and became at length a fenior fel¬
low of the college ; but his intenfe application to
his ftudies having injured his health, he was obliged at
his leifure hours to exercife himfelfby riding or walk¬
ing in the fields, which led him to the ftudy of plants.
He noted from Johnfon, Parkinfon, and the Phyto/ogia
Britannica, the places where curious plants grew } and
in 1658 rode from Cambridge to the city of Cheiter,
irom whence he went into North Wales, vifiting many
places, and among others the famous hill of Snowdon 5
returning by Shrewtbury and Gloucelfer. In 1660 he
publilhed his Catalogus Plantarum circa Cantabrigiam
nafcentium, and the lame year was ordained deacon and
prieft. In 1661 he accompanied Francis Willoughby,
Efq. and others in fearch of plants and other natural
curiofities, in the north of England and Scotland ; and
the next year made a weftern tour from Chefter, and
through Wales, to Cornwall, Devonfhire, Dorfetlhire,
Hampihire, Wiltlhire, and other counties. He after¬
wards travelled with Mr Willoughby and other gen¬
tlemen through Holland, Germany, Italy, France, &c.
took feveral tours in England, and was admitted fel¬
low of the Koval Society. In 1672, his intimate and
beloved friend Mr Willoughby died in the 37 th year
of his age, at Middleton Hall, his feat in Yorkfhire j
“ to the infinite and unfpeakable lofs and grief (fays Mr
Ray) of myfelf, his friends, and all good men.” There
having been the clofeft and fincerdt friendlhip between
Mr Willoughby and Mr Ray, who were men of fimi-
lar natures and taftes, from the time of their being
fellow collegians, Mr Willoughby not only confided
in Mr Ray, in his lifetime, but alfo at his death :
for he made him one of the executors of his will, and
charged him with the education of his fons Francis and
Thomas, leaving him alfo for life 6cl. per annum.
The eldeft of thefe young gentlemen, not being four
years of age, Mr Ray, as a faithful truftee, betook
himfelf to the inftrudion of them ; and for their ufe
compo/ed his Nomenc/ator Clajfiats, which was publilh-
cd this very year, 1672. Francis the eldeft dying be¬
fore he was of age, the younger became Lord Middle-
ton. Not many months after the death of Mr Wil¬
loughby, Mr Ray loft another of his beft friends, Ri-
Ihop Wilkins} whom he vifited in London the 18th of
November 1672, and found near expiring by a total
fuppreftion of urine for eight days. As it is natural
ipr the mind, when it is hurt in one part, to feek re¬
lief from another ; fo Mr Ray, having loft fome of his
beft friends, and being in a manner left deftitute, con¬
ceived thoughts of marriage ; and accordingly, in June
1^7.L did aftually marry a gentlewoman of about 20
years of age, the daughter of Mr Oakley of Launton
m Oxfordihire. lowards the end of this year, came
forth his “ Obfervations Topographical, Moral,’ &c.”
made in foreign countries ; to which was added his
Catalogus Stirpium in exteris regionibus obfervatarnm :
and about the fame time, his CoIleBion of unufualor local
Englijh words, which he had gathered up in his travels
through the counties of England. After having pub-
liihed many books on fubjects foreign to his profeftion,
he at length refolved to publilh in the charader of a Ray,
divine, as well as in that of a natural philofopher : in Rsynai,
which view he publilhed his excellent demonftration of 
the being and attributes of God, entitled The Wifdom
of God manifejled in the Works of the Creation, 8vo,
1697. The rudiments of this work were read in fome
college ledures j and another colledion of the fame
kind he enlarged and publilhed under the title of Three
Phy/ico-theological Dijcourfcs, concerning the Chaos, De¬
luge, and Dijfolution of the World, 8vo, 1692. Pie died
in 1705. _ He was modett, affable, and communicative $
and was diftinguilhed by his probity, charity, fobriety,
and piety. He wrote a great number of works •, the
principal of which, befides thofe already mentioned, are,
1. Catalogus Plantarum Anglice. 2. Diclionariolum Tri-
lingue fecundum locos communes. 3. Hi/loria Plantarum,
Species haBenus editas, aliafque infuper multas noviter
inventas et deferiptas compleBens, three vols. 4. Metho-
dus Plantarum nova, cum Tabulis, 8vo, and feveral other
works on plants. 6. Synopfs Methodica Animalium -%ua-
drupedum et Serpentinigeneris, 8vo. 6. Synopfs Metho¬
dica Avium et Pifcium. 7. Hi/loria InfeBorum, opus
pojlhumum. 8. Methodus InfeBarum. 9. Philolbphical
Letters, &c.
RAYNAL, William Thomas, or the Abbe Ray-
nal, was born about the year 1712, and received his
education among the celebrated order of the Jefuits, and
became one of their number. Their value and excel¬
lence chiefly confifted in afligning to each member his
proper employment. Among them it was that Raynal
acquired a tafte for literature and fcience, and by them
he was afterwards expelled, but for what realbn is not
certainly known, although the abbe Barruel aferibes it
to impiety. Soon after this event he affociated with
Voltaire, D’Alembert, and Diderot, by whom it is faid,
he was employed to furnilh the articles in theology for
the Encyclopedic; but he employed the abbe Yvon to fur¬
nilh them for him, whom Barruel allows to have been an
inoffenfive and upright man.
His firft work, which is juftly regarded as an eminent
performance, is entitled “ Political and Philofophical
Hiftory of the European Settlements in the Eaft and
Weft Indies.” The ftile of this work is animated ; it
contains many juft reflections both of a political and phi¬
lofophical nature, and has been tranflated into every Eu¬
ropean language. We believe this performance w'as fol¬
lowed by a fmall tra£t in the year 1780, entitled “ The
Revolution of America,” in which he pleads the caufe
of the colonifts with much zeal, cenfures the condubt of
the Britilh government, and difeovers an acquaintance
with the principles of the different factions, which has
induced a belief that he had been furnilhed with mate¬
rials by thefe wTho knew the merits of the difpute much
better than any foreigner could reafonably be fuppofed
to do.
The French government inftituted a profecution a-
gainft him on account of his hiftory of the Eaft and
Weft Indies 5 but with fo little feverity wras it conduc¬
ed, that fufficient time was allowed him to retire to the
dominions of his Pruflian majefty, by whom he wras
proteCed, notwithftanding he had treated the character
of that fovereign rvith very little ceremony. Even the
moft defpotic princes ftiewrad him much kindnefs, al¬
though he always animadverted on their conduCt with¬
out referve 5 and he lived in the good graces of the em-
RAY [ 651 ] REA
Raynal, prefs of Ruffia. At one period the Britifh houfe of com- towards or from a perpendicular to the point on which Rays
Ray?, mons (hewed him a very (ingular mark of refpedl. The they fell. |1
"" v fpeaker having been informed that Raynal was a ipecia- Pencil of Rays, a number of rays iifuing from a Re“dmg.
tor in the gallery, public bufinefs was inflantly fulpend- point of an objedi, and diverging in the form of a cone.
ed, and the ftranger was conduced to a more honour- RAZOR, a well-known inltrument, ufed by furgeons,
able (ituation. Rut when a friend of Dr Johnfon’s afked barbers, &c. for (having oflf the hair from various parts
him refpefting the fame perfonage, “ Will you give me of the body.— As (having to many people is a molt
leave, dodtor, to introduce to you the abbe Raynal ?” painful operation, cutlers in different countries have long
he turned on his heel, and laid, “ No fir.” applied their (kill to remove that inconvenience. Some
A love of liberty was the principal trait in Raynal’s have invented foaps of a peculiar kind to make the ope-
charadter, of which he gave no proper or accurate defi- ration more eafy, and fome have invented (traps. With
nition in his earlier writings 5 but when he beheld the refpedt to razors, fome artiits have fucceeded rather by
abufe of liberty in the progrefs of the French Revolu- accident than from any fixed principle 3 and therefore
tion, he nobly attempted to retrieve his errors. In the we have found great inequality in the goodnefs of razors
month of May 1791, he addreffed to the Conftituent made by the fame artiit.
Alfembly, a letter the mod eloquent, argumentative,
and impreflive, that perhaps was ever compofed upon
any fubjedt whatever. He obferves among other things;
“ I have long dared to (peak to kings of their duty 3
fuffer me now to (peak to the people of their errors, and
to their reprefentatives of the dangers which threaten us.
I am, I own to you, deeply affiidfed at the crimes which
plunge this empire into mourning. It is true that I am
to look back with horror at myfelf for being one of
thofe who, by feeling a noble indignation again ft arbi¬
trary power, may perhaps have furnifhed arms to licen-
tiouhiefs. Do then religion, the laws, the royal au¬
thority, and public order, demand back from philofophy
and reafon the ties which united them to the grand 1b-
ciety of the French nation, as if, by expofing abufes,
and teaching the rights of the people and the du'ies of
princes, our criminal efforts had broken thefe ties ? But,
no ! never have the bold conceptions of philofophy
been reprefented by us as the (Iridl rule for adts of legi-
llation.”
He afterwards completely proves, that it was not the
bufinefs of the affembly to aboliffi every ancient inffitu-
tion 5 that the genius of the French people is fuch, that
they never can be happy or profperous but under a w'ell re¬
gulated monarchical government; and that, if they wi(h-
ed not the nation to fall under the word kind of defpo-
tifm, they mud increafe the power of the king.
Befides the works already mentioned, he Was the au¬
thor of “ A Hidory of the Parliament of England,”
&c. “ Hidory of the Stadtholderate” 3 “ The Hidory
of the Divorce of Catharine of Arragon by Henry
VIII.” and a “ Hidory of the Revocation of the Edidh
of Nantz,” in four volumes 3 but he committed many of
his papers to the dames during the fanguinary reign
of Robefoierre. He was deprived of all his property
during the revolution, and died in poverty in the molith
of March 1796, in the 84th year of his age.
Ray, in Optics, a beam of hgbt emitted from a radiant
or luminous body. See Light and Optics.
InfeSicd R a Ys, thofe rays of light which, on their
near approach to the edges of bodies, in paffmg by them,
are bent out of their courfe, being turned either from
the body or towards it. This property of the rays of
light is generally termed dijfruBion by foreigners, and
Dr Hooke fometimes called it defection.
Reflected R iYS, thofe rays of light which, after fall¬
ing upon the body, do not go beyond the furface of it,
but are thrown back again.
RefraElcd R A YS, thofe rays of light which, after fall-
ingTtpon any medium, enter its furface, being bent either
A correfpondent affures us, that he has for 40 years
pad been at much pains to find out razors made by the
bed makers both in England and Scotland, and was for¬
tunate enough, at lad, to difeover a kind made by a
Scotchman of the name of Logan, which he called mao--
netical razors, becaufe they were direfted to be touched
with an artificial magnet before ufing. Thefe, our
friend affures us, are mod excellent razors, and he has
ufed them for upwards of 20 years. He fays likewife
that they continue in good order, without requiring to
be ground 3 but that the great draw-back on their be¬
ing generally ufed, is the price, which is higher than
mod people are able or difpofed to give for that indru-
ment. Our correfpondent, who refides in the vicinity
of London, alfo informs us, that lately the famous fur-
geoirs indrument-maker, Mr Savigny in Pall Mall, af¬
ter numberlefs experiments, in the courfe of above 20
years, has at length brought razors to a degree of pev-
fe&ion never yet equalled 3 and with fuch certainty,
that the purchafer is in no danger of a difappointment,
though the price is very moderate. By thefe, we are
told, the operation of diaving is performed with greater
eafe, more perfedlly, and more expeditioufiy than with
any other.
RE, in Grammar, an infeparable particle added to
the. beginning of words to double or otherwife modify
their meaning 3 as in re-adlion, re-move, re-export, &c.
_ RE-ACTION, in Phtjfiology, the refidance made by
all bodies to the action or impulfe of others that en¬
deavour to change its date whether of motion or red
&c.
.READING, the art of delivering written language
with propriety, force, and elegance.
“ We mud not judge fo unfavourably of eloquence
c r good reading (fays the illudrious Fenelon), as to
reckon it only a frivolous art, that a declaimer ufes to
impofe upon the weak imagination of the multitude, and
to ferve his own ends. It is a very ferious art, defigned
to indrudt people 3 to fupprefs their paflions and reform
their manners ; to fupport the laws, direct public coun¬
cils, and to make men good and happy.”
Reafon and experience demondrate, that delivery in Delivery m
reading ought to be lefs. animated than in mterefed [peak- reading
ing. In every exercife of the faculty of fpeeeh, andfLou,(1 be
thofe exprellions of countenance and gedure with which lcfs iVlima*
it is generally attended, we may be confidered to be al- SfeleftecT
ways in one of the two following fituations: Fird, de- (peaking,
livering our bofom fentiments on circumdances which re¬
late to ourfelves or others 3 or, (econdly, repeating fome-
thing that was fpoken on a certain occafion for the
4 ^ 2 amufement
REA [65
Reading, amufement or information of an auditor. Now, if we
‘v  obferve the deliveries natural to theie two fituations, r\e
fhall ii id, that the fir 11 may be accompanied with every
depree of expreffion whrcn can mamfeit itfelf in us, irom
the’ lowed: of fympathy to the moft violent and energe¬
tic of the fuperior paffions; while the latter, from the
fpeaker’s chief bufmefs being to repeat what he heard
with accuracy, difcovers only a faint imitation of thofe
figns of the emotions which we fuppole agitated nim
from whom, the words wrere firft borrowed.— 1 ne ufe
and neceflity of this difference of manner is evident ;
and if we are attentive to thefe natural ligns of expref¬
fion, we fhall find them conforming with the greatefl
nicety to the flighted and mod minute movements of
the bread.
This repetition of another’s words might be fuppofed
to pafs through the mouth of a fecond or third perfon 5
and in thefe cafes, fince they were not ear and eye wit-
neffes of him who fird fpoke them, their manner of de¬
livery would want the advantage neceffarily arifing from
an immediate idea of the original one } hence, on this
account, this would be a dill lefs lively reprefentation
than that of the fird repeater. But as, from a daily ob-
fervation of every variety of fpeech and its affociated
figns of emotion, mankind foon become pretty well ac¬
quainted with them, and this in different degrees, accord¬
ing to their difcernment, fenfibility', &-C. experience
ihorvs us that thefe latter repealers (as we call them)
might conceive and ufe a manner of delivery which,
th®ugh lefs charaBeri/lic perhaps, would on the whole
be no w-ay inferior to the fird, as to the common natural
expredion proper for their fituation. It appears, tnere-
fore, that repeaters of every degree may be edeerned up¬
on a level as to animation, and that our twofold didinc-
tion above contains accurately enough the whole variety
©f orduiary delivery •,—we fay ordinary, becaufe
There is another very peculiar kind of delivery fomer
times ufed in the perfon of a repeater, of which it will
in this place be neceffary to take fome notice. What
we mean here is mimicry; an accompliihment which,
when perfedlly and properly difplayed, never fails of
yielding a high degree of pleafure. But fince this plea-
fure chiefly refults from the principle of imitation re-
fpefling manner, and not from the purport of the mat¬
ter communicated ; fince, comparatively fpeaking, it is
only attainable by few perfons, and pradlifed only on
particular occafions on thefe accounts it mud be re-
fufed a place among the modes of ufeful delivery taught
us by general nature, and edeemed a qualification pure¬
ly anomalous.
Thefe didindlions with regard to a fpeaker’s fitua¬
tion of mind premifed, let us fee to which of them an
author and his reader may mod properly be referred,
and how they are circumdanced with regard to one
another.
The matter of all books is, either what the author
lays in his own perfon, or an acknowledged recital of
the words of others: hence an author may be edeemed
both an original fpeaker and a repeater, according as
what he writes is of the fird or fecond kind. Now a
reader mud be fuppofed either a&ually to perfonate the
author, or one whofe office is barely to communicate
what he has faid to an auditor. But in the fird of thefe
fuppofitions he would, in the delivery of wffiat is the au¬
thor’s own, evidently commence mimic j which being, as
2 ] REA
above obferved, a character not acknowledged by gene- Reading,
ral nature in this department, ought to be rejedled as
generally improper. The other fuppofition therefore
mud be accounted right ; and then, as to the whole
matter of the book, the reader is found to be exadlly in
the fituation of a repeater, fave that he takes what he
delivers from the page before him indead of his memo¬
ry. It follows then, in proof of our initial propofition,
that, if wTe are diredied by nature and propriety, the
manner of our delivery in reading ought to be inferior
in warmth and energy to what we fliould ufe, were the
language before us the fpontaneous effufions of our own
hearts in the circumdances of thofe out of wdiofe mouths
it is fuppofed to proceed.
Evident as the purport of this reafoning is, it has not
fo much as been glanced at by the waiters on the fub-
jedl we are now entered upon, or any of its kindred
ones; which has occafioned a manifed want of accuracy
in feveral of their rules and obfervations. Among the
red, this precept has been long reverberated from au¬
thor to author as a perfedl dandard for propriety in
reading. “ Deliver yourfelves in the dime manner you
would do, were the matter your own original fentiments
uttered direftly from the heart.” As all kinds of deli¬
very mud have many things in common, the rule wall
in many articles be undoubtedly right; but, from what
has been faid above, it mud be as certainly faulty in
refpedl to feveral others ; as it is certain nature never
confounds by like figns two things fo very different, as
a copy and an original, an emanation darted immediately
from the fun, and its weaker appearance in the lunar re¬
flexion.
The precepts we have to offer for improving the
above-mentioned rule, fliall be delivered under the heads
of accent, emphajis, modulation, expreffion, paufes, &cc. *
I. Accent.—In attending to the affeXions of the
voice when we fpeak, it is eafy to obferve, that, inde¬
pendent of any other confideration, one part of it differs
from another, in frefs, energy, or force of utterance.
In words we find one fyliable differing from another
wnth refpeX to this mode ; and in fentences one or
mope wmrds as frequently vary from the red in a fimilar
manner. This drefs wdth regard to fyllables is called
accent, and contributes greatly to the variety and har¬
mony of language. RefpeXing words, it is termed em¬
phajis ; and its chief office is to affid the fenfe, force, or
perfpicuity of the fentence—of which more under the
next head.
“ Accent (as deferibed in the LeXureson Elocution)
is made by us tw7o ways ; either by dwelling longer up¬
on one fy liable than the red, or by giving it a fmarter
percuffion of the voice in utterance. Of the fird of
thefe we have indances in the wmrds glory, father, holy ;
of the lad in bat'tle, hab'it, bor'row. So that accent
with us is not referred to tune, but to time ; to quanti¬
ty, not quality •, to the more equable or precipitate mo¬
tion of the voice, not to the variation of the notes or in¬
flexions.”
In theatric declamation, in order to give it more pomp
and folemnity, it is ufual to dwell longer than common,
upon the unaccented fyllables •, and the author now
quoted has endeavoured to prove (p. 51. 54.) the prac¬
tice faulty, and to fliow (p. 55.) that “ though it (i. e.
true folemnity) may demand a flower utterance than
ufualj yet (it) requires that the fame proportion in point
of
Reading.
REA [ 653 ] RE A
of quantity be obferved in the fyllables, as there is in
mufical notes when the fame tune is played in quicker
or flower time.” But that this deviation from ordinary
fpeecli is not a fault, as our author aflerts ; nay, that on
the contrary it is a real beauty when kept under proper
regulation, the following obfervations it is hoped will
fufficiently prove.
(I.) It is a truth of the moft obvious nature, that
thofe things which on their application to their proper
fenfes have a power of railing in us certain ideas and
emotions, are ever differently modified in their conllitu-
ent parts when different eftedds are produced in the mind :
and alfo (II.) that, ’within proper bounds, were we to
iuppofe thefe conftituent parts to be proportionally in-
creafed or diminifhed as to quantity, this efl’edf would
hill be the fame as to quality.—For initance : The dif¬
ferent ideas of ftrength, fwiftnefs, &c. which are railed
in us by the fame fpecies of animals, is owing to the
different form of their correfponding parts •, the different
effedls of munc on the paflions, to the different airs and
movements of the melody ; and the different expreflions
of human fpeech, to a difference in tone, fpeed, &c. of
the voice. And thefe peculiar effecls would ftill re¬
main the fame, were we to fuppofe the animals above
alluded to, to be greater or lejjer, within their proper
bounds *, the movement of the mafic quicker or flower,
provided it did not palpably interfere with that of fome
other fpecies •, and the pitch of the voice hgher or lower,
if not carried out of the limits in which it is obferved
on limilar occafions naturally to move. Farther (III.)
fince, refpecting the emotions more efnecially, there
are no rules to determine d priori what effedf any parti¬
cular attribute or modification of an object will have
upon a percipient, our knowledge of this kind mull evi¬
dently be gained from experience. Laftly, (IV.) In
every art imitating nature we are pleafed to fee the cha-
radleriltic members of the pattern heightened a little far¬
ther than perhaps it ever was carried in any real ex¬
ample, provided it be not bordering upon fome ludicrous
and difagreeable provinces of excefs.
Now for the application of thefe premMTes.—To keep
pace and be confiftent with the dignity of the tragic
mufe, the delivery of her language fliould neceffarily be
dignified ; and this it is plain from obfervation (I.) can¬
not be accomplilhed otherwife than by fomething differ¬
ent in the manner of it from that of ordinary fpeech ;
fince dignity is effentially different from familiarity. But
how mull we difeover this different manner ? By attend¬
ing to nature : and in this cafe flie tells us, that befides
ufing a (lovoer delivery, and greater diJUnBnefs of the
words (which every thing merely grave requires, and
gravity is a concomitant of dignity, though not its effence),
we muff dwell a little longer upon the unaccented fylla¬
bles than we do in common. As to what our author
obferves in the above quotation, of dignity's only requi¬
ring a flower utterance than ordinary, while the pro¬
portion of the fyllables as to quantity continues the fame ;
it is apprehended the remark (II.) refpedling quicknefs
and flownefs of movement will fliow it to be not alto¬
gether true. For fince the delivery is not altered in
fortn, its expreflion muff: be ftill of the fame kind, and
perhaos what may be rightly fuggefted by the term
gravely familiar. ,
But fomething farther may be vet faid in defence of
this artificial delivery, as our author calls it. Is not
the movement of any thing, of whatever fpecies, when Reading-.-
dignified or folemn, in general of an equable and delibe-
rate nature (as in the minuet, the military ftep, &c.) ?
And in theatrical declamation, is not the propenfity to
introduce this equablencfs fo ftrong, that it is almoft im-
poffible to avoid it wdiolly, were we ever fo determined
to do it ? If thefe two queries be anfwered in the affir¬
mative (as we are perfuaded they will), wfiiile the firft
fupports our argument for the propriety of the manner of
delivery in queftion, the fecond difeovers a kind of ne-
cejfity for it. And that this manner may be carried a
little farther in quantity on the Jlage than is ufual in
real life, the principle (IV.) of heightening nature will
juflify, provided fafhion (which has ever fomething to
do in thefe articles) give it a fandlion ; for the precife
quantity of feveral heightenings may be varied by this
great legiflator almoft at will.
II. Emphafis.—As emphafis is not a thing annexed to Emphalis.
particular words, as accent is to fyllables, but owes its
rife chiefly to the meaning of a paffage, and muft there¬
fore vary its feat according as that meaning varies, it
will be neceffary to explain a little farther the general
idea given of it above.
Of man’s firft difobedience, and the fruit
Of that forbidden tree, whofe mortal tafte
Brought death into the world, and all our woe, &c.
Sing heav’nly mufe, &c.
Suppofing, in reference to the above well-known
lines, that originally other beings, befides men, had dif¬
obeyed the commands of the Almighty, and that the
circnmftance were well known to us, there would fall
an emphafis upon the word mail's in the firft line, and
hence it would be read thus ;
Of mail's firft difobedience, and the fruit, &c.
But if it were a notorious truth, that mankind had tranf-
greffed in a peculiar manner more than once, the emphafis
would fall on firfi, and the line be read,
Of man’s firfi difobedience, &c.
Again, admitting death (as was really the cafe) to
have been an unheard of and dreadful punhhment
brought upon man in confequence of his tranfgreflion $
on that fuppofition the third line would be read,
Brought death into the -world, &c.
But if rve were to fuppofe mankind knew there was luch
an evil as death in other regions, though the place they
inhabited had been free from it till their tranfgreflion j
the line would run thus,
Brought death into the world, &c.
Now from a proper delivery of the above lines, with
regard to any one of the fuppofitions we have chofen,
out of feveral others that might in the fame manner have
been imagined, it will appear that the emphafis they il-
luftrate is effefted by a manifeft delay in the pronuncia¬
tion, and a tone fomething fuller and louder than is uf-
ed in ordinary ; and that its cffice is folely to determine
the meaning of a fentence with reference to fomething
faid before, prefuppofed by the author as general know¬
ledge, or in order to remove an ambiguity where a
paffage is capable of having more fenfes given it than
one.
But,
R E A
Heading. But, fuppofing in the above example, that none of
¥~ ~'J the fenfes there pointed out were precilely the true one,
and that the meaning of the lines were no other than
what is obvioufly fuggelled by their limple conftruflion j
in that cafe it may be afked, if in reading them there
ihould be no word dignified with the emphatical accom-
panyments above defcnbed ?—The anfwer is, Not one
with an emphafis of the fame kind as that we have juft
been illuftrating *, yet it is neverthelefs true, that on
hearing thefe lines well read, we ftiall find fome words
diftinguilhed from the reft by a manner of delivery bor¬
dering a little upon it (a). And thefe words will in
general be fuch as feem the moft important in the fen-
tence, or on other accounts to merit this diftimftion.
But as at beft it only enforces, graces, or enlivens, and
not fixes the meaning of any paffage, and even caprice
and fafhion (b) have often a hand in determining its
place and magnitude, it cannot properly be reckoned an
efiential of delivery. However, it is of too much mo¬
ment to be neglected by thofe who would with to be
good readers ; and, for the fake of diftinftion, we may
not unaptly denominate both the kinds of energies in
queftion, by the terms emphafis of fenfe, and emphafis of
force (c).
Now from the above account of thefe two fpecies of
emphafis it will appear, “ that in reading, as in fpeak-
ing, the firft of them muft be determined entirely by the
fenfe of the pafiage, and always made ahhe : But as to
the other, tafie alone feems to have a right of fixing its
fituation and quantity.”—Farther : Since the more ef-
fential of thefe two energies is folely the work of nature
R E A
(as appears by its being conjlantly found in the common lieai
converfation of people of all kinds of capacities and de- w v
grees of knowledge), and the moft ignorant perfon ne¬
ver fails of ufing it rightly in the efl'ufions of his own
heart, it happens very luckily, and ought always to be
remembered, that provided we underhand what we read,
and give way to the dictates of our own feeling, tire em¬
phafis of fenfe can fcarce ever avoid falling fponlaneoufiy
upon its proper place.
Here it will be neceflary to fay fomething by way of
reply to a queftion which will naturally occur to the
mind of every one. As the rule for the emphafis of
fenfe requires we Ihould underhand what we read before
it can be properly ufed, it is incumbent upon us never
to attempt to read what we have not previoufly ftudied
for that purpofe ? In anfwer to this, it muft be obfer ■
ved, that though fuch a ftep will not be without its
advantages •, yet, as from the fairnefs of printed types,
the well-known paufes of punfluation, and a long ac¬
quaintance with the phrafeology and conftrudtion of our
language, &c. experience tells us it is poffible to com¬
prehend the fenfe at the firft reading, a previous peruial
of what is to be read does not feem necejfary to all,
though, if they would wifir to appear to advantage, it
may be expedient to many ; and it is this circumitance
which makes us venture upon extemporary reading, and
give it a place among our amufements.—Similar re¬
marks might be made with regard to modulation, exprefi
fion, &c. did not what is here obferved naturally antici¬
pate them. ^
III. Modulation (d.) Every perfon muft have obfer-Modula
ved, t^on‘
[ 654 ]
(a) The following lines will illuftrate both thefe kinds of ftreffes: For, to convey their right meaning, the wrord
AXY is evidently to be pronounced louder and fuller than thofe with the accents over them.
Get wealth and place, if poflible with grace;
If not, by any means get wealth and place.—Pope.
This couplet is accented in the manner we find it in the Efiay on Elocution by Mafon. And if, according to the
judgement of this author, the words thus diftinguilhed are to have an emphatical ftrefs, it muft be of the inferior
kind above-mentioned, and which a little farther on w’e call emphafis of force ; while the word any in a diffe¬
rent type alone poffeftes the other fort of energy, and which is there contradiflinguilhed by the term emphafis of
fenfe.^
(b) Among a number of people who have had proper opportunities of learning to read in the beft manner it is
now taught, it would be difficult to find two, who, in a given inftance, would ufe the emphafis of force alike, either
as to place or quantity. Nay fome fcarcely ufe any at all : and others will not fcruple to carry it much beyond
any thing we have a precedent for in common difeourfe 5 and even now and then throw it upon words fo very tri¬
fling in themfelves, that it is evident they do it with no other view, than for the fake of the variety it gives to the
modulation.—This practice, like the introduction of dilcords into mufic, may without doubt be indulged now and
then ; but were it too frequent, the capital intent of thefe energies would manifeftly either be deftroyed or rendered
dubious.
(c) I he firft of thefe terms anfwers to the fituple emphafis deferibed in the Lectures on Elocution, and the fecond
nearly to what is there called complex. The difference lies in this. Under complex emphafis the author feems (for
he is far from being clear in this article) to include the tones fimply confidered of all the emotions of the mind ; as
well the tender and languid, as the forcible and exulting. Our term is intended to be confined to fuch modes of ex-
preffion alone as are marked with an apparent Jlrefs or increafe of the voice.
(D) f he author of the IntroduSiion to the Art of Reading, not allowing that there is any Variation of tone, as to
tdgh and low, in the delivery of a complete period or fentence, places modulation lolely in the diverfification of the
key-note and the variety of lyllables, as to long or jbort, fwft or fiozv, jlrong or weak, and loud or foft. As we
are of a different opinion, our idea of modulation is confined purely to harmonious inflexions of voice. Thefe quali¬
ties of words, it is true, add greatly both to the force and beauty of delivery ", yet, fince fome of them are fixed and
not arbitrary (as long and fihort'), and the others (of fwift and flow, firong and weak, loud and [ft) may be con¬
sidered as modes of expreffion which do not affeff the modulation as to tone, it will agree belt with our plan to
Reading
REA [
ved, that, in fpeaking, the voice is fubjedi to an altera¬
tion of found, which in fome meafure refembles the
movement of a tune. Thefe founds, however, are evi¬
dently nothing like fo much varied as thofe that are
ftridtly mufical; and we have attempted to fhow in the
preceding chapter, that, befides this, they have an eflen-
tial difference in themfelves. Neverthelefs, from the
general iimilitude of thele two articles, they poffefs fe-
veral terms in common •, and the particular we have
now to examine is in both of them called modulation.
This affedlion of the voice, being totally arbitrary, is
differently characterized in different parts of the world •,
and, through the power of cuftom, every place is inclin¬
ed to think their own the only one natural and agree¬
able, and the reft affedted with fome barbarous twang
or ungainly variation (e). It may be obferved, how¬
ever, that though there is a general uniform caff or
fafhion of modulation peculiar to every country, yet it
by no means follows that there is or can be any thing
fixed in its application to particular paffages •, and there¬
fore we find different people will, in any given inftance,
ufe modulations fomething different, and neverthelefs be
each of them equally agreeable.
But, quitting thefe general remarks, we {hall (as our
purpofe requires it) confider the properties of modulation
a little more minutely.
Firft, then, we may obferve, that, in fpeaking, there
is a particular found (or bey-note, as it is often called)
in which the modulation for the moft part runs, and to
which its occafional inflexions, either above or below,
may in fome refpedts be conceived to have a reference,
like that which common mufic has to its key-note.
Yet there is this difference between the two kinds of
modulation, that whereas the firft always concludes in
the key-note, the other frequently concludes a little
below it (f). This key note, in fpeaking, is generally
the found given at the outfet of every complete fen-
tence or period •, and it may be obferved on fome occa-
fions to vary its pitch through the limits of a mufical
655 ] REA
interval of a coufiderable magnitude. The tones, that
fail a little lower than the key at the clofe of a fentence
or period, are called cadences. Thefe cadences, if we
are accurate in our diftimftions, will, with refpeft to
their offices, be found of two kinds; though they meet
fo frequently together, that it may be belt to conceive
them only as anfwering a double purpofe. One of thefe
offices is to affift the fenfe, and the other to decorate the
modulation. An account of the firft may be feen in the
feftion on Paufes; and the latter will be found to fhow
itfelf pretty frequently in every thing grave and plaintive,
or in poetic defcription and other highly ornamented
language, where the mind is by its influence brought
to feel a placid kind of dignity and fatisfaftion. Thefe
two cadences, therefore, may be conveniently diftin-
guifhed by applying to them refpe&ively the epithets
Jignificant and ornamental.
We have already obferved, that reading fhould in
fome things differ from fpeaking ; and the particular un¬
der confideration feems to be one which ought to vary a
little in thefe arts. For,
Modulation in reading ferves a twofold purpofe. At
the fame time that it gives pleafure to the ear on the
principles of harmony, it contributes through that me¬
dium to preferve the attention. And fince written lan¬
guage (when not purely dramatical) is in general more
elegant in its conftnnftion, and mufical in its periods,
than the oral one j and fince many interefting particu¬
lars are wanting in reading, which are prefent in fpeak¬
ing, that contribute greatly to fix the regard of the
hearer; it feems reafonable, in order to dojuftice to the
language, and in part to fupply the incitements of at¬
tention juft alluded to, that in the former of thefe two
articles a modulation fhould be ufed fomething more
harmonious and artificial than in the latter. Agreeably
to this reafoning, it is believed, we fhall find every rea¬
der, on a narrow examination, adopt more or lefs a mo¬
dulation thus ornamented : though, after all, it muft be
acknowledged there are better grounds to believe, that
the
Reading.
efteem thefe properties as refpeflively belonging to the eftablifhed laws of pronunciation and the imitative brancli
of expreffion mentioned in the end of the enfuing head.
(e) From what accounts we have remaining of the modulation of the ancients, it appears to have been highly
ornamented, and apparently fomething not unlike our modern recitative; particularly that of their theatric decla¬
mation was mufic in its ftrifteft fenfe, and accompanied with inftruments. In the courfe of time and the pro-
grefs of refinement, this modulation became gradually more and more fimple, till it has now loft the genius of
mufic, and is entirely regulated by tafle. At home here, every one has heard the Jing-fong cant, as it is call¬
ed, of
Ti ti dum dum, ti ti dum ti dum de,
Ti dum ti dum, ti dum ti dum dum de ;
which, though difguftful now to all but mere nifties on account of its being out of fafhion, was very probably the
favourite modulation in which heroic verfes were recited by our anceftors. So fluctuating are the tafte and pradices
of mankind ! But whether the power of language over the paffions has received any advantage from the change
juft mentioned, will appear at leaft very doubtful, when we recoiled the ftories of its former triumphs, and the in¬
herent charms of mufical founds.
(f) As mufical founds have always an harmonical reference to a key or fundamental note, and to which the
mind is ftill fecretly attending, no piece of mufic would appear perfed, that did not clofe in it, and fo naturally put
an end to expedation. But as the tones ufed in fpeech are not mufical, and therefore cannot refer harmonically to
any other found, there can be no neceffity that this terminating found (and which we immediately below term the
cadence) fhould either be ufed at all, or follow any particular law as to form, &c. farther than what is impofed by
tafte and cuftom.
REA [6-
Reading, tlie prattles has been hitherto direfied intuitively by
——' nature, than that it was difeovered by the inductions ot
reafon. We (hall conclude this head with a rule for mo¬
dulation in reading. “ In every thing dramatic, collo¬
quial, 0r of Ample narrative, let your modulation be the
fame? as in fpeaking 5 but when the fubjeCt is dowery,
folemn, or dignified, add fomething to its harmony
diverfify the key-note, and increafe the frequency of
cadences in proportion to the merit of the compofi-
tion.”
It will readily be feen, that the precepts here drawn
from a comparifon between tpeaking and reading, v'oulcl
be very inadequate, were they left deftitute of the am i-
ance of tajie, and the opportunity ^frequently hearing
and imitating majterly readers. And indeed, to thee
two great auxiliaries we might very properly have re¬
ferred the whole matter at once, as capable of giving
fufficient directions,had we not remembered that our plan
required us to found feveral of our rules as much on the
principles of a philofophical analyfis, as on thofe more
familiar ones which will be found of greater efficacy in
real praCfice.
5 iv. Exprejfion. I. There is no compcfition m muiic,
asTeTthe however perfeCt as to key and melody, but, in Older
tones of the to do juftice to the fubjeft and ideas of the author,
voice. wiH require, in the performing, fomething. more than
an exaCt adherence to tune and time. This fomething
is of a nature, too, which perhaps can never be ade¬
quately pointed out by any thing graphic, and refults
entirely from the tafte and feeling of the perfoimer.
It is that which chiefly gives mufic its power o\er the
paflions, and charaCterifes its notes with what we mean
by the words fweet, harfh, dull, lively, plaintive, joy¬
ous, &c. for it is evident every found, confidered ab-
ftraCtedly, without any regard to the movement, or high
and low, may be thus modified. In praCtical mufic,
this commanding particular is called Exprejjion; and
as we find certain tones analogous to it frequently coa-
lefcing with the modulation of the voice, which indi¬
cate our paffions and affeCfions (thereby more particu¬
larly pointing out the meaning of what we fay) the
term is ufually applied in the fame fenfe to fpeaking and
reading.
Thefe tones are not altogether peculiar to man.—
Every animal, that is not dumb, has a power of making
feveral of them. And from their being able, unaffifled
by words, to manifelt and raife their kindred emotions,
they conftitute a kind of language of themfelves. In
this language of the heart man is eminently converfant;
for we not only underhand it in one another, but alfo in
many of the inferior creatures fubjefted by providence to
our fervice.
The expreflion here illuffrated is one of the mod ei-
fential articles in good reading, fince it not only gives a
finifhing to the fenfe, but, on the principles of fympathy
and antipathy, has alfo a peculiar efficacy in interefling
the heart. It is likewife an article of mod difficult at¬
tainment *, as it appears from what follow, that a maderly
reader ought not only to be able to incorporate it with
the modulation properly as to quality, but in any degree
as to quantity.
Every thing written being a proper imitation of
fpeech, expreffive reading mud occafionally partake of
all its tones. But from what was faid above, of the
r\
3
6 ] REA
difference between reading and fpeaking, it follows, Rcacm.^-
that thefe figns of the emotions diould be lels drongiy v
charafterifed in the former article than in the latter.
Again, as feveral of thefe tones of expreffion are in
themfelves agreeable to the mind, and raife in us agree¬
able emotions (as thofe of pity, benevolence, or whatever
indicates happinefs and goodnejs of heart), and otheis
diiagreeable (as thofe ot a boifterous, malevolent, and
depraved nature, &c.) it farther appears, fince reading
is an art improving and not imitating nature, that, m
whatever degree we abate the expreffions of the tones
above alluded to in the fird cafe, it would be eligible to
make a greater abatement in the latter. Tut as to the
quantities and proportional magnitudes or theie abate¬
ments, they, like many other particulars of the lame,
nature, mud be left iolely to the taiie and judgment of
the reader.
To add one more remark, which may be of fervice
on more accounts than in fuggeding another reaton for
the dodtrme above. Eet it be remembered, that though
in order to acquit hindelf agreeably in this article of
expreffion, it will be neceffary every reader (hould/£>«?/
his lubject as well as underjland it j yet, that he may
preferve a proper eafe and maderlinefs of delivery, it is
alio neceftary he fliould guard againd discovering too
much emotion and perturbation.
From this reafoning we deduce the following rule, for
the tones which indicate the paffions ana emotions.
“ In reading, let all your tones of expreffion be bor¬
rowed from thofe of common fpeech, but fomething
more faintly charaaerifed. Let thofe tones which fig-
nify any difagreeable paifion of the mind, be dill moie
faint than thofe which indicate their contrary} and pre¬
ferve yourfelf fo far from being affedted with the fubje.a,
as to be able to proceed through it with tnat peculiar
kind of eafe and maderlinefs, which has its charms in
this as well as every other art."’
We {hall conclude this feaion with the following.ob-
fervation, which relates to fpeaking as well as reading.
When words fall in our rvay, whole “ founds feem an
echo to the fenfe,” as fquirr, bu%%, hum, rattle, hifs,jar,
&c. we ought not to pronounce them in iuch a manner
as to heighten the imitation, except in light and ludi¬
crous fubjefits. For indance, they ffiould not in any
other cafe be founded fqmr.r.r—bu%'Z.‘Z>.‘Z,—lium m.m^
r.r.rattle, &c. On the contrary, when the imitation
lies in the movement, or flow andflruBure of a whole
(which frequently happens in poetry), the deli¬
very may always be allowed to give a heightening to it
with the greated propriety , as in the following indan¬
ces, out of a number more which every experienced rea¬
der will quickly recoiled!.
In thefe deep folitudes and awful cells,
Where heavenly penflve Contemplation dwells,
And ever-muflng Melancholy reigns
Pope’s Eloifa to Abelard.
With eafy courfe
The veffels glide unlefs their fpeed be dopp’d
By dead cairns, that oft he on thefe fmooth fleas.
Dyer’s Fleece.
Softly fweet in Lydian meafure,
Soon he foollid her foul to pleafure.
Dryden’s Ode on St Cecilia's day.
Still
II E A [ ^57 ] REA
Reading. Still gathering force it fmokes, and, urg’d amain,
'   ^ Whirls, leaps, and thunders dawn impetuous to the plain.
Pope’s Iliady b. 13.
For who to dumb forgetfulnefs a prey,
This pleating anxious being ere resign’d,
Left the warm precinfts of the cheerful day,
Nor call one longing lingering look behind?
Gray’s Elegy.
Exprefiion Befides the particular tones and modifications of
as to the voice above defcribed, which alwTays accompany and
face and exprefs our inward agitations, nature has in thefe cafes
gelture. endowed us with another language, w7hich, inftead of
the ear, addreffes itfelf to the eye, thereby giving the
communications of the heart a double advantage over
thofe of the underftanding, and us a double chance to
preferve fo ineilimable a blefling. This language is
what arifes from the different, almoft involuntary,
movements and configurations of the face and body
in our emotions and paffions, and which, like that of
tones, every one is formed to underhand by a kind of
intuition.
When men are in any violent agitation of mind, this
co-operating expreflion (as it is called) of face and gel¬
ture is very ftrongly marked, and totally free from the
mixture of any thing which has a regard to graceful-
nefs, or what appearance they may make in the eyes of
others. But in ordinary converfation, and where the
emotions are not fo wTarm, falhionable people are perpe¬
tually infinuating, into their countenance and adlion,
whatever they imagine will add to the eafe and elegance
of their deportment, or imprefs on the fpe£lator an idea
of their amiablenefs and breeding. Now, though the
above mentioned natural organical figns of the emotions
fhould accompany every thing fpoken, yet from what
was obferved in the introduftory part of this article
(like the tones we have juft treated upon), they fhould
in reading be much lefs ftrongly expreffed, and thofe
fuffer the greateft diminution that are in themfelves the
moft ungainly. And as it was in the laft feflion re¬
commended to the reader to preferve himfelf as far from
being affefted in all pafiionate fubje&s as to be able to
keep a temperate command over the various affedlions
of the voice, &c. fo under the fanftion of this fubor-
dinate feeling he may accompany his delivery more fre¬
quently wdth any eafy aftion or change of face, which
wrill contribute to fet off his manner, and make it agree¬
able on the principles of art.
As thefe calm decorations of aftion (as wfe may call
them) are not altogether natural, but have their rife
from a kind of inftitution, they muft be modelled by
the praftices of the polite. And though mankind dif¬
fer from one another fcarce more in any particular than
in that of talents for adopting the graceful aftions of
the body, and hence nothing determinate can be faid
of their nature and frequency, yet even thofe, moft
happily calculated to acquit themfelves wTell in their
ufe, might profit by confidering that it is better greatly
to abridge the difplay, than to over-do it ever fo little.
For the peculiar modefty of deportment with which
the inhabitants of this kingdom are endowed, makes
hs in common endeavour to fuporefs many figns of an
agitated mind ; and in fuch cafes the bodily ones in par¬
ticular are very fparingly ufed. We have alfo a natural
and rooted diflike to any kind of affe&ation ; and to no
Vol. XVII. Part II.
fpecies, that wTe can recoiled!:, a greater, than to that Reading;,
which is feen in a perfon who pretends to mimicry v ' '
and courtly gefture, without poffeffing the advantages
and talents they require *, and of which not many
people, comparatively fpeaking, have any remarkable
ftiare.
The inference of this is too obvious to need drawing
out, and we would particularly recommend it to the con-
fideration of thofe readers who think the common occur¬
rences of a newfpaper, &c. cannot be properly delivered
without a good deal of elbow-room.
Although it is impoflible to come to particulars in
any diredlions of this kind, yet there is one article of
our prefent fubjedt on which a ferviceable remark may
be made. In ordinary difeourfe, when we are particu¬
larly prefiing and earned in what we fay, the eye is na¬
turally throwm upon thofe to whom we addrefs ourfelves:
And in reading, a turn of this organ now and then up¬
on the hearers, when any thing very remarkable or in-
terefting falls in the way, has a good effedl in gaining it
a proper attention, &c. But this Ihould not be too
frequently ufed ; for if fo, befides its having a tendency
to confound the natural importance of different paffages,
it may not be altogether agreeable to fome to have their
own refledtions broken in upon by a fignal, which
might be interpreted to hint at their wanting regula¬
tion.
One obfervation more, and then we (hall attempt to
recapitulate the fubftance of this fedtion in the form of a
precept. Though it is, wdren ftridlly examined, ineon-
fiftent, both in fpeaking and reading, to imitate with ac¬
tion what we are deferibing, yet as in any thing comic
fuch a pradtice may fugged ideas that will accord with
thofe of the fubjedt, it may there be now and then in¬
dulged in either of thefe articles.
“ In a manner fimilar to that diredled with regard to
tones, moderate your bodily expreflions of the figns of
the emotions. And in order to fupply, as it were, this
deficiency, introduce into your carriage fuch an eafy
gracefulnefs, as may be confiftent with your acquire¬
ments in thefe particulars, and the neceffary dread wduch *
thould ever be prefent of falling into any kind of affec¬
tation or grimace.”
V. Paufes. Speech confiding of a fucceflion of di-
ftindl words, muft naturally be liable (both from a
kind of accident, and a difficulty there may be in be¬
ginning certain founds or portions of phrafes immedi¬
ately on the ending of certain others) to feveral final!
intermiffions of voice; of which, as they can have no
meaning, nothing farther need here be faid. There are,
however, fome paufes, wffiich the fenfe neceflarily de¬
mands 5 and to thefe the fubftance of this fettion is cli-
refted.
The paufes are in part to diftinguilh the members of
fentences from one another, the terminations of complete
periods, and to afford an opportunity for taking breath.
Befides this, they have a very graceful effect in the mo¬
dulation, on the fame account they are fo effential in
mufic.—In both articles, like blank fpaces in pictures,
they fet off and render moreconfpicuous whatfoever they
disjoin or terminate.
Were language made up of nothing but ffiort collo¬
quial fentences, thefe paufes, though they might do no
harm, and would generally be graceful, would hov/ever
be fuperfeded as -to ufe by the completenefs and nar-
4 O roixmtfs,
REA [6
Reading, rowrtefs, as we may fay, of the meaning. But in more
~ diSfafe language, compofed of ieveral detached fen-
tences, and which require fome degree of attention in
order to take in the fenfe, the intermidions of voice
under confideration are of the greateft lervice, by fig-
nifying to the mind the progrefs and completion of the
whole paffage. Now, though in extenfive and dif¬
ferently formed periods there may be members whofe
completenefs of fenfe might be conceived of various de¬
grees, and hence might feem to require a fet of paufes
equally numerous 5 yet, fince the fenfe does not alto¬
gether depend upon thefe intermiffions, and their ra¬
tios to one another, if capable of being properly de¬
fined, could not be accurately obferved, grammarians
have ventured to conceive the whole clafs of panics as
reducible to the four or five kinds now in ufe, and
whole marks and ratios are well known (g) j prefu¬
ming that under the eye of Lafte, and with the afliil-
ance of a particular to be next mentioned, they would
not fail in all cafes to fuggeft intermillions of voice
fuitable to the fenfe. But in many of theic extenfive
and complex periods, rounded with 'a kind of redun¬
dancy of matter, where the full fenfe is long fufpended,
and the final words are not very important, there would
be fome hazard of a mifapprehenfion of the termina¬
tion, had we not more evident and infallible notice of
it than that which is given by the paufe. This notice
is the cadence, referred to in the fehlion on Modulation;
which, as is there obferved, befides the ornamental
variety it affords, appears from thefe remarks to be a
very neceffary and ferviceable article in perfpicuous de¬
livery.
As this cadence naturally accompanies the end of
every entire fenfe, circumltanced as above-mentioned,
it may fometimes fall before the femicolon, but more
generally before the colon, as well as the period : For
thefe marks are often found to terminate a complete
fenfe $ and in thefe cafes, the relation what follows has
to what went before, is fignified to the mind by the re¬
lative Ihortnefs of the flop, and the form of introdu¬
cing the additional matter. Nor can any bad confe-
quence arife from thus founding dil!in£Hons on ratios
of time, which it may be faid are too nice to be often
rightly hit upon : for if a confufion Ihould happen be¬
tween that of the colon and period, there is perhaps fo
trifling a difference between the nature of the paffages
they fucceed, as to make a fmall inaccuracy of no con-
fequence. And as to the refts of the femicolon and
period, it will not be eafy to miftake about them, as
their ratio is that of two to one. Add to this the
power which the matter and introduftion of the fub-
fequent paffages have to rectify any flight error here
58 ] REA
made, and we {hall be fully fatisfied, that the paufes Readin*.
as ufually explained, with the cadence above deferibed, ——v—■
and a proper knowledge of the language, will convey
fufficient information to the underltanding of the con-
firuftive nature of the paffages after which they are
found.
It may be obferved, that in natural fpeech, accord¬
ing to the warmth and agitation of the fpeaker, the veils
are often fhort and injudicioufly proportioned, and hence
that every thing thus delivered cannot be fo graceful as it
might have been from a proper attention to their mag¬
nitude and effedfs.
Paufes then, though chiefly fubjedfed to the fenfe
are, as was remarked at the outlet, ferviceable in
beautifying the modulation, &c.—And fince books
are often inaccurately printed as to points, and peo¬
ple’s tafles differ fome little about their place and va¬
lue, it appears, that, “ although in reading great at¬
tention Ihould be paid to the flops, yet a greater
fhould be given to the fenfe, and their correfpondent
times occasionally lengthened beyond what is ulual in
common fpeech j which obiervation contains all that
we {ball pretend to lay down by way of rule for the
management of paules in the delivery of written lan-
guage.
As there are two or three fpecies of writing, which
have fome thing Angular in them, and with regard
to the manner in which they Aiould be read, a
few particular remarks feem neceffarily required, we
{hall conclude this article with laying them before the
reader:
1. Of Pr.AYS, and fuch like conversation-pieces!.
Writings of this kind may be confidered as intended for
two different purpofes ; one to unfold fubjeft matter for
the exercife of theatric powers } and the other to convey
amufement, merely as fable replete with pleafing inci¬
dents and charadleriflic manners. Hence there appears
to be great latitude for the difplay of a conji/hnt delivery
of thefe performances : for while, on one hand, a good
reader of very inferior talents for mimicry may be heard
with a tolerable degree of pleafure •, on the other, if any
perfon is qualified to give a higher degree of life and
force to the dialogue and charafters by delivering them
as an adlor, he muft be fully at liberty to ftart from the
confinement of a chair to a pollute and area more flut¬
ed to his abilities j and, if he be not deceived in himfelf,
his hearers will be confiderable gainers by the change.—-
The next article is,
2. Sermons or other orations, which in like man¬
ner may be conceived intended for a double purpofe.
Firft, as matter for the difplay of oratorical powers
and, fecondly, as perfuafive difeourfes, &.C. which may
be
(g) Suppoling the comma {,) one time, the femicolon (5) will be two; the colon (;) three, and the period (.)
as alfo the marks of interrogation (?) and admiration (!) four of thefe times. The blank line (— or -—), and
the breaks \)eX.-wztx\paragraphs, intimate ftill greater times; and by the fame analogy may be reckoned a double
and quadruple period refpeftively. Now and then thefe blank lines are placed immediately after the ordinary
points, and then they are conceived only as feparating for the eye the different natures of the matter ;—as a
tjueflion from an anfwer,—precept from example,—premifes from inferences, &c. i* which cafe their import is
evident. But of late fome authors have not fcrupled to confound theft; diftin£lions ; and to make a blank ferve
for all the paufes univerfally, or the mark of an indefinite reft, the quantity of which is left to the determination
of the reader’s tafte. A pradlice, it is imagined, too deftruftive of the intended precifion of thefe typical notice?
to be much longer adopted.
REA [ <j
Reading, be read like any other book. Therefore it appears (for
1—-v—^ reafons fimilar to thole above) that according as cler¬
gymen are pofielfed of the talents of elocution, thev
may confidently either rehearfe their fermons, in the
manner of an extemporary harangue, or deliver them in
the more humble capacity of one who is content to en¬
tertain and inftruft his hearers with reading to them his
own or fome other perfon’s written difeourie.
That either of thefe manners of delivery (or a mixture
of them), in either oi the cafes above-mentioned, is agree¬
able, we find on a careful examination. For this will
fhow us howT frequently they run into one another •, and
that we are fo far from thinking fuch tranfitians wrong,
that, without a particular attention that way, we fcarce
ever perceive them at all.
3. Poetry is the next and lafi: obiefil of our prefent
remarks. This is a very peculiar kind of writing, and
as much different from the language of ordinary dif-
courfe as the movements of the dance are from common
walking. To ornament and improve whatever is fub-
fervient to the pleafures and amufements of life, is the
delight of human nature. We are alfo pleafed with a
kind of excefe in any thing which has a power to amufe
the fancy, inipire us with enthufiafra, or awaken the
foul to a confcioufnefs of its own importance and dig¬
nity. Hence one pleafure, at leaft, takes its rife, that
we feel in contemplating the. performances of every art;
and hence the language of poetry, confiding of a mea-
fured rythmus, harmonious cadences, and an elevated
pifturefque diftion, has been ftudied by the ingenious,
and found to have a powerful induence over the human
bread in every age and region. There is fuch an affi¬
nity between this language and mufic, that they were in
the earlier ages never feparated ; and though modern
refinement has in a great meafure dedroyed this union,
yet it is w-ith fome degree of difficulty in rehearfing thefe
divine compofitions wre can forget the finging of the
mufe.
From thefe confiderations (and fome kindred ones
mentioned in fe£f. iii.) in repeating verfes, they are ge¬
nerally accompanied with a modulation rather more or¬
namented and mufical than is ufed in any other kind
of writing. And accordingly, as there feems to be
the greated propriety in the pradfice, the rule for this
particular in the feftion jud referred to, will allowr any
latitude in it that can gain the fanftion of tade and plea¬
sure.
Rhymes in the lighter and more foothing provinces
of poetry are found to have a good effc-61 •, and hence
(for reafons like thofe jud fuggeded) it is certainly
abfurd to endeavour to {mother them by a feeble pro¬
nunciation, and running one line precipitately into ano¬
ther, as is often affefled to be done by many of our mo¬
dern readers and fpeakers. By this method they not on¬
ly dedroy one fource of pleafure intended by the com-
pofer (which though not great is neverthelefs genuine),
but even often fupply its place with what is really dif-
agreeable, by making the rhymes, as they are interrupt¬
edly perceived, appear accidental blemidies of a different
flyle., arifing from an unmeaning recurrence of fimilar
founds. With regard then to reading verfes terminated
with rhyme, the common rule, which directs to pro¬
nounce the final words jfir//, and to didinguifh them by
a flight paufe even where there is none required by the
fenfc, feems the moil rational, and confequently mofl
9' ] REA
worthy, of being followed. See DECLAMATION, Nar- Reading
ration, and Oratory. !(.
Reading, a town of Berkdure in England, plea-1 Re--Kt.'-
fantly leated on the river Kenneth, near its confluence
with the Ihames. It had once a fine rich monadery,
of which there are large ruins remaining. It had alfo a
cadle built by King Henry I. but it was afterwards le¬
velled with the ground. It is a corporation, enjoys fe-
veral privileges, and lends two members to parliament.
The two navigable rivers render it a fit place for trade.
W. Long. 1. o. N. Lat. 51. 25.
READINGS, or Various READINGS, in criticifm,
are the different manners of reading the texts of authors
in ancient manuferipts, where a diverfity has arifen from
the corruption of time, or the ignorance of copy ids. A
great part of the bufinefs of critics lies in fettling the
readings by confronting the various readings of the fe-
veral manuferipts, and confidering the agreement of the
words and fenfe.
Readings are alfo ufed for a fort of commentary or glofs
on a law, text, paffage, or the like, to diow the fenfe an
author takes it in, and the application he conceives to be
made of it.
RE-AGGRAVATION, in the Romiflr ecclefiadical
law, the lad monitory, publidied after three admoni¬
tions, and before the lad excommunication. Before
they proceed to fulminate the lad excommunication, they
publiffi an aggravation, and a re-aggravation. Fevret
obferves, that in France the minider is not allowed to
come to re-aggravation, without the permiffion of the
bidrop or official, as well as that of the lay judge. See
Excommunication.
REAL, Caisar Vichard de St, a polite French
writer, fon of a counfellor to the fenate of Chamberry
in Savoy. He came young to France, didinguiffied
himfelf at Paris by feveral ingenious productions, and
refided there a long time without title or dignity, in¬
tent upon literary purfuits. He died at Chamberry in
1692, advanced in years, though not in circumdances.
He was a man of great parts and penetration, a l«ver
of the fciences, and particularly fond of hidorv. A
complete edition of his works was printed at Paris, in
3 vols qto, 1745, and another in 6 vols i2mo.
REAL Rrefence. See Transubstantiation.
REALGAR, a preparation of arfenic. See Arse¬
nic, Chemistry Index.
REALISTS, a fed of fchool philofophers formed
in oppofition to the Nominalids. Under the Realids
are included the Scotids, Thomids, and all except¬
ing the followers of Ocham. Their didinguiffiing te¬
net is, that univerfals are realities, and have an atffual
exidence out of an idea or imagination; or, as they
exprefs it in the fchools, a parte rei; whereas the
nominalids contend, that they exid only in the mind,
and are only ideas, or manners of conceiving things. 
Dr Odo, or Oudard, a native of Orleans, afterwards
abbot of St Martin de Tournay, was the chief of the
feCI of the realids. He wrote three books of dialec¬
tics, where, on the principles of Boethius and the an¬
cients, he maintained that the objeCl of that art is
things, not words j whence the feft took its rife and
name.
REALITY, in the fchools, a diminutive of res,
“ thing,” fird ufed by the Scotids, to denote a thing
which may exid of itfelf; or which has a full and abfo-
4 O 2 lut«
Realm
ii
Reaumur.
REA [
lute being of ilfelf, and is nol ccnfiderea as a part of
any other.
i REALM, a country which gives its head or gover¬
nor the denomination of a king.
RE-ANIMATION means the reviving or reftoring
to life thofe who are apparently dead. Sudden death is
dreaded by every human being, and it is one of thofe
evils againft which the Church of England prays in her
Litany. Accidents, however, cannot always be pre¬
vented 5 but, after they have happened, it is often poffi-
ble to prevent their effebbs. This, by the eftablilhment
of what with great propriety has been called the Hu¬
mane Society, has been abundantly proved : for, in the
courfe ot 12 years immediately after their infeitution,
they were the means of faving the lives of 850 per-
fons, who otherwife would in all human probability
have been loft to the community. Since that period,
they have faved many more j and various perfons, even
in the molt diitant parts of the kingdom, by following
their directions, have done the fame. To preferve one
human being from premature death, w^e mult confider
as of the utmoft confequence both as citizens and
Chriltians 5 how much more the prefervation of thou-
fands. It appears from the writings of Debtors Mead,
Winflow, Bruhier, Fothergill, Haller, Lecat, Tiffot,
Van Engelen, Gummer, and others, that they had pre¬
pared the way for inflitulions limilar to the Humane
Society : for in their works they have elucidated the
principles on which they go, and furnilhed direbtions
for the prabtice they favour. See Death, Premature
Interment, and Drowning.
REAR, a term frequently ufed in compofition, to de¬
note fomething behind, or backwards, in refpebt of ano¬
ther ; in oppofition to van.
REAR of an Army, fignifies, in general, the hinder-
moft part of an army, battalion, regiment, or fquadron j
alfo the ground behind either.
REAR-Guard, is that body of an army which marches
after the main-body ; for the march of an army is always
compofed of an advance-guard, a main body, and a rear¬
guard ; the firft and laft commanded by a general. The
old grand guards of the camp always form the rear-guard
of the army, and are to fee that every thing come fafe to
the new7 camp.
REAR Half files, are the three hindmeft ranks of the
battalion, when it is drawn up fix deep.
REAR-Line, of an army encamped, is always 1200
feet at leal! from the centre line ; both of which run pa¬
rallel to the front line, as alfo to the referve.
REAR-Rank, is the laft rank of a battalion, when
drawn up, and generally 16 or 18 feet from the centre¬
line when drawm in open order.
REASON, a faculty or powy of the mind, whereby
it diiiinguifhes good from evil, truth from falfehood. See
Metaphysics.
REASONING, Ratiocination,the exercifeof that
faculty of the mind called reafon ; or it is an abl or
operation of the mind, deducing lome unknown pro
poll lion from other previous ones that are evident and
knov n- See Logic, Part III.
REAUMUR, Rene Antoine Ferchauet, Sieur
EE, a perfon diftinguifhed for his laborious refearches
into natural knowledge, was born at Rochelle in 1683,
of a family belonging to the law7. After having finifhed
his early Rudies in the. place of his birth, he began a
660 ] REA
courfe of pliiiofophy at Poitiers, and of civil law at Reaumur.
Bourges) but loon relinquifhed the latter, to apply \r“—
himfelt, according to his tafte, to mathematics, phyiics,
and natural hiftory. Being come to Paris, he was re¬
ceived into the Academy of Sciences in 1708. From
that hour he was wholly employed in natural hiftory, to
which his inclination particularly led him, and his in¬
quiries were not confined to any one part of it. His
memoirs, his obfervations, his difeoveries on the forma¬
tion of fliells, fpiders, mufcles, the marine flea, the ber¬
ry wdiich affords the purple colour, and on the caufe of
the numbnefs of the torpedo, excited the curiofity of the
public, and early procured our author the charabter of
an able, curious, and entertaining naturalift. Filled
with zeal for the welfare and advantage of fociety, and
the progrefs and perfebtion of arts, he endeavoured in all
his refearches to promote the public good. We w7ere
indebted to him for the difeovery of the Turquois mines
in Languedoc. He alfo found out a fubftance, which
is ufed to give falfe ftones a colour, which is obtained
from a certain fifh called in the French Able ox Ablete ** Set Belov
on account of its whitenefs, and which is the Bleak or 319- and *
Blay of our waiters f. His experiments on the art of Pennant's
turning iron into fteel obtained him a penfion of 12,coo ^
livres 5 and this reward was to be continued to the Aca-p. 3^’
demy to fupport the expence which might accrue in this t See Cy
art. prinvs,
He continued his inquiries on the art of making tin P
and porcelain J,and endeavoured to render our thermome- \elain. ^
ters more ufeful than thofe of former times: he compofed
a curious hiftory of rivers where gold dull is found in
France 5 and gave fo fimple and eafy a detail of the art
of gathering this duft, that perfons have been employed
for that purpofe.
He aifo made curious and important obfervations on the
nature of flints, on the banks of foflil fliells, from whence
is obtained in Touraine an excellent manure for land j
as likewife on birds and their prefervation, on their me¬
thod of building nefts; on infebts ; and a great number
of other fubjebls, not lefs curious than ufeful.
He imagined at firft, that a certain varnifti would
keep eggs frefh •, but the wafte of time and money, &c.
fliowed him the inconveniences of fuch a procefs. He
afterwards adopted the method prablifed for time imme¬
morial in Greece and the iflands of the Archipelago,
which is to fteep or immerfe eggs in oil, or melted fat j
by this means, not being expoled to the air or to froft,
they are well preferved, and contrab! no bad fmell. An¬
other experiment flill more important, made by our au¬
thor, w7as to introduce into France the art of hatching
fowls and birds, as prabtifed in Egypt, without covering
the eggs. Ablive, fedulous, and attentive, he w7as ear¬
ly in his ftudy, often at fix in the morning. Exabf in
his experiments and obfervations, he let no circumftance
efcape him. His writings muft be of great ufe to future
philofophers. In fociety, he was diftinguifhed through
life for his modeft and agreeable behaviour. His pro¬
bity, benevolence, goednefs of heart, and other ami¬
able qualities, as well natural as acquired, endeared
him to his countrymen. He died in the 76th year of
his age, on the 18th of Oaober 1757, and left this
world filled with fentiments of piety. His death was
the ccnfequence of a fall, which happened at the cattle
of Barnardiere on the Maine, w here he went to pafs his
vacation. He bequeathed to the Academy of Sciences
his.
R E B [ 661 ] R E B
Reaumur his rnanufcripts and all his natural predu&ions. His
II works are, i. A very great number of memoirs and
, R-ebnte- obfervations on different parts of natural hiftory ; they
are printed in the colleftxons of the Academy of Sciences.
2. A large work printed feparately in 6 vols in 4to, in*
titled, A Natural Hiftory of Infecls. This important
work contains a defcription of vaft numbers of caterpil-
lers, moths, gall infects, dies with two and four wings,
lady birds, and thofe ephemeron flies which live only in
that form a few hours; and laftly, of thofe lingular and
wonderful infects which are called pohjpes, which being
cut into feveral pieces, each piece lives, grows, and be¬
comes an infe6t, and affords to our eyes a great number
♦ See Po- 0f prodigies*. The works ofM. de Reaumur are exadt,
iypus, Hel- curjous^ interefting, and very ingenious. They are writ-
^Index. ten whh much candour, clearnefs, and elegance 5 but it
mult be acknowledged his manner is fomewhat too dif-
fufe. But we mult not deceive the reader ; he often
raifes our expe£tations, and does not give us all the fa-
tisfadtion we promife ourfelves from his writings. His
method of raiding poultry, in particular, rather difap-
points us. He fpared neither care, time, nor expence,
to render it practicable : he flattered himfelf and his
countrymen with the greateft hopes j but notwithftand-
ing his afliduous induftry, and valt charges, it proved
abortive. The late M. I’Advocat recommended him to
obtain better information from Egypt on the fubje£t j
and if poflible to procure a perfon verfcd in the art to
inftruft him in it; but his death prevented the comple¬
tion of the fcheme. If the native of Egypt had ar¬
rived, Ihowed M. de Reaumur a better method than
his own, and pradtifed it with fuccefs, as in his coun¬
try, the community would have been benefited ; on the
other hand he would have feen, had it failed, that the
climate of France wras not proper for fuch experiments.
M. Maillet, conful at Cairo, to whom Monfieur the re¬
gent had written to obtain the art, offered to fend over
a native of Egypt, if the government wmuld pay the
expence of his voyage, and allow him a penfion of 1500
livres. M. Maillet rightly judged, when he preferred
this method of proceeding. M. de Reaumur was not
ignorant of the defign but he flattered himfelf, that
his efforts would be luccefsful without further aid, and
thought he Ihould acquire fome honour. He certainly
had great talents, induftry, fagacity, and every other
requifite which are neceffary in fuch attempts; but it is
morally impoflible that a Angle man, in a different cli¬
mate, can attain fuch knowledge in an art as thofe who
live in a more favourable country, and have had the
experience of many ages to profit by : however M. de
Reaumur may have been unfuccefsful,pofterity is indebted
to him for his repeated trials. He has removed fotne
difficulties in the road, and thofe that travel it may dif-
cover what he only faw at a diftance.
REAUMURlA, a genus of plants belonging to the
pentandria clafs •, and in the natural method ranking
under the 13th order, Succulent#. See Botany In¬
dex.
REBATE, or Rebatement, vc\ Commerce, a term
much ufed at Amfterdam for an abatement in the price
of feveral commodities, when the buyer, inftead of taking
time, advances ready money.
Rebatement, in Heraldry, a diminution or abate¬
ment, of the bearings in a coat of arms. See Abate¬
ment.
REBELLION, Rebellio, among the Romans, was Rebellion
where thofe wrho had been formerly overcome in bat- R ]^tter
tie, and yielded to their fubjeftion, made a fecond re- ■
fiftance : but with us it is generally ufed for the taking
up of arms traiteroufly againft the king, whether by
natural fubjefts, or others when once fubdued j and
the word rebel is fometimes applied to him who wul-
fully breaks a law; alfo to a villein difobeying his lord.
There is a difference between enemies and rebels.
Enemies are thofe who are out of the king’s allegiance :
therefore fubjedls of the king, either in open war, or
rebellion, are not the king’s enemies, but traitors. And
David prince of Wales, who levied war againft Edw. I.
becaufe he was within the allegiance of the king, had
fentence pronounced againft him as a traitor and rebel.
Private perfons may arm themfelves to fupprefs rebels,
enemies, &c.
REBELLIOUS assembly, is a gathering toge¬
ther of twelve perfons or more, intending or going a-
bout to pra£life or put in ufe unlawfully, of their own
authority, any thing to change the law or ftatutes of
the realm ; or to deftroy the inclofures of any ground,
or banks of any fifli-pond, pool, or conduit, to the in¬
tent the fame ffiall lie wafte and void ; or to deftroy the
deer in any park, or any warren of conies, dove-houfes,
or fifh in ponds •, or any houfe, barns, mills, or bays;
or to burn ftacks of corn; or abate rents, or prices of
vifluals, &c.
REBUS, an enigmatical reprefentation of fome name,
&c. by ufing figures or piftures inftead of words, or
parts of words. Camden mentions an inftance of this
abfurd kind of wit in a gallant who expreffed his love
to a woman named Rofe Hill, by painting in the bor¬
der of his gown a rofe, a hill, an eye, a loaf, and a well 5
which, in the ftyle of the rebus, reads, “ Rofe Hill l
love well.’1'1 This kind of wit was long praftifed by
the great, who took the pains to find devices for their
names. It was, however, happily ridiculed by Ben
Johnfon, in the humorous defcription of Abel Drug-
ger’s device in the Alchemift ; by the Spectator, in the
device of .Tack of Newberry ; at which time the rebus,
being raifed to fign-pofts, was grown out of faihion at
court.
Rebus is alfo ufed by the chemical writers fometimes-
to fignify four milk, and fometimes for what they call
the ultimate matter of which all bodies are compofed.
Rebus, in Heraldry, a coat of arms which bears an
allufion to the name of the perfon ; as three caftles, for
Caftleton 5 three cups, for Butler; three conies, for
Coni lb y ; a kind of bearings which are of great anti¬
quity.
REBUTTER (from the Fr. lonter, i. e. repellere,
to put back or bar), is the anfwer of defendant to plain¬
tiff’s furrcjoinder; and plaintiff’s anfwer to the rebutter-
is called ^. furrebutter: but it is very rare the parties go
fo far in pleading.
Rebutter is alfo where a man by deed or fine grants
to warranty any land or hereditament to another; and
the perfon making the warranty, or his heir, fues him
to whom the warranty is made, or his heir or affignee,
for the fame thing ; if he who is fo fued plead the deed
or fine with warranty, and pray judgement, if the plain--
tiff ftiall be received to demand the thing which he ought
to warrant to the party againft the warranty in the deed,
&c. this is called a rebutter. And if I grant to a te¬
nant*.
REG [ 662 ] REG
Reeapitula-Rant to hold without impeachment of waftc, and after-
tn-a wards implead him for wafte done, he may debar me of
•Rprmmr'al this aftion by flrewingrmy grant, which is a rebutter,
w—v_ RECAPITULATION, is a fummary, or a con-
cife and tranfient enumeration of the principal things in¬
filled on in the preceding difcourfe, whereby the force
of the wdrole is collected into one view. See Oratory,
N° 37 and 127.
RECEIPT, or Receit, in Cot?wierce, an acquit¬
tance, or difcharge, in writing, intimating that the par¬
ty has received a certain fum of money, either in full for
the whole debt, or in part, or on account.
RECEIVER, in Pneumatics, a glafs vefi’el for con¬
taining the thing on which an experiment in the air-
pump is to be made.
Receiver, receptor or receptator, in Law, is common¬
ly underftood in a bad fenfe, and ufed for fuch as know¬
ingly receive ftolen goods from thieves, and conceal them.
This crime is felony, and the punilhment is tranfporta-
tion for 14 years.
RECENSIO, was an account taken by the cenfors,
every luftrum, of all the Roman people. It was a ge¬
neral furvey, at which the equites, as well as the red of
the people, were to appear. New names were now put
upon the cenfor’s lift, and old ones cancelled. The
recenjio, in fhort, was a more folemn and accurate fort
oiprobatio, and anfwered the purpofe of a review', by
fhowing who w’ere fit for military fervice.
RECEPPACULUM, in Potany, one of the feven
parts of fru&ification, defined by Linnaeus to be the bafe
which conne&s or fupports the other parts.
RecepTACULUM Chyh, or Pecquet's Refemjatorij, the
refervoir or receptacle for the chyle, fitualed in the left
fide of the upper vertebra of the loins, under the aorta
and the vefiels of the left kidney.
^ RECHABITES, a kind of religious order among
the ancient Jews, inftituted by Jonadab the fon of Re-
chab, comprehending only his own family and pofterity.
Their founder preferibed them three things : firft, not
to drink any wine j fecondly, not to build any houfes,
but to dwell in tents j and thirdly, not to fow any corn,
-or plant vines.
The Rechabites obferved thefe rules -with great ftrift-
nefs, as appears from .Ter. xxxv. 6, &c. Whence St
Jerome, in his 13th epiftle to Paulinus, calls them mona-
<h, monhs. Jonadab, their founder, lived under Jehoafh,
'king of Judah, contemporary with Jehu king of Ifrael;
his father Rechab, from whom his pofterity were deno-
. minated, defeended from Raguel or Jethro, father in¬
law to Mofes, wTho w-as a Kenite, or of the race of Ken :
xvhence Kenite and Rechabite are ufed as fynonymous
in Scripture.
RECHEAT, in hunting, a leflbn which the huntf-
man plays on the horn, when the hounds have loft
their game, to call them back from purfuing a counter
feent.
RECIPE, in Medicine, a prefeription, or remedy, fo
called becaufe always beginning with the word recipe,
i. e. take; which is generally denoted by the abbrevia¬
ture Jjo. See PRESCRIPTION, Extemporaneous.
RECIPROCAL, in general, fomething that is mu¬
tual, or which is returned equally on both 'fides, or that
affe&s both parties alike.
Reciprocal Terms, among logicians, are thofe which
2
have the fame fignification j and confequently are con- Reciprocal
vertible, or may be ufed for each other. Il
Reciprocal, in Mathematics, is applied to quanti- Re-lbl( • i
ties which multiplied together produce unity. Thus
— and x, y and are reciprocal quantities. Likewifc
~ is faid to be the reciprocal of x, which is again the re¬
ciprocal of -.
• X
RECIPROCAL Figures, in Geometry, thofe which have
the antecedents and confequents of the fame ratio in
both figures.
RECIPROCAL Proportion, is when in four numbers the
fourth is lefs than the fecond by fo much as the third
is greater than the firft, and vice verfa. See Proportion
and Arithmetic, chap. vi. Great ufe is made of this
reciprocal proportion by Sir Ifaac Newton and others,
in demonftrating the lawrs of motion.
RECITAL, in Law, means the rehearfal or making
mention in a deed or writing of fomething which has
been done before.
RECITATIVO, or Recitative, in Mufw, a kind
of finging, that differs but little from ordinary pronun¬
ciation j fiich as that in which the feveral parts of the
liturgy are rehearfed in cathedrals ; or that wherein the
a&ors commonly deliver themfelves on the theatre at the
opera, when they are to exprefs fome aciion or paflion j
to relate fome event •, or reveal fome defign.
RECKENHAUSEN, a ftrong town of Cologne,
in Germany, in the middle territory of that name. I'he
abbefs of its nunnery has pmver of punifhing offenders
with death, and fire alone is obliged to the vow of chat¬
tily.
RECKONING, or a Ship's RECKONING, in Navi¬
gation, is that account whereby at any time it may be
known wffere the fhip is, and on w7hat courfe or courfes
{he is to fleer, in order to gain her port •, and that ac¬
count taken from the log-board is called the dead reckon¬
ing. See Navigation.
RECLAIMING, or Reclaming, in our ancient
cuftoms, a lord’s purfuing^ profeculing; and recalling,
his vaffal, who had gone to live in another place without
his permiffion.
Reclaiming is alfo ufed for the demanding of a per-
fon, or thing, to be delivered up to the prince or ftate
to which it properly belongs : w:ben, by any irregular
means, it is come into another’s poffeflioi*.
Reclaiming, in Falconry, is taming a hawk, &c.
and making her gentle and familiar.
A partridge is faid to reclaim, w'hen flie calls her
young ones together, upon their fcattering too much
from her.
RECLINATION of a plane in dialling. See
Dialling.
RECLUSE, among the Papifts, a perfon fhut up in
a finall cell of a hermitage, or rnonaftery, and cut off,
not only from all converfation with the wmrld, but even
with the houfe. This is a kind of voluntary '.mprifon-
ment, from a motive either of devotion or penance.
The word is alfo applied to incontinent wives, whom
their hufbands procure to be thus kept in perpetual im-
prifonment in .fome religious houfe.
Reclufes
R E C [ 663 ] REG
Reelufe Reclufes were anciently very numerous. They took
Si . an oath never to ftir out of their retreat: and having
Reconnoi- enj;eie^ bidron fet his feal upon the door ; and
> - the reclufe was to have every thing neceflary for the
fupport of life conveyed to him through a window. If
he was a prieft, he was allowed a fmall oratory, with a
window, which looked into the church, through which
he might make his offerings at the mafs, hear the ling-
ing, and anfwer thofe w7ho fpoke to him j but this win¬
dow had curtains before it, fo that he could not be feen.
He was allowed a little garden, adjoining to his cell, in
which he might plant a lew herbs, and breathe a little
frelh air. If he had difciples, their cells -were contigu¬
ous to his, with only a window of communication,
through w'hich they conveyed neceffaries to him, and re¬
ceived his inftruftions. It a reclufe fell fick, his door
might be opened for perfons to come in and afliit him,
but he himfelf was not to ftir out.
RECOGNITION, in Law, an acknowledgment-, a
word particularly ufed in our law-books for the firft
chapter of the ftatutc 1 Jac. I. by which the parlia¬
ment acknowledged, that, after the death of Oueen
Elifabeth, the crown had rightfully defcended to King
James.
RECOGNIZANCE, in Law, is an obligation of
record, %vhich a man enters into before fome court of
record or magiftrate duly authorifed, with condition to
do fome particular aft ; as to appear at the affixes, to
keep the peace, to pay a debt, or the like. It is. in
molt refpefts like another bond : the difference being
chiefly this, that the bond is the creation of a frefti
debt or obligation de novo, the recognizance is an ac¬
knowledgment of a former debt upon record j the form
wdiereof is, “ that A. B. doth acknowledge to owe to
©ur lord the king, to the plaintiff, to C. 1). or the like,
the fum of ten pounds,” with condition to be void on
performance of the thing ftipulated : in w-tnch cafe the
king, the plaintiff, C. D. &:c. is called the cognizee, is
cm cognofcitur ; as he that enters into the recognizance
is called the cognizor, is qui cognofcit. This being cer¬
tified to, or taken by the officer of fome court, is wit-
neffed only by the record of that court, and not by the
party’s feal: fo that it is not in ftrift propriety a deed,
though the effefts of it are greater than .a common
obligation ; being allowed a priority in point of pay-
ment, and binding the lands of the cognizor f.om the
time of enrolment on record.
RECOIL, or Rebound, the ftarting backward of
a fire-arm after an explofion. jMerfennus tells us, that
a cannon 12 feet in length, weighing 64001b. gives a
ball of 241b. an uniform velocity of 640 feet per^fe-
cond. Putting, therefore, W =: 6400, w=: 14, V =
640, and v— the velocity with which the cannon recoils;
tve fhall have (becaufe the momentums of tne cannon
J . mV
and ball are equal) W v rr mV 5 and lo v — —
£1*^! = 2,4 ; that is, it would recoil at the rate of
6400
feet per fecond, if free to move.
RECOLLECTION, a mode of thinking, by which
ideas fought after by the mind are found and brought
to view. .
RECONNOITRE, in military affairs, implies to
view and examine the ftate of things, in order to make Reconnoi-
a report thereof. ^re
Parties ordered to reconnoitre are to obferve the ^ecc][je.
country and the tnemy •, to remark the routes, conve- l  ,
niences, and inconveniences of the firft} the pofition,
march, or forces of the fecond. In either cafe, they
Ihould have an expert geographer, capable of taking
plans readily : he ftiould be the belt mounted of the
whole, in cafe the enemy happen to fcatter the efcorte,
that he may fave his works and ideas. See War.
RECORD, an authentic teftimony in writing, con¬
tained in rolls of parchment, and preferved in a court
of record. See Court.
Tna/ by RECOItDr a fpecies of trial which is ufed
only in one particular inftance : and that is where a mat¬
ter of record is pleaded in any aftion, as a fine, a judg¬
ment, or the like j and the oppofite party pleads, nul
ticl record, that there is no fuch matter of record exiL
ting. Upon this, iffue is tendered and joined in the
following form, “ and this he prays may be inquired of
by the record, and the other doth the like j” and here¬
upon the party pleading the record has a day given him
to bring itjin, and proclamation is made in court for him
to “ bring forth the record by him in pleading alleged,
or elfe he (hall be condemned and, on his failure, his
antagonift lhall have judgement to recover. The trial,
therefore, of this iffue, is merely by the record : for, as
Sir Edward Coke obferves, a record or enrolment is a
monument of fo high a nature, and importeth in itfelf
fuch abfolute verity, that if it be pleaded that there is
no fuchrecord, itftiall not receive’any trial by witnefs, jury,
or otherwife, but only by itfelf. Thus titles of nobility,
as whether earl or not earl, baron or not baron, (hail be
tried by the king’s writ or patent only, which is matter
of record. Alfo in cafe of an alien, whether alien friend
or enemy, (hall be tried by the league or treaty between
his fovereign and ours j for- every league or treaty is of
record. And alfo, whether a manor be held in ancient
demefne or not, (hall be tried by the record of demefday
in the king’s exchequer.
RECORDE, Robert, phyfician and mathematician,
was defcended of a refpeftable family in Wales, and
lived in the time of Henry VIII. Edward I. and Mary.
The time of his birth is not exactly known, but it muff
have been about the beginning of the 16th century, for
he was entered of the univerfity of Oxford about Ij2j,
and was elefted fellow of All Souls college in 1531'.
As he made phyfic his profeflion, he went to Cambridge,
where he was honoured with the degree of doftor in that
faculty in 154 5, and very much efteemed by all who were
acquainted with him, for his extenfive knowledge of many
of the arts and fciences. He afterwards returned to Ox¬
ford, where he publicly taught arithmetic and mathema¬
tics, as he had done prior to his going to Cambridge,
and that with great applaufe. It appears that he after¬
wards went to London, and was, it is faid, phyfician
to Edward VI. and to Mary, to whom fome of his
books are dedicated y yet he died in the king’s-bench
prifon, Southwark, where he was confined for debt,
in the year 1 ^58, at a very immature age.
He publiflied feveral works on mathematical fubjefts,
chiefly in the form of dialogue between mafter and fcho-
lar, of which the following is a lift. _
The Pathway to Knowledge, containing the firft prin¬
ciples
REG
Recorde
ciples of geometry, as they may mofte aptly be applied
Recovery. U1.lto P1'a<^:ice» bothe for the ule of Inftrumentes Gecme-
u—tricall and Aftronomicall, and alfo for projedion of
Plattes, much neceffary for all fortes of men. Lond.
4to> I55I*
The Ground of Arts, teaching the perfed worke and
pradice of Arithmeticke, both in whole numbers and
fradions, after a more ealie and exad forme then in
former time hath been fet furth, 8vo, 1552.
The Cafle of Knowledge, containing the Explica¬
tion of the Sphere both Celeitiall and Material!, and
divers other things incident thereto. With fundry
pleafaunt proofes and certaine newe demonftrations
not written before in any vulgare woorkes. Lond. fob
1556.
The Whetjlone of Witte, which is the fecond part
of Arithmetike, containing the extradion of rootes;
the Coflike pradice, with the rules of equation; and
the woorkes of furde numbers. Lond. 410, 1557.
Wood fays that he was the author of feveral pieces
on phyfic, anatomy, politics, and divinity, but it is
uncertain whether thefe were ever publiihed. Sher¬
burne fays that he alio publilhed Cojmographice Ifa-
gogen ; that he wTrote a book, De arte faciendi horolo¬
gium, and another De ufu globorum, et de Jiatu tem-
porurn, none of which we have had an opportunity of
feeing.
RECORDER, a perfon whom the mayor and other
magiftrates of a city or corporation affociate to them,
lor their better diredion in matters of juftice and
proceedings in law ; on which account this perfon is
generally a counfellor, or other perfon well Ikilled in
the law.
J&lachji.
Comment.
[ 664 ] REG
no legal title to the land j but that he came into poffef- Rccevery.
fion ol it after one Hugh Hunt had turned the demand-' 
ant out oi it. Ihe lublequent proceedings are made up
nto a record or recovery roll, in which the writ and
complaint of the demandant are firft recited : whereupon
the tenant appears, and calls upon one Jacob Morland,
who is fuppoled, at the original purchafe, to have war¬
ranted the title to the tenant 5 and thereupon he prays,
that the faid Jacob Morland may be called in to defend*
the title which he fo warranted. This is called the
voucher, “ vocatio,” or calling of Jacob Morland to
warranty; and Morland is called the vouchee. Upon,
this Jacob Morland, the vouchee, appears, is impleaded,
and defends the title. Whereupon Golding the deman¬
dant defires leave of the court to imparl, or confer with
the vouchee in private j which is (as ufual) allowed him.
And foon afterwards the demandant Golding returns to
court} but Morland the vouchee difappears, or makes
default. Whereupon judgment is given for the deman¬
dant Golding, now called the reeoverer, to recover the
lands in queition againft the tenant Edwards, who is
now the recoveree : and Edwards has judgment to re-
covei of Jacob Morland lands of equal value, in recom-
penfe for the lands fo warranted by him, and now loft
by his defaultwhich is agreeable to the do&rine of
warranty mentioned in the preceding chapter. This is
called the recompenfe, or recovery in value. But Jacob
Morland having no lands of his own, being ufually the
ciier of the court, wdio, from being frequently thus
vouched, is called the common vouchee, it is plain that
Edw-ards has only a nominal recompenfe for the lands fo
recovered againft him by Golding j which lands are now
'PU J p r j • 1 r 1 , abiolutely veiled in the faid recoverer by judgment of
J Jj d*r of,L°"don V5 ^ofen by the lord mayor law, and feifin thereof is delivered by 0^ftieriff of the
arid aldermen-, and as he is held to be the mouth of the
city, delivers the judgment of the courts therein, and
records and certifies the city-cuftoms. See London
.N° 38. ’
RECOVERY, or Common Recovery, in Englilh
law, a fpecies of affurance by matter of record ; concern¬
ing the original of which it mull be remarked, that com¬
mon recoveries were invented by the ecclefiaftics to elude
the ftatutes of mortmain (fee T ail) ’, and afterwards
encouraged by the fineffe of the courts of law in 12 Edward
IV. in order to put an end to all fettered inheritances, and
bar not only eftates-tail, but alfo all remainders and re-
verfions expeftant thereon. We have here, therefore,
only to confider, firft, the nature of a common recovery:
and, fecondly, its force and effeB.
1. A common recovery is a fuit or a&ion, either ac¬
tual or fiftitious: and in it the lands are recovered aCTainll
the tenant of the freehold ; wdiich recovery, being a fup-
pofed abjudication of the'right, binds all perfons, and veils
a free and abfolute fee-fimple in the recoverer. To ex-
plam this as clearly and concifely as poflible, let us, in
the nrll place, fuppofe David Edw-ards to be tenant of
the freehold, and defirous to fuffer a common recovery,
in order bar all entails, remainders, and reverfions, and
to convey the fame, in fee-fimple, to Francis Golding.
o f-fteot this, Golding is to bring an adlion againft him
tor the lands 5 and he accordingly fues out a writ called
a preccipe quod reddat, becaufe thefe were its initial or
moll operative words when the law- proceedings were in
Latin. In this writ the demandant Golding alleges
lhat the defendant Edwards (here called the tenant) has
4
county. So that this collufive recovery operates merely
m the nature of a conveyance in fee-fimple, from Ed¬
wards the tenant in tail to Golding the purchafer.
The recovery here defcribed, is with a fingle voucher
only j but fometimes it is with a double, treble, or far¬
ther voucher, as the exigency of the cafe may require.
And indeed it is now' ufual always to have a recovery
with double voucher at the leaft : by firft conveying an
eftate of freehold to any indifferent perfon, againft whom
the pracipe is brought j and then he vouches the tenant
in tail, who vouches over the common vouchee. For,
1 a recovery be had immediately againft tenant in tail
it bars only fuch eftate in the premifes of wEich he is
t icn adlually feifed j whereas if the recovery be had
againft another perfon, and the tenant in tail be vouch¬
ed, it bars every latent right and intereft which he may
have in the lands recovered. If Edwards therefore be
tenant of the freehold in poffeflion, and John Barker be
tenant in tail in remainder, here Edwards doth firft
vouch Barker, and then Barker vouches Jacob Morland
the common vouchee ; who is alw-ays the laft perfon
vouched, and always makes default j whereby the de¬
mandant Golding recovers the land againft the tenant
Edwards, and Edwards recovers a recompenfe of equal
value againft Barker the firft vouchee ; ‘who recovers
the like againft Morland the common vouchee, againft
whom fuch ideal recovery in value is always ultimately
awarded. J
T his fuppofed recompenfe in value is the reafon why
the iffue m tail is held to be barred by a common re¬
covery. For, if the recoveree fliould obtain a recon>
penfe
REG [ 665 ] R E C
Recovery, penfe in lands from tire common vouchee (which there
is a pcffibilhy in contemplation of law, though a very-
improbable one, of his doing), thefe lands would fup-
ply the place of thofe fo recovered from him by collu-
lion, and would defcend to the iflue in tail. The reafon
will alio hold with equal force as to moil remainder¬
men and reverfioners, to whom the poffibility will re¬
main and revert, as a full recompenfe for the reality
which they were otherwife entitled to : but it will not
always hold 5 and therefore, as Pigott fays, the judges
have been even ajiuti, in inventing other reafons to
maintain the authority of recoveries. And, in par¬
ticular, it hath been faid, that though the eftate-tail is
gone from the recoveree j yet it is not deftroyed, but
only transferred, and ftill fubfitb; and will ever con¬
tinue to fubfift (by conftruftion of lawr) in the reco-
verer, his heirs and afligns : and as the eftate-tail fo
continues to fubfiit for ever, the remainders or reverfions
expedant on the determination of fuch eftate-tail can
never take place.
To fuch aukward fliifts, fuch fubtile refinements,
and fuch ftrange reafoning, wrere our anceftors obliged
to have recourfe, in order to get the better of that itub-
born ftatute de donis. The defign for which thefe con¬
trivances were fet on foot, was certainly laudable j the
unrivetting the fetters of eftates tail, w'hich were at¬
tended with a legion of mifchiefs to the commonwealth :
but, while wTe applaud the end, we cannot but admire
the means. Our modern courts of juftice have indeed
adopted a more manly wray of treating the fubjed ; by
confidering common recoveries in no other light than
as the formal mode of conveyance by which tenant in
tail is enabled to aliene his lands. But, fince the ill
confequences of fettered inheritances are now generally
feen and allowed, and of courfe the utility and expe¬
dience of fetting them at liberty are apparent, it hath
often been wfilhed that the procefs of this conveyance
was ftiortened, and rendered lefs fubjed to niceties, by
either totally repealing the ftatute de donis ; which per¬
haps, by reviving the old dodrine of conditional fees,
might give birth to many litigations : or by veiling
in every tenant in tail, of full age, the lame abfolute
fee-fimple at once, wdiich now he may obtain whenever
he pleafes, by the collufive fidion of a common reco¬
very •, though this might polftbly bear hard upon thofe
in remainder or reverfion, by abridging the chances
they would otherwifg frequently have, as no recovery
can be fullered in the intervals between term and term,
which fometimes continue for near five months toge¬
ther: or, laftly, by empowering the tenant in tail, to
bar the eftate-taii by a folemn deed, to be made in
term-time, and enrolled in fome court of record ; which
is liable to neither of the other objedions, and is war¬
ranted not only by the ufage of our American colo¬
nies, but by the precedent of the ftatute 21 Jac. I. c. 19.
which, in the cafe of a bankrupt tenant, in tail, em-
powTers his ccmmiftioners to fell the eftate at any time,
by deed indented and enrolled. And if, in fo national
a concern, the emoluments of the officers concerned in
palling recoveries are thought to be worthy attention,
thofe might be provided for in the fees to be paid upon
each enrollment.
2. The force and eft tel of common recoveries may
appear, from wdrat has been faid, to be an abfolute bar
•not only of all eftates tail, but of remainders and re-
Vol. XVII, Part II.
verfions expedant on the determination of fuch eftates. Recovery
So that a tenant in tail may, by this method of affu- II .
ranee, convey the lands held* in tail to the recoverer, ^cc‘u,t-'
his heirs and afligns, abfolutely free and difeharged of
ail conditions and limitations in tail, and of all remain¬
ders and reverfions, But, by ftatute 34 and 35 H. VH.
c. 20. no recovery had againlt tenant in tail of the
king’s gift, whereof the remainder or xeverlion is in the
king, lhall bar fuch eftate-tail, or the remainder or re-
verfion of the crown. And by the llalute 11 H. VII.
c. 20. no woman, after her hufband’s death, lhall fuller
a recovery of lands fettled on her by her hut band, or
fettled on her huiband and her by any of his anceftors.
And by ftatute 14 Eliz. c. 8. no tenant for life, of
any fort, can fuller a recovery fo as to bind them in
remainder or reverfion. For which reafon, if there be
tenant for life, with remainder in tail, and other re¬
mainders over, and the tenant for life is defirous to fuf-
fer a valid recovery, either he, or the tenant to the prev-
cipe by him made, mull vouch the remainder man in
tail, otherwife the recovery is void : but if he does
vouch fuch remainder-man, and he appears and vouches
the common vouchee, it is then good ; for if a man be
vouched and appears, and fuffers the recovery to be had,
it is as effedlual to bar the eftate-tail as if he himfelf
were the recoveree.
In all i-ecoveries, it is neceflary that the recoveree, or
tenant to the preecipe, as he is ufually called, be atluallv
feifed of the freehold, elfe the recovery is void. For all
actions to recover the feifin of lands mull be brought a-
gainll the aflual tenant of the freehold, elfe the fuit will
lofe its effedl j fince the freehold cannot be recovered of
him wdro has it not. And, though thefe recoveries are
in themfelves fabulous and fiflitious, yet it is neceffary
that there be adores fabulce^ properly qualified. But the
nicety thought by fome modern pradlitioners to be requi-
fite in conveying the legal freehold, in order to make a
good tenant to the prtecipe, is removed by the provifions
of the ftatuLe 14 Geo. II. c. 20. which qna£ls, with a
retrofpeft and conformity to the ancient rule of law,
that, though the legal freehold be veiled in lefiees, yet
thole who are entitled to the next freehold eftate in re¬
mainder, or reverlion, may make a good tenant to the
preecipe; and that, though the deed or fine which
creates fuch tenant be fubfequent to the judgement of
recovery, yet if it be in the fame term, the recovery
ftiall be valid in law7: and that though the recovery it-
felf do not appear to be entered, or be not regularly en¬
tered on record, yet the deed to make a tenant to the
preecipe, and declare the ufes of the recovery, lhall after
a poflellion of 20 years be fufficient evidence on behalf
of a purchafer for valuable conlideration, that fuch re¬
covery was duly fullered.
Recovery ol perfons drowned, or apparently dead.
See Re-animation, and the articles there referred to.
RECREANT, Cowardly, Faint-hearted; formerly
a word very reproachful. See Battel.
RECREMENT, in Chevtijlry, fome fuperfluous mat¬
ter feparated from fome other that is ufeful j in which
fenle it is the fame with fcor ice ^ feeces, and excre¬
ments.
RECRIMINATION, in Law, an accufation brought
by the accufed againft the accufer upon the lame fadl.
RECRUITS, in military affairs, new-raifed foldiers
defigned to fupply the place of thofe who have loft
4 P their
P, £ C [
Re<fkn:jfe their lives in the fervice, or who arc difabled by age or
'I wounds.
t- .'l.' . R f' CTANGLE, in Geometry, the fame with a right-
angk-d parallelogram. See Geometry.
'fihlC riFIC A L ION, in Chemijlnj, is nothing but
the repetition of a dittillation or iublimation ieveral
tunes, in order to render the fubftance purer, finer, and
freer from aqueous and earthy parts.
Rectification, in Geometry, is the method of
finding a right line equal to a curve. The reftification
or curves is a branch belonging to the higher geometry,
in which the ufe oi the inverle method of tiuxions is of
lingular utility.
Rectification of Spirits. See Distillation.
RECTIFIER, in Navigation, an jnftrument con fill¬
ing of two parts, which are two circles, either laid one
upon, or let into the other, and lo fafiened together in
their centres, that they reprefent two compaffes, one
fixed, the other moveable ; each of them divided into
the 3 2 points of the compals, and 360°, and numbered
both ways, from the north and the fouth, ending at
fhe ealf and wed, in 90°.
1 he fixed compafs reprefents the horizon, in which
the north and all the other points of the compafs are
fixed and immoveable.
The moveable compafs reprefents the mariner’s com¬
pals ; in which the north and all other points are liable
to variation.
In the centre of the moveable compafs is fattened a
nlk thread, long enough to reach the put fide of the
fixed compafs. Rut if the inftrument be made of wood,
there is an index inttead of the thread.
] RED
Rectory is allb fometimes ufed for the reftor’s
manlion or parlonage houte.
RECT-UM, in Anatomy, the third and laft of the
large intdiines or guts, bee Anatomy, N° 93.
RECi US, m Anatomy, a name common to ieveral
pairs of mulcles, lo called on account of the itraightneft
of their fibres.
RECUPERAI ORES, among the Romans, were
commiltioners appointed to take cognizance of private
matters in difpute, between the fubjehls of the Hate
and foreigners, and to take care that the former had
judice done them. It came at latt to be ufed for com-
miffioners, to whom the praetor icferred the determi¬
nation of any affair between one fubjecl and another.
RECURRENTS, in Anatomy, a name given to fe-
Veral large branches of nerves lent cut by the par va-
guni from the upper part of the thorax to the larynx.
RECURVIRUSTRA, a genus of birds belonging to
the order of grallae of Linmeus, and that of palmipe¬
des of Pennant and Latham. See Ornithology In¬
dex.
RECUSANTS, fuch perfons as acknowledge the
pope to be the lupreme head of the church, and re¬
fute to acknowledge the king’s fupremacy \ who are
hence called Fopijh rcafanls. The penal laws againll
Papiils are now abolilhed in Britain and in Ireland j and
iii all probability they will quickly be allowed the am-
pleft privileges.
RED, one of the colours called fmple or primary :
being one of the lhades into which the light naturally
divides itieif when refrafted through a prifm. See Chro¬
matics.
Its ufe is to find the variation of the compafs, to
rectify the courfe at fea ; having the amplitude or azi¬
muth given.
RECI HYING the Globe. See Geography
Index.
RECTILINEAR, in Geometry, right-lined ; thus
figures whofe perimeter confitts ot right lines, are faid
to be rehtilinear.
REC111 UDE, in PhdofopJry, refers either to the
atl of judging or of willing j and therefore whatever
comes under the denomination of reflitude, is either
what is true or what is good, thefe being the only ob¬
jects about which the mind exercifes it's two faculties
of judging and willing.
Moral rectitude, or uprightnefs, is the choofing and
pin tiling thofe things which the mind, upon due inqui¬
ry and attention, clearly perceives to be good j and
avoiding thofe that are evil. See MORAL Phifofophy.
KEC J OR, a term applied to fevernl perfons vvhofe
offices are very different : as, t. The reftor of a paritti
is a clergyman that lias the charge and cure of a pariffi,
and pofieffes all the tithes, Stc. 2. tt he fame name is
a,Ilo given to the chief elective officer in feveral foreign
Rniveifities, particularly in that of Paris, and alfo in
tnofe of Scotland. It is alio applied to the head maf-
tei of large fchools in Scotland, as in the high fchool
ot Ediabiiigh. 3. Reclcr is alio ufed in feveral convents
for the fuperior officer who governs the houfe : and the
Jefuits give this name to the fuperiors of fuch of their
houfes as are either feminaries or colleges.
RECiQRY, a paritti church, parfonage, or fpiritual
living, with all its rights, tithes, and glebes.
Red, in Dyeing, fee that article.'—Some reckon fix
kinds or calls of red, viz. fcarlet-red, ciimfbn-red, mad¬
der red, half-grain red, lively orange-red, and fcarlet of
cochineal : but it is eafy to fee that there can be but
one proper fpecies of red ; namely, the reflexion of the
light exacTy in fuch a manner as it is refracted by the
prifm ) all other fhades being adulterations of that pure
colour, with yeilowq brown, &c.
Red, in Heraldry. See Gules.
RED-Bird. See Moscicapa, ORNITHOLOGY Index.
REb-Breq/l. See Motacilla, Ornithology In¬
dex.
RED-Book of the exchequer, an ancient record or
manufeript volume, in the keeping of the king’s re¬
membrancer, containing divers miicellany treatifes re¬
lating to the times before the conqueft.
Red-Lead. See CHEMISTRY Index.
RED Precipitate of Mercury. See Chemistry Index.
R.ED-R fa, or Little Ruffia, a province of Poland,
bounded on the weft by Upper Poland, on the north
by Lithuania-, cn the eaft by Little Tartary, and on
the fouth by Moldavia, Tranfylvania, and a part of
Hungary. It comprehends Ruffia properly fo called,
Volhynia, and Podolia. It is about 650 miles in length,
and from 150 to 250 in breadth. It confiiis chiefly of
large fields, but little cultivated on account of the fre¬
quent inroads of the Tartars, and becaufe there is no
water-carriage. It had the name of Red RuJJia, from
the colour of the hair of its inhabitants. Ruffia, pro¬
perly fo called, comprehends the three palatinates of
Leopol or Lemburg, Belfko, and Chelm.
RED Sea, or Arabic Gulf, fo much celebrated in fa¬
ded
R E D L 667 ] R E I)
Red Sea. cved hiilory, feparates Arabia from Upper Ethiopia
~v   and part of Egypt. This fea is 353 leagues in length
and 40 in breadth. As no river falls into it of lufri-
eient force to counteraft the influence of the tide, it is
more affected by the motions of the great ocean than
any of the inland leas nearly in the fame latitude. It
is not much expofed to tempeits : the winds ufually
blow from north to fouth, and being periodical, like
the monfoons of India, invariably determine the tealon
of failing into or out of this fea. It is divided into two
gulfs that to the call was called the M/ankic guf
from the city Arlan a at the north end of it ; and that
to the weft the Heroopolitic, from the city of Heroopo-
lis) the former of which belongs to Arabia, and the
latter to Egypt.
Mr Bruce has made many obfervations on this fea,
which are worthy of notice.—With regard to the name,
he fays it was certainly derived from.Edom or Efau the
fbn of Jacob •, though in another place he lays, he won¬
ders that writers have not rather fuppofed it to have got
the epithet of i?«/, from the colour of the fand on its
coafts, than for other reafons they have alleged. With
regard to any rednefs in the water itfelf, or in the bot¬
tom, which fome have afferted, our traveller allures us
that there is no fuch thing. It is more difficult to affign
a reafon for the Hebrew’ name of it, which lignifies the
Sea of Weeds ; as he never faw a weed throughout the
whole extent of it. “ Indeed, (fays he) upon the flight¬
ed confideration, it will occur to any one, that a narrow
gulf, under the immediate influence ot the monfoons,
blowing from contrary points fix months each year,
would have too much agitation to produce fuch vege¬
tables, feldom found but in ftagnant waters, and feldom,
if ever, found in fait ones. My opinion then is, that it
is from the large trees or plants of white coral, fpread
everywhere over the bottom of the lied fea, perfedlly in
imitation of plants on land, that the fea has obtained this
name.—1 faw one of thefe, which, from a root nearly
central, threw out ramifications of an almoft circular
form, meafuring 26 feet every way.”
Our author has alfo made many ufeful obfervations
on the navigation of this fea. “ All the weftern ftiore
(he fays) is bold, and has more depth of water than
the call ; but on this fide there is neither anchoring
ground nor Ihoals. It is rocky, with a confiderable
depth of water everywhere and there are a number of
iunken rocks, which, though not vifible, are fufficiently
near the furface to deftroy a large fliip.” The caufe of
this, in Mr Bruce’s opinion, is, that the mountains on
the fide of Abyffinla and Egypt are all of hard done,
porphyry, many different kinds of marble, granite, ala-
baiter, and baialtes. Thefe being all. compofed of fo¬
lk! materials, therefore, can part with very little duft
or fand, which might otherwife be blown from them
into the fea. On the oppofite coaft, v:z. that of He-
]az and Tahamah, on the Arabian fide, the whole con-
lifts of moving fands 5 a large quantity of which is
blown from the fouth-eaft by the dry winter monfoons-,
which being lodged among the rocks on that fide, and
confined there by the north-eaft or fummer monfoon,
which is in a contrary direftion, hinders them from com¬
ing over to the Egyptian fide. Hence the weftern
coaft is full of funk rocks for want of fand to cover
them, with which they would otherwife become.iflands.
They are naked and bare all round, with Iharp points
like fpears} while, on the eaft fide, every rock becomes- Red Al¬
an ifland, and every tv^o or three iflands become an 
harbour. On the ends. of the principal of thefe har¬
bours the people have piled up great heaps of ftones
to ferve as fignals : “ and it is in thele (iays Mr Bruce)
that the large veiTels from Cairo to Jidda, equal in fize
to our large 74-gun {hips (but from tbe cifterns of ma-
fon-work built within for holding water, I fuppofc
double their weight), after navigating their portion of
the channel in the day-time, come fafely and quietly to
at four o’clock in the afternoon •, and in thefe little har¬
bours pafs the night, to fail into the channel again next
morning.”
The weftern channel of the Red fea was chofen, in the
days of the Ptolemies, for the track of the Indian and Afri¬
can commerce. Thefe inpnarchs creeled a great number
of cities all along the weftern coatl •, and notwithftanding
the dangers of the navigation, we do not-hear that it was
ever abandoned on account of them.
From the obfervations made by our author on the
navigation of the lied fea, he undertakes to point out
a fafe pafi'age for large (hips to the gulf of Suez, fo
that they may be able to judge of the propriety of their
own courfe themfelves, without trufting implicitly to
the pilots they meet with, who are often very ignorant
of their profeflion. This fea, according to Mr Bruce,
may be divided into four parts, of which the channel
occupies two, till near the latitude ot 26°, or that of
Coffeir. On the weft it is deep water, with many
rocks ; and on the eaft it is full of iflands, as has been
already mentioned. Between thefc iflands there are
channels and harbours of deep -water, where fhips may
be protedfed in any wind; but a pilot is neceflary in
failing among thefe from Mocha to Suez, and the voy¬
age befides can be continued only during part of the
day. Ships bound to Suez without the confent of the
flieriffe of Mecca, that is, without any intention of fell¬
ing their cargo at Jidda, or paying cultom there, ought
to take in their frelh water at Mocha ; or if there be
any reafon againft this, a few hours will carry them to
Azab or Saba ou the Abyflinian coaft, where they may
be plentifully fupplied : but it muff be remembered,
44 that the people here are Gu!fa, the moft treacherous
and villa anus wretches on earth.” Here not only-
water may be procured, but plenty of flieep, goats,
wfith fome myrrh, and incenfe in the proper feafon.—
Great caution, however, muft be ufed in dealing with
the people, as even thole of Mocha, who are ablblulely
neceilary to them in their commercial dealings, cannot
truft them without furety or ho 11 ages. Not many years
ago, the furgeon and mate of the Elgin Eaft India-
man, with feveral other failors, were murdered by thefe
favages as they went aflrere to purchafe myrrh, though
they had a letter of fafe conduct from the Ihekh.
To fuch as do not want to be known, our author
.recommends a low black ifland on the coaft of Arabia,
named Camaran, in latitude 150 30'. ' It is diftinguilh- ,
ed by a white houfe or fortrefs on the rveft end of it;
where water is to be had in ftill greater plenty than at
Azab ; but no provifions, or fuch only as are very bad,
can be procured. If it is neceffary not to be feen at
all on the coaft, the ifland of Foolht is recommended
by our author as having excellent water, with a faint
or monk, whofe office is to keep the wells clean. This
is one of the chain of iflands which ftretches almoft
4 P 2 acrofs
Red Sea.
RED [
acrofs tlie gulf from Loheia to Mafuali, and from ac-
" trial obfervation by Mr Bruce, is found to be fituated
in N. Lat. 15° 59' 43". E. Long. 420 47'. From
this to Yambo there is a fafe watering-place 5 and there
is an abfolute neceffity for having a pilot before you
come to Ras Mahomet; becaufe over the /Elanitic
gulf, the mountains of Aucha, and the cape itfelf,
there is often a thick haze.; which lafts for many days
together, and a number of fliips are loft by miftaking
the eaftern bay or Atlanitic gulf for the entrance of
■the gulf of Suez 5 the former has a ridge of rocks
nearly acrofs it. After reaching Sheduan, a large
ifland, about three leagues farther in a north-by-weft
direction, there is a bare rock diftinguilhed by no par¬
ticular name ; but fo lituated that thips ought not to
come within three leagues of it. This rock is to be
left to the weftward at the diftance juft, mentioned ; af¬
ter palling which you meet with Ihoals forming a
pretty broad channel, with foundings from 15 to 30
iathoms ; and again, on ftanding direftly for Tor, there
are two other oval fands with funk rocks in the chan¬
nel, between which you are to fleer. Tor may be
known at a diftance by two hills that Hand near the
water fide ; which, in clear weather, may be feen fix
leagues off. Juft to the fouth-eaft of thefe is the town
and harbour, -where there are fome palm trees about the
houfes, the more remarkable, as being the firft that are
leen on the coaft. Fhe foundings in the way to Tor
harbour are clean and regular 5 “ and, by giving the
beacon a fmall birth on the larboard hand, you may
haul in a little to the northward, and anchor in five or
fix fathom.” In fpring-tides, it is high water at Tor
nearly, about 12 o’clock : in the middle of the gulf
there is no perceptible tide, but at the fides it runs at
the rate of more than two knots in the hour. Tor it¬
felf is but a fmall village, with a convent of monks be¬
longing to thofe of Mount Sinai. It was taken by
Don John de Caftro, and fortified foon after its difeo-
very by the Portuguefe ; but has never fince been a
place of any confideration ; ferving now only for a wa¬
tering place to the fhips trading to or from Suez. 
from this place there is a diftincl view of Mounts Ho-
reb and Sinai, which appear above and behind the
others, with their tops frequently covered with fnow in
the winter.
Mi Liuce next proceeds to confider fome queftions
which. may be reckoned matters of curiofity rather than
any thing elfe. One of thefe is concerning the level of
the water of this fea itfelf, which has been fuppofed fe-
veral feet above that of the Mediterranean. “ To this
(fays our author) I anfwer, that the facft has been fup¬
pofed to be fo by antiquity, and alleged as a reafon
why Ptolemy’s canal was made from the bottom of the
Heroopolitic gulf rather than brought due north a-
crofs the ifthmus of Suez 5 in which laft cafe it was
ieared it would fubmerge a great part of Afia Minor.
But who has ever attempted to verify this by experi¬
ment ? or who is capable of fettling the difference of
ievels, amounting, as fuppofed, to fome feet and inch¬
es, between two points 120 miles diftant from each o-
ther, over, a defert that has no fettled furface, but is
changing its height every day > Eefides, fince all feas
are m faft but one, what is it that hinders the Indian
ocean to now to its level r What is it that keeps the In¬
dian ocean up ? Till this laft branch of the queftion is
668 ] RED
refolved, I fhall take it for granted that no fuch differ- Red Sea
ence of level exifts, whatever Ptolemy’s engineers might
have pretended to him ; becaufe, to fuppofe it fa6t, is
to fuppofe the violation of one very material law of na¬
ture.”
The next thing confidered by our author is the paf-
fage of the Ifraelites through the Red fea. At the
. place where he luppofes the paffage to have been, the
lea is not quite four leagues broad, fo that it might ea-
fily have been croffed in one night without any miracle.
There is about 14 fathom water in the channel, and
nine at the fides, with good anchorage every where j the
fartheft fide is a low' fandy coaft, and a very eafy land¬
ing place. “ The draught of the bottom of the gulf
(fays he) given by Br Pococke, is very erroneous in
every part of it. It was propofed to Mr Niebuhr, when
in Egypt, to inquire upon the fpot, whether there were
not fome ridges of rocks where the water was fnallow,
fo that an army at particular times might pafs over ?
Secondly, whether the Etefian winds, which blow
ftrongly all fummer from the north-weft, could not
blow' fo violently againft the fea, as to keep it back on
a heap, fo that the liraelites might have pafl'ed with¬
out a miracle ? And a copy of thefe queries was left
for me to join my inquiries likewife. But I muft con-
fefs, however learned the gentlemen were who propofed
thefe doubts, I did not think they merited any atten¬
tion to folve them. lithe Etefian winds, blowdng from
the north-weft in fummer, could heap up the fea as a
wall on the right or to the fouth, of fifty feet high,
ftill the difficulty would remain of building the wall on
the left hand or to the north. Befides, water ftanding
in that pofition for a day, muft have loft the nature of
a. fluid. Whence came that cohefion of particles that
hindered that wall to efcape at the fides ? This is as
great a miracle as that of Mofes. If the Etefian winds
had done this once, they muft have repeated it many a
time before and flnee, from the fame caufes. Yet Dio¬
dorus Siculus fays, the Troglodytes, the indigenous in¬
habitants of that very fpot, had a tradition from father
to fon, from their very earlieft and remoteft ages, that
once this divifion of the fea did happen there ; and that,
after leaving the bottom fome time dry, the fea again
came back and covered it with great fury. The words
of this author are of the moft remarkable kind. We
cannot think this heathen is writing in favour of reve¬
lation. He knew' not Mofes, nor fays a word about
Pharaoh and his hoft ; but records the miracle of the
divifion of the fea in W'ords nearly as ftrong as thofe
of Mofes, from the mouths of unbiaffed undefigning pa¬
gans.”
RED-Shank. See ScOLOPAX,!
Red Start. SeeMoTACiLLA, V Ornithology Index.
RED-Wing. See TURDUS, _)
REDANS, in Field Fortification. See the article
Redans.
REDDENDUM, in Law, is ufed fubftantively for
the claufe in a leafe wherein the rent is referved to the
leffor. The proper place for it is next after the limita¬
tion of eftate.
REDDITIO, was the third part of the facrifice of
the heathens, and confifted of the folemn aft of putting
in again the entrails of the viftims, after they had been
religioufty infpefted. See Sacrifice.
REDDLE, a foft, heavy, red, ferruginous earth, of
great
Reddle.
Redemp¬
tion
I! .
Reduction.
RED
great ufe in colouring ; and being waflred
from fand, is often fold by our druggifts under the name
of bole armeniac.
REDEMPTION, in Law, a faculty or right of re¬
entering upon lands, &c. that have been fold and af-
ligned, upon reimburfing the purchafe-money with legal
colls.
Redemption, in Theology, denotes the recovery of
mankind from fin and death, by the obedience and fa-
crifice of Chrift, who on this account is called the Re¬
deemer of the world. See Theology.
REDENS, Redans, or Redant, in Fortification, a
kind of indented work in form of the teeth of a law,
with faliant and re-entering angles 5 to the end that one
part may flank or defend another. It is likewife called
faw-work and indented work. The lines or faces in this
flank one another.
Redens are ufed in fortifying walls, where it is not
neceffary to be at the expence of building bafiions ;
as when they Hand on the fide of a river running
through a garrifon town, a marfh, the fea, &c. But
the fault of fuch fortification is, that the befiegers from
one battery may ruin both the fides of the tenailie or
front of a place, and make an afihult without fear of
being enfiladed, fince the defences are mined. The pa¬
rapet of the corridor is likewife often redented or car¬
ried on by the way of redens. The redens was ufed be¬
fore baftions were invented, and fome people think them
preferable.
REDI, Francis, an Italian phyfician and polite
fcholar, was born at Arezzo in Tufcany in 1626. His
ingenuity and learning recommended him to the office
of firft phyfician to Ferdinand II. duke of Tufcany ;
and he contributed not a little toward the compiling of
the Dictionary of La Crufca. He wrote upon vipers,
upon the generation of infefts, and compofed a good
deal of poetry. All his writings are in Italian ; and his
language is fo fine and pure, that the authors of the
Dictionary of La Crufca have often cited it as a ftan-
dard of perfection. He died in 1697.
REDINTEGRATION, is the finding the integral
or fluent again from the fluxion. See Fluxions.
REDOUBT, in Fortification, a fmall fquare fort,
without any defence but in front •, ufed in trenches,
lines of circumvallation, contravallation, and approach ;
as alfo for the lodgings of corps de-gard, and to defend
paffages.
REDUCTION, in the fchools, a manner of bringing
a term or propofifion, which w^as before oppofite to fome
other, to be equivalent to it.
Reduction, in Arithmetic, that rule whereby num¬
bers of different denominations are brought into one de¬
nomination. See Arithmetic.
REDUCTION cf Equations, in Algebra, is the clearing
them from all fupenluous-quantities, bringing them to
their loweft terms, and leparating the known from the
unknown, till at length only the unknown quantity is
found on one fide, and known ones on the other. 1 he
reduCHon of an equation is the laft part of tne refolution
of the problem. See Algebra.
REDUCTION of a figure, defign, or draught, is the
making a copy thereof, either larger or {mailer than the
original ; ftill preferving the form and proportion. 1 he
great ufe of the proportional compares is. the reduction
F 669 ] RED
and freed of figures, &c. whence they are called compafies of re-Reduction
Redundant.
dudlion. See the article Compass.
There are various methods of reducing figures, &c.
the molt ealy is by means of the pentagraph, or paralle¬
logram •, but this hath its defeCts. See the article Pen¬
tagraph.
The belt and molt ufual methods of reduction are as
follow : I. To reduce a figure, as ABCDE (fig. I.), Plate
into a lefs compafs. About the middle of the figure, ccccxlviii
as %, pitch on a point, and from this point draw lines to 1“' I’
its feveral angles A, B, C, &c. then drawing the line
a b parallel to AB, b c parallel to BC, &c. you will
have the figure a b cd e fimilar to ABCDE.
If the figure a b c d e had been required to be enlar¬
ged, there needed nothing but to produce the lines from
the point beyond the angles, as ss D, z C, &c. and to
draw lines, viz. DC, CB, &c. parallel to the fides dc,
c b, See.
2. To reduce a figure by the angle of proportion,
fuppofe the figure ABCDE (fig. 2.) required to be di-Fig. 2.
rninifhed in the proportion of the line AB to a b
(fig. 3.) draw the indefinite line GH (fig. 4.), and from Fig. 3.
G to H fet off the line AB. On G defciibe the arch and 4-
HI. Set off the line a b as a chord on HI, and draw
GI. Then with the angle IGIi you have all the mea-
fures of the figure to be drawn. Thus to lay down the
point c, take the interval BC, and upon the point G
deferibe the arch KL. Alfo on the point G deferibe
MN ; and upon A, with the diftance MN, defevibe an
arch cutting the preceding one in c, which will deter¬
mine the fide b c. And after the fame manner are the
other fides and angles to be deferibed. The fame pro-
cefs will alfo ferve to enlarge the figure.
3. To reduce a figure by a feale. Meafure all the
fides of the figure, as ABCDE (fig. 2.) by a fcale, and-
lay down the fame meafures refpeCbively from a fmaller
fcale in the proportion required.
4. To reduce a map, defign, or figure, by fquares.
Divide the original into little fquares, and divide a frefli
paper of the dimenfions required into the fame number of
fquares, which are to be larger or lefs than the former,
as the map is to be enlarged or diminithed. This done
in every fquare of the fecond figure, draw what you find
in its correfpondent one in the firft.
Reduction, in Metallurgy, is the bringing back me¬
talline fubftances which have been changed into fcoriar
or affies, or otherwife divefted of their metallic form,
into their natural and original ftate of metals again. See
Obes, reduction of.
Reduction, in Surgery, denotes an operation whereby
a diflocated, luxated, or fra&ured bone, is reflored to its
former fiate or place.
REDUNDANCY, a fault in difeourfe, confiding
in the ufe of a fuperfluity of words. Words perfe&ly
fynonymous are redundant, and ought to be retrenched.
REDUNDANT, in Mufic. What the French call
une accord fupcrjlue, which we have tranflated a redun¬
dant chord in the article Music (from D’Alembert),
has by others been rendered a chord extremely Jharp, as
in the tranfiation of Rameau’s Principlesof Compofition.
Their nature will be bed underftood by a few examples,
and an account of the number of tones, femitones, or
leffer intervals, contained in each.
The fecond redundant is compofed of a major tone,
and
REE [ 670 ] RE F
and a minor femitone : as from fa to fol fliaip. Its pro¬
portion is as 64 to 75.
The third redundant confifts of two tones and a femi¬
tone, as fa la, fharp. Its proportion is as 96 to 125.
The fourth redundant is the fame with the tritone.
I’ rom thefe examples compared with the fame inter¬
vals in their natural Hate, the reader may form a general
idea of what is meant by redundant.
REE, Reis, or Res, a little Portuguefe coin. See
MONE T- Table.
REED, in Botany. See Arundo and Bamboo.
There are two forts of reeds, fays HalTelquilt, grow¬
ing near the Nile. One of them has fcarce any branch¬
es ; but is furniihed with numerous leaves, which are
narrow, fmooth, channeled on the upper lurface ; and
the plant is about 11 feet high. The Egyptians make
ropes of the leaves. They lay them in water like hemp,
and then make them into good ftrong cables. Thefe,
with the bark of the date tree, form a'lmolt the only ca¬
ble ufed in the Nile. The other fort is of great confe-
quence. It is a fmali reed, about two or three feet high,
full branched, with thort, (harp, lancet-ihaped leaves,
lire roots, which are thick as the Hem, creep and mat
themfelves together to a confiderable diilance. This
plant feems uielefs in common life ; but to it, continues
the learned author, is the very foil of Egypt owing : for
the matted roofs have Hopped the earth which floated in
the waters, and thus formed, out of the fea, a country
that is habitable.
Fire-REEDS. See FlRE-Shtp.
Reed, a term in the weft of England for the ftraw
ufed by thatchers, which is wheat ftraw finely combed,
confifting of ftiff, unbruifed, and unbroken ftalks of
great length, carefully feparated from the ftraw ufed
for fodder by the ihrefher, and bound in fheaves or
nitches, each of which weighs 28 lb. and are fold from
2is. to 3is. per hundred nitches, according to the fea-
fon. This is a great improvement in the art of thatch¬
ing, as it gives a finilh to the work which cannot be at¬
tained by draw, rough and tumbled together, without
any feparation of the long and ftrort : it is alto a readier
mode of working.
REEF, a term in navigation. When there is a great
gale of wind, they commonly roll up part of the fail be¬
low, that by this means it may become the narrower,
and not draw fo much wind \ which contrafling or ta-
king up the fail they call a reef or reefng the fail: fo
alfo when a top-maft is fprung, as they call it, that is
when it is cracked, or almoil broken in the cap, they
cut off the lower piece that was near broken off, and
fetting the other- part, now much fhorter, in the ftep
again, they call it a reefed top-maf.
REEL, in the manufactories, a machine ferving for
the office of reeling. There are various kinds of reels ;
forne very fimple, others very complex.
REELING, in the manufaflories, the winding of
filk, cotton, or the like, into a fkain, or upon a button,
to prevent its entangling. It is alfo ufed for the char¬
ging or difch'arging of bobbins, or quills, to ufe t hem in
the manufacture of different fluffs, as thread, filk, cot¬
ton, Sec. Reeling is performed in different ways, and
on different engines.
REEVING, in the fea-language, the putting a rope
through a block: hence to pull a rope out (ft a block is
called unrcdiing.
RE-EXCHANGE, in commerce, a fecond pay- Rc-Ek-
ment of the price of exchange, or rather the price of a thanae
new exchange due upon a bill of exchange that comes to ;0lT
be protelled, and to be refunded the bearer by the ,r -
drawer or indorfer.
RE I EC LION, among ecclefiaftics, a fpare meal or
repaft, juft fufficient for the fupport of life : hence the
hall in convents, and other communities, where the
monks, nuns, &c. take their refeCtions or meals in com
mon, is called the refeBory.
REFERENCE, in writing, &c. a mark relative to
another fimilar one in the margin, or at the bottom of
the page, where fomething omitted in the text is added,
and which is to be inlerted either in reading or copy¬
ing- ^
REFINING, in general, the art of purifying a
thing 3 including not only the effaying or refining of
metals, but likew-ife the depuration or clarification of li¬
quors. See Clarification 3 and Pharmacy, under
Materia Medica ; and Ores, ReduBmn of
Gold and filver may be refined by feveral methods,
which are ail founded on the effential properties of thefe
metals, and acquire different names according to their
kinds. Thus, tor iniiance, gold having the property
which no other metal, not even filver, has of refilling
the aftion of fulphur, of antimony, of nitrous acid, or
marine acid, may be purified by thefe agents from all
other metallic fubftances, and confequently may be refi¬
ned. Thefe operations are diftinguithed by proper names,
as purification of gold by antimony, parting, concentrated
parting, dry parting. The term refining is chiefly ap¬
plied to the purification of gold and filver by lead in the
cupel. See Ores, RcduBion of
REFLECTION, the return or progreflive motion
of a moving body, occafioned by tome cbftacle which
hindered it from purfuing its former direction.
Circular Infrument of REFLECTION, an inftrument
for meafuring angles to a very great degree of accuracy.
It was invented by the celebrated affronomer Mr To¬
bias Mayer of Gottingen, principally with a view Pto
do away the errors of the divifions of the limb 3 and has
fince been much improved by the Chevalier de Bordjt,
and M. .1. H. de Magellan. This inllrument is particu¬
larly applicable to the meafuring of the diftances of the
heavenly bodies, and was uled by the French in their
part of the operation for determining the difference of
meridians of Paris and Greenwich. For the deferip-
tion, rectification, and ufe of this inftrument, lee Navi¬
gation.
REFLECTION of the Rays of Light, in Catoptrics, is
their return, after approaching fo near the furface of
bodies as to be thereby repelled or driven backwards.
For the caufes of refledion, fee Optics Index, at Rays
of Light, and RefeBion of Light, &c. For the appli¬
cation of the doftrine of reflection to minors, fee Op¬
tics. See alfo Mirror, BuRNING-Glafs, and Glafs-
G RINDING ; and for the coating or foliating of mirrors,
fee the article FOLIATING of Looking-glajfes, &c. See
alfo Telescope.
Reflection of Heat, fee Chemistry, N° 170.
REFLECTION of Cold. For an account of this cu¬
rious phenomenon, fee alfo Chemistry, N° 272.
It has been generally fuppofed that this fact w-as firft
noticed by Profeffor Pictet of Geneva 3 but we have
been informed from good authority (for w-e have not
yet
3
REF [6
Redeclion yet liad an opportunity of feeing the book), that the
!!' fame fact is diitinbtly mentioned by Bap lilt a de Porta
Reflectors, pj|s J\,Jagia JSctluraHs.
Reflection is alfo ufed, figuratively, for an opera¬
tion of the mind, whereby it turns its view backwards
as it were upon itfelf, and makes itfelf and its own ope¬
rations the object of its difquifition 5 and by contem¬
plating the manner, order, and laws, wdrich it obferves
in perceiving ideas, comparing them together, reafon-
ing, &c. it tiames new ideas of the relations difcovered
therein. See METAPHYSICS.
Reflectors for Light-Houfes, have of late years
been very fuccefsfuily adopted in-dead of coal fires.
They are compofed of a number of fquare pane glafs
mirrors, fimilar to thofe which, it is laid, were em¬
ployed by Archimedes in fetting fire to the Roman
fleet at the fiege of Syracufe. The mirrors are an inch
fquare, and are dilpofed clofe to each other in the con¬
cave of a parabolic fegment, formed of itucco, or any
other fubftance wfliich retains them in their place.
Stucco, however, is found to anfwer fufficiently well,
and is employed in the reflectors of all the light-houfes
which have been erefted round the coaft of Scot-
V.nd.
Tne parabolic moulds are from three to five or fix
feet in diameter, and in the centre of each there is a
long {hallow lamp of tin plate, filled with whale oil.
There are fix cotton wicks in each lamp, nearly contigu¬
ous to each other, and lo difpofed as to Hand in no need of
trimming for the fpace of fix hours. The light is re¬
flected from each mirror ipread over the concave fur-
face, and is as it were multiplied by the number of mir¬
rors. Tin plate covers the back of the itucco mould¬
ing, from which a tube, immediately over the lamp,
proceeds to the roof ot the light room, and anfwers
the purpofe of a funnel, through which the imoke paiTes
without fullying the face of the mirrors. The light-
room is a lantern of from eight to twelve fides, entirely
made of glais, fixed in frames of cait-irdn, and roofed
with copper. The relief!ors with their lamps are
placed on circular benches palling round the infide of
this lantern, at about 18 inches from the glafs frames,
fj that the concave furfaces of two or three of the re-
ilecfors front every point of the compcfs, and throw a
blare of light in ail directions.
There is a hole in the roof, direftiy over the centre
of the room, through which all the funnels pafs, and
by which frefh air is alfo conveyed to the lamps.
This light-room is fixed in fuch a manner on the top of
a round tower, that no weather can move i.t ; and the
number of the refieffors, and the height of the tower,
are greater or lefs, according as the light is intended to
be feen at a greater or lefs difiar.ee.
It has been propofed to make the concave furface of
the parabola one fpeculum of metal, infiead of covering
it over with a number of plain glafs mirrors, or to di¬
minish the fize of each mirror, if they are preferred to
the metallic fpeculum. It muft be obvious to every
man who knows any thing of optics, that either of
thefe alterations would be improper. The bright eft
metal does not relief! fo much light as plain clear glafs,
and if the fize of the mirrors was diminiihed, the num¬
ber of joinings would be increafed’, in each of which
fome light is loft.
1 3 REF
A man wholly guided by theory, would be ready to Reflectors
condemn light-houfes of this defeription } becaule a ji
violent ftorm will (hake the firmed building, which, in Rei°rm‘ ,
his opinion, would throw the whole rays of light into
the air, and thus mifiead the bewildered mariner. Ex¬
perience, however (hows, that fuch apprehenfions are
groundlefs, and that light-houfes with lamps and reflec¬
tors, are in all refpects preferable to thofe with fires
burning in the open air. They are lefs expenfive; they
give a more brilliant light, and are feen at a greater di-
itance, and cannot be obfeured by firroke, or driven
down on the lee-fide by the moft violent wind. If to-
this we add, that the lamps do not ftand in need or
trimming fo often as fires require fuel, and that the
light-man is never expofed to the weather, we mull al¬
low that light-houfes with refledlors are not fo liable to
be neglecled in ftormy weather as thofe with open fires,
which alone muft give the former a preference over
the latter.
It has been affected, and particularly ffated, in the
fupplement to the third edition ot this work, that Mr
Smith of Edinburgh, the principal, and we believe
now the foie contractor for managing and keeping in
repair the light houfes round the coaft of Scotland, is
the lint who conceived the idea of illuminating light-
houfes by means of lamps and reflectors. We do not
underftand that Mr Smith himftlf ever claimed the merit
of this invention ; but it appears that reffedtors, fuch as
are deferibed above, were invented by Mr Ezekiel
Walker of Lynn Regis, who fays, in a letter dated Oc¬
tober 1801, and addreffed to the editor of the Monthly
Magazine that fuch refledtors were made and fixed up
under his direction, in a light-houfe on the coaft of Nor- * Vol. xiL
folk, in the year 1779 ; and adds farther, that in the year?- 402*
17S7, at the requeit of the truftees appointed by adt of'
parliament for eredting four light-houfes on the northern
coaft of Great Britain, he inftrudled Mr Smith in this
method of conftrudting light-houfes. Mr Walker’s
ftatement of the fadt is confirmed by a letter from Mr
Grieve, then lord prevoft ot Edinburgh, who informs
Mr Walker that the truftees had agreed to pay the
premium required for communicating the invention, and
that Mr Smith was engaged to go to Lynn Regis to re¬
ceive inftrudtions from Mr Walker in the method of
conftrudting the new reflectors.
REFLEX, in Painting, means thofe places in a pic¬
ture which are fuppofed to be illuminated by light re-
fledted from fome other body in the fame piece. See
Painting, Part I. fedt. 2. and 5.
REFLUX, the backward courfe of water, has the
fame meaning as the ebbing of the fea, and is op-
pofed to flood, flux, or the flowing of the fea. See
Tides.
REFORM means a change from worfe to better, a
re-eftablifhment or revival of foimer negledted difciplir.e,
or a corredtion of abufes therein. The term is much
ufed in a monaftic fenfe for the reducing an order or
congregation of religious to the ancient {’evenly of the
rule from which it had gradually fwerved, or even
for improving on the ancient rule and inflitution itfelf,
and voluntarily making it more fevere. In this fenfe
the order of St Bernard is faid to be only a reform of
that of St Benedidt. In this country it is applied botk
to politics and religion, and may innocently be applied
tQ>
Pi E F [ 072 ] REF
to any endeavours to change an eftablithment from worfe
to better. But it appears at prefent to have been chiefly
made a pretence for deiigns which could not fairly or
fafely be avowed.
A reform in religion and in parliament (fee Parlia¬
ment), has, we know, been molt loudly called for by
men whole religious notions are immenfely different
from what has been generally reckoned chriffianity, and
whofe defigns, as has been legally proved, went to the
overthrow of all civil order. For infidious purpofes
like thefe, the word reform is a good cloak, efpecially
if any thing can be fixed upon, cither in the religion or
government of the ftate, which, with the help oi exag¬
geration and diftortion, can be reprefented to the w’eak
and unthinking as extremely defective and erroneous.
The general error of thefe men feems to be, that
having picked up a fet of fpeculative notions which
flatter their own pride and the pride of thofe who liften
to them, they will allow nothing to the arguments of
their opponents or the experience of mankind. They
think fo often and fo much upon their ideal reforms,
that while they imagine their notions are liberal and ex-
tenfive, they become contracted beyond imagination ;
■while their judgements, of courfe, are warped with the
moft inveterate prejudices (fee Prejudice). They fee,
or think they fee, the propriety of their fchemes ; but
they feldom, perhaps never, refleft, that that may be
true in fpeculation or in theory which cannot poflibly
be reduced to practice. They will not take the world
as it is, and allow it to profit by the wifdom and expe¬
rience of ages ; but they will reform it according to
thofe ideas of right which they have learned from their
own fpeculations and airy theories ; feldom confidering
what may be done, they are determined to do what
they think ought to be done. Liberty of confcience,
and liberty of aftion, have been claimed by them as
the unalienable rights of man j and fo we ourfelves are
difpofed to think them : nor have w7e heard that in this
country they have been denied to any man, or fet of
men, fo far as has been thought confiftent with the fafe-
ty of the ftate, and that of the other individuals who
compofe it. At the fame time, the very fame men hefi-
tate not to blame, with acrimony the moft violent, and
to the utmoft of their power to reftrain, the aflions and
opinions of thofe who, with equal convi&ion, often on
better grounds, and generally with more modefty, differ
from them.
Amidft that exceflive ardour, too, with w-hich they
propagate their opinions, they forget the extreme dan¬
ger of withdrawing the attention of that part of the
community, who muft earn their bread by the fweat
of their brow, from their proper occupations, to the
tempeftuous fea of political debate, for which their
education and mode of life cannot poflibly have quali¬
fied them. It requires but very little penetration,
however, to be able to fee, that it can be of no real
lervice either to the individuals themfelves, or to the
community at large, in whatever light we look upon it.
Indeed, to make thofe the judges of the law, and the
reformers of the legillature, wdio have ail their lives
been employed in manual labour, is the extreme of fol¬
ly ; and yet it is what Ibme men of confiderable abili¬
ties, and from whom we had. reafon to expeft better
things, have more than once attempted. The cffetft of
fuch a mode of feduclion, (and it deferves no better Reform,
name), when it fhall become general, inftead of ferving
the purpoles of a real reform, muft be to annihilate all
civil order. Diffatisfaclion is the molt powerful check
to honeft induftry j and diffatisfaftion and idlenefs muft
be the effedl of the wandei ings of fuch men in the laby¬
rinths of politics 5 which, for uncultivated minds efpe¬
cially, paves the wTay for every fpecies of vice, and
gradually ripens them for any wickednefs, however
atrocious. For the-truth of thefe remarks, we appeal
to the hiftory of mankind from the creation to the pre¬
fent time : and we would .ferioufly requeft the Joker
friends of reform, and many fuch, we doubt not, there
are, to refieel, that in the prefent day we have more to
fear from licentiouinefs than from defpotifm ; from re¬
form carried to an extreme than from the pretended at¬
tempts either of kings or minifters to annihilate our real
liberty.
It may alfo be worth their while to confider, that
times of public danger are not generally the belt adapt¬
ed to attempt changes of government ; becaufe what
might fatisfy one party would probably be thought too
little by another, and divifions at fuch a period are moft
dangerous. When, therefore, attempts are made for re-'
form which appear to be inconfiftent with the fafety of
the ftate, reilriftions muft be ufed, which may by fpecu¬
lative men be thought fevere and unneceffary, but of
which they themfelves are the caufes. Thefe re-
ftridtions too will be patiently fubmitted to by the
wifer part of the community, when in more peaceable
times they would neither have been thought of nor al¬
lowed.
Speculative reafoners may fpeak as much as they
will of enlightening the minds of men, and of reform-
ing government by the difiates of a refined and dlff
paflionate philofophy ; but when they ccme to apply
their notions to prablice, they will either find their re-
prefentations little better than empty founds, and there¬
fore ineffectual ; or, as is more generally found to be
the cafe, thefe fchemes which in theory appeared to be
perfedl, will in praftice, when combined with the ma¬
lignant and ambitious paflions of men, lead to ruin and
diforder. The firrt inftitulion of government, except
among the Jews, was unqueftionably the effeCi of paf-
fion and inlereft combined ; and this paffion and tin’s
intereft, reftrained within due bounds, is productive of
much happinefs. That government, we believe, too,
will be belt fupported, and moft productive of happi¬
nefs, in which the mutual paflions and interefts of the
individuals who compofe it are fo equally poifed as to
fupport one another, and to promote each the ends and
fuccefs of the other : and this by the ablcft reafoners
and the belt men has been thought to be the cafe with
the Britifh conftitution. If the modern favourers of
reform fhould think this an unftable fupport, if they
will confider the world as it ever has been, and as it is,
they will find it the only one we have, except religion ;
and they will thence be inclined to make the belt of it.
If, after all, however, they fhould be difpofed to doubt
the pofition, we have only further to requeft them, with
the fincerity of men and of Chriftians, to confult their
own breads, and ferioufly to confider the probable mo¬
tives of thofe who aft with them. They will then per-
liaps fee, and they furely ought to acknowledge, that
REF
the whole
world.
Reforma- few men have a fled more according to the impulfe of
, tlor1, paflion, intereft, and ambition, than thofe who have for
* fome time paft founded the toczin of reform.
REFORMATION, in general, an a<R of reform¬
ing or correcting an error or abufe in religion, difci-
pline, or the like. By way of eminence the word is
ufed for that great alteration and reformation in the cor¬
rupted fyftem of Chriftianity, begun by Luther in the
year 1517.
Under the article History (feCt. ii.), the various
corruptions in religion, the oppreflions and ufurpations
of the clergy, and the extreme infolence of the popes,
have been fo fully treated of, that any further detail
The pope here is unneceffary. It is fufficient to obferve, that, be-
affumes the fore the period of the Reformation, the Pope had in
difpofal of the moft audacious manner declared himfelf the fove-
reign of the whole \£orld. All the parts of it which
were inhabited by tjhofe who wrere not Chriftians, he
accounted to be inhabited by no-body ; and if Chriftians
took it into their heads to poffefs any of thofe countries,
he gave them full liberty to make war upon the inhabi¬
tants without any provocation, and to treat them wfth
no more humanity than they would have treated wild
beafts. The countries, if conquered, were to be par¬
celled out according to the pope’s pleafure 5 and dread¬
ful was the fituation of that prince who refufed to obey
the will of the holy pontiff, of which many inftances
will occur to the reader in the various hiftorical articles
of this work.-. In confequence of this extraordinary
authority which the pope had affumed, he at laft grant¬
ed to the king of Portugal all the countries to the eaft-
ward of Cape Non in Africa, and to the king of Spain
all the countries to the weftward of it. In this, ac¬
cording to the opinions of fome, was completed in his
perfon the character of Antichrift Jilting in the temple of
God, and Jhowing himfelf as God*. He had long be¬
fore, fay they, affumed the fupremacy belonging to the
Deity himfelf in fpiritual matters •, and now he affumed
the fame fupremacy in worldly matters alfo, giving
the extreme regions of the earth to whom he pleafed.
The Reformation, therefore, they confider as the im¬
mediate effect of divine power taking vengeance on this
and all other deviations from the fyftem of truth 5 while
others confider it merely as an effeft of natural caufes,
and wThich might have been forefeen and prevented,
without abridging the papal power in any confiderable
degree.
Be this as it will, however, the above-mentioned par¬
tition w^as the laft piece of infolence which the pope
ever had, or in all probability ever will have, in his
power to exercife, in the way of parcelling out the
globe to his adherents. Every thing w'as quiet, every
heretic exterminated, and the whole Chriftian world fu-
pinely acquiefced in the enormous abfurdities wdiich
wrere inculcated upon them ; when, in ij1?* t^le empire
of fuperftition began to decline, and has continued to do
fo ever fince. The perfon who made the firft attack on
the extravagant fuperftitions then prevailing was Martin
Luther ; the occafion of w7hich is fully related under
the article Luther. By fome it is pretended, that
the only motive which Luther had in beginning the
Reformation was his enmity to the Dominican friars,
who had excluded his order (the Auguftins) from all
Share in the gainful traffic ,-of indulgences. But this
Vol. XVII. Part II.
* 2 Theft".
u.4.
[ 673 ] REF
does not feem at all probable, if we confider that fuch
a motive would not naturally have led him to deny the
virtue of indulgences, as fuch conduct could not but ex¬
clude him for ever from any chance of a fhare in the R.eforma-
traffic, which otherwife perhaps he might have obtained, non begun
Befides, the extreme contrariety of this traffic to the by Luther,
common principles of reafon and honefty was fo great,
that we cannot wonder at finding one man in the world
who had fenfe enough to difcern it, and virtue enough
to oppofe fuch an infamous practice. In all probabili¬
ty, however, the infignificancy of the firft reformer wras
the reafon why he was not perfecuted and exterminated
at his firft beginning, as others had been before him.
Another reafon probably might be, that he did not at
once attack the whole errors of Popery, but brought
about his reformation gradually, probably as it occurred
to himfelf, and as we have related in the account of his
life. 3
The Reformation began in the city of Wittemberg in In Switzer-
Saxony, but was not long confined either to that city or by
province. In 1520 the Francifcan friars, wffio had the^l1in^us'
care of promulgating indulgences in Switzerland, were
oppofed by Zuinglius, a man not inferior in underftand-
ing and knowledge to Luther himfelf. He proceeded
with the greateft vigour, even at the very beginning, to
overturn the whole fabric of Popery ; but his opinions
were declared erroneous by the univerfities of Cologne
and Louvain. Notwithftanding this, the magiftrates of
Zurich approved of his proceedings j and that whole
canton, together with thofe of Bern, Bafil, and Chaffau-
fen, embraced his opinions.
In Germany, Luther continued to make great advan¬
ces, without being in the leaft intimidated by the eccle-
fiaftical cenfures which were thundered againft him from all
quarters, he being continually proteffed by the German
princes either from religious or political motives, fo that
his adverfaries could not accomplifh his deftrudfion as
they had done that of others. The princes, who were upon
bad terms with the court of Rome, took advantage of
the fuccefs of the new dodtrines ; and in their own do¬
minions eafily overturned a church which had loft all the
refpedt and veneration of the inferior ranks. The court
of Rome had difobliged fome of the fmaller princes in
the north of Germany, whom the pope probably thought
too infignificant to be worth the managing, and they uni-
verfally eftabliflied the Reformation in their own domi¬
nions. Melandlhon, Carloftadius, and other men of
eminence, alfo greatly fowarded the work of Luther j
and in all probability the Popifti hierarchy w^ould have
foon come to an end, in the northern parts of Europe at
leaft, had not the emperor Charles V. given a fevere 4
check to the progrefs of reformation in Germany. In Oppoied in
order to follow out the fchemes didlated by his ambi-
tion, he thought it neceffary to ingratiate himfelf with
the pope ; and the moft effedtual method ©f doing this
was by deftroying Luther. The pope’s legates infifted
that Luther ought to be condemned by the diet of
Worms without either trial or hearing ; as being a
moft notorious, avowed, and incorrigible heretic. How¬
ever, this appeared unjuft to the members of the diet,
and he was fummoned to appear *, which he accordingly
did without hefitation *. There is not the leaft doubt * See Ltc«
that his appearance there had been his laft in this world, ther.
had not the aftoniftving refpedl that was paid him, and
4 (l the
Reforma¬
tion.
"Form of
worfhip
fir.ll altered
by Wit-
temberg.
6
D'routes
among the
Beformers.
Difturban-
ces in Ger¬
many.
REF
the crowds who came daily to fee him, deterred his
iudges from delivering the church from the author of
luctr a pellilent herefy j which they were itrongly luiicit-
ed by the pope’s party to do. He was therefore permit¬
ted to depart with a fafe conduft for a certain time 5 af¬
ter which he was in the ffate of a proferibed criminal,
to whom rt was unlawful to perform any of the offices of
humanity.
During the confinement of Luther in a caftle near
Warburg, the Reformation advanced rapidly j almoft
every city in Saxony embracing the Lutheran opinions.
At this time an alteration in the eftabliihed forms of
worfhip wasfirfl ventur ed upon at Wittemberg, by abolrfir-
ing the celebration of private maffes, and by giving the
cup as wrell as the bread to the laity in the Lord’s fup-
per. In a ihort time, however, the new opinions were
condemned by the univerfity of Paris, and a refutation
of them w7as attempted by Henry VIII. of England.
But Luther was not to be thus intimidated. He pub-
lifhed his animadverfions on both with as much acrimo*
ny as if he had been refuting the meaneif adverfary ;
and a controverfy managed by fuch illuftrious antago-
rrifts drew a general attention, and the Reformers daily
gained new converts both in France and England.
But while the efforts of Luther were thus everywhere
crowmed with fuccefs, the diviffons began to prevail
which have fince io much agitated the reformed church¬
es. The firft difpute was between Luther and Zuin-
glius concerning the manner in which the body and
blood of Ciirift vTere prefent in the eucharift. Luther
and his followers, though they had rejected the notion of
tranfubftantiation, were nevertheleis of opinion that the
body and blood of Chriff: were really prefent in the
Lord’s lupper, in a vray which they could not pretend to
explain. Carloftadt, who was Luther’s colleague, firff fug-
gefted another view of the fubjedl, which was afterwards
confirmed and illuftrated by Zuinglius, namely, that the
body and blood of Chrift were not really prefent in the
euchariff ; and that the bread and wine were no more
than external fymbols to excite the remembrance of
Chrift’s iufferings in the minds of thofe who received
it. Both parties maintained their tenets with the ut-
moft obftinacy j and, by their diviffons, firft gave their
adverfaries an argument againfl: them, which to this day
the Catholics urge with great force ; namely, that the
Proteftants are fo divided, that it is impoflible to know
who is right or wrong *, and that there cannot be a
ftronger proof than thefe divifions, that the whole doc¬
trine is falfe.
To. thefe inteffine divifions were added the horrors
of a civil war, occafioned by oppreflion on the one hand,
and enthufiafm on the other. In 1525, a great num¬
ber of feditious fanatics arofe on a hidden in different
parts of Germany, took arms, united their forces, and
made war againfl; the empire, laying wafte the country
with fire and fword, and committing everywhere the
greateif cruelties. I he greatefl: part of this furious mob
was compofed of peafants and vaffals, who groaned under
heavy burdens, and declared that they were no longer able
to bear the defpotic government of their chiefs j and
hence this fedition had the name of i/ie rujiic war^ or the
war of the peafants. At firfl: this rabble declared, that
they had no other motives than the redrefs of their
grievances ; but no looner had the enthufiaft Munzer,
[ 674 ] REF
or Munfler, the anabapiiff, put hhnfelf at their head, Rtforms-
ihan the face of things was entirely changed, and the tl0n
civil commotions in Saxony and Thuringia exceedingly
increafed, of which an account is given under the article
Anabaptists.
In the mean time Frederic, furnamed the Wife, elec¬
tor of Saxony, and Luther’s great patron, departed this
life, and was fucceeded by his brother John. Frederic,
though he had protedted and encouraged Luther, yet
was at no pains to introduce the reformed religion into ^
his dominions. But with his fucceffor it was otherwife } Rcfi r. R_
for he, convinced that Luther’s dodtrine mult ioon be tion el a-
totally deftroyed and fupprefled unlefs it received afpee- bi tEd m
dy and eft’edfual fupport, ordered Luther and Melanc- iaxouf-
thon to draw up a body of laws relating to the form of
ecclefiatfical government, the method ot public worihip,
&.c. which was to be proclaimed by heralds throughout
his dominions. This example was followed by all the
princes and Hates of Germany who renounced the papal
fupremacy j and a like form of vvorflrip, difeipline, and
government, was thus introduced into ail the churches,
which diffented from that of Rome. This open renvu-
ciation ol the Romifli jurildiction foon changed the face
of affairs; and the patrons of Popery foon intimated,
in a manner not at ail ambiguous, that they intended
to make war on the Lutheran party; which would
certainly have been put in execution, had not the trou¬
bles that took place in Europe diiconcerted their mea-
fures. On the other hand, the Lutherans, apprifed of
thefe hoflile intentions, began alfo to deliberate on a
proper plan of defence againlt that fuperftitious violence ?
with which they were in danger of being affailed. The Refohuions
diet of the empire affembled at Spire, in the year 1 526 ; at the diet
wdrere the emperor’s ambafiadors w ere detired to uieoi
their utmotl endeavours to fupprefs all difnutes about ^,Urp! le t'>
religion, and to iniiit upon the rigorous execution of matron,
the fentence which had been pronounced againft Lu¬
ther and his followers at Worms. The greateit part of
the German princes oppofed this motion with the utmoft
refolution, declaring that they could neither execute that
lenience, nor come to any determination wfith regard to
the dodlrines by which it had been occafioned, before
the whole matter w7as fubmitled to the deciflon of a
council lawfully affembled; alleging farther, that ths
deciflon of controverfies of this nature belonged proper¬
ly to it, and to it alone. This opinion, after long and
very warm debates, was adopted by a great majority, and
at length confented to by the whole affembly : for it w7as
unanimoufly agreed to piefent a lolemn addrefs to the
emperor, intreating him to afiemble, without dejay, a
free and general council; while in the mean time it W’as
alfo agreed, that the princes of the empire fliould, in their
refpedtive dominions, be at liberty to manage ecclefiafli-
cal affairs in the manner they fliould think moft proper ;
yet fo as to be able to gi w to God and the emperor a
proper account of their adminiftration when it ihould be
required of them.
Thefe refolutions proved extremely favourable to the
caufe of reformation ; neither had the emperor any lei-
fure for fome time to give diffurbance to the reformed.
The war, which at this time enfued between him and
the pope, gave the greatefl; advantage to the friends of
the reformed, and confiderably augmented their num¬
ber. Several princes, whom the fear of perfecution and
pUftilhnaent
REF [ 675 1 REF
Hefor.na- puniflimgnt had hitherto prevented from lending their
tion. ailiilance, publicly renounced the liomifh fuperftition,
and introduced among their fubjecls the fame forms of
religious worftup, and the fame iyilem of dodrine, that
had been received in Saxony. Others, though placed
in fuch circumftances as difcouraged them from aiding
in an open manner againft the interefts of the Roman
pontiff, were, however, far from difcovering the fmalleft
oppofition to thofe who withdrew the people from his
defpotic yoke j nor did they moleft the private affem-
blies of thofe who had feparated themfelves from the
church of Rome. And in general, all the Germans
who, before thefe refolutions oi the diet of Spire, had
rejedled the papal difcipline and dodhine, were now, in
consequence of the liberty they enjoyed, wholly employ¬
ed in bringing their fchemes and plans to a certain de¬
gree of confidence, and in adding vigour and firmnefs
to the caufe in which they were engaged. But this
tranquillity and liberty was of no long duration. In
1529, a new diet was affembled at the fame place by
the emperor, after he had quieted the troubles in vari¬
ous parts of his dominions, and concluded a peace with
the pope. The power which had been granted to prin-^
ces of managing eccleiiaftical affairs till the meeting of
j a general council, was now revoked by a majority of
by the em- votes ; and every change declared unlawful that Ihould
peior. be introduced into the dodlrine, ddcipline, or worthqr
of the eftablilhed religion, before the determination of
the approaching council was known. This decree was
conlidered as iniquitous - and intolerable by the eleflor
of Saxony, the landgrave of Heffe, and other members
of the diet, who were perfuaded of the neceffity of a
reformation. The promife of fpeedily affembling a ge¬
neral council, they looked upon to be an artifice of the
church of Rome j well knowing, that a free and lawful
council would be the laft thing to which the pope would
confent. When, therefore, they found that all their
arguments and remonftrances made no impreffion upon
Ferdinand the emperor’s brother, who prefided in the
diet, Charles himfelf being then at Barcelona, they en¬
tered a folemn proteff againft this decree on the 19th
of April, and appealed to the emperor and a future
council. Hence arofe the denomination of Protefiants,
which from this period has been given to thofe who fe-
Ofisin of paratedfrom the communion of the church of Rome,
the name The princes of the empire who entered this proteft, were
troteJlants.jQ^ elector of Saxony*, George ele&or of Branden¬
burg • £ inert and Francis dukes of Lunenburg ; _ the
landgrave of Heffe ; and the prince of Anhalt. Thefe
-were fecondcd by 13 imperial towns, viz. Strafburg,
Ulm, Nuremberg, Conftance, Rottengen, Wmdfeim,
Memmingen, Nortlingen, Lindaw, Kempton, aaeilbion,
Wiffemburg, and St Gall.
The difientinsj princes, who were the proteftors and
heads of the reformed churches, had'no fooner entered
their proteft, than they fent proper rerfons to the em¬
peror, who was then upon his pafiage Bom Spain to
Italy, to acquaint him with them proceedings m this
matter. The minifters employed in this commiflion ex¬
ecuted it with the greateft intrepidity, and prefence of
mind; but the emperor, exafperated at the audacity of
thore who prefumed to differ from him, caufed the am-
bafladors to be arreiled. The news of this violent ftep
made the Proteftant princes conclude, that their per-
Refurma-
tion.
fonal lately, and the fuccefs of their caufe, depended en¬
tirely upon their own courage and union. They de¬
termined, therefore, to enter into a folemn confederacy :
for which purpofe they held feveral meetings at Rot,
Nuremberg, Smalcald, and other places: but fo different
were their opinions and views, that they could determine
upon nothing. I2
One great obftacle to the intended confederacy was conference
the difpute which had arifen between Luther and Zuin- between
giius concerning the real prefence of Chrift in the Luther and
Lord’s Supper. To terminate this difpute, if polfible, Zmns'iui”
Philip, landgrave of Heffe, invited, in the year 1529, to
a conference at Marpurg, Luther and ZuingUus, toge¬
ther with feveral other of the more eminent doctors who
adhered to the refpeftive parties of thefe contending
chiefs : but this measure was not attended with the fa-
lutary effects which were expedled from it. The divines
difputed for four days in prefence of the landgrave. Lu¬
ther attacked Oecolampadius, and Zuinglius was attack¬
ed by Melandthon. Zuinglius was accuied of he rely,
not only on account of his explanation of the nature and
deftgn of the Lord’s Supper, but alfo in confequence
of the falfe notions he was fuppofed to have adopted
concerning the divinity of Chrift, the efficacy of the
divine word, original fin, and fome other parts of the
Chriftian doiftrine. This illuftrious reformer, however,
cleared himfelf from the greateft part of thefe charges
with the moft triumphant evidence, and in fuch a man¬
ner as appeared fatisfa&ory even to Luther himfelf: but
their diffenfion concerning the manner of Chrift’s pre¬
fence in the eueharift ftill remained } nor could cither
of the contending parties be perluaded to abandon, or
even to modify, their opinions on that matter. The
only advantage, therefore, which refuked from the
meeting was, that the jarring dodlors formed a kind of
truce, by agreeing to a mutual toleration of their fenti-
ments, and leaving to the difpofal of Providence the cure
of their diviftons.
In the mean time news were received that the em¬
peror defigned to come into Germany, with a view to
terminate all religious differences at the approaching diet
of Augfburg. Having forefeen fome of the confequen-
ces of thofe difputes, and, befides, taken the advice of
men of wifdom, fagacity, and experience, he became at
certain times more cool in Ills proceedings, and more
impartial in his opinions both of the contending par¬
ties and the merits of the caufe. He, therefore, in
an interview with the pope at Bologna, infilled, in
the moft ferious and urgent manner, on the neceffity
of a general council. His remonftrances and expo-
ftulations, however, could not move the pontiff 5 who
maintained with zeal the papal prerogatives, reproached
the emperor wTith an ill-judged clemency, and alleged
that it was the duty of that prince to fupport the church,
and to execute fpeedy vengeance upon that obftinate
heretical failion who dared to call in quefticn the au¬
thority of Rome and its pontiff. To this difeourfe the
emperor paid no regard ; looking upon it as a moft ini¬
quitous thing, and a meafure diredlly oppoute to the
lawrs of the empire, to condemn unheard a fet of men
wffio had always approved themfelves good citizens, and ^
deferved wrell of their country in feveial refpefts. Hi-Origin of
therto indeed it was not eafy for the emperor to form a the confef-
clear idea of the matters in debate, fince there was .
4 Qi 2 regular ^
REF [ 676 ] REF
Reforma- regular fyftem as yet compofed, by which it might be
. known with certainty what were the true caufes of Lu¬
ther’s oppofition to the pope. The eledtor of Saxony,
therefore, ordered Luther, and other eminent divines,
to commit to writing the chief articles of their religious
fyftem, and the principal points in which they diftered
from the church of Rome. Luther, in compliance with
this order, delivered to the eledfor at Torgaw 17 arti¬
cles which had been agreed upon in a conference at
Sultzbach in 1529 j from whence thefe received the
name of the articles of Torgaw. But though thefe were
deemed by Luther a fufficient declaration of the fenti-
ments of the reformers, yet it was judged proper to en¬
large them, in order to give perfpicuity to their argu¬
ments, and itrength to their caufe. In this work Me-
landthon was employed ; in w'hich he Ihowed a proper
deference to the counlels of Luther, and expreffed his
fentiments and dodtrine with the greateft elegance and
perfpicuity $ and thus came forth to view the famous Con-
fejjion of Augsburg.
On the 15th of June 1530, Charles arrived at Augf-
burg, and the diet was opened five days after. The
Proteftants received a formal permiflion to prefent an
account of their tenets to the diet on the 25th of the
fame month ; in confequence of which, at the time ap¬
pointed, Chriitian Bayer, chancellor of Saxony, read,
in the German language, before the emperor and the
princes affembled, the confeflion of Augfburg above-
mentioned. It contained 28 chapters, of w'hich 21
were employed in reprefenting the religious opinions of
the Proteftants, and the other feven in pointing out the
errors and fuperftitions of the church of Rome. The
princes heard it with the deepeft attention and recollec¬
tion of mind : it confirmed fome in the principles they
had embraced ; furprifed others : and many, who be¬
fore this time had little or no idea of the religious fen¬
timents of Luther, were now not only convinced of their
14 innocence, but delighted with their purity and fimplici-
fentedto ^ C0P5es of this Confeflion, w'hich after being
the empe- rea<^ were delivered to the emperor, were figned by John
ror. elector of Saxony, George marquis of Brandenburg, Er-
neft duke of Lunenburg, Philip landgrave of Hefle,
Wolfgang prince of Anhalt, and by the imperial cities
15 of Nuremburg and Reutlingen.
A retuta- The creatures of the church of Rome who were pre-
inwhich’ ^ent ^ c^et empl°yed John Faber, afterwards biftiop
the Prote- of Vienna> together with Eckius, and another doftor
ftants are named Cock/ants, to draw up a refutation of the Protef-
ordered to tant confeflion : which refutation having been publicly
acquiefce. read9 the emperor required the Proteftant members to
acquiefce in it, and put an end to the religious difputes
by an unlimited fubmiflion to the opinions and do&rmes
contained in this anfwer. But this demand was far from
being complied with. The Proteftants declared on the
contrary, that they were by no means fatisfied with the
reply of their adverfaries ; and earneftly defired a copy
of it, that they might more fully demonftrate its extreme
infufficiency and weaknefs. But this reafonable requeft
was refufed by the emperor 5 who interpofed his fupreme
authority to prevent any farther proceedings in this mat¬
ter, and folemnly prohibited the publication of any new
writings or declarations that might contribute to length¬
en out thefe religious debates. This, however, did not
reduce the Proteftants to filence. The divines of that
communion, who had been prefent at the diet, endea- Reforma*
vouredj.o recoiled! the arguments and objedtions employ- t*011,
ed by Faber, and had again recourfe to the pen of Me-
landthon, who refuted them in an ample and fatisfadlory
manner, in a piece which was prefented to the emperor
on the 2 2d of September, but which Charles refufed to
receive. This anfwer was afterwards enlarged by Me-
landthon, when he had obtained a copy of Faber’s replyj
and was publiftied in the year 1531, with the other pie¬
ces that related to the dodtrine and difcipline of the Lu¬
theran church, under the title of A Defence of the Con-
fcffion of Augsburg.
Matters now began to draw towards a crifis. There
were only three ways of bringing to a conclufion thefe
religious differences. 1. To grant the Proteftants a
toleration and privilege of ferving God as they thought
proper : 2. To compel them to return to the church of
Rome by the violent methods of perfecution: or, 3.
1 hat a recopciliation ftiould be made, upon fair, candid,
and equitable terms, by engaging each of the parties to
temper their zeal with moderation, to abate reciprocally
the rigour of their pretenfions, and remit fomething of
their refpedtive claims. I he third expedient was moft
generally approved of, being peculiarly agreeable to all
who had at heart the welfare of the empire; nor did the
pope leem to look upon it either with averfion or con¬
tempt. Various conferences therefore were held between
perlons eminent for piety and learning on both fides $
and nothing was omitted that might have the leaf! ten¬
dency to calm the animofitics’ and heal the divifions
which reigned between thevcontending parties. But the
differences were too great to admit of a reconciliation ;
and therefore the votaries of Rome had recourfe to the
powerful arguments of imperial edids, and the force of
the fecular arm. On the 19th of November, a fevere Seve*e6(I
decree was iffued out by the exprefs order of the emper- creTagaita
or (during the abfence of the Heftian and Saxon princes, Prote-
who were the chief fupporters of the Proteftant caufe),ftants*
in which every thing was manifeftly adapted to dejed!
the friends of religious liberty, excepting only a faint and
dubious promife of engaging the pope to affemble a ge¬
neral council about fix months after the feparation of the
diet. In this decree the dignity and excellence of the
Popifh religion were extolled beyond meafure, a new
degree of leverity and force was added to that which had
been publilhed at Worms againft Luther and his adher¬
ents, the changes wdiich had been introduced into the
dodlrine and difcipline of the Proteftant churches were
feverely cenfured, and a folemn order was addrefled to
the princes, cities, and ftates, who had thrown off the
Papal yoke, to return to their allegiance to Rome, on
pain of incurring the indignation and vengeance of the
emperor as the patron and protedor of the church. Of
this formidable decree the elector of Saxony and confe¬
derated princes were no fooner informed than they af¬
fembled in order to deliberate on the meafures proper to
be taken in fuch a crifis, In the years 1530 and 1 cai lf
they met, firft at Smalcald, and afterwards at Francfort,SsmalF**
where they formed a folemn alliance and confederacy, calcL
with the intention of defending vigoroufly their religion
and liberties againft the dangers and encroachments with
which they were threatened by the edift of Augfburg,
without attempting, however, any thing offenfive again!!
the votaries of Rome j and into this confederacy they in¬
vited
REF [ 677 ] REF
Reforma- vited the kings of England, France, Denmark, &c.
tion. leaving no means unemployed that might corroborate and
» cement this important alliance.
This confederacy was at firft oppofed by Luther,
from an apprehenfion of the calamities and troubles which
it might produce 5 but at laft, perceiving the neceffity of
it, he confented 5 though he uncharitably, as well as im¬
prudently, refuted to comprehend in it the followers of
Zuinglius among the Swifs, together with the German
jS ftates and cities who had adopted the fentiments and con-
invitation feflion of Bucer. In the invitation addrefled to Henry VIII.
to Hen- 0f England, whom the confederate princes were willing
r °f to declare thehead and Prote&or of their leagufi thefo1'
England. jowjng t^}ngSj am0ng others, were exprefsly ftipulated :
That the king (hould encourage, promote, and maintain,
the true doftrine of Chrift as it was contained in the con-
feflron of Augfburg, and defend the fame at the next
general council : that he {hould not agree to any council
fummoned by the bilhop of Rome, but proteft againft it •,
and neither fubmit to its decrees, nor fuffer them to be
refpe&ed in his dominions : that he {hould never allow the
Roman pontiff to have any pre-eminence or jurifdiftion
in his dominions; that he {hould advance x 00,000 crowns
for the ufe of the confederacy, and double that fum if it
became necelfary : all which articles the confederate
princes were equally obliged to obferve on their part.
To thefe demands the king replied, that he would main¬
tain and promote the true do&rine of Chrift j but, at the
fame time, as the true ground of that doftrine lay only
in the holy Scriptures, he would not accept at any one’s
hand what {hould be his own faith, or that of his king¬
dom ; and therefore defired that they would fend over
two learned men to confer with him, in order to promote
a religious union between him and the confederates.
However, he declared himfelf of their opinion with re¬
gard to the meeting of a free general council, and pro-
mifed to join with them in all fuch councils for the de¬
fence of the true do&rine ; but thought the regulation
of the ceremonial part of religion, being a matter of in¬
difference, ought to be left to the choice of each fo-
vereign for his own dominions. After this the. king
gave them a fecond anfwer more full and fatisfaffoiy}
but after the execution of Queen Anne, this negotiation
came to nothing. On the one hand, the king grew
cold when he perceived that the confederates were no
longer of ufe to him in fupporting the validity of his
marriage j and, on the other hand, the German princes
became fenfible that they could never fucceed with Hen¬
ry unlefs they allowed him an abfolute diaatorlhip in
matters of religion.
While every thing thus tended to an open war be¬
tween the two oppofite parties, the ele&or Palatine, and
the ele&or of Mentz, offered their mediation, and en¬
deavoured to procure a reconciliation. . T-he emperor
himfelf, for various reafons, was at this tinie inclined to
peace : for, on the one hand, he flood in need of fuc-
cours againft the Turks, which the Proteftant princes
refufed to grant as long as the edidls of Worms and
Augfhurg remained in force *, and, on the. other, t e
election of his brother Ferdinand to the dignity of king
of the Romans, which had been carried by a majority of
votes at the diet of Cologne in 1631, was by the fame
princes contefted, as being contrary to the fundamental
Iaws of the empire. In confequence of all this after
many negotiations and proje&s of reconciliation, a treaty
of peace was concluded at Nuremberg in I532> between Reforms-*
the emperor and the Proteftant princes, on the following u°n- „
conditions 5 vi%. That the latter {hould furnifti a fubfidy
for carrying on the war againft the Turks, and acknow-peaCe 0f
ledge Ferdinand lawful king of the Romans j and that Nuremberg
the emperor on his part {hould abrogate and annul the concluded,
edifts of Worms and Auglburg, and allow the Lu¬
therans the free and undilturbed exercife of their re¬
ligious dodlrine and difeipline, until a rule of faith was
fixed either in the free general council that was to be af-
fembled in the fpace of fix months, or in a diet of the
empire.
Soon after the conclufion of the peace at Nuremberg
died John eledtor of Saxony, who was fucceeded by his
fon John Frederic, a prince of invincible fortitude and
magnanimity, but whole reign was little better than one
continued train of difappointments and calamities. 1 he
religious truce, however, gave new vigour to the refor¬
mation. Thofe who had hitherto been only fecret ene¬
mies to the Roman pontiff, now publicly threw off his
* yoke ; and various cities and provinces of Germany en-
lifted themfelves under the religious ftandards of Luther.
On the other hand, as the emperor had now no other
hope of terminating the religious difputes. but by the
meeting of a general council, he repeated his requefts to ao
the pope for that purpofe. The pontiff (Clement VII.), A general
whom the hiftory of paft councils filled with the greateft c°^ndal Pr0"
uneafinefs, endeavoured to retard what he could not withp0 e
decency refufe. At laft, in 1533, he made a propofal
by his legate to affemble a council at Mantua, Placen¬
tia, or Bologna •, but the Proteftants refufed their confent
to the nomination of an Italian council, and infilled that
a controverfy which had its rife in the heart of Germany,
{hould be determined within the limits of the empire.
The pope, by his ufual artifices, eluded the performance
of his own promife 5 and, in 1534’ was cu*- by death,
in the midft of his ftratagems. His fucceffor Paul III.
feemed to {how lefs reluctance to the affembling a gene¬
ral council, and in the year 1535 expreffed his inclination
to convoke one at Mantua j and, the year following,
actually fent circular letters for that purpofe through all
the ftates and kingdoms under his juriididlion. 1 his coun¬
cil was fummoned by a bull iffued out on the 2d of June
1536, to meet at Mantua the following year: but feveral
obftacles prevented its meeting*, one of the moft material
of which was, that Frederic duke of Mantua had no in¬
clination to receive at once fo many guefts, fome of them
very turbulent, into the place of his refidence. On the
other hand, the Proteftants were firmly perluaded that,
as the council was affembled in Italy, and by the autho¬
rity of the pope alone, the latter mult have had an undue
influence in that affembly } of confequence, that all
things muft have been carried by the votaries of Rome. jj
For this-reafon they affembled at Smalcald in the year Protefta- ^
1537, where they folemnly protefted againft this partialagainK
and corrupt council, and, at the fame time, had a
new fummary of their doRrine drawn up by Luther,
in order to prefent it to the affembled bilhops if it
{hould be required of them. T his fummary, which
had the title of The Articles of Smalcald, is commonly
joined with the creeds and confeflions of the Lutheian
church. 22
After the meeting of the general council in Mantua Fruitlefs
was thus prevented, many fchemes of accommodation fcheir.esof
were propofed both by the emperor and the Proteftan^j
43
Council of
Trent pro-
pofed.
24
Plan of re¬
formation
propofed
by the
^ope.
R E F f 0
but, by the artifices of the church of Koine, all of them
came to nothing. In 1541, the emperor appointed a
conference at Worms on the lubjcft of religion, between
perfons of piety and learning cholen from the contending
parties. This conference, however, was, for certain
reafons, removed to the diet which was to be held at
Ratifbon that fame year, and in which the principal fub-
jecit of deliberat ion was a memorial prefen ted by a perfon
unknown, containing a project of peace. But the con¬
ference produced no other effeft than a mutual agree¬
ment of the contending parties to refer their matters to
a general council, or, if the meeting of fuch a council
ihould be prevented, to the next German diet.
This refolution was rendered ineffeftual by a variety
of incidents, which widened the breach, and put off to
a farther day the deliberations which were deligned to
heal it. The pope ordered his legate to declare to the
diet of Spire, affembled in 1542, that he would, ac¬
cording to the promife he had already made, aflemble a
general council, and that Trent ffiould be the place of
■ its meeting, if the diet had no objection to that city.
Ferdinand, and the princes who adhered to the caufe of
the pope, gave their confent to this propofal •, but it was
vehemently objected to by the Proteftants, both becaufe
the council was fummoned by the authority of the pope
only, and alfo becaufe the place was within the jurifdic-
tion of the pope ; whereas they delired a free council,
which ftiould not be biaffed by the di&ates, nor awed
by the proximity, of the pontiff". But this proteftation
produced no effea.. Paul III. perfifted in his purpofe,
and iffued out his circular letters for the convocation of
the council, with the approbation of the emperor. In
juftice to this pontiff, however, it muff be obferred,
that he ffrowed himfelf not to be avcrfe to every refor¬
mation. lie appointed four cardinals, and three other
perfons eminent for their learning, to draw up a plan
for the reformation of the church in general, and of the
church of Rome in particular. I he reformation propo¬
fed in this plan was indeed extremely fuperficial and par¬
tial, yet it contained feme particulars which could fcarce-
ly have been expe&ed from thofe who compofed it.
They complained of the pride and ignorance of the bi-
fhops, and propofed that none fhould receive orders but
learned and pious men 5 and that therefore care ffiould
be taken to have proper mailers for the inltru&ion of
youth. 'J hey condemned tranffations from one benefice
to another, grants of refervation, non refidence, and
pluralities. They propofed that fome convents fhould
be abolilhed ; that the liberty of the prefs fhould be re-
ftrained and limited j that the colloquies of Erafmus
fnould be fuppreffed j that no ecclefiafiic fhould enjoy a
benefice out of his own country •, that no cardinal fhould
have a biffiopric 5 that the queftors of St Anthony and
icveral other faints fhould be aboliffied ; and, which was
tue beft of all their propofals, that the effeffs and perfo-
nal eftates of ecclefiakics fhould be given to the poor.
They concluded with complaining of the prodigious
number of indigent and ragged priefts who ftequented
St Peter’s church ; and declared, that it was a ^feat
Icandal to fee the whores lodged fo magnificently at
Romq, and riding through the. ftreets on fine mules,
while the cardinals and other ecclefiaflics accompanied
•8 ]
R E F
mius j and indeed it left unredrefled the moft intolerable Reforma¬
tion.
them m the moft courteous manner.—This plan of re¬
formation was turned into ridicule by Luther and Stur-
grievances of which the Proteftants complained.
All this time the emperor had been labouring to per- v—
fuade the Proteftants to confent to the meeting of the Wa/bL
council at Trent 5 but when he found them fixed in their tween the
oppofition to this meafure, he began to liften to the fan-ernt!eror
gtlinary meafures of the pope, and refolved to terminate ar‘d tne
the difputes by force of arms. The elector of Saxonyi,K>tClatntS*
and landgrave of HeiTe, who were the chief fupporters
of the Proteftant caufe, upon this took proper meafures
to prevent their being furprifed and overwhelmed by a
fuperior force ; but, before the horrors of war com¬
menced, the great reformer Luther died in peace at
Ayfelben, the place of his nativity, in J546.
The emperor and the pope had mutually refolved on
the deftruftion of all who fhould dare to oppofe the
council of Trent. The meeting of it was to ferve as a
fignal for taking up arms j and accordingly its delibera¬
tions were fcaicely begun in 1546, when the Proteftants
perceived undoubted figns of the approaching ftonn, and
a formidable union betwixt the emperor and pope, which
threatened to crulh and overwhelm them at once. This
year indeed there had been a new conference at Ptatif-
bon upon the old fubjeft of accommodating differences
in religion ; but from the manner in which the debates
were carried on, it plainly appeared that thefe differen¬
ces could only be decided in the field of battle. The
council of Trent, in the mean time, promulgated their
decrees; while the reformed princes, in the diet of Ra¬
tifbon, protefted againft their authority, and were on
that account proferibed by thp emperor, who raifed an
army to reduce to them to obedience. See Father
Paul's Hi/lory of the Council of Trent, and our articles
Father Paul, and Trent.
The eltflor of Saxony and the landgrave of Heffe led
their forces into Bavaria againft the emperor, and can¬
nonaded his camp at Ingoliladt. It was fuppofed that
this would bring on an engagement, which would pro¬
bably have been advantageous to the caufe of the re¬
formed ; but this was prevented, chiefly by the perfidy
of Maurice duke of Saxony, who invaded the dominions
of his uncle. Divifions were alio fomented among the
confederate princes, by the diflimulation of the empe¬
ror ; and France failed in paying the fubfidy which had
been promifed by its monarch : all which fo difeouraged
the heads of the Proteftant party, that their armv foon
difperfed, and the eleftor of Saxony was obliged to di-
redl his march homewards. But he was purfued by the
emperor, who made feveral forced marches, with a view
to deftroy his enemy before he fhould have time to reco- ^
ver his vigour. The two armies met near Mulberg, on Efedlor of
the Elbe, on the 24th of April 15475 and, after a Saxony de-
bloody affion, the elector was entirely defeated, and^eate'^ ai!(l
himfelf taken prifoner.'—Maurice, who had fo bafely be-r-a^cn l31'"
trayed him, was now declared elector of Saxony 5 and °nU?"
by his mtreatics Philip landgrave of Heffe, the other
chief of the Proteftants, was perfuaded to throw himfelf
on the mercy of the emperor, and to imploie his pardon.
To this he confented, relying on the promife of Charles
for obtaining forgivenefs, and being reftored to liberty 5
but, notwithftanding tbefe expe&ations, he was unjuftly
detained prifoner, by a fcandalous violation of the'reoft
foleron convention. It is faid tha: >he emperor retrac¬
ed his promife, and deluded this unhappy prince by the
ambiguity
Rsfbtrrsa-
27
The coun¬
cil fudden-
ly dillolvcd.
2S
A formula¬
ry drawn
up by the
emperor.
29
Difpleafes
both par¬
ties.
KEF
ambiguity of two German words. Hiftory indeed can
fcarcely afford a parallel to 'the perfidious, rnean-fpirited,
and defpotic behaviour of the emperor in the prelent
cafe. After having received in public the humble
fubmiffion of the prince on liis knees, and after having
fet him at liberty by a folemn treaty, he had him arreft-
ed anew without any reafon, nay, without any pretence,
and kept him clofe prifoner for feveral years. W hen
Maurice remonftrated againft this new confinement, the
emperor anfwered, that he had never promifed that the
landgrave fliould not be imprifoned anew, but only that
he Ihould be exempted from perpetual imprifonment 5
and, to fnpport this affertion, he produced the treaty,
into which his miniffers had perfidioufly foifled ewiger
gefangnis^ which fignifiesa “ perpetual pi ifen,” infleadof
einiger gefatignis, which fignifies “ any prifon.” This,
however, is contefted by fome hiitorians.
The affairs of the Proteflants now feemed to be def-
perate. In the diet of Augfburg, which was foon after
called, the emperor required the Protestants to leave the
decision of thefe religious difputes to the wifdom of the
council which was to meet at Trent. The greatefl part
of the members confented to this propofal, being con¬
vinced by the powerful argument of an imperial army,
which w^as at hand to difpel the darknefs frofn the eyes
of fuch as might otherwife have been blind to the force
of Charles’s reafoning. However, this general fubmif¬
fion did not produce the eftefl which was expedfed from
it. A plague which broke out, or was faid to do fo, in
the city, Caufed the greateft part of the bifhops t© retire
to Bologna 5 by which means the council was in etfedt
diffolved, nor could all the intreaties and remonflrances
of the emperor prevail upon the pope to re-affemble it
without delay. During this interval, therefore, the em¬
peror judged it neceffary to fall upon fome method of ac¬
commodating the religious differences, and maintaining
peace until the council fo long expedled fhould be finally
obtained. W7ith this view he ordered Julius Pelugius,
bifhop of Naumberg, Michael Sidonius, a creature of
the pope, and John Agricola, a native of Ayfelben, to
draw up a formulary which might ferve as a rule of faith
and worfhip, till the council fhould be affembled : but
as this was only a temporary expedient, and had not the
force of a permanent or perpetual inftitution, it thence
#btaineu the name of the Interim.
This projeff of Charles wTas formed partly with a de-
fign to vent his refentment againfl the pope,, and partly
to anfwer other political purpofes. It contained all the
effential doftrines of the church of Rome, though confi-
derably foftened by the artful terms which were employ¬
ed, and which w?ere quite different from thofe employ¬
ed before and after this period by the council of 1 rent.
There wTas even an affefted ambiguity in many of the
expreffions, which made them fufceptible of different
fenfes, and applicable to the fentiments of both commu¬
nions. The ccnfequence of all this was, that the impe¬
rial creed was reprobated by both parties. However, it
wras promulgated with great folemnity by the emperor
at Augfburg. The eleftor of Mentz, without even afk-
ing the opinion of the princes prefent, gave a fanefion
to this formula, as if he had been commlffioned to repre-
fent the whole diet. Many kept filence through fear,
and that filence was interpreted as a tacit confent. Some
had the courage to oppofe it, and thefe were reduced by
force of arms} and the mofl deplorable feenes of blood-
R E F
fr.ed and violence were acted throughout the whole em- Ueforma-
pire. Maurice, elector of Saxony, who had hitherto ,
kept neutral, now affembled the whole of his nobility
and clergy, in order to deliberate on this critical affair. 3®
At the head of the latter was Melan£thon, whofe word^iemej.0i
wras refpedted as a law among the Proteftants. But this lioil‘j3y
man had not the courage of Luther \ and was therefore Melanc-
on all occafions ready to make concefiions, and to pro-thou,
pole fchemes of accommodation. In the prefent cafe,
therefore, he gave it as his opinion, that the whole of
the book called Interim could not by any means be
adopted by the Proteftants ; but at the fame time he de¬
clared, that he faw no reafon why this book might not be
approved, adopted, and received, as an aiUhoritative
rule in things that did not relate to the elfential parts of
religion, and which he accounted indifferent. But this
fcheme, inftead of cementing the differences, made them
w7orfe than ever,; and produced a divifion among
the Proteftants themfelves, which might have over¬
thrown the Reformation entirely, if the emperor and
pope had feized the opportunity. -j
In the year 1549, the pope (Paul III.) died; and A new
was fucceeded by Julius III. who, at the repeated iolrei-Pr°J
tations of the emperor, confented to the re-affembling of j'hi r
a council at Trent. A diet was again held at Augf- " "
burg under the cannon of an imperial army, and Charles
laid the matter before the princes of the empire. Mofl
of thofe prefent gave their confent to it, and among the
reft Maurice elector of Saxony ; who confented on the
following conditions: 1. That the points of do&rine
which had already been decided there, fhould be re-exa ¬
mined. 2. That this examination fhould be made in
prefence of the Proteftant divines. 3. That the Saxon
Proteftants fhould have a lib&rty of voting as well as of
deliberating in the council. 4. That the pope fhould
not pretend to prefide in that affembly, either in perfon
or by his legates. This declaration of Maurice w7as
read in the diet, and his deputies infifted upon its being
entered into the regifters which the archbifhopof Mentz
obftinately refufed. The diet was concluded in the
year 1551 ; and, at its breaking up, the emperor deft-
red the affembled princes and flates to prepare all things
for the approaching council, and promifed to ufe his ut-
moft endeavours to procure moderation and harmony,
impartiality and charity, in the Iranfa£lions of that af¬
fembly.
On the breaking up of the diet, the Proteftanls took
fuch fleps as they thought moft proper for their own
fafety. The Saxons employed Melamfthon, and the
Mfortembergers Brengius, to draw up Confeilions of
Faith to be laid before the new council. The Saxon di¬
vines, however, proceeded no farther than Nuremberg,
having received fecret orders from Maurice to flop
there : For the elettor, perceiving that Charles had
formed defigns againft the liberties of the German
princes, refolved to take the moft effeftual meafures for
crufhing his ambition at once. He therefore entered
with the utmoft fecrecy and expedition into an alliance
with the king of France, and feveral of the German ^
princes, for the fecurity of the rights and liberties of The empe-
the empire; after which, affembling a pow-erful army ror fs Tur¬
in 1552, he marched againft the emperor, who lay withPr,-eJ>aml
a handful of troops at Infpruck, and expected no fuch ^ a
thing. By this fuddert and unforefeen accident Charles the eJedtor
was fo much difpirited, that he was walling to make of Sasony.
peace
[ 679 1
REF f 680 ] REF
Reforma- peace almoft on any terms. The confequence of this
. tum‘ was, that he concluded a treaty at Paffau, which by
the Proteftants is confidered as the bails of their religious
liberty. By the firft three articles of this treaty it was
agreed, that Maurice and the confederates fliould lay
down their arms, and lend their troops to Ferdinand to
aflift him againft the Turks •, and that the landgrave of
Heffe ihould be fet at liberty. By the fourth it was
agreed, that the Rule of Faith called the Interim ihould
be coniidered as null and void : that the contending par¬
ties ihould enjoy the free and undiilurbed exercife of
their religion, until a diet ihould be aflembled to deter¬
mine amicably the prefent difputes (which diet was to
meet in the fpace of fix months) ; and that this religious
liberty ihould continue always, in cafe it ihould be
found impoffible to come to an uniformity in doftrine
and worihip. It was alfo determined, that all thofe
who had fuffered baniihment, or any other calamity, on
account of their having been concerned in the league or
war of Smalcald, ihould be reinftated in their privileges,
pofleflions, and employments; that the imperial cham¬
ber at Spire ihould be open to the Proteftants as well as
to the Catholics ; and that there ihould always be a cer¬
tain number of Lutherans in that high court.—To this
peace Albert, marquis of Brandenburg, refufed to fub-
fcribe ; and continued the war againil the Roman Ca¬
tholics, committing fuch ravages in the empire, that a
confederacy was at laft formed againft him. At the
head of this confederacy was Maurice eleftor of Saxony,
wdio died of a wound he received in a battle fought on
the occafion in 1553.
The affembling of the diet promifed by Charles was
prevented by various incidents j however, it met at
Augfburg in 1555, where it was opened by Ferdinand
in name of the emperor, and terminated thole deplorable
calamities which had fo long defolated the empire. Af-
^ ter various debates, the following a£ts were pafled, on
Treaty of the 25th of September : That the Proteftants who fol-
Augfburg. lowed the Confeflion of Augfburg fhould be for the fu¬
ture confidered as entirely free from the jurifdiftion of
the Roman pontiff, and from the authority and fuperin-
tendance of the bifhops ; that they were left at perfedl
liberty to ena£t laws for themfelves relating to their re¬
ligious fentiments, difcipline, and worfhip ; that all the
inhabitants of the German empire fhould be allowed to
judge for themfelves in religious matters, and to join
themfelves to that church whofe dodtrine and worfhip
they thought the moft pure and confonant to the fpirit
of true Chriftianity 5 and that all thofe who fhould in¬
jure or perfecute any perfon under religious pretences,
and on account of their opinions, ftiould be declared and
proceeded againft as public enemies of the empire, inva¬
ders of its liberty, and difturbers of its peace.
Thus was the Reformation eftablifhed in many parts
of the German empire, where it continues to this day *,
»or have the efforts of the Popifh powers at any time
been able to fupprefs it, or even to prevent it from gain-
Account of ing ground. It was not, however, in Germany alone
the Refer- that a reformation of religion took place. Almoft all
mation in the kingdoms of Europe began to open their eyes to the
Sweden. truth about the fame time. The reformed religion was
> propagated in Sweden, foon after Luther’s rupture with
the church of Rome, by one of his difciples named Olaus
Petri. The zealous efforts of this miflionary were fe-
conded by Guftavus Vafa, whom the Swedes had raifed
4
to the throne in place of Chriftiern king of Denmark, Reforma-
whofe horrid barbarity loft him the crown. This prince) d°n*
however, was as prudent as he was zealous j and, as the “
minds of the Swedes were in a flu&uating ftate, he wife¬
ly avoided all kind of vehemence and precipitation in
fpreading the new dodrine. Accordingly, the firft ob-
jed of his attention was the inftrudion of his people in
the facred dodrines of the Holy Scriptures ; for which
purpofe he invited into his dominions feveral learned
Germans, and Ipread abroad through the kingdom the
Swedith tranflation of the Bible that had been made by
Olaus Petri. Some time after this, in 1526, he ap¬
pointed a conference at Upfal, between this reformer
and Peter Gallius, a zealous defender of the ancient fu-
perftition, in which each of the champions was to bring
forth his arguments, that it might be feen on which
fide the truth lay. In this difpute Olaus obtained a fig-
nal vidory j which contributed much to confirm Gufla-
vus in his perfuafion of the truth of Luther’s dodrine,
and to promote its progrefs in Sweden. The following
year another event gave the finithing ftroke to its propa¬
gation and fuccefs. This was the affembly of the ftates
at Wefteraas, where Guftavus recommended the doc¬
trine of the reformers with fuch zeal, that, after warm
debates fomented by the clergy in general, it was una-
nimoufly refolved that the reformation introduced by
Luther ftiould have place in Sweden. This refolution
was principally owing to the firmnefs and magnanimity
of Guftavus, who declared publicly, that he would lay
down the feeptre and retire from the kingdom, rather
than rule a people enflaved by the orders and authority
of the pope, and more controuled by the tyranny of
their biftiops than by the laws of their monarch. From
this time the papal empire in Sweden wras entirely over¬
thrown, and Guftavus declared head of the church.
In Denmark, the refonnation was introduced as early jn Den-
as the year 1521, in confequence of the ardent defire mark.
difeovered by Chriftiern II. of having his fubjedts in-
ftrufted in the dodtrines of Luther. This monarch,
notwithftanding his cruelty, for which his name has
been rendered odious, was neverthelefs defirous of deli¬
vering his dominions from the tyranny of the church of
Rome. For this purpofe, in the year 1520, he fent for
Martin Reinard, one of the difciples of Carloftadt, out
of Saxony, and appointed him profeffor of divinity at
Hafniaj and after his death, which happened in 1521,
he invited Carloftadt himfelf to fill that important place.
Carloftadt accepted of this office indeed, but in a thort
time returned to Germany; upon which Chriftiern ufed
his utmoft endeavours to engage Luther to vifit his do¬
minions, but in vain. However, the progrefs of Chrif¬
tiern, in reforming the religion of his fubjedts, or rather
of advancing his own power above that of the church,
was checked, in the year 1523, by a confpiracy, by
which he was depofed and baniftied •, his uncle Frede¬
ric, duke of Holftein and Slefwic, being appointed his
fucceffor.
Frederic condudted the reformation with much great¬
er prudence than his predeceffor. He permitted the
Proteftant dodtors to preach publicly the fentiments of
Luther, but did not venture to change tfe eftablifhed
government and difcipline of the church. However,
he contributed gneatly to the progrefs of the reforma¬
tion, by his fuccefsful attempts in favour of religious
liberty in an affembly of the ftates held at Odenfee in
I527*
3 6
In France.
* See Hz'
gi'enots.
REF [ 681 ]
1527- Here lie procured the publication of a famous contempt
editt, by which every fubjecl of Denmark was declared
free either to adhere to the tenets of the church of Rome,
or to the doftrine of Luther. The papal tyranny was
totally delfroyed by his fucceffor Chriftiern III. He
began by fuppreflxng the defpotic authority of the bi-
lliops, and reftoring to their lawful owners a great part
of the wealth and pofTefiions which the church had ac¬
quired by various llratagems. This was followed by a
plan of religious dotlrine, worlhip, and difcipline, laid
down by Bugenhagius, whom the king had fent for from
Wittemberg for that purpofe ; and in 1539 an aflembly
of the dates at Odenfee gave a folemn landlion to all
thefe tranfaftions.
In France alfo, the reformation began to make fome
progrefs very early. Margaret queen of Navarre, fider
to Francis I. the perpetual rival of Charles V. wTas a
great friend to the new doftrine ; and it appears that, as
early as the year 1523, there were in feveral of the pro¬
vinces of Francs great numbers of people who had con¬
ceived the greated averdon both to the dodrine and ty¬
ranny of the church of Rome } among whom were many
of the fird rank and dignity, and even fome of the epif-
copal order. But as their number increafed daily, and
troubles and commotions were excited in feveral places
on account of the religious differences, the authority of
the king intervened, and many perfons eminent for their
virtue and piety were put to death in the mod barbarous
manner. Indeed Francis, who had either no religion at all,
or, at bed, no fixed and confident fydem of religious prin¬
ciples, conduced himfelf towards the Protedants in fuch
a manner as bed anfwered his private views. Some¬
times he refolved to invite Melanflhon into France, pro¬
bably with a view to pleafe his filler the queen of Na¬
varre, wdrom he loved tenderly, and who had drongly
imbibed the Protedant principles. At other times he
exercifed the mod. infernal cruelty towards the reform¬
ed ; and once made the following mad declaration, That
if he thought the blood in his arm was tainted by the
Lutheran herefy, he would have it cut off; and that
he would not fpare even his own children, if they en¬
tertained fentiments contrary to thofe of the Catholic
church.
About this time the famous Calvin began to draw the
attention of the public, but more efpecially of the queen
of Navarre. His zeal expofed him to danger ; and the
• friends of the reformation, whom Francis was daily com¬
mitting to the flames, placed him more than once in the
mod perilous fituation, from which he was delivered by
the interpofition of the queen of Navarre. He therefore
retired out of France to Bafil in Swifferland ; where he
publilhed his Chridian Inditutions, and became after-
wards fo famous.
Thofe among the French who fird renounced the ju-
xifdiflion of the Romidr church, are commonly called
Lutherans by the writers of thofe early times. Hence
it has been fuppofed that they had all imbibed the pecu¬
liar fentiments of Luther. But this appears by no means
to have been the cafe : for the vicinity of the cities of
Geneva, Laufanne, &c. which had adopted the doc-
trines of Calvin, produced a remarkable effe<R upon the
French Protedant churches ; infomuch that, about the
middle of this century, they all entered into communion
with the church of Geneva. The French Protedants
•were called Huguenots * by their adverfuries, by way of
Vox.. XVII. Part II.
REF
Their fate was very fevere, being perfecuted
with unparalleled fury j and though many princes of the ,
blood, and of the fird nobility, had embraced their fen-
timents, yet in no part of the world did the reformers
luffer fo muchf. At lad all commotions were quelled | gee
by the fortitude and magnanimity of Henry IV. who m France,
the year 1598 granted all his fubjedts full liberty of con- N° 137,
fcience by the famous Edidt of Nantes, and feemed to 'V
have thoroughly edablilhed the reformation throughout
bis dominions. During the minority of Louis XIV.
however, this edibl wras revoked by Cardinal Mazarine,
fince which time the Protedants have often been cruelly
periecuted ; nor was the profeffion of the relormed reli¬
gion in France at any time fo fafe as in mod other coun¬
tries of Europe. ^
In the other parts of Europe the oppofition to the in the Ne-
churclr of Rome was but faint and ambiguous before the therland.%
diet of Augfburg. Before that period, however, it ap-^c*
pears from undoubted teftimony, that the dodfrine of
Luther had made a confiderable, though probably fe-
cret, progrefs through Spain, Hungary, Bohemia, Bri¬
tain, Poland, and the Netherlands ; and had in all thefe
countries many friends, of whom feveral repaired to
Wittemberg, in order to enlarge their knowledge by
means of Luther’s converfation. Some of thefe countries
threw oft’ the Romith yoke entirely, and in others a pro¬
digious number of families embraced the principles of
the reformed religion. It is certain indeed, and fome
Roman Catholics themfelves acknowledge it without he-
litation, that the Papal dodlrines and authority would
have fallen into ruin in all parts of the world at once,
had not the force of the fecular arm been employed to
lupport the tottering edifice. In the Netherlands parti¬
cularly, the moft grievous perfecutions took place, fo
that by the emperor Charles V. upwards of 100,000
were deftroyed, while ftill greater cruelties were exerci¬
fed upon the people by his fon Philip II. The revolt
of the United Provinces, however, and motives of real
policy, at laft put a flop to thefe furious proceedings 5
and, though in many provinces of the Netherlands, the
eftablifhment of the Popilh religion was ftill continued,
the Proteftants have been long free of the danger of per-
fecution on account of their principles. ,3
The reformation made confiderable progrefs in Spain Tn Italy,
and Italy foon after the rupture between Luther and
the Roman pontiff. In all the provinces of Italy,
but more efpecially in the territories of Venice, Tufca-
ny, and Naples, the fuperftition of Rome loft ground,
and great numbers of people of all ranks expreffed an
averfion to the Papal yoke. This occafioned violent
and dangerous commotions in the kingdom of Naples
in the year 1546 ; which, however, were at laft quelled
by the united efforts of Charles V. and his viceroy Don
Pedro di Toledo. In feveral places the pope put a flop
to the progrefs of the reformation, by letting loofe the
inouifitors; who fpread dreadful marks of their barba¬
rity through the greateft part of Italy. Thefe formi¬
dable minifters of fuperftition put fo many to death, and
perpetrated fuch horrid aids of cruelty and oppreffxon,
that moft of the reformed confulted their fafety by a vo¬
luntary exile, while others returned to the religion oi:
Rome, at lead in external appearance. But the inquift •
tion, which frighted into the profeffion of Popery feve¬
ral Proteftants in other parts of Italy, could never make
its way into the kingdom of Naples; nor could either
4 R the
/
REF [ 68
Refortna- the authority or intreaties of the pope engage the Nea-
tion. politans to admit even vifitmg inquifitors.
Spain, feveral people embraced the Proteflant re¬
in Spam, ligion, not only from the ccntroveriies of Luther, but
even from thole divines whom Charles V. had brought
with him into Germany in order to refute the doctrines
of Luther. For thefe doctors imbibed the pretended he-
refy inftead of refuting it, and propagated it more or
iels on their return home. But the inquilition, which
could obtain no footing in Naples, reigned triumphant
in Spain, and by the moft dreadful methods frightened
the people back into Popery, and fuppreiTed the defiie
of exchanging their fuperftition for a more rational plan
of religion. It was indeed prefumed that Charles him-
felf died a Proteftant j and it feems to be certain, that,
when the approach of death had diftipated thofe fchemes
of ambition and grandeur which had fo long blinded
him, his fentiments became much more rational and
agreeable to Chriftianity than they had ever been. All
the ecclefiaftics who had attended him, as foon as he ex¬
pired, were fent to the inquilition, and committed to the
flames, or put to death by fome other method equally
terrible. Such w'as the fate of Augulline Cafal, the
emperor’s preacher j of Conftantius Pontius, his confef-
for j of Egidius, whom he had named to the bilhopric
of Tortofa ^ of Bartholomew de Caranza, a Dominican,
who had been confeffor to King Philip and Queen Ma-
40 17 5 with 20 others of lefs note.
In England. In England, the principles of the reformation began
to be adopted as foon as an account of Luther’s doc¬
trines could be conveyed thither. In that kingdom there
were ftill great remains of the feci called Lo/lards^ whofe
dodlrine refembled that of Luther ; and among whom,
of confequence, the fentiments of our reformer gained
great credit. Henry VIII. king of England at that
time was a violent partifan of the church of Rome, and
had a particular veneration for the writings of Thomas
Aquinas. Being informed that Luther fpoke of his fa¬
vourite author with contempt, he conceived a violent
prejudice againfl the reformer, and even wrote againft
him, as we have already obferved. Luther did not he-
fitate at writing againft his majelly, overcame him in ar¬
gument, and treated him with very little ceremony.
The fir ft ftep towards public reformation, however, was
not taken till the year 1529. Great complaints had
been made in England, and of a very ancient date, of
the ufurpations of the clergy j and by the prevalence of
the Lutheran opinions, thefe complaints were now be¬
come more general than before. The houfe of com¬
mons, finding the occafion favourable, pafled feveral
bills, reftraining the impofitions of the clergy : but what
threatened the ecclefiaftical order with the greateft dan¬
ger were the feve’-e reproaches thrown out alrnoft with¬
out oppofition in the houfe againft the diflfolute lives,
ambition, and avarire of the priefts, and their continual
encroachments on the privileges of the laity. The bills
for regulating the clergy met with oppofition in the
houfe of lords j and Bilhop Fiftier imputed them to want
of faith in the commons, and to a formed defign, pro¬
ceeding from heretical and Lutheran principles, of rob¬
bing the church of her patrimony, and overturning the
national religion. The commons, however, complained
to the king, by their fpeaker Sir Thomas Audley, of
thefe reflexions thrown out againft them ) and the bi¬
shop was obliged to retraX his words,
2 ] REF
Though Henry had net the leall idea of rejeXing Reforma-
any, even of the moft abfurd Romifti fuperftitiohs, yet tlon-
as the oppreflions cf the clergy fuited very ill with the \r“~‘
violence of his own temper, he was plealed with every
opportunity of leflening their power. In the parlia¬
ment of 1531, he ihowed his defign of humbling the
clergy in the moft effeXual manner. An obfolete fta-
tute was revived, from which it w'as pretended that it
was criminal to fubmit to the legatine power which
had been exercifed by Cardinal Wolfey. By this ftroke
the whole body of clergy was declared guilty at once.
They were too well acquainted with Henry’s difpofi-
tion, however, to reply, that their ruin would have
been the certain conlequence of their not fubmitting
to Wolfey’s commiflion, which had been given by royal
authority. Inftead of making any defence of this kind*
they chofe to throw themfelves on the mercy of their
fovereign ; which, however, it coft them 118,840!. to
procure. A confeflion was likewife extorted from
them, that the king was proteXor and fupreme head
of the church of England ; though fbme of them had
the dexterity to get a claufe inferted, which invalidated
the whole fubmiflion, viz. in fo far as is permitted by the
law of Chriji.
The king, having thus begun to reduce the power
of the clergy, kept no bounds with them afterwards.
He did not indeed attempt any leformation in religious
matters ; nay, he perfecuted moft violently fuch as did
attempt this in the lead:. Indeed, the moft effential
article of his creed feems to have been his own fupre-
macy : for whoever denied this, was fure to fuffer the
moft fevere penalties, whether Proteftant or Papift.
But an account of the abfurd and cruel conduX of this
prince, and of his final quarrel with the pope on ac¬
count of his refufing a difpenfation to marry Anne Bo-
leyn, is given under the article Exgland, N° 253—
292.
He died in 1547, and -was fucceeded by his only
fon Edward VI. This amiable prince, whofe early
youth was crowned with that wifdom, fagacity, and vir¬
tue, that would have done honour to advanced years,
gave new fpirit and vigour to the Proteftant caufe, and
was its brighteft ornament, as well as its moft effec¬
tual fupport. He encouraged learned and pious men
of foreign countries to fettle in England, and addref-
fed a particular^ invitation to Martin Bucer and Paul
Fagius, whofe moderation added a luftre to their other
virtues, that, by the miniftry and labours of thefe emi¬
nent men, in concert with thofe of the friends of the
Reformation in England, he might purge his domi¬
nions from the fordid fiXions of popery, and eftablifti
the pure doXrines of Chriftianity in their place. For
this purpofe, he iffued out the wifeft orders for the refto-
ration of true religion j but his reign was too fhort to
accomplifh fully fuch a glorious purpofe. In the year
1553,'he was taken from his loving and affliXed fubjeXs,
whofe forrow was inexpreffible, and fuited to their lofs.
His fitter Mary (the daughter of Catharine of Arragon,
from whom Henry had been feparated by the famous di¬
vorce), a furious bigot to the church of Rome, and a
princefs whofe natural charaXer, like the fpirit of her
religion, was defpotic and cruel, fucceeded him on the
Britiih throne, and impofed anew the arbitrary law's and
the tyrannical yoke of Rome upon the people of Eng¬
land. Nor were the methods flie employed in the caufe
-REF t 683 ] REF
Reforma- of fuperftitlon better than the caufe itfelf, or tempered
tion. by any fentiments of equity or companion. Barbarous
' *  tortures, and death in the moil fliocking forms, ^waited
thofe who oppofed her will, or made the lead hand a-
gainft the reftoration of Popery. And among many
other vkdims, the learned and pious Cranmer, archbi-
fliop of Canterbury, who had been one of the molt illu-
flrious inftruments of the Reformation in England, fell a
facrifice to her fury. This odious fcene of perfecution
was happily concluded in the year 1558, by the death
of the queen, who left no iffue ; and, as loon as her
fucceffor the lady Elizabeth afcended the throne, all
things affumed a new and a pleafing afpeft. This illut-
trious princefs, whofe fentiments, councils, and projeds,
breathed a fpirit fuperior to the natural foftneft and deli¬
cacy of her fex, exerted this vigorous and manly fpirit
in the defence of oppreffed conlcience and expiring li¬
berty, broke anew the defpolic yoke of- Papal authority
and luperltition, and, delivering her people from the
bondage of Rome, eftabliihsd that form of religious doc-
rrine and eccleliaftical government which ilili lublilts in
England. This religious eilablilhment differs, in fome
refpects, from the plan that had been formed by thofe
whom Edward VI. had employed for promoting the
caufe of the Reformation, and approaches nearer to the
rites and difcipline of former times ■, though it is widely
different, and, in the moft important points, entirely
oppofite to the principles of the Roman hierarchy. See
England, N® 293, &c.
41 The caufe of the reformation underwent in Ireland
In Ire1 an • ^ pame v;citTitudes and revolutions that had attended
it in England. When Henry VIII. after the abolition
of the Papal authority, was declared fupreme head upon
earth of the church of England, George Brown, a na¬
tive of England, and a monk of the Auguftine order,
whom that monarch had created, in the year 1535’
archbifhop of Dublin, began to ad with the utmoit
vigour in confequence of this change in the hierarchy.
He purged the churches of his diocefe from fuperiti-
tion in all its various forms, pulled down images, de-
ftroyed relics, abolilhed abfurd and idolatrous rites, and,
by the induence as well as authority he had in Ireland,
caufed the king’s fupremacy to be acknowledged in
that nation. Henry fftowed, foon after, that this fu-
oremacy was not a vain title j for he bamfhed the
monks out of that kingdom, confifcated their revenues,
and deftroyed their convents. In the reign of Edward
VI. ftill farther progrefs was made in the removal of
Popifh fuperftitions, by the zealous labours of Bilhop
Brown, and the aufpicious encouragement he granted
to all who exerted themfelves in the caufe of tne Re¬
formation. But the death of this excellent prince,
and the acceffion of Queen Mary, bad like to have
changed the face of affairs in Ireland as much as in
England j but her defigns were difappointed by a very
curious adventure, of which the following account has
been copied from the papers of Richard earl of Corke.
“ Queen Mary having dealt feverely with the Prote-
, Hants in England, about the latter end of her reign
Curious dif figned a commiflion for to take the fame courfe with
appoint- them in Ireland ; and to execute the fame with greater
ment of a force, fhe nominates Dr Cole one of the commiffioners.
Fopilh doc- rj’jie do£Ior coming, with the commiffion, to Chefter
]andm ^ 011 journe)h t^e raay°r city hearing that her
majefty was fending a meffenger into Ireland, and he
being a churchman, waited on the do£lor, who in dii- Rcforaia-
coutle with the mayor taketh out of a cloke-bag a tU)n' ,
leather box, faying unto him, Here is a commiOion that
jhall lajh the Heretics of Ireland, calling the Proteftants
by that title. The good woman of the houfe being
well affefted to the Proteftant religion, and alfo having
a brother named John Edmonds of the fame perfuafion,
then a citizen in Dublin, was much troubled at the
doctor’s words, but watching her convenient time while
the mayor took his leave, and the doftor complimented
him down the Itairs, fhe opens the box, takes the com¬
miffion out, and places in li<ju thereof a theet of paper
with a pack of cards wrapt up therein, the knave of
clubs being taced uppermoft. The doctor coming up
to his chamber, fliipefting nothing of what had been
done, put up the box as formerly, 'fhe next day go¬
ing to the water-lide, wind and weather ferving him,
he fails towards Ireland, and landed on the 5th of Oc¬
tober 1558 at Dublin. Then coming to the caltle,
the lord Fi:z-Walters being lord-deputy, fent for
him to come before him and the privy-council } who,
coming in, after he had made a fpeech relating upon
what account he came over, he prefents the box unto
the lord-deputy } who caufing it to be opened, that the
fecretaiy might read the covnmiflion, there was nothing
fave a pack of cards with the knave of clubs upper-
moft } which not only flartled the lord-deputy and
council, but the doftor, who affured them he had a-
commiflion, but knew not how it was gone. Then the
lord-deputy made anfwer : Let us have another com¬
miffion, and we will fhuffle the cards in the meanwhile.
The doclor being troubled in his mind, went away, and
returned into England, and coming to the court obtain¬
ed another commiffion : but flaying for a wind on the
water-fi.de, newrs came to him that the queen was dead :
and thus God preferved the Proteftants of Ireland.'’
Queen Elizabeth wTas fo delighted with this ftory, which
ivas related to her by Lord Fitz-Walter on his return to
England, that (he fent for Elizabeth Edmonds, whofe
hulband’s name was Matterfload, and gave her a penfion
of 40I. during her life. 43
In Scotland, the feeds of reformation wTere very early Of the Re-
fown, by feveral noblemen who had refided in Germany formation
during the religious difputes there. But for many yearsin Scotland,
it was fuppreffed by the power of the. pope, feconded by
inhuman laws and barbarous executions. The moft emi¬
nent oppofer of the Papal jurifdiction was John Knox,
a difciple of Calvin, a man of great zeal and invincible
fortitude. On all occafions he raifed the drooping fpi-
rits of the reformers, and encouraged them to go on
with their work notwithftanding the oppofition and
treachery of the queen-regent j till at laft, in 1561, by
the afiiftance of an Englifh army fent by Elizabeth, Po¬
pery was in a manner totally extirpated throughout the
kingdom. From this period the form of doftrine, wor-
fhip, and difcipline eftabliftied by Calvin at Geneva, has
had the afcendancy in Scotland. But for an account
of the difficulties which the Scottith reformers had to
ftruggle with, and the manner in which thefe were
overcome, &c. iee Scotland.
For further information on the fubjeft of the refor¬
mation in general we refer our readers to the wmrks
of Burnet and Brandt, to Beaufobre’s Hijloire de la
Reformation dans PEmpire, et les Etats de la Lonfcjjion
d'AusJbourg depuis 1517—153°> in 4 vols 8v0> Berlhl
4R2 i785»
REF [ 684 ] RE F
cV-on. 1^85, and Moftieim’s Ecclefiaftical Hiftory. See alfo
Sleidan De Statu Religionis et Rcipublicce, Carolo V. Cce-
fare, Commentarii', and Father Paul’s Hiftory of the
Council of Trent.
REFRACTION, in general, is the deviation of a
moving body from its direft courfe, occafioned by the
different denlity of the medium in which it moves j or
it is a change of direftion occafioned by a body’s fall¬
ing obliquely out of one medium into another. The
word is chiefly made ufe of with regard to the rays of
light. See Optics Index, at RefraBion.
REFRACTION of Altitude, the arc or portion of a ver¬
tical circle, by which the altitude of a ftar is increafed
by the refraftion of light.
REFRACTION of Afcenfon and Defcenfon, an arc of
the equator, by which the afcenfion and defcenfion of a
liar, whether right or oblique, is increafed or diminiflied
by the refraction.
REFRACTION of Declination, is an arc of a circle of
declination, by which the declination of a ftar is increaf¬
ed or diminiflied by refraftion.
Rf.FR ACTION of Latitude, an arc of a circle of lati¬
tude, by which the latitude of a ftar is increafed or uimi-
niflied by the refradlion.
REFRACTION of Longitude, an arc of the ecliptic, by
which the longitude of a ftar is increafed or diminiflied
by means of the refraflion.
REFRACTION, Terrejlrial, is that which makes terref-
trial objedls appear to be railed higher than they are in
reality, in obferving their altitudes. The quantity of
this refra&ion is eftimated at one-tenth by Dr Matke-
lyne $ at one-fourteenth by Le Gendre ; and by De
Lambre at one eleventh. But there can be no fixed quan¬
tity of this refradftion, fince it depends upon the ftate of
the atmofphere, which is extremely variable. Some An¬
gular cffedls of this refradlion have been noticed, and in
particular the following, which were obferved by Mr La¬
tham at Raftings, during a very hot day, on which it was
high water about two o’clock P. M. The day was alfo
perfectly calm.
“ On Wednefday, July 26. about five o’clock in the
afternoon, while I was fitting in my dining-room at this
place, which is fituated upon the Parade, clofe to the
iea-fliore, nearly fronting the foulh, my attention was
excited by a number of people running down to the
iea-fide. Upon enquiring the reafon, 1 was informed
that the coaft of France was plainly to be diftinguiftied
by the naked eye. I immediately went down to the
ihore, and was furprifed to find that, even without the
affiftance of a telefcope, I could very plainly fee the
cliffs on the oppofite coaft *, which, at the neareft part,
are between 40 and 50 miles diftant, and are not to be
clifcerned, from that low7 fituation, by the aid of the
Left glaffes. They appeared to be only a few7 miles off,
and feemed to extend for fome leagues along the coaft.
I purfued my walk along the fhore eaftward, clofe to
the water’s edge, converfmg w7ith the failors and filher-
men upon the fubjeft. They at firft could not be per-
fuaded of the reality of the appearance 5 but they foon
became fo thoroughly convinced, by the cliffs gradually
appearing more elevated, and approaching nearer, as it
rvere, that they pointed out and named to me the dif¬
ferent places they had been accuftomed to vifit ; fuch
as the Bay, the Old Head or Man, the Windmill, &c.
at Rpulogne ) St Yallery, and other places on the coaft
of Picardy ) which they afterwards confirmed when Reflation
they view7ed them through their telefcopes. Their ob- 1!
fervat’* is rverff, that the places appeared as near as „Refugees-
if they w7ere failing, at a fmall diftance, into the har- ~'v >
hours.” * * pjjji'
REFRANGIBILITY or Light, the difpofitionAtfw/hjtjSi
of rays to be refrafted. The term is chiefly applied to
the difpofition of rays to produce different colours, ac¬
cording to their different degrees of refrangibility. See
Chromatics and Optics pafjim.
REFRIGERATIVE, in Medicine, a remedy which
refrefhes the inward parts by cooling them 5 as clyfters,
ptifans, &c.
REFRIGERATORY, in Chemijlry, a veffel filled
w7ith cold w7ater, through which the worm paffes in di-
ftillations \ the ufe of which is to condenfe the vapours-
as they pafs through the worm.
Cities of REFUGE, wrere places provided as Aftj-
la, for fuch as againft their w7ill fliould happen to kill a
man. Of thefe cities there were three on each fide
Jordan ; on this fide were Kedefti of Naphtali, Hebron,
and Shechem j beyond Jordan rvere Bezer, Golan, and
Ramoth-Gilead. When any of the Hebrews, or ftran-
gers that dwelt in their country, happened to fpill the
blood of a man, they might retire thither to be out of
the reach of the violent attempts of the relations of the
deceafed, and to prepare for their defence and juftifica-
tion before the judges. The manflayer underwent two
trials : firft before the judges of the city of refuge to
wdiich he had fled ; and fecondly before the judges of
his ovrn city. If found guilty, he was put to death
wfith all the feverity of the law7. If he was acquitted,
he was not immediately fet at liberty ; but, to infpire a
degree of horror againft even involuntary homicide, he
was recondufled to the place of refuge, and obliged to
continue there in a fort of baniftiment till the death of
the high-prieft. If, before this time, he ventured out,
the revenger of blood might freely kill him ; but after
the high-prieft’s death he w7as at liberty to go where he
pleafed without moleftation. It was neceffary that
the perfon who fled to any of the cities of re¬
fuge fliould underftand fome trade or calling, that
he might not be burthenfome to the inhabitants.
The cities of refuge were required to be w7ell fupplied
with water and neceffary provifions. They w7ere alfo
to be eafy of accefs, to have good roads leading to them,
with commodious bridges where there was occafion.
The width of the roads was to be 32 cubits or 48 feet
at leaft. It wras further required, that at all crofs-ways
direcftion-pofts fliould be eredled, with an infcriptiort
pointing out the road to the cities of refuge. The
15th of Adar, which anfwers to our February moon,
was appointed for the city magiftrates to fee that the
roads were in good condition. No perfon in any of
thefe cities u7as allowed to make weapons, left the rela¬
tions of the deceafed fliould be furniflied with the means
of gratifying their revenge. Deut. xix. 3. iv. 41. 43. •
jofti. XX. 7. Three other cities of refuge were condi¬
tionally promifed, but never granted. . See Asylum.
REFUGEES, a term at firft applied to the French
Proteftants, who, by the revocation of theedift ofNantz,
were conftrained to fly from perfecution, and take re¬
fuge in foreign countries. Since that time, however,
it has been extended to all fuch as leave their country
in times of diftreTs ^ and hence, fince the revolt of the
Eritilh
REG [
Britltli colonies in America, we have frequently heard
of American refugees.
REGALE, a magnificent entertainment or treat, gi¬
ven to ambafladors and other perfons of diflindbion, to
entertain or do them honour.
It is ufual in Italy, at the arrival of a traveller of
eminence, to fend him a regale, that is, a prefent of fweet-
meafs, fruits, &c. by way of refrefhment.
REGALIA, in Law, the rights and prerogatives of
a king. See Prerogative.
Regalia is alfo ufed for the apparatus of a coronation 5
as the crown, the fceplre with the crofs, that with the
dove, St Edward’s ftaff, the globe, and the orb with the
crofs, four feveral fwords, &c.—The regalia of Scot¬
land were depolited in the caftle of Edinburgh in the
year xyoy, in what is called the jewel office, ihe room
was a few years ago opened by feme commiflioners ap¬
pointed by the king, when the large cheft in which it is
fuppofed they were placed was examined 5 but nothing
was found in it. It is very generally thought that the
regalia were carried to the lower of London in the
reign of Queen Anne; and a crown is there fhown
which is called the Scotch crown. This, however, does
not appear to be the real crown of Scotland. It feems,
therefore, moft probable that the Scottifh regalia muft
have been taken away by Health, and either deftroyedor
melted down.
Lort> of REGALITY, in Scots Law. See Law,
N° clviii, 4.
Court 0/REGARD. See FoREST-Courts.
REGARDANT, in Heraldry, fignifies looking be¬
hind 5 and it is ufed for a lion, or other bead, with his
face turned towards his tail.
REGARDER, an ancient officer of the king’s fo-
reft, fvvorn to make the regard of the for eft _ every
year ; that is, to take a view of its limits, to inquire
into all offences and defaults committed by the forellers
within the for eft, and to obferve whether all the offi¬
cers execute their refpective duties. See F0RES1-
Laws.
REGATA, or Regatta, a fpecies of amufement
peculiar to the republic of Venice. This fpeftacle has
the power of exciting the greatefl emotions of the heart,
admiration, enthufiafm, a fenfe of glory, and the. whole
train of our beft feelings. Ihe grand regata is only
exhibited on particular occafions, as the vifits of foreign
princes and kings at \ enice. 1
It is difficult to give a juft idea of the ardour that the
notice of a regata fpreads among all claffes o. the inha¬
bitants of Venice. Proud of the exclufive privilege of
giving fuch a fpeClacle, through the wonderful local cir-
cumflances of that city, they are highly delighted vita
making preparations a long time before, in order to con¬
tribute all they can towards the perfeclionand enjoyment
of the fpe&acle. A thoufand' interefts are formed and
augmented every day 5 parties in favour of the different
competitors who are known j the .protection of young
noblemen given to the gondoliers in their ferwee •, the
deffre of honours and rewards in the afpirants; and, in
the midft of all this, that ingenious national induftry,
which awakes the Venetians from their habitual indo¬
lence, to derive advantage from the bufinefs and agita¬
tion of the moment ■, all thefe circumftances.united gwe
to the numerous inhabitants of this lively city a degree
cf /pint and animation which render it during that time
685 ] REG
a delightful abode in the eyes of the philofopher and
the ftranger. Crowds of people tlock from the adjacent
parts, and travellers joyfully repair to this feene of gaiety
and pleafure.
Although it is allowable for any man to go and in-
feribe his name in the lift of combatants until the fixed-
number is complete, it will not be amifs to remark one
The
Regata.
thing, which has relation to more ancient times,
ftate of a gondolier * is of much confideration among * See Gen-
the people 3 which is very natural, that having been the
primitive condition of the inhabitants of this country.
But, befidcs this general confideration, there are among
them-fome families truly diffinguiffied and refpe&ed by
their equals, whofe antiquity is acknowleged, and who,
on account of a fucceffion of virtuous men, able in
their profeffion, and honoured for the prizes they have
carried off in thefe contefts, form the body of noble
gondoliers 3 often more worthy of that title than the
higher order of nobility, vffio only derive their honours
from the merit of their anceftors, or from their own
riches. The confideralion for thofe families is carried
fo far, that, in the difputes frequently arifing among,
the gondoliers in their ordinary paffage of the canals, we
fometimes fee a quarrel inftantly made up by the fimple
interpofition of a third perfon, who has chanced to be of
this, revered body. They are rigid with refpedt to mif-
alliances in their families, and they endeavour recipro¬
cally to give and take their wives among thofe of their
own rank. But we muft remark here, with pleafure,
that thefe diftinftions infer no inequality of condition,
nor admit any oppreffion of inferiors, being founded folely
on laudable and virtuous opinions. Diftinflions derived
from fortune only, are thofe which always outrage na¬
ture, and often virtue.
In general, the competitors at the great regatas are
chofen from among thefe families of reputation. As
ibon as they are fixed upon for this exploit, they fpend.
the intermediate time in preparing themfelves for it, by
a daily, affiduous, and fatiguing exercife. If they are in
fervice, their mafters during that time not only give
them their liberty, but alfo augment their wages. This
cuftom would feem to indicate, that they look upon
them as perfons confecrated to the honour of the na¬
tion, and under a fort of obligation to contribute to
its glory.
At laft the grand day arrives. Their relations affem-
ble together 3 they-encourage the heroes, by calling to
their minds the records of their families; the women
prefent the oar, befeeching them, in an epic tone, to
remember that they are the fons of famous men, whofe
fteps they vvill.be expefted to follow : this they do with
as much folemnity as the Spartan women prefented the.
ffiield to their fons, bidding them either return with or
upon it. Religion, as praftifed among the lower clafs
of people, has its {hare in the preparations for this en- '
terprife. They caufe maffes to be faid 3 they make
vows to fome particular church 3 and they arm their
boats for the conteft with the images of thofe faints
who are moft in vogue. Sorcerers are not forgotten
upon this occafion. For gondoliers who have loft the
race often declare, that witchcraft had been pra&ifed
a gain ft them, or certainly they muft have won the day.
Such a fuppofition prevents a poor fellow from thinking
ill of himfelf 3 an opinion that might be unfavourable to
him another time.
The
REG [ 636 ] REG
The courfe is about four miles. The boats hart from
a certain place, run through the great winding canal,
which divides the town into two parts, turn round a
picket, and, coming back the fame way, go and feize
the prize, which is fixed at the acuteft angle of the great
canal, on the convex fide, fo that the point of fight may
be the more extended, and the prize feized in the fight
of the fpedlators on both fides.
According to the number of competitor's, different
races are performed in different forts of boats 5 fome rvith
one oar and others with two. The prizes propofed are
four, indicated by four flags of different colours, with
the different value of the prizes marked upon them.—
Thefe flags, public and glorious monuments, are the
prizes to which the competitors particularly afpire. But
the government always add to each a genteel fum of
money ; befides that the conquerors, immediately after
the victory, are furrounded by the beau monde, who
congratulate and make them prefents 5 after which they
go, bearing their honourable trophy in their hand down
the whole length of the canal, and receive the applaufe
of innumerable fpecfators.
This grand canal, ever ftriking by the Angularity
and beauty of the buildings which border it, is, upon
thefe occafions, covered with an infinity of fpeftators,
in all forts of barges, boats, and gondolas. The ele¬
ment on which they move is fcarcely feen •, but the
noife of oars, the agitation of arms and bodies in per¬
petual motion, indicate the fpeftacle to be upon the
water. At certain diftances, on each fide of the fliore,
are erecled little amphitheatres and fcaffoldings, where
are placed bands of mufic $ the harmonious found of
which predominates nowr and then over the buzzing
noife of the people. Some days before a regata, one
may fee on the great canal many boats for pleafure and
entertainment. The young noble, the citizen, the rich
artizan, mounts a long boat of fix or eight oars ; his
gondoliers decorated with rich and Angular dreifes, and
the veffel itfelf adorned with various fluffs. Among the
nobles there are always a number who are at a confider-
able expence in thefe decorations; and at the regata
itfelf exhibit on the water perfonages of mythologic
ftory, w'ith the heroes of antiquity in their train, or
amufe themfelves with reprefenting the coflumes of dif¬
ferent nations : in fliort, people contribute with a mad
fort of magnificence, from all quarters, to this mafque-
rade, the favourite diverfion of the Venetians. But
thefe great machines, not being the lefs in motion on
account of their ornaments, are not merely defiined to
grace the (how: they are employed at the regata, at
every moment, to range the people, to protect the
courfe, and to keep the avenue open and clear to the
goal. The nobility, kneeling upon cufhions at the
prow of their veflels, are attentive to thefe matters, and
announce thdir orders to the moft reftive, by darting at
them little gilded or filvered balls, by means of certain
bows, with which they are furnifhed on this occafion.
And this is the only appearance of coercion in the Ve¬
netian police on thefe days of the greateft tumult: nor
is there to be feen, in any part of the city, a body of
guards or patrol, nor even a gun or a halbert. The
mildnefs of the nation, its gaiety, its education in the
habit of believing that the government is ever awake,
that it knows and fees every thing ; its refpeciful at¬
tachment to the body of patricians j the folc afpe£t of
3
certain officers ox the police in their robes, difperfed in Regata
different places, at once operate and explain that tran- H
quillity, that fecurity, which we fee in the midfl of the Re^ent~
greatefl confufion, and that furprifing docility in fo live¬
ly and fiery a people. Regatas have been attempted on
the river Thames, but they w’ere but humble imitations
of the Venetian amufement.
REGEL, or Rigel, a fixed flar of the firfl magni¬
tude, in Orion’s left foot.
REGENERATION, in Theology, the aft of be¬
ing born again by a fpiritual birth, or the change of
heart and life experienced by a perfon who forfakes a
courfe of vice, and fincerely embraces a life of virtue and
piety.
REGENSBURG, or Ratisbon. See Ratusbon.
REGENT, one who governs a kingdom during the
minority or abfence of the king.
In France, the queen-mother had the regency of the
kingdom during the minority of the king, under the title
of queen-regent.
In England, the methods of appointing this guar¬
dian or regent have been fo various, and the duration
of his power fo uncertain, that from hence alone it
may be collefted that his office is unknown to the com¬
mon law' j and therefore (as Sir Edward Coke fays,
4 Inft. 58.) the fureft wray is to have him made by au¬
thority of the great council in parliament. 'Idle earl of
Pembroke by his own authority affumed in very trou-
blefcme times the regency of Henry III. who was then
only nine years old 5 but was declared of full age by
the pope at 17, confirmed the great charter at 18, and
took upon him the adminiflration of the government at
20. A guardian and councils of regency wrere named
for Edward III. by the parliament, wdiich depofed his
father ; the young king being then 15, and not affi.iming
the government till three years after. When Richard II.
fucceeded at the age of 1 x, the duke of Lancafter took
upon him the management of the kingdom till the parlia-
mentmet,which appointed a nominal council to affift him.
Henry V. on his death-bed named a regent and a guar¬
dian for his infant fon Henry VI. then nine months old:
but the parliament altered his difpofition, and appoint¬
ed a proteftor and council, with a fpecial limited autho¬
rity. Both thefe princes remained in a ftate of pupil-'
age till the age of 23. Edward V. at the age of 13,
was recommended by his father to the care of the duke
of Gloucefter ; who w'as declared proteftor by the privy-
council. The ftatutes 25 Hen. VIII. c. 12. and 28
Henry VIII. c. 7. provided, that the fuccefibr, if a
male and under 18, or if a female and under 16, fliould
be till fuch age in the governance of his or her na¬
tural mother, (if approved by the king), and fuch other
counfellors as his majefty fliould by will or otherwife ap¬
point: and he accordingly appointed his 16 executors
to have the government of his fon Edw'ard VI. and the
kingdom, which executors elefted the earl of Hartford
proteftor. The ftatutes 24 Geo. II. c. 24. in cafe the
crown fliould defeend to any of the children of Frede¬
ric late prince of Wales Under the age of 18, appoint¬
ed the princefs dowager ;—and that of 5 Geo. III. c.
27. in cafe of a like defeent to any of his prefent ma-
jefty’s children, empow'ers the king to name either the
queen or princefs dowager, or any defeendant of King
George II. refiding in this kingdom ;—to be guardian
and regent till the fucceffor attains fuch age, aflifted by
a
REG [ 687 ] RE G
Regent, a council of regency ; the powers of them all being ex-
Regiam. prefsly defined and fet down in the feveral a£ls.
"1 Regent alfo fignifies a profeffor of arts and fciences
in a college, having pupils under his care ; but it is ge¬
nerally rettrained to the lower claflfes, as to rhetoric, lo¬
gic, &c. thofe of philofophy being called profejfors. In
the Englifh univerfities it is applied to matters of arts
under five years Handing, and to doftors under two, as
non-regent is to thofe above that Handing.
REGGIO, an ancient and confiderable town of
Italy, in the kingdom of Naples, and in the Farther
Calabria, with an archbifltop’s fee, and a woollen manu¬
factory. It is feated in a delightful country, which
produces plenty of oranges, and all their kindred truits.
The olives are esquifite, and high-flavoured. The town,
however, can boaft of neither beautiful buildings nor
Hrong fortifications. Of its edifices the Gothic cathe¬
dral is ‘.he only firiking one, but it affords nothing cu¬
rious in architecture. The citadel is far from formida¬
ble, according to the prefent fyHem of taCtics j nor could
the city walls make a long refiitance againH any enemy
but Barbary corfairs j and even thefe they have not al¬
ways been able to repel, for in 1543 it was laid in afiies
by Barbaroffa. Muitapha kicked it 15 years after, and
the defolation was renewed in 1593 by another fet of
Turks. Its expofed fituation, on the very threfhold of
Italy, and fronting Sicily, has from the earlieH period
rendered it liable to attacks and devaflation. The Chal-
cidians feized upon it, or, according to the ufual Greek
phrafe, founded it, and called the colony Rhegion, from
a word that means a break or crack, alluding to its pofi-
tion on the point where Sicily broke oH from the conti¬
nent. Anaxilas opprelfed its liberties. Dionyfius the
Elder took it, and put many of the principal citizens
to death, in revenge for their having refufed his alliance.
The Campanian legion, fent to proteft the Rhegians,
turned its fword againH them, maffacred many inhabi¬
tants, and tyrannized over the remainder, till the Ro¬
man fenate thought proper to punifh thefe traitors with
exemplary feverity, though at the fame time it entered
into league with the revolted garrifon of Mefifma. This
union with a fet of villains, guilty of the fame crime,
proved that no love ofjuHice,but political reafons alone,
drew down its vengeance on the Campanians.—It is a-
bout 12 miles S. E. of Medina, and 190 S. by E. ,of
Naples. E. Long. 16. o. N. Lat. 38. 4.
Reggio, an ancient, handfome, and Hrong town of
Italy, in the duchy of Modena, with a flrong citadel,
and a bidrop’s fee. It has been ruined feveral times by
the Goths, and other nations. In the cathedral are
paintings by the greateH maflers; and in the fquare is
the flatue of Brennus, chief of the Gauls. I he inha¬
bitants are about 22,000, who carry on a great trade in
filk. It was taken by Prince Eugene in 1706, and by
the king of Sardinia in I742> It is feated in a fertile
country to the fouth of the Apennines, and to the north
of a fpacious plain, 15 miles north-weH of Modena, and
80 fouth-eaH of Milan. E. Long. 11. 5* I^t’ 44- 43-
—The duchy of this name is bounded on the wed by
that of Modena, and produces a great deal of filk, and
till it fell under the dominion of the French along with
the red of Italy, belonged to the duke of Modena, ex¬
cept the marquifate of St Martin, which belonged to a
prince of that name.
REGIAM majestatem. See Law, N° civ. 3.
REGICIDE, KING-KIELER, a word chiefiy ufed Regicide
with us in fpeaking of the perfons concerned in the trial, . H
condemnation, and execution, of Charles I. Regiment.
REGIFUGIUM was a feaH celebrated at Rome on
the 24th of February, in commemoration of the expul-
fion of 7arquimus Superbus, and the abolition of regal
power. It was alfo performed on the 26th of May,
when the king of the facrifices, or Rex Sacrorum, offer¬
ed bean Hour and bacon, in the place where the affem-
blies were held. The facrifice being over, the people
haded away with all fpeed, to denote the precipitate
flight of King Tarquin.
REGIMEN, the regulation of diet, and, in a more
general fenfe, of all the non-naturals, with a view to
preferve or redore health. See Abstinence, Aliment,
Food, Diet, Drink, and Medicine.
The viciditude of exercife and red forms alfo a ne-
ceffary part of regimen. See Exercise.
It is beneficial to be at red now and then, but more
fo frequently to ufe exercife ; becaufe inaflion renders
the body weak and lidlefs, and labour drengthens it.
But a medium is to be obferved in all things, and too
much fatigue is to be avoided : for frequent and violent
exercife overpowers the natural Hrength, and wades the
body j but moderate exercife ought always to be ufed
before meals. Now, of all kinds of exercife, riding on
horfeback is the mod convenient: or if the perion be
too weak to bear it, riding in a conch, or at lead in a
litter : next follow fencing, playing at ball, running,
walking. But it is one of the inconvenieitcies of old
age, that there is feldom futhcient drength for ufing bo¬
dily exercife, though it be extremely requifite for
health : wherefore friftions with the fledr-brufh are
neceffary at this time of life •, which drould be per¬
formed by the perfon himfelf, if poflible j if not, by his
fervants.
Sleep is the fweet foother of cares, and redorer of
drength ; as it repairs and replaces the wades that are
made by the labours and exercifes of the day. But ex-
cedive deep has its inconveniences ; for it blunts the
fenfes, and renders them lefs fit for the duties of life.
The proper time for deep is the night, when darknefs
and lilence invite and bring it on : day-deep is kfs re-
frefhing j which rule if it be proper for the multitude to
obferve, much more is the obfervance of it neceffary for
perfons addicted to literary ftudies, whofe minds and
bodies are more fufceptible of injuries.
Regimen, in Grammar, that part of fyntax, or con-
drudtion, which regulates the dependency of words, and
the alterations which one occafions in another.
REGIMEN for Seamen. See Seamen.
REGIMENT, is a body of men, either horfe, foot,
or artillery, commanded by a colonel, lieutenant-colonel,,
and major. Each regiment of foot is divided into com¬
panies ; but the number of companies differs : though
in Britain our regiments are generally 10 companies,
one of which is always grenadiers, exclufive of the two
independent companies. Regiments of horfe are com¬
monly fix troops, but there are fome of nine. Dragoon
regiments are generally in w7ar time 8 troops, and in
time of peace but 6. Each regiment has a chaplain,
quarter maffer, adjutant, and furgeon. Some German
regiments confid of 2000 foot *, and the regiment of
Picardy in France confided of 6000, being 1 20 com¬
panies, of 50 men in each company.
RegimentSi
REG [ 683 ] REG
Regiomon- Regiments were firfl: formed in France in the year
tanus, 1558, and in England in the year 1660.
<REGIOMONTANUS. See Muller.
REGION, in Geography, a large extent of land, in¬
habited by many people of the fame nation, and iuclofed
within certain limits or bounds.
The modern aftronomers divide the moon into feveral
regions, or large trafts ot land, to each of which they
give its proper name.
Region, in Phyjiology, is taken for a divifion of our
atmofphere, which is divided into the upper, middle, and
lower regions.
The upper region commences from the tops of the
mountains, and reaches to the utmoll limits of the at¬
mofphere. In this region reign a perpetual equable
‘Calmnefs, clearnefs, and ferenity. The middle region
is that in which the clouds refide, and where meteors
are formed, extending from the extremity of the lowed
to the tops of the higheft mountains. The lowed re¬
gion is that in which we breathe, which is bounded by
the refledtion of the fun’s rays ; or by the height to
which they rebound from the earth. See Atmosphere
and Air.
JEthereal REGION, in Cofmography, is the whole ex¬
tent of the univerle, in which is included all the heaven¬
ly bodies, and even the orb of the fixed dars.
Elementary REGION, according to the Aridotelians,
is a fphere terminated by the concavity of the moon’s
orb, comprehending the atmofphere of the earth.
Region, in Anatomy, a divifion of the human body,
otherwife called cavity, of which anatomids reckon three,
viz. the upper region, or that of the head ; the middle
region, that of the thorax or bread 5 and the lower, the
abdomen, or belly. See Anatomy.
Region, in ancient Rome, was a part or divifion of
the city. The regions were only four in number, till
Augudus Cmfar’s time, who divided the city into four¬
teen ; over each of which he fettled two furveyors, call¬
ed curatores viantm, who were appointed annually, and
took their divifions by lot. Thefe fourteen regions
contained four hundred and twenty-four dreets, thirty-
one of which were called greater or royal Jlreets, which
began at the gilt pillar that dood at the entry of the
open place in the middle of the city. The extent of
thefe divifions varied greatly, fome being from 12,000
.or 13,000 to 33,000 feet or upwards in circumference.
Authors, however, are not agreed as to the exadt limits
of each. The curatores viarum wore the purple, had
each two lidlors in their proper divifions, had Haves un¬
der them to take care of fires that happened to break
out. Rhey had alfo two officers, called denunciatores,
in each region, to give account of any diforders. Four
vico-magijiri alfo were appointed in each dreet, who took
care of the dreets allotted them, and carried the orders
of the city to each citizen.
REGIS, Peter Sylvain, a French philofopher,
and a great propagator of the doarines of Des Cartes,
was born in Agenois in the year 1632. He dudied
languages and philofophy under the Jefuits at Cahors ;
and as his views were then dire&ed to the church, he
was afterwards occupied in the dudy of divinity at the
umverfity of that town. His progrefs in learning was
fo uncommon, that at the end of four years he was of¬
fered a doftor’s degree without the ufual charges 3 but
1
he did not think it became him to accept of it till he
had dudied alfo in the Sorbonne at Paris. He went
thither, but was foon difguded with theology 3 and as
the philofophy of Des Cartes began at that time to make
a noife through the lectures of Rohault, he conceived a
tade for it, and gave himfelf up entirely to it. He fre¬
quented thefe lectures 3 and becoming an adept, went
to Touloufe in 1665, and read lectures in it himfelf.
Having fine parts, a clear and fluent manner, and a hap¬
py way of making himfelf underdood, he drew all -forts
of people 3 the magidrates, the learned, the ecclefiadic',
and the very women, who now all affected to abjure the
ancient philofophy. In 1680 he returned to Paris 3
where the concourfe about him was fuch, that the dick-
lers for Peripateticifm began to be alarmed. They ap¬
plied to the archbilhop of Paris, who thought it expedi¬
ent, in the name of the king, to put a dop to the lec¬
tures 3 which accordingly were difcontinued for feveral
months. The whole life of Regis wras fpent in propa'-
gating the new philofophy. In 1690 he publidied a
formal fydem of it, containing logic, metaphyfics, phy-
fics, and morals, in 3 vols. qto, and written in French.
It was reprinted the year after at Amderdam, with the
addition of a difcourfe upon ancient and modern philo¬
fophy. He wrote afterwards feveral pieces in defence
of his fydem 3 in which he had difputes with M. Huet,
Du Hamel, Malebranche, and others. His works,
though abounding with ingenuity and learning, have
been difregarded, in confequence of the great dilcoveries
and advancement in philofophic knowledge that have
been fince made. He died in 1707. He had been
chofen member of the academy of fciences in 1699.
The works of this author are the following :—A Sy-
Jlem of Pltilofophy, containing Logic, Metaphyfics, and
Morals 3 in 1 690, 3 vols. qto. being a compilation of the
different ideas of Des Cartes.
The life of Reafon and of Faith.
An Anfwer to Huet’s Cenfures of the Cartefian Philo¬
fophy 3 and an Anfwer to Du Hamel’s Critical Reflexions.
Some pieces againfl Malebranche, to (hew that the
apparent magnitude of an objeft depends folely on the
magnitude of its image, traced on the retina.
A fmall piece upon the quedion, Whether pleafure
makes our prefent happinefs ?
REGISTER, a public book, in which are entered
and recorded memoirs, aXs, and minutes, to be had re¬
coil rfe to occafionally for knowing and proving matters
of faX. Of thefe there are feveral kinds 3 as,
I. Regider of deeds in Yorkfhire and Middlefex, in
which are regidered all deeds, conveyances, wills, See.
that affeX any lands or tenements in tbofe counties,
which are otherwife void againd any fubfequent pur-
chafers or mortgagees, &c. 3 but this does not extend to
any copyhold eflate, nor to leales at a rack-rent, or
where they do not exceed 21 years. The regiflered
memorials mud be ingroffed on parchment, under the
hand and feal of fome of the granters or grantees, at-
teded by witneffes who are to prove the figning or feal-
ing of them and the execution of the deed. But thefe
regiflers, which are confined to two counties, are in
Scotland general, by which the laws of North Britain
are rendered very eafy and regular. Of thefe there are
twTo kinds 3 the one general, fixed at Edinburgh, under
the direXion of the lord regifler 3 and the other is kept
in
REG [ 689
in tlie feveral (hires, (lewartries, and regalities, the clerks
of which are obliged to tranfmit the regiiters of their
refpeftive courts to the general regifter.
2. Parifh-regifters are books in which are regiflered
the baptifms, marriages, and burials, of each parifh.
Registers were kept both at Athens and Rome,
in which were inferted the names of fuch children as
were to be brought up, as foon as they were born.
Marcus Aurelius required all free perfons td give in ac¬
counts of their children, within 30 days after the birth,
to the treafurer of the empire, in order to their being
depofited in the temple of Saturn* where the public a£ts
were kept. Officers' were alfo appointed as public re-
giflers in the provinces, that recourfe might be had to
their lifts of names, for fettling dtfputes, or proving any
perfon’s freedom.
REGISTER Skips, in Commerce, are veflfels wrhich ob¬
tain a permiftion, either from the king of Spain, or the
council of the Indies, to traffic in the ports of the Spa-
nifli Weft Indies $ which are thus called, from their be-
ing regiftered before they fet fail from Cadiz for Buenos
Ayres.
REGISTERS, in Chemiftry, are holes, or chinks
with (topples, contrived in the (Ides of furnaces, to re¬
gulate the fire *, that is, to make the heat more intenfe
or remifs, by opening them to let in the air, or keeping
them clofe to exclude it. There are alfo regifters in the
(team-engine. See SlEAM-Engine.
REGISTRAR, an officer in the Engli(h univerlities,
who has the keeping of all the public records.
REGIUM, Regium Lepidi, Regium Lepidum, in An¬
cient Geography, a town of Cifalpine Gaul, on the Via
^Emilia, fo called from /Emilius Lepidus, who was con-
ful with C. Flaminius $ but whence it was furnamed
Regium is altogether uncertain. Tacitus relates, that
at the battle of Bedriacum, a bird of an unufual fize wras
feen perching in a famous grove near Regium Lepidum.
Now called Reggio, a city of Modena. E. Long. 11. o.
N. Lat. 44. 45. See Reggio.
REGNARD, John Francis, one of the beft French
comic writers after Moliere, was born at Paris in 1647.
He had fcarcely finifhed his ftudies, when an ardent paf-
fion for travelling carried him over the greateft part of
Europe. When he fettled in his oivn country, he was
made a treafurer of France, and lieutenant of the wa¬
ters and forefts: he wrote a great many comedies j and,
though naturally of a gay genius, died of chagrin in
the 5 2d year of his age. His works, confifting of co¬
medies and travels, were printed at Rouen, in 5 vols.
12mo, 1732.
REGNIER, Mathurin, the firft French poet who
fucceeded in fatire, was born at Chartres in 1573. He
was brought up to the church, a place for which his de¬
baucheries rendered him very unfuitable ; and thefe by
his own confeflion w'ere fo excelfive, that at 30 he had
all the infirmities of age. Yet he obtained a canonry
in the church of Chartres, with other benefices j and
died in 1613. There is a neat filzevir edition of his
works, i2mo, 1652, Leyden*, but the molt elegant is
that with notes by M. Broffette, 410, 1 729, London.
REGNIER DES Marets, Seraphin, a French poet,
born at Paris in 1632. He diftinguilhed himfelf early
by his poetical talents, and in 1684 was made perpetual
fecretary to the French academy on the death of Meze-
ray : it was he who drew up all thofe papers in the name
Vol. XVII. Part IL
1 REG
of the academy againft Furetiere: the king gave him Regntttto
the priory of Grammont, and he had alfo an abbey. He II
died in I7I3> and his wTorks are, French, Italian, Spa- iR-eEl‘lat'’r-|
nidi, and Latin poems, 2 vols. 5 a French grammar;
and an Italian tranflation of Anacreon’s odes, with fome
other tranflations.
REGNUM, in Ancient Geography, a town of the
Regni, a people in Britain, next the Cantii, now* Surry,
Suffex, and the coaft of Hampftnre, (Camden) 5 a town
fituated, by the Itinerary numbers, on the confines of
the Belgae, in a place now called Ringwood, in Hamp-
(hire, on the rivulet Avon, running down from Salifbury,
and about ten miles or more diftant from the fea.
REGRATOR, fignifies him who buys and fells any
wares or victuals in the fame market or fair: and regra-
tors are particularly deferibed to be thofe who buy, or
get into their hands, in fairs or markets, any grain, fifti,
butter, cheefe, (keep, lambs, calves, fwine, pigs, geefe,
capons, hens, chickens, pigeons, conies, or other dead
victuals whatfoever, brought to a fair or market to be
fold there, and do fell the fame again in the fame fair,
market, or place, or in fome other within four miles
thereof.
Regrating is a kind of huchjlry, by which vi&uals
are made dearer j for every feller wall gain fomething,
which muft of confequence enhance the price. And,
in ancient times, both the engrofler and regrator were
comprehended under the wrord forefather. Regrators
are punifhable by lofs and forfeiture of goods, and im-
prifonment, according to the firft, fecond, or third of¬
fence, &c.
REGENSBERG, a handfome though fmall town of
Swifferland, in the canton of Zurich, and capital of a
bailiwick of the fame name, with a ftrong caftle *, feated
on a hill, which is part of Mount Jura. There is a
well funk through a rock, 36 fathoms deep.
REGULAR, denotes any thing that is agreeable to
the rules of art : thus we fay, a regular building, verb,
&c.
A regular figure in geometry, is one whofe (ides, and
confequently angles, are equal; and a regular figure with
three or four fides is commonly termed an equilateral
triangle or fqudre, as all others wdth more fides are call¬
ed regular polygons.
Regular Body, called alfo Platonic Body, is a body
or folid comprehended by like, equal, and regular plane
figures, and whofe folid angles are all equal.
The plane figures by which the folid is contained are
the faces of the folid ; and the fides of the plane figures
are the edges or linear fides of the folid.
There are only five regular folids, viz.
The tetrahedron, or regular triangular pyramid, ha¬
ving four triangular faces ;
The hexahedron, or cube, having fix fquare faces j
The o&ahedron, having eight triangular faces j
The dodecahedron, having twelve pentagonal faces j
The icofahedron, having tw’enty triangular faces.
Befides thefe five, there can be no other regular bo¬
dies in nature.
Regular, in a monaftery, a perfon who has taken the
vowts ; becaufe he is bound to obferve the rules of the
order he has embraced.
REGULATION, a rule or order preferibed by a
fuperior, for the proper management of fome affair.
REGULATOR of a Watch, the fmall fpring be-
4 S longing
it E G
[ 69° 3
K E I
Regulbimn
Regulus.
1 longing to the balance > ferving to adjuft its mo,ions,
and make it go falter or flower. See Watch.
REGULBIUM, or Rkguhvium, (Notjtia Impe¬
rii) j mentioned nowhere elfe more early : a town of
the Cantii, in Britain. Now Reculver, a village on the
coaft, near the illand Thanet, towards the i'names, to
the north of Canterbury, (Camden).
REGULUS, M. Atttlius, a conful during the firft
Punic war. ble reduced Brundufium, and in his fecund
cqnfulihip he took 64 and funk 30 galleys ot the Car¬
thaginian fleet, on the coails of S.cily. Afterwards
he landed in Africa ; and fo rapid was his fuccefs, that
in a fnort time he made himfelf mailer, of about 200
places of confequence on the coaft, 1 he Carthaginians
fued for peace, but the conqueror re ruled to grant it j
and foon after he was defeated in a battle by Xanthip-
pus, and 30,000 of his men were left on the field of
battle, and 15,000 taken prifoners. Regulus v/as in
the number of the captives, and he wras carried in tri¬
umph to Carthage. He was fent by the enemy to
Rome, to propofe an accommodation and an exchange
ot prifoners j and if his commiflion was -unfuccefsful, he
was bound by the molt folemn oaths to return to Car¬
thage without delay. When he came to Rome, Regu¬
lus diffuaded his countrymen from accepting the terms
which the enemy proposed 5 and when his opinion had
had due influence on the fenate, Regulus reared to Car¬
thage agreeable to his engagements, he Carthagini¬
ans were told that their offers of peace had been rejec¬
ted at Rome by the means of Regulus; and therefore
they prepared to punifh him with the greatell feverity.
His eye-brows were cut, and he was expofed for forne
days to the exceflive heat of the meridian lun, and af¬
terwards confined in a barrel, whofe fides were every¬
where filled with large iron fpikes, till he died in the
greateft agonies. His fufferings were heard of at Rome ;
and the lenate permitted his widow to inflidt whatever
punifliment the pleafed on feme of the moft illuffrious
captives of Carthage which were in their hands. She
confined them alfo in preiles filled with iharp iron points 5
and was fo exquifite in her cruelty, that the fenate in¬
terfered, and popped the barbarity of her punifliment.
Regulus died about 251 years before Chrift.— Mem-
mius, a Roman, made governor of Greece' by Caligula.
While Regulus was in his province, the emperor wiftied
to bring the celebrated ftatue of Jupiter Olympius by
Phidias to Rome, but this was fupernaturally prevented ;
and according to ancient authors, the fliip which was to
convey it was deftroyed by lightning, and the workmen
who attempted to remove the ftatue were terrified away
by fudden noifes.—A man who condemned Sejanus.
—Rofcius, a man who held the confulftiip but for one
day, in the reign of Vitellius.
Regulus, in AJ}ronot?iy, a ftar of the firft magnitude,
in the conftellation Leo ; called alfo, from its fituation,
Cor Looms, or the Lion's Heart; by the Arabs, Aiha-
bor ; and by the Chaldeans, Kalbeleced, or Karbcleceid;
from an opinion of its influencing the affairs of the heavens.
REGULUS, in Chemijiry, the metallic matter that falls
to the bottom of the crucible, in the melting of ores or
impure metallic fubftances. It is the fineil or pureft
part of the metal ; and, according to the alchemiits, is
denominated regulus, or little king, as being the firfl-
born of the royal metallic blood. According to them,
it is really a fon, but not a perfeft man ; i. e. not yet a
Reid.
perfect metal, for want of time and proper nourifhmerst.' Rehe.ufal
To procure the regulus of metals, &.c. flux powders
are commonly uled j as nitre, tartar, <§oc. which purge,
the fulphureous part adhering to the metal, by altractin
and abiorbing it to themtelves.
REHEARSAL, in I/hjtc and the Drama, an effay
or experiment oi lome compoliiion, generally made in
private, previous to its reprelentaaon or perlormance in
public, in order to render the actors and performers more
perfidt in their parts.
REICHENBERG, in Bohemia, 95 miles weft of
Prague, 205 north-well of Vienna, N. Lat 50. 2. E.
Long. 12. 25. is only remarkable as the place where the
Prullian army defeated the Auftrianson the 21ft of April
1757. The Auitffan army, commanded by Count Ko-
nigfeck, -was polled near Reichenberg, and w as attacked
by the Piuftians under the command of the prince of
Brunfwick Bevern. The Pruflians were 20,000 and the
Auftrians 28,000 : the adlion began at hall alter fix in
the morning, when the Pruftian Lues were iormed, and
attacked the Aultrian cavalry, which was ranged in three
lines of 30 fquadrons, and their two wings luitained by
the infantry, which was polled among fellca trees and
intreuchments. The Auftrians had a village on their
right, and a wrood on their left, where they were intrench¬
ed. The Pruflian dragoons and grenadiers cleared the
intjehchment and wood, and entirely routed the Auftrian
cavalry ; at the fame time, the redoubts that covered
Reichenberg were taken byr Geneial Leftewdtz; and the
Auftrians were entirely defeated. The Piuftians had
feven officers and xoo men killed ; 14 officers and 150.
men wounded. The Auftrians had iqoo men killed
and wounded j 2C of their officers and 400 men taken
prifoners. The ahlion ended at eleven.
REID, Thomas, D. D. an eminent philofopher and
diftinguiflied literary character, w as the Ion of Lewis
Reid, mlnifter of the parifti of Strachan in the county of
Kincardine, North Britain. His mother was the daugh¬
ter of Mr Gregory of Kinnairdie in Banffshire, w as one
of twenty-nine children, and was filler to David, James,
and Charles Gregories, who were at the fame period
profeffors of aftronomy or mathematics, in the univerfi-
ties of Oxford, Edinburgh, and St Andrews.
Dr Reid was born at tire parlonage houfe of Slrachan,
in April 1710, and received the elementary parts of his
education at the pariih-fehool of Kincardine-o-niel. The
parochial fchools of Scotland are find to have been much
fuperior at that period to what they are at prelent, and
young men went from them w;ell furniftied with philolo¬
gical learning to the different univerfities. The early
progrefs of young Reid muff have been very extraordi¬
nary, fince he w?as qualified to profit by the leclures of
the profeffors at the age of twelve. He foon gave very
linking proofs that he inherited the genius of his mother’s
family, and wTas confpicuous among the Undents of ma¬
thematics, in a college where that fcience has always
been cultivated with zeal and fuccefs. He continued
longer at the univerfity than the ulual term of years, as
he had been appointed to the office of librarian, which
was a fituation every way agreeable to him, as it gave
him fuch an ample opportunity of gratifying his paffion
for ftudy. About this time he became intimately attach¬
ed to John Stewart, afterwards profeffor of mathematics
in Marifchal college, which connexion greatly ftrengtb-
ened his pvedile&ion for mathematical ftudics.
He
K E I [ 691 ] R E I
He refigned the office of librarian in the year X736,
and accompanied Mr Stewart to England, when they
paid a vilit to London, Oxford, and Cambridge, and
.were introduced to feveral peribns of the lirlt literary
diilinclion. On account of his relation to Dr David
Gregory, he had ready accefs to the celebrated Martin
Foikes, whole houfe might be laid to contain many of the
molt interefting objedls to be met with in the metropolis,
lie faw Dr Bentley at Cambridge, with whole erudition
he was much delighted, as well as amufed with his va¬
nity ■, and he alfo converted frequently with Saunderfon,
the blind mathematician. Dr Reid refers in his fpecu-
lations to this gentleman’s blindnels, as a lingular pheno¬
menon in the hiltory of the human mind.
Dr Reid maintained an uninterrupted friendlhip with
the learned and amiable Mr Stewart till the year 1766,
at which time Mr Stewart was carried off by a malig¬
nant fever. The circumftances attending the death of
this excellent man deeply wounded the fenfibility of
Dr Reid; for his wife and daughter were carried off
by the fame diforder, and buried with him in one grave.
The King’s college of Aberdeen prelented Dr Reid
7.0 the living of New-Machar in the year 1737 j but
Rich was the zeal of the people againff the law' of pa¬
tronage at that time, that he not only met with violent
pppolilion, but was alfo expofed to perfonal danger. But
his attention to the duties of his office was fo exemplary,
his temper fo mild and forbearing, and his fpirit of hn-
manity fo active, that in a lliort time he fubdued their
prejudices j and when at laff called in the courfe of pro¬
vidence to a different fituation, the very people who had
been guilty of grols and indecent outrages againff: him
followed him, on his departure, with their benedictions
and tears.
In 1 740, he married Elizabeth, daughter of his uncle,
Dr George Reid, phylician in London, after which his
popularity at New-Machar very much increafed. Her
manners wrere fo accommodating, and io numerous w?ere
her kind offices to the lick and the indigent, that the
departure of the family from the neighbourhood was look¬
ed upon as a general misfortune. The manner in w'hich
feveral old men were accullomed to fpeak upon the fub-
jefl is worthy of being kept in remembrance. “ We
fought, faid they, ugamjl Dr Reid when he came, and
>ve would have fought for him when he went away.”
The greater part of his refidence at New-Machar was
devoted to the molt intenfe ftudy, particularly direfling
his attention to the laws of external perception, and of
the other principles w'hich conffitute the bafis of human
knowledge. He unbended his mind by the amufements
of gardening and botany, of which he was extremely
fond, even in old age.
The profeffors of King's College, in the year 1752,
made choice of Dr Reid to be profeffor of philofophy,
originating wholly from the high opinion they rvere led
to entertain of his talents and erudition. We are not
acquainted with the particular plan which he adopted
and purfued in the courfe of his leflures •, but his depart¬
ment at that period comprehended mathematics and phy-
iics, logic and ethics,—a praflice then followed in the
other univerfities of Scotland, inftead of appointing a pro¬
feffor for each diflincl branch.
Dr Reid had not been long in Aberdeen, till in con-
jun&ion with Dr John Gregory, he projefled a liter¬
ary fociety which continued for a number of. years, and
met once a week. The waitings of Reid, Gregory,
Campbell, Beattie and Gerard, evince the numerous ad¬
vantages which the members derived from this inititution,
as they were in the habit 01 fubjefting luch works as they
intended for publication, to the Tell of friendly criti-
cifm.
It is perhaps not too much to affert, that of all the
publications which appeared about this time, the Inquiry
into the Human Mmd by Dr Reid, difeovered by far
the greateft originality and profound thinking. It ap¬
pears that he had conceived the plan, and deeply medi¬
tated upon it, long before its publication 5 yet without
the applaufe of his literary affociates, it is more than
probable that his native modelty might have prevented
him from giving it to the world.
The publication of Mr Hume’s Treatife of Human
Nature, in 1739, led him to queition the principles
commonly received with regard to the human uaderftand-
ing. He admitted) when a youth, but without any at¬
tentive examination, the opinions on which Mr Hume’s
fcepticifm was railed ; but when he carefully adverted
to the confequences which thefe principles appeared to
involve, he inilantly began to fufpefl their truth. To
fubvert the fceptical theory of Mr Hume wras the grand
objefl of Dr Reid’s Inquiry, which he fubmitted to the
examination of Mr Hume himfelf. That philofopher,
even after he had feen fome parts of the Work, difeovers
not a little of the Jewilh fpirit of unbelief that any good
thing fhould come out of Nazareth \ and confidering his
antagonift as a clergyman, and belonging to an order of
men from whom prejudice would not allow him to ex-
pe6l any foundnefs of reafoning in matters of fcience,
he betrays more than want of good humour, as Dr
Reid’s biographer expreffes himfelf, w’hen he fays in no
very courteous language in a letter to Dr Blair, “ I
with that the parfons wrould confine themfelves to their
old occupation of worrying one another, and leave phi-
lofophers to argue ivith temper, moderation, and good
manners.” But though Mr Hume, as appears from the
wTords juft quoted, wTas very angry that a clergyman
fhould become a philofopher, on a fecond perufal of the
Inquiry, he feems to have held very different fentiments,
when he wrote to the author himfelfin the following terms.
“ By Dr Blair’s means, I have been favoured with the
perufal of your performance, which I have read with
great, pleafure and attention. It is certainly very rare,
that a piece fo deeply philofophical is wrote (written)
with fo much fpirit, and affords fo much entertainment to
the reader ; though I muff: Hill regret the difadvantages
under which I read it, as I never had the whole perfor¬
mance at once before me, and could not be able fully to
compare one part with another. To this reafon, chiefly,
I aferibe fome obfeurities, which, in ipite of your fhort
analyfis or abftraft, ftillfeem to hang over your fyftem.
For I muff do you the juftice to own, that when I enter¬
ed into your ideas, no man appears to exprefs himfelf
with greater perfpicuity than you do $ a talent which,
above all others, is reqmfite in that fpecies of literature
which you have cultivated.—As I was defirous to be of
fome ufe to you, I kept a watchful eye all along over
your ftyle •, but it is really fo correfl, and fo good Eng-
lith, that I found not any thing worth the remarking.
There is only one paffage in this chapter, w’here you
make ufe of the phrafe hinder to do, inftead of hinder
from doing, which is the Englifti one ; but I could not
4 S 2 find
R E I 692 ] RET
Reid, find tlie paflage when I fought for it. You may judge
—~v how unexceptionable the whole appeared to me, when I
Could remark fo fmall a blemKh.”
The impreffion made on the minds of fpeculative men
by the publication of Dr Reid’s Inquiry was as great as
could reafonably be expected from the nature of his un¬
dertaking. It was not level to the comprehenfion of
the multitude, nor even addreffed to them 5 and as it
examined opinions with the utmoft freedom which had
obtained the faniRion of the higheft authorities, it had
little profpedR of conciliating the favour of the learned.
Some, however, there were, who perceived the extent of
his views, and beheld in his pages the true fpirit and
language of indutlive inveftigation, which made profe-
lytes of many, and was, by them, warmly recommend¬
ed to the attention of others. The Inquiry of Dr Reid
was fo much efteemed by the learned body of teachers
then in the univerfity of Glafgow, that they gave him
an invitation to the vacant profefforfhip of moral philo-
fophy, in the year 1763. It was no doubt with a con-
iiderable degree of rekuRance that he refolved to leave
Aberdeen j yet fo numerous were the allurements which
Glafgow prefented to a man of his extenfive erudition
and deep refearch, that he gave it the preference. That
feminary of learning could then boaft of a Moor, a Sim-
fon, a Black, a Leechman, the two Wilfons, father and
fon, and an acute, difcriminating Millar, with all of
whom he was more or lefs intimate, and whofe fafcina-
ting converfation made him in fome meafure forget that
he was long acquainted with men of genius in the uni¬
verfity of Aberdeen.
Dr Reid’s merit as a public teacher arofe principally
from that fund of original philofophy which is charafte-
riftic of his writings j and from his invincible patience
and perfeverance in recommending fuch principles as he
conceived to be of the lafl importance to human happi-
nefs. His ftyle, too, was fimple and perfpicuous 5 his
characRer grave and poffeffed of authority \ and his Un¬
dents felt fuch an intereft in the do<Rrines which he in¬
culcated, that he never failed to be heard with the moft
profound attention.
In the year 1773 his remarks on Ariflotle’s logic ap¬
peared in Lord Karnes’s Sketches of the Hiftory of Man,
of which he himfelf has favoured us with the following
account. “ In attempting to give fome account of the
Analytics, and of the Topics of Ariftotle, ingenuity obli¬
ges me to confefs, that though I have often purpofed to
read the whole with care, and to underftand what is in¬
telligible, yet my courage and patience always failed
before I had done. Why fhould I throw away fo much
time and painful attention upon a thing of fo little
ufe ? If I had lived in thofe ages when the knowledge
of Ariftotle’s Organon entitled a man to the higheft
rank in philofophy, ambition might have induced me to
employ upon it fome years of painful ftudy j and lefs, I
conceive, would not be fufficient. Such reflexions as
thefe always got the better of my refolution when the
firft ardour began to cool. All I can fay is, that I have
read fome part of the different books with care, fome
ilightly, and fome perhaps not at all. I have glanced
over the whole often ^ and when any thing attrafted my
attention have dinped into it till my appetite was fatis-
fied.”
But in fpite of his modeft declarations, it is matter of
doubt with fome, whether any of his publications decs
him more honour than his perfpicuous view of this com- Reid,
plicated fyftem. It is unqueftionably fuperior to any' """v—“
other analyfis of thefe writings we have yet feen, an opi¬
nion amply confirmed by the fentiments of different lite¬
rary charadters who were intimately acquainted with the
wmrks of Ariftotle.
Dr Reid declined reading ledlures in the univerfity for
fome years before his death ; and he devoted this pe¬
riod to the talk of preparing for the prefs his great
work, which was publifhed in two volumes qto, the firft
in 1785, entitled, “ Effays on the Intellectual Powers
of Man j” and the fecond in 1788, entitled, “ Effays
on the AXive Powrers of Man.” His EJfay on Quantity,
occajioned by reading a Treatife, in which Simple and
Compound Ratios are applied to Virtue and Merit, was
compofed previous to the year 1748, and was publifhed
in the Philofophical TranfaXions of London for that
year. This paper affords fome light with regard to the
progrefs of his fpecul? ions about this time. The In¬
quiry into the Human Mind, of which wre have already
taken notice appeared in 1764; and at this time he was
complimented with the degree of DoXor in Divinity.
In the year 1796 (the laft of his mortal exiftence),
he was prevailed upon to fpend with his friends at Edin¬
burgh a few weeks during the fummer. From that vifit
he returned to Glafgow in his ufual health and fpirits,
and for fome time continued to devote a portion of his
time to the exercife both of body and mind. About the
end of September the fame year, he was feized with a
violent diforder, with which he maintained a fevere
ftruggle ; and this, together with repeated ftrokes of
the palfy, put a final period to his long and ufeful life
on the 7th of OXober, and in the 87th year of his
age-
As to his bodily conftitution, few men have been
more indebted to nature than Dr Reid. In this refpeX
he was athletic and vigorous, and his mufcular ftrength
was uncommonly great; advantages which were power¬
fully feconded by his temperance, exercife, and the
unclouded ferenity of his temper. Deep and collec¬
ted thought w^as very confpicuous in his countenance,
and all his looks were expreffive of kindnefs and good
will.
With refpeX to his charaXer, his reXitude was in¬
flexible and intrepid ; his attachment to truth was pure ;
and he had an entire command over all his paflions,
w7hich he acquired by the unwearied exertions of a long
life. When, therefore, he found it neceffary to difpute
the conclufions of others in any of his writings, he ne¬
ver employed any expreflions to irritate thofe whom he
was anxious to convince, and the afperity of his op¬
ponents could not provoke him to reprefs his fpirit of li¬
berality and good-humour 5 for he confidered the intem¬
perance with wftiich controverfy is ufually carried on, as
an enemy to the progrefs of ufeful knowdedge, and as
having done more harm to the praXice than fervice to
the theory of morality. He uniformly maintained the
dignity of philofophy in private life, and he united in
his charaXer the moft amiable modefty and gentlenefs,
with the nobleft fpirit of independence. He never foli-
cited any favours from the great, and all his academical
or other preferments wrere conferred upon him by thofe
who were real judges of his merit, and thought he de-
ferved them. To a found, cautious, and difcriminating »
judgement, a Angular patience and perfeverance of
thought,.
R E I [ 693 ] R E L
thought, and fixed attention to the operations of his own
mind, he added the curiofity of a naturalift and the
eyes of an obferver, and of courfe his information was
accurate and extenfive. His fenfibility was of an ac¬
tive and lively nature, and wherever he could command
the means of relieving the diftreffed, he always employ¬
ed them wdth the utmolt fecrecy poffible.
His works ate nowr in the hands of the public, and we
believe we may venture to afiert, that they will always
be much efteemed, while found fenfe continues t® be
preferred to unintelligible jargon, fophiftry, or impiety.
He has diverted metaphyfics of myftery, and rendered
intelligible the moft profound fpeculations, by the regu¬
lar and conftant ufe of words in one determined fenle.
In the ftate in which he found the philofophical world,
it wras Dr Reid’s opinion, that his talents could not be
fo ufefully employed, as in combating the fchemes of
thofe who aimed at the complete fubverfion of religion,
both natural and revealed. He apprehended the opera¬
tions of his own mind with a clearnefs w hich gave to his
language a perfpicuity and precifion that the language of
JLocke never poffeffed ; and in this refpedt he is deci¬
dedly fuperior to all his predeceffors.
REIN-deer, or Tarandus. See Cervus, Entomo¬
logy Index.
- REINS, in Anatomy, the fame with Kidneys. See
Anatomy Index.
Reins of a Bridle, are two long flips of leather, faf-
tened on each fide of a curb or fnaffle, which the rider
holds in his hand, to keep the horfe in fubjeftion.
There is alfo what is called falfe reins ; w'hich is a
lath of leather, parted fometimes through the arch of the
banquet, to bend the horfe’s neck.
REJOINDER, in Law, is the defendant’s anfwer
to the plaintiff’s replication or reply. Thus, in the
court of chancery, the defendant puts in an anlwer to
the plaintiff’s bill, which is fometimes alfo called an ex¬
ception ; the plaintiff’s anfwer to that is called a replica¬
tion, and the defendant’s anfwer to that a rejomdre.
REISKE, John James, a profound fcholar and emi¬
nent critic, was born in 1 yob at a fmall town in the
duchy of Anhalt in Germany. Elis conneaions, it
would appear, w’ere in a humble fituation of life } and in
confequence of the narrows circumftances in w'hich he
was placed, he had many difficulties to ftruggle with du¬
ring the early part of his education. I hefe, how ever,
by unabating perfeverance he furmounted, and in 1733
went to Leipfic, where he remained for five years in the
ardent purfuit of his ftudies. Here he acquired an ex¬
tenfive knowledge of the Arabic, and was engaged in
the tranflation of a book from that language, which
was afterwards publifhed. With the view of profecuting
with greater advantage the ftudy of Arabic, which had
become with him a favourite objedrt of purfuit, he tra¬
velled on foot to Leyden, w'here new difficulties attended
him. While he remained in Leyden he was employed
in arranging the Arabic manufcripts belonging to the
univerfity ; and for this labour he received a very fmall
remuneration. During his refidencc here, part of his
time was occupied in the tranflation of various effays
from the German and French languages into Latin.
Thefe eflays afterwards appeared in the Mifcellanea Cri¬
tic a. About the fame time alfo our learned author tranf-
lated into Latin the whole of the Chariton from the
Greek, and the Geography of Abulfeda from the Ara¬
bic.
Having fpent eight years at Leyden, Reifke wras dri-v
ven from this place by jealoufy and calumny, which it
is faid were excited againft him chiefly by the younger ^
Burman, in confequence of his critical ftriftures on the
edition of Petronius publifhed by that author j but be¬
fore his departure from this learned feminary, he had ob ¬
tained the degree of dodtor of phyfic, which w'as con¬
ferred in a manner highly to his honour. He after¬
wards vifited different parts of Germany, and at laft fet¬
tled a fecond time at Leipfic, where he remained for
twelve years. But although he had received the ap¬
pointment of profeffor of Arabic, the emoluments of his
office wrere fo fcanty, that he had yet to ftruggle with
nil thp diffiriiltif-s attendant on oovertv. and merely to
Reifke
I!
Reland.
procure a fubfiftence w'as obliged to engage in the hum¬
bler employments of literary labour, and fubmit to the
fevere and ill-requited drudgery of editing wurks for
bookfellers, or contributing detached papers,to periodi¬
cal publications. About this time the Acla Eruditorum
were greatly indebted to the labours of our author.
But in the midft of all the difficulties and hardfliips now
alluded to, he prepared and publiftied a work of pro¬
found learning and great merit. Ihis wTork, wfliich ex¬
tended to five volumes, appeared under the title of Am-
madverfones in Aucieres Greecos, and added much to our
author’s reputation.
In the year 1758, in confequence of the death of Hal-
taufius, he obtained a fituation, which was not only
honourable but lucrative. I his was the place of rec¬
tor of the academy of Leipfic, in w’hich he continued
during the remainder of his life. He was now raifed
above wrant, and being free from the difficulties and
embarraffments wrhich had hitherto conftantly attended
him, he was thus enabled in the midft of learned cafe to
profecute his favourite ftudies.
In the year 1764 Reilke married E. C. Muller, a wo¬
man of great learning, and of wdiom it is faid that her
knowledge, efpecially in Greek literature, was little in¬
ferior to that of her hufband. In all his literary labours
fhe was an ufeful affociate } but the affiftance w'hich fhe
contributed to his great work, the edition of the Greek
Orators, was particularly valuable. I hus parted the
latter period of the life of this learned man. He died'
in 1774, poffeffing a very diftinguifhed reputation as a
fcholar and a critic. The number of the works which
he fuperintended and publifhed is very great. 1 he moft
approved are the following. “ Remarks upon Gieek
Authors.” An “ Edition of the Greek Orators,” in
12 vols. 8vo, which w^as completed by his widow.
“ Dionyfius Halicarnaffenfis,” in 7 vols. “ Plutarch’s
Works,” in 9 vols, “ Theocritus,” &c.
RELAND, Adrian, an eminent Orientalift, bora
at Ryp, in North Holland, in 1676. During three
years ftudy under Surenhufius, he made an uncommon
progrefs in the Hebrew, Syriac, Chaldee, and Arabic
languages } and thefe languages wTere always his fa¬
vourite ftudy. In 1701, he was, by the recommenda¬
tion of King William, appointed profeffor of Oriental
languages and ecclefiaftical antiquities in the univerfity
of Utrecht, and died of the fmall-pox jn 1718. He
wras diftinguifhed by his modefty, humanity', and learn¬
ing • and carried on a correfpondence with the moft
eminent;:
R E L [ 694 1 It E L
Relation eminent fcholars of his time. .His principal works are,
R 1. An excellent defcription of Paleftine. 2. Five dil-
i ~ y‘' ~ ' fertations on the Medals of the ancient Hebrews, and
feveral other differtations on different fubjedls. 3. An
Introdudlion to the Hebrew Grammar. 4. The An¬
tiquities of the ancient Hebrews. 5. On the Maho¬
metan Religion. Thefe works are all written in La¬
tin.
RELATION, the mutual refpeft of two things, or
what each is with regard to the other. See Metaphy¬
sics, n° 93, &c. and 128, &c.
Relation, in Geometry. See Ratio.
Relation, is alio ufed for analogy. See Analogy,
and Metaphysics.
RELATIVE, fomething relating to or refpecling
■another.
Relative, in Mujic. See Mode.
RELATIVE Terms, in Logic, are words which imply
relation ; Inch are mailer and fervant, hulband and
wife, See.
In grammar, relative words are thofe which anfwer
to Tome other word foregoing, called the antecedent ;
fuch are the relative pronouns qui, quee, quod, &c. and
in Englilh, who, whom, which, &c. The word an-
fwering to thefe relatives is often underlfood, as, “ I
know whom you mean j” for “ I know the perfon
whom you mean.”
RELAXATION, in Medicine, the a£t of Icofening
or liackening j or the loofenefs or flacknefs of the fibres,
nerves, mufcles, &c.
RELAY, a fupply of horfes placed on the road, and
appointed to be ready for a traveller to change, in order
to make the greater expedition.
RELEASE, in Law, is a difeharge or conveyance
of a man’s right in lands or tenements, to another that
hath ibme former ellate in poffeffion. The words general¬
ly ufed therein are “ remifed, releafed, and for ever quit-
Blaclfl. claimed.” And thefe releafes may enure, either, 1. By
Comment, way of enlarging an cjiate, or enlarger Reflate : as, if
there be tenant for life or years, remainder to another in
fee, and he in remainder releafes all his right to the par¬
ticular tenant and his heirs, this gives him the ellate in
fee. But in this cafe the releffee mutt be in pofleflion of
of fome ellate, for the releafe to work upon; for if there
be leffee for years, and, befoie he enters and is in poflef-
fion, the leffor releafes to him all his right in the rever¬
sion, fuch releafe is void for want of poffeffion in the re~
leffee. 2. By way of pafling an eflate or milter Reflate ;
as when one of two coparceners releafeth all his right to
the other, this paffeth the fee-fimple of the whole. And,
in both thefe cafes, there mull be a privity of ellate be¬
tween the releffor and releffee} that is, one ox their ellates
mull be fo related to fixe other, as to make but one and
the fame eftate in lav% 3. By way of pafling a right,
or witter le droit: as if a man be diffeifed, and relealeth
to his diffeifor all his right ; hereby the diffeifor acquires
a new right, which changes the qualify of his eftate,
and renders that lawful which before was tortius. 4.
By xvay of extinguifhment \ as if my tenant for life makes
a leafe to A for life, remainder to B and his heirs, and
I releafe to A -, this extinguiffies my right to the rever-
ffon, and (hall enure to the advantage of B’s remainder
as well as of A’s particular ellate. 5. By way of entry
■andfeoffment: as if there be two joint diffeifors, and the
diffeifee releafes to one of them, he lhali be foie leifed,
2
and lhali keep out his’former companion 3 which is the fame Rcleafe
in effedl as if the diffei&e had entered, and thereby put li
an end to the diffeifin, and afterwards had enfeoffed one. “cv*
of the diffeifors in fee. And hereupon we may obferve,
that when a man has in himfelf the poffeffion of lands,
he mult at the common law convey the freehold by
feoffment and livery \ which makes a notoriety in the
country : but if a man has only a right or a future
intereil, he may convey that right or interell by a mere
releafe to him that is in poffeffion of the land : for the
occupancy of the releflee is a matter of fufficient notoriety
already.
RELEVANCY, in Scots Law. See Law, N°
clxxxvi. 48.
RELICS, in the Romiffi church, the remains of the
bodies or clothes of faints or martyrs, and the inltruments
by which they were put to death, devoutly preferved, in
honour to their memory ; killed, revered, and carried in
proceffion.
The refpedl which was juftly due to the martyrs and
teachers of the Chriftian faith, in a few ages increafed
almoll to adoration j and at length adoration xvas really paid
both to depaned iaints and to relics of holy men or holy
things. The abufes of the church of Rome, with refpedt
to relics, are very flagrant and notorious. For fuch was
the rage for them at one time, that, as F. Mabillon a Be-
nedi&ine juftly complains, the altars were loaded with
fufpedfed relics j numerous fpuricus ones being every-
where offered to the piety and devotion of the faithful.
He adds, too, that bones are often conlecrated, which,
fo far from belonging to faints, probably do not belong to .
Chriftians. From the catacombs numerous relics have
been taken, and yet it is not known who were the per-
fons interred therein. In the nth century, relics were
tried by fire, and thofe which did not confume were reck¬
oned genuine, and the reft not. Relics were, and ftill
are, preferved on the altars whereon mafs is celebrated j
a fquare hole being made in the middle of the altar, big
enough to receive the hand, and herein is the relic depo-
fited, being firft wrapped in red filk, and inclofed in a
leaden box.
The Romanifts plead antiquity in behalf of relics :
For the Manichees, out of hatred to the fiefti, which
they confidered as an evil principle, refufed to honour
the relics of faints •, which is reckoned a kind of proof
that the Catholics did it in the firft ages.
W e knoxv, indeed, that the touching of linen cloths
on relics, from an opinion of forne extraordinary virtue
derived therefrom, was as ancient as the firft ages, there
being a hole made in the coffins of the 40 martyrs at
Conftantincple exprefsly for this purpofe. The honour¬
ing the relics of Tints, on which the church of Rome
afterwards founded her fuperflitious and lucrative ufe of
them, as objefls of devotion, as a kind of charms or
amulets, and as inftruraents of pretended miracles, ap¬
pears to have originated in a very ancient cuftom, that
prevailed among Chriftians, of affembling at the ceme¬
teries or b. ryir.g-places of the martyrs, for the purpofe
of commemorating them, and of performing divine vor-
ftn’p When the prof ffion of Chriftianity obtained the
protefHcn ot the civil government, under Conftantine
the Great, ftately churches were erefted over their fe-
pulchres, and their names and memories were treated
with every poffible token of affection and refpedf. This
reverence, however, gradually exceeded all xeafonable
bounds j
I
R E L [ 60S ] R E L
bcundc. j and thcfe prayers and religious ftrvlces were
thought to have a peculiar fandlity and virtue, which
were performed o\'er their tombs. Hence the practice,
which afterwards obtained, of depofiting relics of faints
and martyrs under the altars in all churches. This
practice was then thought of fuch importance, that St
Ambrofe would not confecrate a church becaui’e it had
no relics ; and the council of Conftantinople in Trullo
ordained, that thofe altars fhould be demolifned under
which there were found no relics. The rage of procuring
relics for this and other purpofcs of a fimilar nature, be¬
came fo exceffive, that in 386 the emperor Theodolius
the Great was obliged to pafs a law, forbidding the
people to dig up the bodies of the martyrs, and to traf¬
fic in their relics.
Such was the origin of that refpecf for facred relics,
which afterwards was perverted into a formal worfliip of
them, and became the occafion of innumerable procef-
fions, pilgrimages, and miracles, from which the church
of Rome hath derived incredible advantage.—In the end
of the ninth century, it was not lufficient to reverence
departed faints, and to confide in their interceffions and
fuccours, to clothe them with an imaginary power of
healing difeafes, working miracles, and delivering from
all forts of calamities and dangers; their bones, their
clothes, the apparel and furniture they had poffefTed
during their lives, the very ground which they had
touched, or in which their putrified carcafes were laid,
were treated with a Itupid veneration, and fuppofed Ho
retain the marvellous virtue of healing all diforders both
of body and mind, and of defending fuch as pofTeffed
them again!! all the affaults and devices of the devil.
The confequence of all this was, that every one was ea¬
ger to provide himfelf with thefe falutary remedies j
coufequently, great numbers undertook fatiguing and
perilous voyages, and fubjecled themfelves to alb forts of
hardfhips ; while others made ufe of this delufion to ac¬
cumulate their riches, and to impofe upon the miferable
multitude by the moi! impious and {hocking inventions.
As the demand for relics was prodigious and univerfal,
the clergy employed the utmoft dexterity to fatisfy all
demands, and were far from being nice in the methods
they ufed for that end. The bodies of the faints were
fought by failing and prayer, inflituted by the prieft in
order to obtain a divine anfwer and an infallible direc¬
tion, and this pretended diredlion never failed to accom-
plifh, their defires ; the holy carcafe was always found,
and that always in confequence, as they impioufly gave
out, of the fuggeftion and infpiration of God himfelf.
Each difcoveiy of this kind was attended with exceflive
demonftrations of joy, and animated the zeal of thefe
devout feekers to enrich the church ftill more and more
with this new kind of treafure. Many travelled with
this view into the eaflern provinces, and frequented the
places which Chrift and his difciples had honoured with
their prefence, that, wuth the bones and other facred re¬
mains of the firft heralds of the gofpel, they might com¬
fort dejedled minds, calm trembling confcienees, fave
finking Rates, and defend their inhabitants from all forts
of calamities. Nor did thefe pious travellers return
home empty ; the craft, dexterity, and knavery of the
Greeks, found a rich prey in the ftupid credulity of the
Latin relic-hunters, and made a profitable commerce of
this new devotion. The latter paid confiderable fums
for legs and arms, fkulls and jaw-bones (feveral of which
were Pagan, and fome not human), and other things Relics
that were fuppofed to have belonged to the primitive H
worthies of the Chriftian church and thus the Latin
churches came to the pofi'eflion of thofe celebrated relics
of St Mark, St James, St Bartholomew, Cyprian, Pan-
talebn, and others, which they fhovv at this day with fo
much oflentation. But there were many who, unable
to procure for themfelves thefe fpiritual treasures by voy¬
ages and prayers, had recourle to violence-and theft j
for all forts of means, and all forts of attempts in a caufe
of this nature, ivere confidered, when fuccefsful, as pious
and acceptable to the Supreme Being.—Befides the ar¬
guments from antiquity to which the Papifls refer, in
vindication of their worfhip of relics, of which the read¬
er may form fome judgement from this article, Bellar-
m'tne appeals to Scripture in fppport of it, and cites the
following paffagts, viz. Exodhxiii. 19. • Deut. xxxiv. 6.5
2 Kings xiii. 21. j 2 Kings xxiii. 16, 17, 18.5 Ifaiah
xi. 10. ; Matthew xi. 20, 21, 22. 5 A6ts v. 12—15. j
Acls xix. 11, 12. See Popery.
The Roman Catholics in Great Britain do not ac-
knowledge any worfhip to be due to relics, but merely
a high veneration and refpefl, by which means they
think they honour God, who, they fay, has often wrought
very extraordinary miracles by them. But, however
proper this veneration and refpedl may be, its abufe lias
been fo great and fo general, as fully to warrant the re-
jedtion of them altogether.
Relics are forbidden to be ufed or brought into Eng¬
land by feveral ftatutes ; and juftices of peace are em¬
powered to fearch houfes for popifh books and relics,
which, when found, are to be defaced and burnt, &c.
3 Jac. I. cap. 26.
RELICT, in Law, the fame with WIDOW.
RELIEF (Relevamen ; but, inDomefday, Relevatio,
Relcvium), fignifies a certain fum of money, which the
tenant, holding by knight’s fervice, grand fer]eanty, or
other tenure, (for which homage or legal fervice is
due), and being at full age at the death of his an-
ceflor, paid unto his lord at his entrance. See Primer.
Though reliefs had their original v.hile feuds were
only life eflates, yet they continued after feuds became
hereditary ; and were therefore looked upon, very jufl-
ly, as one of the greateft grievances of tenure : efpe-
cially when, at the firfl, they were merely arbitrary
and at the will of the lord ; fo that, if he pleafed to de-'
mand an exorbitant relie-f, it was in effcH to difinherit
the heir. The Englifh ill brooked this confequence of
their newly adopted policy 5 and therefore William the
Conqueror by his laws efeertained the relief, by direct¬
ing (in imitation of the Danifh heiiots), that a certain
quantity of arms, and habiliments of war, fhould be paid
by the earls, barons, and vavafours refpeftively ; and,
if the latter had no arms, they fhould pay 100 /hillings.
William Rufus broke through this compofition, and again
demanded arbitrary uncertain reliefs, as due by the feo-
dal laws \ thereby in effect obliging every heir to new-
purchafe or redeem his land : but his brother Henry I.
by the charter before mentioned, reffored his falher’s
law; and ordained, that the relief to be paid fhould be.
according to the law7 fo eftablifhed, and not an arbitrary
redemption.—But afterwards, when, by an ordinance
in 27 Hen. II. called the ajjtfe of arms, it was provided,
that every man’s armour fliould defeend to his heir, for
defence of the realm, and it thereby became impracti¬
cable
II E t
r 696 ]
EEL
Religion.
Relieve cable to pay thefe acknowledgements In aims according
to the laws of the Conqueror, the compofition was uni-
verfally accepted of 100 (hillings lor every knight’s fee,
as we find it ever after eftablifhed. But it mult be re¬
membered, that this relief was only then payable, if the
heir at the death of his anceftor had attained his full
age of 21 years.
To RELIEVE t/ie GUARD, is to put frefli men up¬
on guard, which is generally every 24 hours.
To Relieve the Trenches, is to relieve the guard of
the trenches, by appointing thofe for that duty who
have been there before.
To Relieve the Sentries, is to put frefh men upon
that duty from the guard, which is generally done every
twro hours, by a corporal who attends the relief, to fee
that the proper orders are delivered to the foldier who
relieves.
RELIEVO, or Relief, in Sculpture, &c. is the
projefture or (landing out of a figure which arifes pro¬
minent from the ground or plane on which it is formed j
whether that figure be cut with the chifel, moulded, or
raft.
There are three kinds or degrees of relievo, viz. alto,
•baffo, and demi-relievo. The alto-relievo, called alfo
haut-relief or high-relievo, is when the figure is formed
after nature, and proje&s as much as the life. Baffo-
relievo, bafs-relief, or low-relievo, is when the work is
raifed a little from the ground, as in medals, and the
-frontifpieces of buildings j and particularly in the hifto-
ries, feltoons, foliages, and other ornaments of friezes.
Demi-relievo is when one half of the figure rifes from
the plane. When, in a baffo-relieVo, there are parts that
(land clear out, detached from the reft, the wrork is call¬
ed a derni bajfo.
In architedlure, the relievo or projefture of the orna¬
ments ought always to be proportioned to the magnitude
of the building it adorns, and to the diftance at which
it is to be viewed.
Relievo, or Relief, in Painting, is the degree of
boldnefs with which the figures feem, at a due diftance,
to (land out from the ground of the painting.
The relievo depends much upon the depth of the (ha-
dow, and the ftrength of the light j or on the height of
the different colotirs, bordering on one another 5 and
particularly on the difference of the colour of the figure
from that of the ground : thus, when the light is fo dif-
pofed as to make the neared parts of the figure advance,
and is wrell diffufed on the maffes, yet infenfibly diminiftr-
ing, and terminating in a large fpacious (hadow, brought
off infenfibly, the relievo is faid to be bold, and the
clair obfcure well underftood.
*De Natu- RELIGION (Religio), is a Latin word derived,
ra Deo . according to Cicero *, from relcgere, “ to re-confider j”
rwffi, lib. 11. j3ut accorjjng to Servius and mod modern grammarians,
from religare, “ to bind faft.” The reafon afligned by
the Roman orator for deducing religio from relego, is in
thefe words, “ qux autem omnia, quae ad cultum deorum
pertinerent, diligenter retraftarent, et tanquam relege-
rent, funt di£ti religioji ex relegendo.” The reafon
given by Servius for his derivation of the word is,
“ quod mentem religio religet.” If the Ciceronian ety¬
mology be the true one, the word religion will denote
the diligent ftudy of whatever pertains to the worfhip
of the gods j but according to the other derivation,
which we are inclined to prefer, it denotes that obliga-
§ 28.
1
Religion
defined;
tion which we feel on our minds from the relation in Religion,
which we (land to feme fuperior power. In either cafe,
the import of the word religion is different from that of ^
thcologrj, as the former fignifies a number of practical sUjfl)ed
duties, and the latter a fyftem of fpeculative truths, from theo-
Theo/ogy is therefore the foundation of religion, or the LgX*
fcience from which it fprings •, for no man can ftudy
what pertains to the worfiup of fuperior powers till he
believe that fuch powers exift, or feel any obligation on
his mind from a relation of wdiich he knowrs nothing.
This idea of religion, as diftingtiiftied from theology,
comprehends the duties not only of thofe more refined
and eomplicated (yftems of theifm or polytheifm which
have prevailed among civilized and enlightened nations,
fuch as the polytheifm of the Greeks and Romans, and
the theifm of the Jews, the Mahometans, and the Chrif-
tians j it comprehends every fentiment of obligation
which human beings have ever conceived themfelves un¬
der to fuperior powers, as well as all the forms of wor-
(hip which have ever been pra£Hfed through the world,
however fantaftic, immoral, or abfurd. ,
When we turn our eyes to this feature of the human It is an im-
charafter, We find it peculiarly interefting. Mankind P°rtRntfub-
are diftinguifhed from the brutal tribes, and elevated to h**
a higher rank, by the rational and moral faculties withL
which they are endowed ; but they are (till more widely
diftinguifhed from the inferior creation, and more high¬
ly exalted above them, by being made capable of reli¬
gious notions and religious fentiments. The flighteft
knowledge of hiftory is fufficient to inform us, that reli¬
gion has ever had a powerful influence in moulding the
fentiments and manners of men. It has fometimes dig¬
nified,' and fometimes degraded, the human character.
In one region or age it has been favourable to civiliza¬
tion and refinement j in another, it has oceafionally
cramped the genius, depraved the morals, and deformed
the manners of men. The varieties of religion are innu¬
merable 5 and the members of every diftin£t fe£t muft
view all W’ho differ from them as more or lefs miftaken
with refpefl to the moft important concerns of man. Re¬
ligion feems to be congenial to the heart of man ; for
wrherever human fociety fubfifts, there We are certain of
finding religious opinions and fentiments. 4
It muft, therefore, be an important fubjeft of fpecu- Three quef«
lation to the man and the philofopher to confider thetlons con*
origin of religion ; to inquire, How far religion in ge- ^ J
neral has a tendency to promote or to injure the order
and happinefs of fociety ? and, above all, to examine,
What particular religion is beft calculated to produce a
happy influence on human life ?
We (hall endeavour to give a fatisfaflory anfwer to
each of thefe queftions ; referving to the article Theo¬
logy the confideration of the dogmas of that particular
religion which, from otir prefent inquiries, (hall appear
to be true, and to have the happieft influence on human
life and manners. 5
I. The foundation of all religion reds on the belief of Of the
the exiftence of one or more fuperior beings, who govern
the world, and upon whom the happinefs or mifery of0f reiigjon3
mankind ultimately depends. Of this belief, as it may
be faid to have been univerfal, there feem to be but
three fources that can be conceived. Either the image
of Deity muft be (lamped on the mind of every human
being, the favage as well as the fage ; or the founders
of focieties, and other eminent perfons, tracing, by the
efforts
It does not
arife from
an original
ftamp on
the mind;
7
nor from
reafoning;
... .. 11 E L , r 697
Religion, efforts of their own reafon vifible effects to invifible
caufes, muft have difcovered the exiftence of fuperior
powers, and communicated the difcovery to their affo-
ciates and followers 5 or, laftly, the univerfal belief in
fuch powers muft have been derived by tradition from a
primaeval revelation, communicated to the progenitors
6 of the human race.
One or other of thefe hypothefes muft be true, be-
caule a fourth cannot be framed. But we have elfe-
where (Polytheism, N° 2.) examined the reafoning
which has been employed to eftabliih the firft, and ftiewn
that it proceeds upon falfe notions of human nature.
We Ihould likewife pronounce it contrary to fa£t, could
we believe, on the authority of fome of its patrons, who
are not alhamed to contradict one another, that the
Kamtfchatkans, and other tribes, in the loweft ftate of
reafoning and morals, have no ideas whatever of Deity.
We proceed, therefore, to confider the fecond hypothe-
fis, which is much more plaufxble, and will bear a ftriCt-
er ferutiny.
That the exiftenOe and many of the attributes of the
Deity are capable of rigid demonftration, is a truth
which cannot be controverted either by the philofopher
or the Chriftian; for “ the iaviftble things of Him from
the creation of tffs world are clearly feen, being under-
ftood by the things that are made, even His eternal
power and Godhead,” (fee Metafhysics, Part III.
chap. vi. and Theology, N° 8, 9.). But furely it
would be rafh to infer, either that every truth for which,
•when it is known, the ingenuity of man can frame a de¬
monftration, is therefore difcoverable by human fagacity,
or that all the truths which have been difcovered by a
Newton or a Locke might therefore have been difcovered
by untaught barbarians. In mathematical feience, there
are few demonftrations of eafier comprehenfion than that
given by Euclid, of the theorem of which Pythagoras
is the reputed author; yet no man ever dreamed that a
boy capable of being made to underftand that theorem,
muft: therefore have fagacity equal to the fage of Samos j
or that fuch a boy, having never heard of the relation
between the hypothenufe and other two ftdes of a right-
angled triangle, would be likely to difeover that the
Iquare of the former is precifely equal to t he fura of the
Squares of the latter. Juft fo it feems to be with the
fundamental truths of theology. There can hardly be
conceived a demonftration lefs intricate, or more con-
clufive, than that which the man of fcience employs to
prove the exiftence of at leaft one God, poffefied of
boundlefs power and perfect wifdom. And could we
fuppofe that the human race had remained without any
knowledge of God in the world, till certain lucky indi¬
viduals had by fome means or other made themfelves
mafters of the rules of logic, and the philofophy of
caufes, there can be no doubt but that thefe individuals
might have difcovered the exiftence of fuperior powers,
and communicated their dilcovery to their affociates and
followers. But this fuppofition cannot be admitted, as
k is contradidled by the evidence of all hiftory. No
nation or tribe has ever been found, in which there is
not reafon to believe that fome notions were entertained
of fuperior and inviftble powers, upon which depends
the happinefs or mifery of mankind : and from the moft
authentic records of antiquity, it is apparent that very
pure principles of theifm prevailed in fome nations long
VOL. XVII. Part II,
] R E L
before the rules of logic, and the philofophy of caufes, Religion,
were thought of by any people under heave.n. u—~y-——
H he fuppofition before us is inadmiffible upon other
accounts. Some modern philofophers have fancied that
the original progenitors of mankind were left entirely to
themlelves from the moment of their creation } that they
wandered about for ages without the ufe of Ipeech and
in the loweft: ftate of favagifm j but that they gradually
Civilized themfelves, and at laft Humbled upon the con¬
trivance of making articulate founds fignificant of ideas,
which was followed by the invention of arts and feien-
ces, with all the bleffings of religion and legiflation in
their train. But this is a wild reverie, inconfiftent with
the phenomena of human nature.
It is a well known fadb, that a man blind from his
birth, and fuddenly made to fee, would not by means of
his newly acquired fenfe difeern either the magnitude or
figure or diitance of objecls, but would conceive every
thing which communicated to him vifible fenfations as
infeparably united to his eye or his mind (See Meta¬
physics, N” 49—53). How long his fenfe of fight,
would remain in fuch an imperfedl ftate, we cannot po-
litively fay ; but from attending to the vifible fenfations
of infants, we are confident that wTeeks, if not'months,
elapie before they can diftinguifh one thing from ano¬
ther. We have indeed been told, that Chefelden’s fa¬
mous patient, though he was at firft in the ftate which
we have deferibed, learned to diftinguifti objedts by
fight in the courle of a few' hours, or at the moft of a few
days: but admitting this to a certain extent to be true, it
may ealily be accounted for. The difeafe called a cata-
raB does not ahvays occafion total blindnefs ; but let
us fuppofe the eyes of this man to have been fo com¬
pletely dimmed as to communicate no fenfation what¬
ever upon being expofed- to the rays of light $ ftill we
muft remember that he had long poffefied the power of
loco-motion and all his other fenfes in perfection. He
w'as therefore well acquainted with the real, i. e. the
tangible magnitude, figure, and diftance of many ob-
jefts 5 and having been often told that the things which
he touched would, upon his acquifition of fight, com¬
municate new fenfations to his mind, differing from
each other according to the diftance, figure, and mag¬
nitude of the objefts by which they were occafioned,
he would foon learn to infer the one from the other,
and to diftinguiih near objefts by means of his fight.
The progenitors of the human race, however, if left
to themfelves from the moment of their creation, had
not the fame advantages. When they firft opened
their eyes, they had neither moved, nor handled, nor
heard, nor fmelled, nor tafted, nor had a fingle idea or
notion treafured up in their memories $ but w7ere in all
thefe refpefts in the ftate of new-born infants. Now
we Ihould be glad to be informed by thofe fages who
have conduced mankind through many generations in
which they W'ere mutum et turpe pecus to that happy pe¬
riod when they invented language, how the firft men
wrere taught to diftinguifti objefls by their fenfe of
fight, and howT they contrived to live till this moft ne-
ceflary faculty w7as acquired ? It does not appear that
men are like brutes, provided with a number of inftinfts
which guide them blindfold and without experience to
whatever is neceffary for their own prefervation (fee
Instinct) : On the contrary, all voyagers tell us that,
4 T in
R E L [ 698 ] REE
lieligioD. in llratige and uninhabited countries, they dare not ven-
 ture to tafte unknown fruits unlefs they perceive that
tlicfe fruits are eaten by the fowls of the air. But with¬
out the aid of iniiinft, or of feme other guide equally
^ to be depended upon, it is not in our power to conceive
how rnen dropt from the hands of their Creator, and
left from that inftant wholly to themfelves, could move
a fingle flep without the moft imminent danger, or
even ih'etch out their hands to lay hold of that food
which we may fuppofe to have been placed within
their reach. They could not, for many days, diitin-
guilh a precipice from a plane, a rock from a pit, or a
river from the meadows through which it rolled. And
in fuch circumftances, how could they poflibly exift,
till their fenfe of fight had acquired fuch perfe&ion as
to be a fufficient guide to all their neceffary motions ?
Can any confiftent theift fuppofe that the God whofe
goodnefs is fo confpicuoufiy difplayed in all his w-orks,
would leave his nobleft creature on earth, a creature for
whofe comfort alone many other creatures feem to have
been formed, in a fituation fo forlorn as this, where his
immediate deitruhtion appears to be inevitable ? No !
This fijppofition cannot be formed, becaufe mankind
S ftill exiit.
‘'but from Will it then be faid, that when God formed the firft
an original men^ lie not only gave them organs of fenfation, and
revelation. poujs capable 0f arriving by diicipline at the exercife of
reafon, but that he alfo impreffed upon their minds
adequate ideas and notions of every objeA in which
they were interefted ; brought all their organs, external
and internal, at once to their utmoft pollible Hate of per¬
fection taught them inftantaneoufly the laws of realbn-
ing j and, in one word, llored their minds with every
Thiswpi- branch of ufeful knowledge ? This is indeed our own
nion: agree- opinion 5 and it is perfeftly agreeable to what we are
able to the taught by the Hebrew lawgiver. When God had
MofesSS °f formed Adam and Eve, Mofes does not fay that he
'' ' ’ left them to acquire by How- degrees the ufe of their
fenfes and reafoning powers, and to diftinguiih as they
could fruits that were falutary from thole that were
poifonous. No : he placed them in a garden W'here
every tree but one bore fruit fit for food •, be warned
them particularly againft the fruit of that tree j he
brought before them the various animals which roamed
through the garden; he arranged thefe animals into
their proper genera and fpecies ; and by teaching Adam
to give them names, be communicated to the firft pair
the elements of language. This condefcen.fion appears
in every refpeft worthy of perfedt benevolence *, and
indeed without it the helplefs man and woman could
not have lived one whole week. But it cannot be fup-
pofed, that amidft fo much ufeful inftrudion the gra¬
cious Creator would negleft to communicate to bis ra¬
tional creatures the knowledge of himfelf 5 to inform
them of their own origin, and the relation in which
they flood to him •, and to ftate in the plaineft terms
the duties incumbent on them in return for fo much
is> goodnefs.
The mode Jn what manner all this knowledge was communica-
ot comma- cannot be certainly known. It may have been in
notcertain-either of the following ways conceivable by us, or in
ty known, others of which we can form no conception. God may
have mkaculouily ftored the minds of the firft pair with
adequate ideas and notions of fenfible and intelleftual
$>bje&s} and the$ by an internal operation of his owa
Spirit have enabled them to exert at once their rational Religion,
faculties fo as to difeover his exiftence and attributes,
together with the relation in which as creatures they
flood to him their Almighty Creator. Or, after ren¬
dering them capable of diftinguiihing objects by means
of their fenfes, of comparing their ideas, and underftand-
ing a language, he may have exhibited himlelf under
fume fenfible emblem, and conducted them by degrees
from one branch of knowledge to another, as a fchool-
mafter conducts his pupils, till they were fufficiently
acquainted with every thing relating to their own hap-
pinefs, and duty, as rational, moral, and religious crea¬
tures. In determining the queftion before us, it is of
no importance whether infinite wifdom adopted either
of thefe methods, or fome other different from them,
both wdiich we cannot conceive. The ordinary procefs
in which men acquire knowledge is, by the laws of their
nature, extremely tedious. They cannot reafon before
their minds be ftored with ideas and notions •, and they
cannot acquire thefe but through the medium of their
fenfes long exercifed on external objects. jj
The progenitors of the human race, left to inform But whe-
themfelves by this procefs, muft have inevitably perifhed ther inter-
before they had acquired one diftinft notion 5 and it is c,.re*^er”
the fame thing with refpeft to the origin of religion,e(}u,a]ly
whether God preferved them from deftru&ion by an revelation.
internal or external revelation. If be ftored their minds
at once with the rudiments of all uleful knowledge, and
rendered them capable of exerting their rational facul¬
ties, fo as, by tracing effetfs to their caufes, to difeover
his being and attributes, he revealed himfelf to them as
certainly as he did afterwards to Mofes, when to him he
condefcended to fpeak face to face. I2
If this reafoning be admitted as fair and conclufive,Such a re-
and we apprehend that the principles on which it pro-velation
ceeds cannot be confidered as ill-founded, we have ad-
vanced fo far as to prove that mankind muft have been handed to
originally enlightened by a revelation. But it is fcarcepofterity,
neceffary to obferve, that this revelation muft have been
banded down through fucceeding generations. It could
not fail to reach the era of the deluge. It is not abfurd
to fuppofe, that he who fpake from heaven to Adam,
Ipake alfo to Noah. And both the revelation which had
been handed down to the poftdiluvian patriarch by tra¬
dition, and that which was communicated immediately
to himfelf, would be by him made known to his defeen-
dants. Thus it appears almoft impofiible that fome part
cf the religious fentiments of mankind fliould not have
been derived from revelation ; and that not of the reli¬
gious fentiments of one particular family or tribe, but of
almoft all the nations of the earth. ^
This conclufion, which we have deduced by fair rea-The autho-
foning from the benevolence of God and the nature ofrity ofthe
man, is confirmed by the authority of the Jewifti and^21^^.1 ar‘^
Chriftian Scriptures, which are entitled to more
plicit credit than all the other records of ancient hi-&C, ’
ftory.
When wre review7 the internal and external evidence
of the authenticity of thefe facred books, we cannot for
a moment hefitate to receive them as the genuine word
of God. If we examine their internal charadfter, they
everywhere appear to be indeed the voice of Heaven.
The creation of the world—the manner in wTich this
globe was firft peopled—the deluge which fwept away
its inhabitants—the fucceeding views of the ftate of
mankind
E. E L
Religion, mankind in the next ages after the deluge
   ' of Abraliam—the legiflation of Mofes—the whole fe-
ries of events which befel the Jewifh nation—the pre-
phecies—the appearance of Jefus Chriil, and the pro¬
mulgation of his gofpel, as explained to us in the Scrip¬
tures—form one leries, which is, in the higheft degree,
illuftrative of the power, wifdom, and goodnefs of the
Supreme Being.
While it muft be allowed that the human mind is
ever prone to debafe the fublime principles of true reli¬
gion by enthufiaim and fuperftition, reafon and can¬
dour will not for a moment hefttate to acknowledge, that
the whole fyftem of revelation reprefents the Supreme
Being in the moft fublime and amiable light : that, in
it, religion appears effeniially connefted with morality :
that the legiilative code of Mofes was fuch as no legif-
lator ever formed and eftabliihed among a people e-
qually rude and uncultivated : that the manners and
morals of the Jews, vicious and favage as they may in
fome inftances appear, yet merit a much higher cha-
rafter than thofe either of their neighbours, or of almort
any other nation, whofe circumftances and character
were in other refpedls limilar to theirs : that there is an
infinite difference between the Scripture prophecies and
the oracles and predidfions which prevailed among hea¬
then nations: and that the miracles recorded in thofe
writings which we efteem facred were attended with
circumftances which entitle them to be ranked in a very
different clafs from thofe which enthufiaim and impof-
ture have fabricated among other nations. See Mira¬
cle and Prophecy.
But as the evidence of the divine origin of the primae¬
val Religion refts particularly on the authority of the firft
five books of the Old Teftament, it may be thought
incumbent on us to fupport our reafoning on this fub-
jedl, by proving, that the author of thofe books was
indeed infpired by God. This we {hall endeavour to
do by one decifive argument; for the nature of the ar¬
ticle, and the limits prefcribed us, admit not of our en¬
tering into a minute detail of all that has been written
on the divine legation of Mofes.
If the miracles recorded in the book of Exodus, and
the other writings of the Hebrew lawgiver, were really
performed 5 if the firft-born of the Egyptians were all cut
off in one night, as is there related •, and if the children
of Ifrael paffed through the Red fea, the waters being
divided, and forming a wall on their right hand and on
their left—it muft necelfarily be granted, that Mofes was
fent by God j becaufe nothing lefs than a divine power
was fufficient to perform fuch wonderful works. But
lie who fuppofes that thofe works were never performed,
muft affirm that the books recording them vttxt forged,
either at the era in which the miracles are faid to have
been wrought, or at fome fubfequent era : I here is no
j - other alternative.
for it was That they could not be forged at the era in which
otherwife they affirm the miracles to have been wrought, a very
impoffib.e few refleftions will make incontrovertibly evident. 1 htfe
The five
books of
Mofes
proved to
be divine:
zhem on the books inform the people for whofe ufe they were written,
Jews in the that their author, after having inflifted various plagues
era to upon Pharaoh and his fubjecfs, brought them, to the
which they number 0f 600,ooo, out of Egypt wit) a high hand ;
relate, or tbey were led by a pillar of cloud through the day,
and by a pillar of fire through the nigi t, i;0 ^ brink
of the Red fea, where they were aim oft overtaken by
[ 699 ] R E L
the calling the Egyptians, vtho had purfued them with chariots Religion,
and horfes 5 that, to make a way for their efcape, Mofes 1 ■1 v—””'
ftretched out his rod over the fea, which was immediate¬
ly divided, and permitted them to pafs through on dry
ground, between two walls of water •, and that the E-
gyptians, purfuing and going in after them to the midft
of the fea, were alt drowned by the return of the waters
to their ufual ftate, as foon as the Hebrews arrived at
the further fhore. Is it poffible now that Mofes or any
other man could have perfuaded 600,000 perfons, how¬
ever barbarous and illiterate we fuppofe them, that they
had been witneffes of all thefe wonderful works, if no
fuch ‘works had been performed ? Could any art or elo¬
quence perfuade all the inhabitants of Edinburgh and
Leith, that they had yeixerday walked on dry ground
through the Frith to Kinghorn, the waters being di¬
vided and forming a wall on their right hand and on their
left ? If this queftion muft be anfwered in the negative,
it is abfolutcly impofiible that the books of Mofes, fup-
pofing them to have been forged, could have been re¬
ceived by the people who were alive when thofe won¬
ders are faid to have been wrought. ^
Let us now inquire, whether, if they be forgeries, ;n any afte-
they could have been received as authentic at any fub- period,
fequent period 5 and we fhall foon find this fuppofition
as impoffible as the former. The books claiming Mofes
for their author fpeak of themfelves as delivered by him,
and from his days kept in the ark of the covenant * j an *Deut.xxxi.
ark which, upon this fuppofition, had no exiftence prior 24—27.
to the forgery. They fpeak of themfelves likewife, not
only as a hiftory of miracles wrought by their author,
but as the ftatutes or municipal law of the nation, of
which a copy was to be always in the poffeffion of the
priefts, and another in that of the fupreme magiftrate f. f Dent.
Now, in whatever age we fuppofe thefe books to have sv'h-
been forged, they could not poftibly be received as au¬
thentic ; becaufe no copy of them could then be found
either with the king, with the priefts, or in the ark,
though, as they contain the ftatute law of the land, it
is not conceiveable that, if they had exifted, they could
have been kept fecret. Could r.ny man, at this day,
forge a book of ftatutes for England or Scotland, and
make it pafs upon thefe nations for the only book of fta¬
tutes which they had ever known ? Was there ever
fince the world began a book of fham ftatutes, and thefe,
too, multifarious and burdenfome, impofed upon any peo¬
ple as the only ftatutes by which they and their fathers
had been governed for ages ? Such a forgery is evident¬
ly impcflible.
But the books of Mofes have internal proofs of au¬
thenticity, which no other bpoks of ancient ftatutes ever
had. They not only contain the laws, but alfo give
an hiftorical account of their ena&ment, and the reafons
upon which they were founded. Thus they tell us f, that { Gen; xvii.
the rite of circumcifion was inttituted as a mark of the
covenant between God and the founder of the Jewifh
nation, and that the practice of it was enforced by the
declaration of the Almighty, that every uncircumcifed
man-child fhould be cut off from his people. They in¬
form us that the annual folemnity of the paffover was
inftituted in commemoration of their deliverance when
God flew, in one night, all the firft-born of the Egyp¬
tians ; that the firft-born of Ifrael, both of men and
beaft, were on the fame occafion dedicated for ever to
God, who took the Levites .inftead of the firft-born of
4X2 the
R E L [7
Religion, the men *; that this tribe was confecrated as priefts, by
whofe hands alone the facrifices of the people were to
be offered 5 that it was death for any perfon of a differ¬
ent tribe to approach the altar, or even to touch the ark
of the covenant; and that Aaron’s budding rod was
kept in the ark in memory of the wonderful deftruftion
of Korab,Dathan, and Abiram, for their rebellion againft
the priefthood.
♦ Is it poffible now, if all thefe things had not been
praftifed among the Hebrews from the era of Mofes,
with a retrofpedi to the lignal mercies which they are
laid to commemorate, that any man or body of men
could have perfuaded a whole nation, by means of for¬
ged books, that they had always religioully obferved
fuch inftitutions ? Could it have been poflible, at any pe¬
riod pofferior to the Exodus, to perfuade the Ifraelites
that they and their fathers had all been circumcifed on
the eighth day from their birth, if they had been confci-
ous themfelves that they had never been circumcifed at
all r or that the paffover was kept in memory of their
deliverance from Egyptian bondage, if no fuch feftival
was known among them ?
But let us fuppofe that circumcilion had been prac-
tifed, and all their other rites and ceremonies obferved
from time immemorial, without their knowing any rea-
fon of fuch inftitutions: ftill it muft be confeffed, that
the forger of thefe books, if they were forged, con-
ftrudfted his narrative in fuch a manner as that no man
of common fenfe could receive it as authentic. He fays
it was death to touch the ark ! As fuch an affertion was
never heard of before, and as the ritual he was endea¬
vouring to make them efteem facred was oppreffively
multifarious; furely fome daring fpirit w'ould have ven¬
tured to put his veracity to the teft by moving the ark
and even offering facrifices j and fuch a teft would at
once have expofed the impofture. The budding rod,
too, and the pot of manna, which, though long prefer-
ved, were never before heard of, mull; have produced
inquiries that could not fail to end in detection. Thefe
books fpeak likewife of weekly fabbaths, daily facrifices,
a yearly expiation, avd monthly feftivals, all to be kept
in remembrance of great things, particularly fpecified as
done for the nation at an early period of its exiftence.
If this was not the cafe, could the forger of the books
have perfuaded the people that it really was fo ? The
enlightened reafoners of this nation would be offended
were we to compare them wfith the ancient Ifraelites $
butffurely they will not fay that we are partial to that
people, if we bring them to a level with the moft favage
tribes of the Ruffian empire, who profefs Chriftianity ?
.Now, were a book to be forged containing an account
of many ftrange things done a thoufand years ago in
Siberia by an Apollonius, or any other philofopher or
hero, numbers of the barbarians inhabiting that coun¬
try would, we doubt not, give implicit credit to the
legend: But were the author, in confirmation of his na-
rative, to affirm, that all the Siberians had from that
day to this kept facred the firft day of the week in me-
moiy of his hero 5 that they had all been baptized or
circumcifed in his name; that in their public judica¬
tories they had fworn by his name, and upon that very
book which they had never feen before j and that the
very lame book was their law and their gofpel, by wffiich
for a thoufand years back the aftions of the whole people
had been regulated—furely the groffeft favage among
00 ] It E L
them would rejcft with contempt and indignation a for- Religion,
gery fo palpable. '" v*'
If this reafoning be conclufive, the books of Mofes
muft indubitably be authentic, and he himfelf muft have
been infpired by the fpirit of God. But this point be¬
ing eftablifhed, the queftion refpe&ing the origin of the
primseval religion is completely anfwered. The writer
of the book of Genefis informs us, that Adam and Noah
received many revelations from the Author of their be¬
ing, and that their religion was founded on the princib
pies of the pureft theifm. How it degenerated among
the greater part of their defendants into the groffeft
idolatry, has been fhown at large in another place. See
Polytheism. 17
II. Having thus anfwered the firft queftion propofed Of the in-
for difcufllon in the prefent article, we now proceed to^l*fn.ceot
confider the fecond, and to inquire whether and how far fgCjfty" P'
religious fentiments have a tendency to injure or to pro¬
mote the -welfare of fociety ? This is a fubjeft of the
utmoft importance j and if we prove fuccefsful in our in¬
quiries, we fhall be enabled to determine whether the
governors of mankind ought carefully to fupport religi¬
ous eftablifhments, or whether the philofopher who calls
himfelf a citizen of the -world, and profefles to feel the
moft eager defire to promote the interefts of his fpecies,
a£ts confidently when he labours to exterminate religion
from among men.
A celebrated French financier *, a man of abilities # m. Kec-
and virtue, who has publilhed a book on the importance ker*
of religious opinions, labours to ftiow that religious efta-
blilhments are indifpeufably neceffary for the maintenance
of civil order, and demonftrates how weak the influence
of political inftitutions is on the morals of mankind ; but
he refufes to review the hiftory of paft ages in order to
difcover how far religious opinions have aftually been in¬
jurious or beneficial to the welfare of fociety; choofing
rather to content himfelf with the re full of a feries of
metaphyfical difquifitions.
We admire the fpirit which induced a man who had
fpent a confiderable part of his life amid the hurry of
public bufinefs, fo become the ftrenuous advocate of re¬
ligion ; but wre cannot help thinking that, notwithftand -
ing the eloquence, the acutenefs, and the knowledge of
mankind wrhich he has difplayed, his refufing to admit
the evidence of faffs, concerning the influence of reli¬
gion on fociety, may poflibly be regarded by its enemies
as a tacit acknowledgment that the evidence of faffs-
would be unfavourable to the caufe which he willies to
defend. The fallacy of general reafonings, and the in¬
utility of metaphyfics for the purpofes of life, are fo uni-
verfally acknowledged, that they have long been the
theme of declamation. Though the abufes of religion, T ^
as well as the abufes of reafon, the perverfion of any0fthe R-n,
of the principles of the human mind, and the mifap-tic on ac/
plication of the gifts of Providence, may have often count of tfie
produced effeffs hurtful to the virtue and the. happinefsat,;fes
of mankind j yet, after tracing religion to a divine ori-rci‘*’-a
gin, we cannot, for a moment, allow ourfelves to think
that the primary tendency of religion muft be hoftile
to the intereft of fociety, or that it is neceffary to view
it abftraftly in order that we may not behold it in an
odious light. Often has the fceptic attacked religion
with artful malice ; but perhaps none of his attacks has
been fo Ikilfully directed as that which has firft ridi¬
culed the abfurdity of the abfurd fuperftitions,
and
R E L [70
Religion, and afterwards laboured to prove that the moft abfurd
‘■“"'V fyilem of polytheifm is more favourable to the xnterefts
of fociety than the pureft and moft fublime theifm. In-
ftances in wdiich the abufe of religion had tended to
deprave the human heart, and had led to the moft
{hocking crimes, have been aftiduoufty collefted, and
difplayed in all the aggravating colours in which elo¬
quence could array them, till at length even the friends
of true religion have been abaftied •, and it has become
a faftiionable opinion, that nothing but felf-intereft or
bigotry can prompt men to reprefent religion as the
friend of civil order. But let us try if, by a candid
confideration of what effedfts have refulted to fociely
from religious principles, in general, without compa¬
ring thefe with regard to truth or falfehood, we can
advance any thing to vindicate the charadfter of reli¬
gion.
Notions of Deity in general, of various orders of di¬
vinities, of their moral character, of their influence on
human life, of a future ftate, and of the immortality
of the human foul, conftitute the leading articles of re¬
ligion. Let us view thefe together with the rites to
which they have given rife j and we may perhaps be en¬
abled to form fome well-grounded notions on this im-
I0 portant point.
Thefirftre- I. Having proved that the firft religious principles
ligious opi- entertained by men were derived from revelation, it is
nions enter-jmp0fl^tfte to fuppofe that they could produce effeifts in-
ta*rfcouM juri°us fociety. If religion of any kind has ever lef-
not poffibly fened the virtue or difturbed the peace of men, it muft
be injurious have been that religion wftiich fprings from a belief in
to fociety. a multitude of fuperior powers actuated by paflions, and
of whom fome were conceived as benevolent and others
as malicious beings. That fuch fentiments fhould have
aa produced vices unknown in focieties where pure theiim
The effetft js profefled, will be readily admitted. Even the few
onThlT*”1 at^ieifts who live in Chriftian or Mahometan countries
manners of are reftrained by the laws, by a deftre to promote the
nations honour of the fe£I, and by many other conflderations,
from indulging in praflices which the example of the
falfe gods of antiquity fanftioned in their votaries. But
in determining the prefent queftion, we muft not com¬
pare the virtues of the pagan world with thofe of indi¬
vidual atheifts in modern Europe, but with thofe of
nations profefling atheifm ; and fuch nations are nowhere
to be found. We can however eafily conceive, that in
a fociety unawed by any notions of God or a future ftate,
no fuch laws would be enafted as thofe which reftrain
the fenfual appetites j of which the criminal indulgence
was one of the greateft ftigmas on the pagan worftnp of
antiquity. In fuch focieties, therefore, thole vices would
be praflifed conftantly to which paganifm gave omy an
occaflonal fanffion } and many others, in fpite of the
utmoft vigilance of human laws, would be perpetrated
in fecret, which the moft profligate pagans viewed with
horror. Confcience, though affing with all her energy,
would not be able to command any regard to the laws
of morality : No virtue wTould be known ; focial order
would be nowhere obferved \ the midnight aflfaflin
would everywhere be found \ and in the general fcramble
mankind would be exterminated from the face of the
earth. _ .
The worft fpecies of paganifm, even that which pre¬
vails among favages who worftiip evil fpirits, affords
greater fecurity than this. It is indeed (hocking to
i ] R E L
think that demons ftiould be wTor(hipped, while deities, Religion,
who are regarded as being all benevolence, are treated“ V"—
wdth contempt : And it has been afked, If the influence vvou^ be
of fuch religious fentiments on the moral praftice of the m0re ma-
idolaters muft not naturally be, to caufe them to treat Hgnant
their friends and benefactors wdth ingratitude, and tot^^t'iat
humble themfelves with mean fubmilfion before a power-ab_
ful enemy
furd paga-
They do not appear to have produced fuch effeCtsnifm.
on the morality of the favages by whom they w-ere en¬
tertained. The benevolent deities were negleCted, only
becaufe their benevolence wTas neceffary. A voluntary
favour merits a grateful return : a defigned injury pro¬
vokes refentment. But when you become, by accident,
the inftrument of any man’s good fortune, the wrorld
will fcarce confider him as owing you any obligation :
the (tone which bruifes your foot excites only a momen¬
tary emotion of reientment. Thofe gods who could
not avoid doing good to men might not receive a pro-
fufion of thanks for their fervices j and yet a favour
conferred by a human benefaCtor commands the warm-
eft gratitude. But thofe rude tribes appear to have had
fo much wdfdom as to confer a lefs abfolute malice on
their malevolent deities, than the benevolence which
they attributed to their more amiable order of fuperior
beings: though the latter could not poflibly do them
any thing but good, and that conftantly •, yet the for¬
mer were not under an equally indifpenfable neceflxty of
perfevering in deprefling them under calamities. On
their malevolent deities they conferred a freedom of
agency wdiich they denied to the benevolent. No won¬
der, then, that they were more afliduous in paying
their court to the one than to the other. They might
with as much propriety have thought of being grate¬
ful to the boar or flag whofe ftefti fupported them, as
to deities who were always benevolent, becaufe they
could not poflibly be otherwdfe. Though negligent
of fuch deities, this can fcarce be thought to have had
any tendency to render them ungrateful to benefac¬
tors like themfelves. And yet, it muft not be dif-
fembled, that the American Indians, among whom
fuch religious fentiments have been found to prevail,
are faid to be very little fenftble to the emotions of
gratitude. An Indian receives a prefent without think¬
ing of making any grateful acknowledgments to the
beftower. He pleafes his fancy or gratifies his appetite
with what you have given, without feeming to confider
himfelf as under the fmalleft obligation to you for the
gift.
It may be doubted, however, wdiether this fpirit of
ingratitude originates from, or is only collateral with,
that indifference which refufes adoration and worftiip to
the benevolent divinities. If the former be a&ually the
cafe, we muft acknowledge that thofe religious notions
wdiich we now confider, though preferable to general
atheifm, are in this refpefl unfriendly to virtue. But
if the Indians may be thought to owe the ingratitude,
for which they are diftinguifhed to the opinion which
they entertain of the exiftence of a benevolent order of
deities, whofe benevolence is neceffary and involuntary,
their ideas of the nature of their malevolent demons do
not appear to have produced equal effedfts on their mo¬
ral fentiments. However fubmiflive to thofe dreaded
beings, they are far from ftiowing the fame tame and
cowardly fubmiflion to their human enemies: towards
them.
H E L
The influ¬
ence of
Greek and
Roman po-
lytheil'm
22
apparently
friendly to
profligacy
Rnhgion. ^ them tli^y feem rather to adopt the fentiments of their
demons. Inveterate rancour and brutal fury, inhuman
cruelty and inconceivable cunning, are difplayed in the
hoftilities of tribes at war ; and we know not, after all,
if even thefe fentiments do not owe fomewhat of their
force to the influence of religion.
Yet let us remember that thefe fame Indians have not
been always reprefented in lo unamiable a light; or, at
leaft, other qualities have been afcribed to them which
feem to be inconfiftent with thofe barbarous difpolitions.
1 hey have been defcribed as peculiarly fufceptible of
conjugal and parental love; and he who is fo cannot be
deliitute of virtue.
2. But leaving the religion of favages, of which very
little is known with certainty, let us proceed to examine
what is the natural influence of that mixed fyitem of
theology which reprefents to the imagination of men a
number of fuperior and inferior divinities, a&uated by
the lame paflions and *eelings with themfelves, and often
making ufe of their luperior power and knowledge for
no other purpofe but to enable them to violate the laws
of moral order with impunity, This is the celebrated
polytheifm of the Greeks and Romans, and moft other
nations of antiquity (fee Polytheism). Could its in¬
fluence be favourable to virtue ?
At a firft view every perfon will readily declare, that
fuch a fyftem muft have been friendly to profligacy. If
you commit the government of the univerfe, and the
infpeftion of human fociety, to a let of beings who are
often difpofed to regard vice with a no lefs favourable
eye than virtue, and who, though there be an eftablilh-
ed order by which virtue is difcriminated from vice, and
right from wrong, yet fcruple not to violate that order
in their own conduft ; you cannot expeft them to require
in you a degree of rectitude of which they themfelves
appear incapable. A Mercury will not difcourage the
thievifli arts of the trader ; a Bacchus and a Venus can¬
not frown upon debauchery *, Mars will behold with la¬
vage delight all the cruelties of war. The Thracians
indeed, one of the molt barbarous nations of antiquity,
whofe ferocity was little if at all inferior to that of the
Indians who have been diftinguilhed as canibals, was the
favourite nation of P.Tars •, among whom flood his pa¬
lace, to which h$ repaired when about to mount his cha¬
riot, and arm himfelf for battle. Even Jupiter, who had
been guilty of lo many a£ts of tyrannical caprice, had
been engaged in fuch a multitude of amorous intrigues,
and teemed to owe his elevated ftation as monai’ch of the
Iky, not to fuperior goodnefs or wifdom, but merely to
a fuperior degree of brutal force, could not be feared as
the avenger of crimes, or revered as the impartial rewar¬
der of virtues.
ihat this fyftem had a pernicious effeft cn morals,
and that, as compared with pure theifm, it was injuri¬
ous to fociety, cannot be denied ; but yet, when con-
trafted with atheifm, it was not without its favourable
effects. It was fo connedled with the order of fociety,
that, without its fupport, that order could fcarce have
The >TnK/ake ■xight P«lMps ju-
Airy himielr by the example of Jupiter, or Apollo, or
fome other amorous divinity ; the frail virgin or matron
might complain of Cupid, or boaft of imitating Venus 5
and the thief might praftife his craft under the patron¬
age of Mercury : But if we take the whole fyftem
if we confider with what views tbofe deities '
3
r 702 i
It E L
23
but when
contrafted
with a-
theifm its
togethei
were publicly worftiipped, what temples were raifed, Religion,
what rites inftituted, wBat facrifices offered, and whatk—v——1
fence confecrated ; wre lhall perhaps find it necelfary to
acknowledge that the general eftedts even of that mixed
and incoherent fyftem of polytheifm which prevailed
among the Greeks and Romans w^ere favourable to fo¬
ciety. To ftate a particular inftancej the aticilia of
Mars and the fire of Vefta w’ere thought to fecure the
perpetuity of the Roman empire. As long as the fa-
cred anci/e, which had been dropped from heaven for
that benevolent purpofe, was fafely preferved in thofe
holy archives in which it had been depofited; and as
long as the facred fire of Vefta was kept burning, with¬
out being once extinguiftied, or at leaft fullered to
remain for an inftant in that ftate 5 fo long'was Rome
to fubfift and flouritb. And, however, Ample and ab-
furd the idea wdiich connedled the profperity of a na¬
tion with the prefervation of a piece of wood in a cer¬
tain place, or with the conftant blazing of a flame upon
an hearth 5 yet no fa£t can be more certain, than that
the patriotifm and enthufiaftic valour of the Romans,
which we fo much extol and admire, were, in many in-
ftances, owing in no inconfiderable degree to the vene¬
ration which they entertained for the ancilia and the
veftal fire.
A numerous feries of fafts occur in the Roman hi- as
ftory, which ftiow the happy effedls of their religious ved by a
opinions and ceremonies on their fentiments concerning numerous
focial order and the public welfare. How powerfulfenes of
was the influence of the facramcntum adminiltered to ^i'c'
the foldiers when they enlifted in the fervice of their
country ? The promifes made, the idea of the powers
invoked, and the rites performed on that occafion, pro¬
duced fo deep and fo awful an impreffion on their minds,
that no danger, nor diftrefs, nor difcontent, could
prompt them to violate their engagements. The re-
fponfes of the oracles, too, though the dilates of de¬
ceit and impofture, were often of Angular fervice to
thofe to whom they were uttered j when they infpired
the warrior, as he marched out to battle, with the con¬
fidence of fuccefs, they communicated to him new vi¬
gour, and more heroic valour, by which he was aflu-
ally enabled to gain, or at leaft to deferve, the fuccefs
which they promifed. Again, when in times of pub¬
lic diftrefs, the augur and the prieft directed fome games
to be celebrated, certain facvifices to be offered, or fome
other folemnities to be performed, in order to appeafe
the wrath of the offended deities 5 it is plain that the
means were not at all fuited to accomplifh the end pro-
pofed by them 3 yet ftill they wTere highly beneficial.
When the attention of the whole people was turned en¬
tirely to thofe folemnities by which the wrath of hea¬
ven was to be averted, they were roufed from that de-
fpondency under which the fenfe of the public diftrefs
or danger might have otherwife caufed them to fink :
the public union was at the fame time more clofely ce¬
mented, and the hearts of the people knit together 3
and when perfuaded, that by propitiating the gods they
had removed the caufe of their diftrefs, they acquired
fuch calmnefs and ftrength of mind as enabled them to
take more diredt and proper meafures for the fafety of
the ftaie.
Could we view the ancient Greeks and Romans acf-
ing in public or in private life under the influence of
that fyftem of fuperftition which prevailed among them ;
could
V.
R E L [
R.c'igk)n. coukl %ve perceive how much it contributed to
maintenance of civil order j could we behold Nurna and
Lycurgus eltablilhing their laws, which would other-
wife have met with a very different reception under
the fanftion of divinizes •, could we obferve all the be¬
neficial effefts which arofe to communities from the ce¬
lebration of religious ceremonies, we fhould no longer
hefitate to acknowledge, that thofe principles in the hu¬
man heart by which we are fufceptible of religious fen-
timcnts, are fo eminently calculated to promote the hap-
pinefs of mankind, that even when perverted and abu-
fed, their influence is ftill favourable.
The ideas which prevailed among the nations of the
heathen world concerning a future ftate of retribution
were, it muff be cpnfeffed, not very correct. Some of
the poets, we believe, have reprefented them in no un¬
fair light: both Homer and Virgil have conducted their
heroes through the realms of Pluto, and have taken oc-
cafion to unfold to us the fecrets of thofe dreary abodes.
The fcenes are wild and fanciful 5 the rewards of the
juft and virtuous are of no very refined or dignified na¬
ture : and of the punilhments inflicted on the guilty, it
is often hard to fay for what ends they could be in-
flidted •, whether to correct and improve, or for the gra¬
tification of revenge or whim : they are often fo whim-
fical and unfuitable, that they cannot with any degree
of propriety be afcribed to any caufe but blind chance
or wanton caprice. A great dog with three tongues.
25
Their no¬
tion of a
future ftate
of retribu¬
tion incur¬
red ;
76
but never-
thelefs fa¬
vourable to
virtue and
moral or-
def.
a peevith old boat-man with a leaky ferry boat, de¬
manding his freight in a furly tone, and an uxorious
monarch, are objects too familiar and ludicrous not to
degrade the dignity of thofe awful fcenes which are
reprefented as the manfions of the dead, and to prevent
them from-making a deep enough impreffion on the
imagination. The actions and qualities too, for which
departed fpiiits were admitted into Elyfium, or doom¬
ed to the regions of fuffering, were not always of fuch
a nature as under a well-regulated government on earth
would have been thought to merit reward, or to be
worthy of punifliment. It was not always virtue or
wifdom which conducted to the Elyfian fields, or gain¬
ed admiflion into the fociety of the immortal gods.—
Ganimede was for a very different reafon promoted to
be the cup bearer of Jove ; and Hercules and Bacchus
could not furely plead that any merits of that kind en¬
titled them to feats in the council, and at the banquets
of the immortals. That doctrine, likewife, which re¬
prefented mortals as hurried by fate to the commiflion
of crimes, which they could no more abldain from com¬
mitting than the fword can avoid to obey the impulfe
of a powerful and furious arm plunging it into the breaft
of an unrefifting antagonift, could not but produce ef¬
fects unfavourable to virtue *, and it afforded a ready ex-
cufe for the mold extravagant crimes.
Yet, after all, he who attentively confiders the ideas
of the Greeks and Romans concerning- the moral
government of the world and a future ftate of rewards
and puniflnnents, will probably acknowledge, that their
general influence muft have been favourable to virtue and
moral order. Allow them to have been incorrect and
dafhed with abfurdity •, ftill they reprefent punilhments
prepared for fuch qualities and a£Hons as were injurious
to the welfare of fociety; whilft, for thofe qualities which
rendered men eminently ufeful in the world, they hold
forth a reward. Though incorrefl, their ideas con-
703 ] R E L
the cerning a future flate were exceedingly diftinft j they Religion,
were not vague or general, but fuch as might be readi- —v—
ly conceived by the imagination, in all their circum-
ftances, as really exifting. When a man is told that
for fuch a deed he will be put to death, lie may flmd-
der and be alarmed, and think of the deed as what he
pauft by no means commit; but place before him the
feene and the apparatus for his execution, call him to
behold fome other criminal mounting the fcaffold, ad-
drefling his laft words in a wild feream of defpair to
the furrounding fpeeftators, and then launching into
eternity—his horror of the crime, and his dread of the
punifhment, will now be much more powerfully excited.
In the fame manner, to encourage the foldier marching
out to battle, or the mariner fetting fail under the pro-
fpeift of a ftorm, promife not, merely in general terms,
a liberal reward ; be fare to fpecify the nature of the
reward which you mean to bellow ; deferibe itfo as that
it may take hold on the imagination, and may rife in
oppofition to the images of death and danger with which
his courage is to be afl'ailed.
If iheie phenomena pf the human mind are fairly
ftated, if it be true that general ideas produce no very
powerful effefts on the fentiments and difpofitions of
the human heart, it muft then be granted, that though
the fcenes of future reward and punlfhment, which the
heathens confidered as prepared for" the righteous and
the wicked, were of a fomewhat motley complexion ;
yet ftill, as they were diftinlt and even minute draughts,
they muft have been favourable to virtue, and contribu¬
ted in no inconfiderable degree to the fupport of civil
order.
Another thing of which we may take notice under The notion
this head, is the vaft multiplicity of deities with whichofdeities
the Greek and Roman mythology peopled all the re"
gions of nature. Flocks and fields, and woods and0faufefuj
oaks, and flowers, and many much more minute objects, tendency
had all their guardian deities, Thefe were fomewhat when eorn-
capricious at times, it is true, and expected to have a^* atheffa^1*1
ten lion paid them. But yet the faithful fhepherd,
and the induftrious farmer, knew generally how to
acquire their friendihip } and in the idea of deities en¬
joying the lame Ample pleafures, partaking in the fame
labours, protecting their poffeflions, and bringing for¬
ward the fruits of the year, there could not but be fome-
thing of a very pleafing nature, highly favourable to
induftry, which would animate the labours, and cheer
the feftivals, of the good people who entertained fuch
a notion j nay, would diffufe a new charm over all the
fcenes of the country, even in the gayeft months of the
year. .
From all of thefe particular obfervations, we think
ourfeives warranted to conclude, that nolvvithftanding
the mixed characters of the deities who were adored by
the celebrated nations of antiquity ; though they are in
many inftances reprefented as confpicuous for vices and
frolics •, however vain, abfurd, and morally criminal, fome
of the rites by which they were worftiipped may have
been, and however incorreCt the notions of the heathens
concerning the moral government of the univerfe and a
future ftate of retribution ; yet ftill, after making a juft
allowance for all thefe imperfeCtions, the general influ¬
ence of their religious fyftem was rather favourable than
unfavourable to virtue and to the order and happinefs of
fociety
EEL
-law, &c.
on the ba¬
lls of reli-
,gion-
Religion. was not without good reafon that the earlieft legif-
"_~v; lators generally endeavoured to eftablifh their laws and
The advan- conftitutions on the balls of religion $ government needs
tage of the fupport of opinion j the governed mult be im-
eftablifhing prefled with a belief that the particular eftablilhment
to which they pre required to fubmit, is the belt calcu¬
lated for their fecurity and happinefs, or is fupported
on fome fuch folid foundation, that it mult prove im-
poltible for them to overturn it, or is connected wdth
fome awful fandtion, which it would be the mdft hei¬
nous impiety to oppofe. Of thefe feveral notions, the
lalt will ever operate on molt men with the molt Iteady
influence. We are frequently blind to our own interelt;
even w’hen eager for the attainment of happinefs* we often
refufe to take the wifelt meafures for that end. The
great bulk of the people in every community are fo lit¬
tle capable of reafoning and forelight, that the public
minilter wflro lhall molt Iteadily diredt his views to the
public good will often be the molt unpopular. Thofe
laws, and that fyltem of government, which are the
molt beneficial, will often excite the Itfongell popular
difcontents. Again, it is not always eafy to perfuade
people that your power is fuperior to theirs, when it is
not really fo. No one man wall ever be able to perfuade
a thoufand that he is llronger than they all together :
and therefore, in order to perfuade one part of his fub-
jedts or army that it is abfolutely neceffary for them to
ubmit to him, becaufe any attempts to refill: his power
would prove ineffedlual, a monarch or general muft take
^:are firft to perfuade another part that it is for their in-
terefl: to fubmit to him j or to imprefs the whole with a
belief that, weak and pitiful as he himfelf may appear,
when viewed fingly in oppofition to them all, yet by the
aflillance of fome awful invifible beings, his friends and
protedlors, he is fo powerful, that any attempts to re¬
fill: his authority mull prove prefumptuous folly. Here,
then, the aid of religion becomes requifite. Religious
fentiments are the moll: happily calculated to ferve this
purpofe. Scarce ever was there a fociety formed, a
mode of government eflablilhed, or a code of law^s
framed and enadted, without having the religious fenti-
ments of mankind, their notions of the exiftence of fu¬
perior invifible beings, and th$ir hopes and fears from
thofe beings, as its fundamental principle. Now', w!e
believe, it is almolt univerfally agreed, that even the
rudelt form of fociety is more favourable to the happi¬
nefs of mankind, and the dignity of the human charac¬
ter, than a folitary and favage Hate. And if this, with
what we have aflerted concerning religion as the balls
of civil government, be both granted, it will followq
that even the moll imperfedt religious notions, the molt
ibolilh and abfurd rites, and the wildelt ideas that have
been entertained concerning the moral government of
the univerfe by fuperior beings, and a future Hate of
retribution, have been more advantageous than atheifm
to the happinefs and virtue of human life. We have al-
seady granted, nor can it be denied, indeed, that many
of the religious opinions which prevailed among the an¬
cient heathens, did contribute, in fome degree, to the
depravation of their morals : and all that we argue for
is, that on a comparative view' of the evil and the good
which refulted from them, the latter mull: appear more
than adequate to counterbalance the effects of the
former.
4
[ 704 ]
It E L
But if fuch be the natural tendency of thofe princi- Religie*
pies by wThich the human heart is made fufceptible of re- V '
ligious fentiments, that even enthufiafm and abfurd xhe infinite
perdition are productive of beneficial effeCts more than a^vanta„e
fufficient to counterbalance whatever is malignant in of a pure,
their influence on fociety—furely a pure rational relri ratl0nak
gion, the doCtrines of which are founded in undeniable an<*tmr
truth, and all the obfervances which it enjoins calcu- " °
lated to promote by their direft and immediate effeCts
fome ufeful purpofes, mult be in a very high degree
conducive to the dignity and the happinefs of human
nature. Indeed one collateral proof of the truth of
any religion, which mull have very conliderable weight
with all who are not of opinion that the fyftem of the
univerfe has been produced and hitherto maintained in
order and exiftence by blind chance, will be its having
a ftronger and more direft tendency than others to pro¬
mote the interefts of moral virtue and the happinels of
mankind in'the prefent life. Even the teftimony of
thoufands, even miracles, prophecies, and the fanClion
of remote antiquity, will fcarce have fufficient weight
to perfuade us, that a religion is of divine origin, if its
general tendency appear to be rather unfavourable than
advantageous to moral virtue.
III. We ffiall therefore, in the netft place, endea-Compara-
vour to determine, from a comparative view of the ef-tive vievr
fefts produced on the charafter and circumftances of°f^e^“
fociety by the moft eminent of thefe various fyftems of j;fferent
religion which have been in different ages or in diffe- religious
rent countries eftabliftied in the w'orld, how far any fyftems.
one of them has in this refpeft the advantage over the
reft ; and, if the utility of a fyftem of religion were to
be received as a teft of its truth, wffiat particular fyftem
might, writh the beft reafon, be received as true, while
the reft were rejected.
1 ft, The principle upon which wre here fet out is,
that all, or almoft all, fyftems of religion with which we
are acquainted, whether true or falle, contribute more
or lefs to the welfare of fociety. But as one field is
more fruitful, and one garden lefs overgrown with
Weeds than another j fo, in the fame manner, one fyftem
of religious opinions and ceremonies may be more hap¬
pily calculated than others to promote the trueft inte-
refts of mankind. In oppofition to thofe philofophers 3*
who are fo vehement in their declamations againft the oi
inequality of ranks, we have ever been of opinion,tion •
that refinement and civilization contribute to the hap¬
pinefs of human life. The charafler of the folitary fa<-
vage is, we are told, more dignified and refpe&able
than that of the philofopher and the hero, in pro¬
portion as he is more independent. He is indeed
more independent but his independence is that of
a ftone, which receives no nouriffiment from the
earth or air, and communicates none to animals or
vegetables around it. In point of happinefs, and in
point of refpeftability, we cannot hefitate a moment,
let philofophers fay what they will, to prefer a virtu¬
ous, enlightened, and polilhed Briton, to any of the
rudeft favages, the leaft acquainted with the reftraints
and the fympathies of focial life, that wander through
the wild forefts of the weftern world. But if we pre- and there-
fer civilization to barbarifm, we muft admit, that in fore of
this view Chriftianity has the advantage over every
other religious lyftem which has in any age or countrynitjr*
prevailed
R E L
notions of
Pagan na¬
tion*.
-Religion, prevailed among men ; for nowhere has civilization and
ufeful fcience been carried to fuch a height as among
Chriftians.
<3 . # .
View of It is not, indeed, in any confiderable degree that the
the various abfurd fliperftitions of thof'e rude tribes, who can fcarce
religious be t0 be formed into any regular fociety, can con •
tribute to their happinefs. Among them the faculty
of reafon is but in a very low Hate j and the moral prin¬
ciple ufually follows the improvement or the depreffion
of the reafoning faculty. Their appetites and merely
animal paffions are almoft their only principles of ac¬
tion : their firft religious notions, if we fuppofe them
not to be derived from revelation or tradition, are pro¬
duced by the operation of gratitude, or grief, or hope,
or fear, upon their imaginations. And to thefe, however
wild and fanciful, it is not improbable that they may
owe fome of their earlieft moral notions. The idea of
fuperior powers naturally leads to the thought that
thofe powers have fome influence on human life. From
this they will moll probably proceed to fancy one fet
of a&ions agreeable, another offenfive, to thofe beings
to whom they believe themfelves fubjeft. And this,
perhaps, is the firft diftin&ion that favages can be fup-
pofed to form between actions, as right or wrong, to
be performed or to be avoided. But if this be the
cafe, we mull acknowledge, that the religious notions
of the favage, however abfurd, contribute to elevate
his charadler, and to improve his happinefs, when
they call forth the moral principle implanted in his
breaft.
But if the focial ftate be preferable to a ftate of wild
and folitary independence, even the rude fuperftitions of
unenlightened tribes of favages are in another refpeft
beneficial to thofe among whom they prevail. They
ufually form, as has been already obferved under this
article, the bails of civil order. Religious opinions
may lead the great body of the community to reve¬
rence fome particular fet of inftitutions, fome indivi¬
dual, or fome family, wThich are reprefented to them as
peculiarly conne&ed with the gods whom they adore.
Under this fanflion fome form of government is efta-
bliihed; they are taught to perform focial duties, and
rendered capable of focial enjoyments. Not only Nu-
ma and Lycurgus, but almoft every legiflator who has
fought to civilize a rude people, and reduce them un¬
der the reftraints of legal government, have endeavour¬
ed to imprefs their people with an idea that they adled
with the approbation, and under the immediate direct
tion of fuperior powers. We cannot but allow that
the rude fuperftitions of early ages are produftive of
thefe advantages to fociety j but we have already ac¬
knowledged, and it cannot be denied, that they are al-
fo attended with many unhappy effetts. When we
view the abfurdities intermixed with the fyItems of re¬
ligion which prevailed among moft of the nations of
antiquity, we cannot help lamenting that fo noble a
principle of human nature as our religious fentiments
Ihould be liable to fuch grofs perverfion ; and when we
view the effedls which they produce on the morals of
mankind, and the forms of fociety, though we allow
them to have been upon the whole rather beneficial than
hurtful, yet we cannot but obferve, that their unfavour¬
able effefls are by far more numerous than if they had
been better direfted. What unhappy effefts, for inftance,
have been produced by falfe notions concerning the
VOL. XVII. Part II.
[ 7°5 1
R F, L
condition of human fouls in a future ftate. Various na- Religioft.
tions have imagined that the fcenes and objefts of the v——v—
world of fpirits are only a fliadowy repfelentation of
the things of the prefent world. Not only the fouls
of men, according to them, inhabit thofe regions 5 all
the inferior animals and vegetables, and even inanimate
bodies that are killed or deftroyed here, are fuppofed
to pafs into that vifionary world j and, exifting there
in unfubftantial forms, to execute the fame funftions,
or ferve the fame purpofes, as on earth. Such are the
ideas of futurity that were entertained by the inhabi¬
tants of Guinea. And by thefe ideas they were indu¬
ced, when a king or great man died among them, to
provide for his comfortable accommodation in the world
of fpirits, by burying with him meat and drink for his
fubfiftence, Haves to attend and ferve him, and wives
with whom he might ftill enjoy the pleafures of love*
His faithful fubjefts vied with each other in offering,
one a fervant, another a wife, a third a fon or daugh¬
ter, to be fent to the other world in company with the
monarch, that they might there be employed in his
fervice. In New Spain, in the ifland of Java, in the
kingdom of Benin, and among the inhabitants of In-
doftan, fimilar practices on the fame occafion, owing no
doubt to fimilar notions of futurity, have been preva¬
lent. But fuch praflices as thefe cannot be viewed
with greater contempt on account of the opinions
which have given rife to them, than horror on account
of their unhappy effe6ls on the condition of thofe
among whom they prevail. A lively impreffion of the
enjoyments to be obtained in a future ftate, together"4
wdth fome very falfe or incorreft notions concerning
the qualities or actions which were to entitle the de¬
parting foul to admiflion into the fcene of thofe enjoy¬
ments, is faid to have produced equally unhappy ef-
fedls among the Japanefe. They not only bribe their
priefts to folicit for them *, but looking upon the enjoy¬
ments of the prefent life with difguft or contempt, they
ufed to dafti themfelves from precipices, or cut their
throats, in order to get to paradife as foon as poflible.
Various other fuperftitions fubfifting among rude na¬
tions might here be enumerated, as inftances of the
perverfion of the religious principles of the human
heart, which render them injurious to virtue and hap¬
pinefs. The aufterities which have been praflifed,
chiefly among rude nations, as means of propitiating
fuperior powers, are efpecially worthy ot notice.—
When the favourite idol of the Banians is carried in
folemn proceffion, fome devotees proftrate themfelves
on the ground, that the chariot in which the idol is
carried may run over them ; others, with equal enthu-
fiafm, dafti themfelves on fpikes faftened on purpofe to
the car. Innumerable are the ways of torture which
have been invented and praftifed on themfelves by men
ignorantly ftriving to recommend themfelves to the fa¬
vour of heaven. Thefe we lament as inftances in which
religious fentiments have been fo ill direfted by the in¬
fluence of imagination, and unenlightened erring rea¬
fon, as to produce unfavourable effefts on the human
charafter, and oppofe the happinefs of focial life.—
Though we have argued, that even the moft abfurd fy-
ftems of religion that have prevailed in the world, have
been upon the whole rather beneficial than injurious to
the dignity and happinefs of human nature ; yet if it
ftiall not appear, as we proceed farther in our compara-
4 U tive
r
♦
R E L [7
Religion, tive view of the effects of religion on fociciy, that others
have been attended with happier effe&s than thefe fu-
perftitions which belong to the rude ages of fociety,
we may fcarce venture to brand the infidel with the ap¬
pellation of yoo/, for refufing to give his affent to reli¬
gious dodirines, or to aft under their influence.
2d, The polytheifm of the Greeks and Romans, and
other heathen nations in a fimilar Rate of civilization,
tve have already confidered as being, upon the whole,
rather favourable than unfavourable to virtue; but
xve muff not partially conceal its defefts. The vici¬
ous charafters of the deities which they worfhipped, the
incorreft notions which they entertained concerning
the .moral government of the univerfe and a future re¬
tribution, the abfurdity of their rites and ceremonies,
and the criminal practices which were intermixed with
them, mutt have altogether had a tendency to pervert
both the reafoning and the moral principles of the hu¬
man mind. The debaucheries of the monarch of the
gods, and the fidelity with wdiich his example in that
refpeft was followed by the whole crowd of the inferior
deities, did, wm know, difpofe the devout heathen, when
he felt the fame paffions which had aSerted their power
over the gods, to gratify them without fcruple. It is
a truth, however, and we will not attempt to deny or
conceal it, that the genius of the polytheifm of the
Greeks and Romans was friendly to the arts 5 to fuch
of them efpecially as are railed to excellence by the vi¬
gorous exertion of a fine imagination j mufic, poetry,
fculpture, architefture, and painting, all of thefe arts
appear to have been confiderably indebted for that per-
feftion to which they attained, efpecially among the
Greeks, to the fplendid and fanciful fyftem of mytholo¬
gy which was received among that ingenious people.—-
Eut we cannot give an equally favourable account of
its influence on the fciences. Th^re was little in that
fyftem that could contribute to call forth reafon. We
may grant indeed, that if reafon can be fo {Locked with
abfurdity as to be roufed to a more vigorous exertion
of her powers, and a more determined afferticm of her
rights in confequence of furveying it; in that cafe, this
fyftem of mythology might be favourable to the exer-
cife and improvement of reafon ; not otherwife.
The conneftion of paganifm with morality w>as too
imperfeft for it to produce any very important effefts
on the morals of its votaries. Sacrifices and prayers,
and temples and feftivals, not purity of heart and in¬
tegrity of life, were the means prefcribed for propitia¬
ting the favour of the deities adored by the Pagans.
There were other means, too, befides true heroiftn and
patriotifm, of gaining admiffion into the Elyfian fields,
or obtaining a feat in the council of the gods. Xeno¬
phon, in one of the moft beautiful parts of his Memoirs
of Socrates, reprefents Hercules wooed by Virtue and
Pleafure in twm fair female forms, and deliberating
with much anxiety which of the two he fhould prefer.
Eut this is the fiction of a philofopher defirous to im¬
prove the fables of antiquity in fucb a way as to render
them truly ufeful. Hercules does not appear, from the
tales which are told us of his adventures, to have been
at any fqch painS\in choofing his way of life. Tie was
received into the palace of Jove, without having occa-
fion to plead that h^ had through life been the faithful
* follotver of that goddofs to whom the philofopher makes
him give the preferengp) his being the fan of Jove, and
06 ]
R E L
his wild adventures, were fufficient without any other ReUftov;
merits to gain him that honour. The lame may be laid
concerning many of the other demi-gods and heroes
who were advanced to heaven, or conveyed to the blifs-
ful fields of Elyfium. And whatever might be Tie
good effefts of the religion of Greece and Rome in ge¬
neral upon the civil and political eftablilhments, and
in fome few in fiances on the manners of the people,
yet ftill it muft be acknowledged to have been but ill
calculated to imprefs the heart with fuch principles as
might in all cireumftances direft to a firm, uniform te-
nor of virtuous conduft.
But after what has been fald on the charafter of
this religion elfewhere (fee Polytheism), and in the
fecond part of this article, we cannot without repeti¬
tion enlarge farther on it here. Of the Jewilh reli¬
gion, however, wtc have as yet faid little, having on
purpofe relerved to this place whatever we mean to in¬
troduce under the article, concerning its influence on
Society. ( ' 34;
3d, When we take a general view of the circum-Vfcw of
fiances in which the Jewifli religion was eftablifhed, the.ludiufrn,
effefts which it produced on the charafter and fortune
of the nation, the rites and ceremonies which it enjoin¬
ed, and the lingular political inftitutions to which it
gave a fanftion, it may perhaps appear hard to deter¬
mine, whether it were upon the whole more or lefs be¬
neficial to fociety than the polytheifm of the Egyp¬
tians, Greeks, and Romans. But if fuch be the judge¬
ment which preconceived prejudices, or a hafty and
carelefs view, have induced iomc to form of this celebra¬
ted fyftem; there are others who, with equal keenntfs^
and founder reafoning, maintain, that it was happily
calculated, not only to accomplifh the great defir n of
preparing the way for the promulgation of the Gofpel,
but likewife to render the Jews a more refined and vir¬
tuous people, and a better regulated community, than
any neighbouring nation. In the firil place, the attri¬
butes of the Deity w ere very clearly exhibited to the
Jews in the eftablifhment of their religion. The mi¬
racles by which he delivered them from fervitude, and
condufted them out of Egypt, were ftriking deuion-
ftrations of his porver; that condefcenficn with which
he forgave their repeated afts of perverfenefs and rebel¬
lion, was a moft convincing proof of bis benevolence ;
and the impartiality with which the obfervance and th«
violation of his laws were rew arded and punifhed, even
in the prefent life, might wTell convince them of Lis
juftice. A part of the laws which he diftated to Mo-
fes are of eternal and univerfal obligation ; others of
them w7ere local and particular, fuited to the charafter
of the Jews, and their circumfiances in the land of Ca¬
naan. The Jewifh code, taken altogether, is not to be
confidered as a complete fyfttm of religion, or laws cal¬
culated for all countries and all ages of fociety. When
we confider the expediency of this fyftem, w7e muft take
care not to overlook the defign for which the Jews are
faid to have been feparated from other nations, the cir-
cumftances in which they had lived in Egypt, the cu-
ftoms and manners which they had contrafted by their
intercourfe with the natives of that country, the man¬
ner in which they were to acquire to themfelves fettle-
ments by extirpating the nations of Canaan, the rank
which they were to hold among the nations of Syria
and the adjacent countries, together with the difficulty
of
/
1
35
The fab-
bath,
R EL f 7
Religion, of reftrarning a people fo little civilized and cnlighten-
ed fvom the idolatrous worfhip which prevailed among
their neighbours : All thefe circumftances were cer¬
tainly to be taken into account ; and had the legiflator
ol the Jews not attended to them, his inftitutions muft
have remained in force only for a fhort period; nor
could they have produced any lading effetts on the
chara£ler of the nation. With a due attention to thefe
circumftances, let us defcend to an examination of par¬
ticulars.
Although in every religion or fuperftition that has
prevailed through the world, we lind one part of its in¬
ftitutions to confift in the enjoining of certain feftivals
to be celebrated by relaxation from labour, and the per¬
formance of certain ceremonies in honour of the gods ;
yet in none, or almoft none befides the Jewifh, do we
find every feventh day ordained to be regularly kept
holy. One great end w'hich the legiflator of the Jews
had in view in the inftitution of the Sabbath was, to im-
prefs them with a belief that God was the maker of the
univerfe. In the early ages of the world a great part
of mankind imagined the ftars, the fun, the moon, and
the other planets, to be eternal, and confequently ob-
jafts highly worthy of adoration. To convince the If-
raelites of the abfurdity of this belief, and prevent them
from adopting that idolatry, Mofes taught them, that
thofe confpieuous objefts which the Gentile nations re¬
garded as eternal, and endowed with divine power and
intelligence, were created by the hand of God } who,
after bringing all things out of nothing, and giving
them form, order, and harmony, in the fpace of fix
days, refted on the feventh from all his works. Vari¬
ous pafTages in the Old Teftament concur to (howT,
that this was one great end of the inftitution of the
Sabbath. The cbfervance of the Sabbath, and detefta-
tion of idolatrous worfhip, are frequently inculcated to¬
gether ; and, again, the breach of the Sabbath, and the
worfhip of idols, are ufually reprobated at the fame
time. Another good reafon for the inftitution of a
Sabbath might be, to remind the Jews of their delive¬
rance from bondage, to infpire them with humanity to
ftrangers and domeftics, and to mitigate the rigours of
fervitude.
The purpofes for which the other fefti'vals of the
Jewifh religion were inftituted appear alfo of fufficient
importance. The great miracle, which, after a feries
of other miracles, all direfted to the fame end, finally
effected the deliverance of the Jews out of Egypt, and
their actual departure from that land of fervitude, might
well be commemorated in the feaft of the paftbver. To
recal to the minds of pofterity the hiftory of their an-
ceftors, to imnrefs them with an awful and grateful fenfe
of the goodnefs and greatnefs of God, and to make
them think of the purpofes for which his almighty
power had been fo fignally exerted, w^ere furely good
reafons for the inftitution of fuch a feftival. ft he feaft
of Pentecoft celebrated the firft declaration of the law
by Mofes, in tbe fpace of fifty days after the feaft of
the pafibver. It ferved alfo as a day of folemn thankf-
giving for the bleftings of a plenteous harveft. On the
feaft: of tabernacles, they remembered tbe wanderings of
their anceftors through the wildefnefs, and expreflfed
their gratitude to heaven for the more comfortable cir-
cnmftances in which they found themfelves placed.
The feaft of new moons ferved to fix their kalendar, and
3*
and other
feftivfts.
37
7 ] RE L
determine the times at which the other Feftivals were
to be celebrated 5 on it trumpets were founded, to give '
public notice of the event which was the caufe of the
feltival 5 no fervile works were performed, divine fer-
vice was carefully attended, and the firft fruits of the
month were offered to the Lord, ft’he Jewifh legifla¬
tor limited his feftivals to a very fmall number, while
the heathens devoted a confiderable part of the year to
the celebration of theirs. But we perceive the occa-
fions upon which the Jewifh feftivals were celebrated to
have been of fuitable importance ; whereas thofe of the
heathens were often celebrated on tufting or ridiculous
occafions. Piety and innocent recreation fhared the
Jewdfh feftival j the feftivals of tbe heathens were chiefly
devoted to debauchery and idienefs.
The Hebrew's had other folemn feafons of devotion The fabba-
befides the weekly Sabbath and thefe annual feftivals.
Every feventb year they refted from labour : they wrere jawso{’
then neither to plough, to fow, nor to prune 5 and w’hat- ulury.
ever the earth produced fpontaneoufly that year belong¬
ed rather to ftrangers, orphans, and the poor, than to
the proprietors of the ground. On this year infolvent
debtors -were difebarged from all debts contrafled by
purchafing the neceffaries of life : and the great end of
this releafe from debts contradfted during the preceding
fix years, appears to have been to prevent the Hebrew
from flying to tbe Gentiles and forfaking his religion
when embarraffed in his circumfiances. None but na¬
tive Ifraelites and profelytes of rigbteoufnefs were ad¬
mitted to this privilege ; it svas refufed to ftrangers,
and even to profelytes of the gate The jubilee was
a feftival to be celebrated every fiftieth year. It pro¬
duced the fame effeft with the fabbatical year as to
reft from labour and tbe difeharge of debts j with this
addition, that on the year of tbe jubilee Haves obtained
their freedom, and the lands reverted to the old pro¬
prietors. On the year of the jubilee, as on the fabba¬
tical year, the lands were to reft uncultivated, and law-
fuits were now to terminate. The chief defign of this
inftitution appears to have been, to preferve the order
of ranks and property originally eftabliftied in the He¬
brew ftate. None but Ifraelites or circumcifed con¬
verts could enjoy the benefit of this inftitution 5 nor
could even thefe hope to regain their eftates on the
year of the jubilee, if they fold them for any other pur-
pofe but to fupply their neceflities. The law relative
to ufury was evidently founded on the fame plan of
polity wdth refpe<ft to property. To almoft: any other
nation fuch a law, it muft: be confefted, would have been
unfuitable and unjuft : but as the Jews were not de-
figned for a trading nation, they could have little occa-
fion to borrow7, unlefs to relieve diftrefs 5 and as an in¬
dulgence to people in fucb circumftances, tbe Jew wfas
forbidden to exaft ufury from his brother to whom he
had lent money. 3S
The Jewifti legiflator, we may well think, would be .Of dean
difpofed to adopt every proper method to prevent his an£l unclean
nation from falling aw'ay into tbe idolatry ©f heathen
nations. Probably one reafon of the diftinftions be-0f
tween clean beads which they wTere permitted to eat,
and unclean beafts, the eating of which they were taught
to confider as pollution, was to prevent them from con¬
vivial intercourfe with profane nations, by wdiich they
might be feduced to idolatry. We do not readily fit
down at table with people who are fond of difhes which
4 U 2 we
K E L [ 708 ] R E L
Religion, we regard with abhorence. And if the Jews were
V"B“ v ' ■' taught to loathe the flefli of fome of.thofe animals w^hich
were among the greateft delicacies of the Gentiles, they
would naturally of confequence avoid fitting down at
meat with them, either at their ordinary meals or at
thofe entertainments which they prepared in honour of
their deities; and this we may with good reafon con-
fider as one happy mean to preferve them from idola¬
try. Befides, the Jews were permitted, or rather en¬
joined, to eat animals which the Gentiles reverenced as
facred, and from which they religioufiy withheld all
violence. Goats, (beep, and oxen, were worfhipped in
Egypt (fee Polytheism and Pan) ; and feveral lear¬
ned writers are of opinion, that Mofes diredted his
people to facrifice and eat certain of the favourite animals
of the Egyptians, in order to remove from their minds
any opinions which they might have otherwife enter¬
tained of the fandlity of thofe pretended deities. Many
of the obfervances which Mofes enjoined with regard to
food, appear to have been intended to infpire the Ifrael-
ites with contempt for the fuperftitions of the people
among wdiom they had fo long fojourned. They were
to kill the animal which the Egyptians worfhipped j to
roaft the flefh which that people ate raw j to eat the
head, w’hich they never ate; and to drefs the entrails,
which they fet apart for divination. Thefe diftindtions
concurred with the peculiarities of their drefs, language,
government, cuftoms, places and times of worfhip, and
even the natural fituation of their country, by which
they were in a manner confined and fortified on all
fides, to feparate them in fuch a manner from neigh¬
bouring nations, that they might efcape the infedlion of
their idolatry. And if we refledf both on the defign
for which Providence feparated the Ifraelites from other
nations, and on the probability that, in the ftate of fo-
ciety in which mankind were during the earlier period
of the Jewiih hiftory, the Jews, by mixing with other
nations, would rather have been themfelves converted to
idolatry than have converted idolatrous nations to the
worfhip of the true God j wre cannot but be fatisfted,
that even this, however it may at firfl: appear, was a
benefit, not a difadvantage j and in the author of their
- legiflation wifdom, not caprice.
©ther^di- ■^u*' no^ on^y hi the diftinftions of meats, and be-
Itmguifh- tween clean and unclean animals, does the legifiator of
ing particu-the Jews appear to have laboured to fix a barrier be-
TewifhrG tween t^em and ot!ler nations which might preferve
41 1 n‘ them from the contagion of idolatry—we lhall not err,
perhaps, if we afciibe many particulars of their worfhip
to this defign in the inftitutor. The heathens had
gods who prefided over woods, rivers, mountains, and
valleys, and to edch of thefe they offered facrifices, and
performed other rites of worfhip in a fuitable place.
Sometimes the grove, fometimes the mountain top, at
ether times the bank of the river or the brink of the
fpring, was the fcene of their devotions. But as the
unity of the divine nature was the truth the moft ear-
nefily inculcated on the children of Ifrael j fo in order
to imprefs that truth on their minds with the more
powerful efficacy, they were taught to offer their facri-
fipes and other offerings only in one place, the place
chofen by the Lord j and death was threatened to thofe
who dared to difobey the command. To confirm this
.idea, one of the prophets intimates, that when idolatry
fliould be aboliffied, the worfln£ of God fljowld not be
confined to Jerufalem, but it would then be lawful to Religion,
w'orfhip him anywhere. v "
The whole inftitutions and obfervances of the Jewifh £g-4s of
religion appear to have been defigned and happily cal- thefe infti-
culated to imprefs the minds of the people with vene- unions, &tc.
ration and refpedt for the Deity. All the feftivalsin unpref-
which either commemorated fome gracious difpenfation
of his providence towards their anceflors, or ferved as tjje Deity,
days of thankfgiving for the conftant returns of his
goodnefs to thofe who celebrated them, and all the
other rites defigned to fortify them againft idolatry,
ferved at the fame time to imprefs their hearts with
awful reverence for the God of Jacob. Various other
particulars in the inftitutions of the jewifh economy ap¬
pear to have been dire£!ed folely to that end. Into
the moft facred place, the Holy of Holies, none but the
high prieft w-as admitted, and he only once a-year. No
fire w?as ufed in facrifice but what was taken from the
altar. Severe puniffiments were on various occafions
inflifted on fuch as prefumed to intermeddle in the fer-
vice of the fanftuary in a manner contrary to wffiat the
law had diredled. All the laws refpefting the charac¬
ter, the circumftances, and the fervices, of the priefts
and the Levites, appear plainly to have a fimilar ten¬
dency.
In compliance with the notions of Deity which na¬
turally prevailed among a grofs and rude people, though
no vifible objeft of w’orfhip W’as granted to the Jews,
yet they W'ere allow-ed in their wanderings through the
wildernefs to have a tabernacle or portable temple, in
which the fovereign of the univerfe fometimes deigned
to difplay fome rays of his glory. Incapable as they
wyere ot conceiving aright concerning the fpiritual na¬
ture and the omnipreience of the Deity, they might
poffibly have thought Jehovah carelefs and indifferent
about them, had they been at no time favoured with a
vifible demonftration of his prefence.
The facrifices in ufe among the Gentiles in their Sacrifices
worffiip of idols were permitted by the Jewiffi legifla- ^ ^ukra“
tor j but he direded them to be offered with views ve- tlons‘
ry different from thofe with which the Gentiles facri-
ficed to their idols. Some of the facrifices of the Jew¬
ifh ritual wTere defigned to avert the indignation of the
Deity ; fome to expiate offences and purify the heart j
and all of them to abolifh or remove idolatry. Luftra-
tions or ablutions entered likewife into the Jewiffi ritual;
but thefe were recommended and enjoined by Mofes for
purpofes widely different from thofe which induced the
heathens to place fo high a value upon them. The
heathens pradifed them with magical and fuperftitious
ceremonies ; but in the Jevvifh ritual they were intend¬
ed fimply for the cleanfing aw'ay of impurities and pol¬
lutions.
The theocratical form of government to which the Tendency
Jews were fubjed, the rewards which they were fure ofdthetheo-
receiving, and the puniffiments which they were equally cracy ar
liable to fuffer in the prefent life, had a powerful effed tandk'n!
to remove fuperftition and preferve them from idolatry,
as wrell as to fupport all the focial virtues among them.
They were promifed a numerous offspring, a land flow¬
ing with milk and honey, long life, and vidory over •
their enemies, on the condition of their paying a faith¬
ful obedience to the will of their heavenly Sovereign ;
plague, famine, difeafe, defeats, and death, wrere threat¬
ened as the puniflunents to be inflided on thofe who.
violated
R E L
[ 709 ]
R E L
Religion.
• 43 ,
Rites and
prohibi¬
tions of
lefs appa¬
rent utility.
44
The whole
admirably
calculated
for the pur-
pofes in¬
tended.
<3
View of
Chriftia-
nity.
46
The doc¬
trines pure
and rites
fi tuple.
violated jitis laws j and thefe fanftions, it muft be al¬
lowed, w^ere happily accommodated to the genius of a
rude and carnal-minded people, attentive only to pre-
fent objects, and not likely to be influenced by remote
and fpiritual confiderations.
There were other rites and prohibitions in the Mo-
fuic law, which appear to have had but little connexion
with religion, morals, or policy. Thefe may be more
liable to be objefted againft, as adding an unnecefTary
weight to a burden which, though heavy, might yet
have been otherwife borne in coniideration of the ad¬
vantages connected with it. Even thefe, however, may
perhaps admit of being viewed in a light in w'hich they
lhall appear to have been in no rvay unfavourable to the
happlnefs of thofe to whom they were enjoined. They
appear to have had none of them an immoral tendency :
all of them had, in all probability, a tendency to re¬
move or prevent idolatry, or to lupport, in fome way
or other, the religious and the civil eifablifhment to
which they belonged.
From thefe views of the fpirit and tendency of the
Jewifh religion, we may fairly conclude it to have been
happily calculated to promote the welfare of fociety.
In comparing it with other religions, it is neceffary to
refleft on the peculiar purpofes for which it was given j
that its two principal objects wTere to preferve the Jews
a feparate people, and to guard them againft the con¬
tagion of the furrounding idolatry. When thefe things
are taken into confideration, every candid mind acquain¬
ted with the hiftory of ancient nations will readily ac¬
knowledge that the whole fyftem, though calculated in¬
deed in a peculiar manner for them, was as happily
adapted for the purpofes for which it had been wifely
and gracioufly intended, as it is poflible to imagine any
fuch fyftem to be. It would be unhappy, indeed, if,
on a comparifon of pure theifm with polytheiftn, the
latter, with all its abfurdities, ftiould be found more be¬
neficial to mankind than the former. The theifm of
the Jews was not formed to be diffeminated through the
earth ; that would have been inconfiftent with the pur¬
pofes for which it is faid to have been defigned. But
while the Jews were feparated by their religion from all
other nations, and perhaps, in fome degree, fixed and
rendered ftationary in their progrefs towards refinement,
they were placed in circumftances, in refpeft to laws,
and government, and religion, and moral light, which
might writh good reafon render them the envy of every
other nation in the ancient world.
IV. The Chriftian religion next demands our atten¬
tion. It is to be confidered as an improvement of the
Jewifh, or a new fuperftru&ure railed on the fame ba¬
lls. If the effefts of the Jewifh religion were benefi¬
cial to thofe among whom it was eftablifhed, they were
confined almoft to them alone. But is the fpirit of
Chriftianity equally pure and benignant ? Is its influ¬
ence equally beneficial and more diffufive than that of
Judaifm ? Does it really merit to have triumphed over
both the theifm of the Jews and the polytheifm of the
heathens ?
If we confider the do£lrines and precepts of the Chri¬
ftian religion, nothing can be more happily calculated
to raife the dignity of human nature, and promote the
happinefs of mankind. The happinefs of the individual
is beft promoted by the exercife of love and gratitude
towards God, and refignation to hi* providence ‘ ^
of
humanity, integrity, and good will towards men 5 and Religion,
by the due government of our appetites and paflions.
Social happinefs again proceeds from the members of fo~
ciety entertaining a difinterefted regard for the public
welfare •, being at lively induftrious each in his proper
fphere of exertion j and being ftrictly juft and faithful,
and generoufly benevolent in their mutual intercourfe.
The tenor of the gofpel inculcates thefe virtues; it
feems everywhere through the whole of the Chriftiatx
code to have been the great defign of its Author to in-
fpire mankind with mild, benevolent, and peaceable dif-
pofitions, and to form them to courteous manners. Chri¬
ftianity again reprefents the Deity and his attributes in
the faireft light; even fo as to render our ideas of his
nature, and the manner in which he exerts his power,
confiftent with the moft corredl principles of morality
that can be collefted from all the other religions that
have prevailed in the earth, and from the writings of
the moft admired philofophers. The ritual obfervances
wjnch Chriftianity enjoins are few in number, eafy to
perform, decent, expreffive, and edifying. It inculcates
no duties but what are founded on the principles of hu¬
man nature, and on the relation in which men fland to
God, their Creator, Redeemer, and Samftifier; and it
prefcribes accurate rules for the regulation ot the con-
du£l. The affiftance of the fpirit of God is promifed in
this facred volume to thofe who afliduouily labour to
difcharge the duties wrhich it enjoins; and it exhibits a
ftriking example of fpotlefs purity, which we may fafely
venture to imitate. The gofpel teaches that worldly
affli&ions are incident to both good and bad men ; a doc¬
trine highly conducive to virtue, w'hich confoles us in
diftrefs, prevents defpair, and encourages us to perfift
firmly in our integrity under every difficulty and trial.
Chriftianity reprelents all men as children of the fame
God, and heirs of the fame falvation, and levels all di-
ftindlions of rich and poor, as accidental and infignificant
in the fight of him who rewards or puniffies with im¬
partiality according to the merits or demerits of his crea¬
tures. This do&rine is highly favourable to virtue, as
it tends to humble the proud, and to communicate dig¬
nity of fentiment to the lowly ; to render princes and
inferior magiftrates moderate and juft, gentle and con-
defcending, to their inferiors. It farther requires huf-
bands to be affeflionate and indulgent to their wives,
wives to be faithful and refpeflful to their huffiands, and
both to be true and conftant to each other. Such is the
purity of the gofpel, that it forbids us even to harbour
impure thoughts ; it requires us to abandon our vices,
however dear to us ; and to the cautious wifdom of the
ferpent it direfts us to join the innocent fimplicity of the
dove. The Chriftian difpenfation, to *prevent a per-
feverance in immorality, offers pardon for the paft, pro¬
vided the offender forfake his vicious praftices, with a
firm refolution to a£l differently in future. The fanc-
tions of the gofpel have a natural tendency to exalt the
mind above the paltry purfuits of this world, and to ren- -
der the Chriftian incorruptible by wealth, honours, or
pleafures. The true Chriftian not only abftains from
injuftice towards others, but even forgives thofe injuries
which he himfelf fuffers, knowing that he cannot other-
wife hope for forgivenefs from God. Such are the pre¬
cepts, fuch the fpirit, and fuch the general, tendency of
the gofpel. Even thofe who refufed to give credit to
its doftrines and hiftory have yet acknowledged the ex¬
cellence
v
47
The virtues
it recom¬
mends
unoftenta-
tious.
BEL f 7
Religion. ^ cellence of its precepts. They have acknowledged,
—--v—that « no religion ever yet appeared in the world of
which the natural tendency was fo much direfted to
promote the peace and happinefs of mankind as the
Chriftian ; and that the gofpel of Chrift is one continu¬
ed leffon of the ftrifteft morality, of juftice, benevolence,
and univerfal charity.” Thefe are the words of Boling-
broke, one of its keeneft and moft infidious opponents.
Without examining the effe&s of this religion on focie-
ty, we might almoft venture to pronounce with confi¬
dence,>^iat a religion, the precepts of which are fo hap¬
pily formed to promote all that is juft and excellent,
cannot but be in the higheft degree beneficial to man¬
kind. By reviewing the effe&s which it has actually
produced, the favourable opinion which we naturally
conceive of it, after confidering its precepts, cannot but
be confirmed.
One circumftance we muft take notice of as rather
unfavourable to this review. It is really impoifible to
do juftice to Chriftianity by fuch a difcuffion of its me¬
rits. The virtues which it has a natural tendency to
produce and cherifh in rhe human heart, are not of a
noify oftentatious kind ; they often efcape the obferva-
tion of the world. Temperance, gentlenefs, patience,
benevolence, juftice, and general purity of manners, are
not the qualities which moft readily attraft the admi¬
ration and obtain the applaufe of men. The man of
Rofs, whom Mr Pope has fo juftly celebrated, was a
private character •, his name is now likely to live, and
his virtues to be known to the lateft pofterity : and yet,
however difinterefted his virtues, horvever beneficial his
influence to all around him, had his charafter not .at¬
tracted the notice of that eminent poet, his name would
perhaps ere this time have been loft in oblivion. Indi¬
viduals in private life feldom engage the attention.of
the hiftorian ; his objedft is to record the aftions of
princes, warriors, and ftatefmen. Had not the profef-
fors of Chriftianity in the earlier ages of its exiftence
been expofed to perfecutiens, and unjuft accufations
from which they were called on to vindicate themfelves,
we ftiould be ftrangers to the names and virtues of faints
and martyrs, and to the learning and endowments erf
the fir ft apologifts for Chriftianity. We can therefore
only trace the general influence of the inftitutions of
Chriftianity on fociety. We cannot hope to make an
accurate enumeration of particulars. In many of the
countries in which it has been eftablifhfcd, it "has pro¬
duced a very favourable change on the circumftances of
domeftic life. Polygamy, a practice repugnant to the
will of our Creator (fee Polygamy), who-has declar¬
ed his intentions in this inftance in the plaineft manner,
by caufing nearlf equal nunuers of males and females
to be brought into the world, was never completely abo-
lifhed but by Chriftianity.
1 he pradtice of divopce, too, though in fome cafes
proper and even neceffary, had been fo much abufed at
the time of our Saviour’s appearance in the world, that
he found reafon to declare it unlawful, unlefs in the cafe
of adultery. The propriety and reafonablenefs of this
prohibition will fufficiently appear, if we confider, that
when divorces are eafily obtained, both parties will often
have nothing elfe in view at the period of marriage than
tlie dilfolution of their nuptial engagements after ^a fhort
cohabitation ; the interefts of the hufband and the wife
will almoft always be feparate ; and the children of fuch
48
Its eftedls
on the
manners of
nations.
10] BEL
a marriage are fcarce likely to enjoy the cordial affec- Rciiginn.
tion and tender watchful care of either parent. The 1 111 '
bulb and in fuch a cafe will naturally be to his wife, not
a friend and protedlor, but a tyrant; fear and deceit,
not love, gratitude, or a fenfe of duty, will be the prin¬
ciples of the W'ife’s obedience.
In another inftance, likewife, Chriftianity has pro¬
duced an happy change on the circumftances of dome¬
ftic life j it muft be acknowledged to have contributed,
greatly to the abolition of flavery, or at leaft to the
mitigation of the rigour of fervitude. The cuftoms and
laws of the Romans in relation to flaves were cruel and
fevere. Mafters were often fo inhuman as to remove
aged, fick, or infirm flaves, into an ifland in the Tiber,
where they (offered them to peiifh without pity or af-
filtance. The greater part of the fubjefts of many of
thofe republics w'hich enjoyed the moft liberty, groaned
under tyrannical oppreflion ; they were condemned to
drag out a miferable exiftence in hard labour, under in¬
human ufage, and to be transferred like beafts from one
mafter to another. 'J'he hardfhips of flavery were eafed,
not by any particular precept of the Gofpel, but by the
gentle and humane fpirit which breathed through the
general tenor of the whole fyftem of doffrines and pre¬
cepts of which the Gofpel confifts. It muft indeed be
allowed, that a trade in flaves is at prefent carried on by
pe*ple who prefume to call themfelves Chriftians, and
protefted by the legiflature of Chriftian ftates: but the
fpirit of the Chriftian code condemns the practice, and
the true Chriftian will not engage in it.
^ Partly by the direft and confpicuous, partly by the
fecret and unfeen, influence of Chriftianity finte its pro¬
mulgation in the world, the hearts of men have been
gradually foftened ; even barbarians have been formed
to mildnefs and humanity the influence of felfiihnefs
has been checked and reftrained 5 and even war, amid
all the pernicious improvements by which men have
fought to render it more terrible, has affumed much more
of the fpirit of mildnefs and peace than ever entered into
it during the reign of heathenifm.
If we reviesv the hiftory of mankind with a view to
their political circuraftances, we fhall find, that by fome
means or other, it has happened, fince the timewTen the
Gospel was firft preached, that both fyftems of legiflature
and forms of government have been railed to much
greater perfeftion, at leaft in thofe parts of the world in¬
to which the religion of Jefus has made its way, and ob¬
tained an eftablifhment.
I he popular government of the Romans,. notwitk-
ftanding the multiplicity of their laws, and the imper-
feclions of their political conftitution, was, no doubt,
happily enough adapted to promote the increafe of the
power and the extenfion of the empire of Rome. In
Greece there were various republics, the wifdom and
impartiality of whofe laws have been highly celebrated.
But we apprehend that there is a fuffleient number of
well authenticated faffs to warrant us to affirm, that,
fince Chriftianity has been propagated, and has had fuf-
ficient time to produce its full effefl on arts, manners,
and literature, even under governments the form of
which might appear lefs favourable than the celebrated
mode's of antiquity to the liberty and happinefs of the
people in general, thefe a finally have been much better
provided for than under the laws of Athens or Sparta,
or even of Rome in the days of the confuls. It is a
juft
#
R E L
r
/
Religion, juft and happy obfervation of Montefquien, who has
1 v 1 attributed fo much to the influence of climate and local
circumflances, that “ the rnildnefs lb frequently recom¬
mended in the Gofpel is incompatible with the defpo-
tic rage with which an arbitrary tyrant puniflies his fub-
jefts, and exercifes hknfelf in cruelty. It is the Cliri-
Itian religion (fays lie) which, in fpite of the extent of
empire, and the influence of climate, has hindered def-
potifm.from being eftablilhed in Ethiopia, and has car¬
ried into Africa the manners of Europe. The heir to
the empire of Ethiopia enjoys a principality, and gives
to other fubjefts an example of love and obedience.—
Not far from hence may be feen Ine Mahometan fhut-
ting up the children of the king of Sennaar, at whofe
death the council fends to murder them in favour of
the prince who afcends the throne. Let us fet before
our eyes (continues that eloquent writer), in the third
chapter of the 24th book of his fpirit of Laws, on one
hand the continual maffacres of the kings and generals
of the Greeks and Romans, and on the other the de~
ffmdtion of people and cities by the famous conquerors
Timur Beg and Jenghiz Khan, who ravaged Alia 5 and
we lhall perceive, that we owe to Chriftianity in go¬
vernment a certain political law, and in rear a certain
lavy of nations, which allows to the conquered the great
advantages ef liberty, laws, wealth, and always reli¬
gion, when the conqueror is not blind to his own in-
leretl.”
Thefe are the refleftions of no common judge in this
matter, but one who had long ftudied the hiftory of
nations, and obferved the phenomena of the various
forms of fociety, with fuch fuccefs as few others have at¬
tained.
Its eiTecfls ^*ut on n0 occa^on has the mild influence of Chrifti-
m fofcening anify been more eminently difplayed, or more happily
ar.d huma- exerted, than in foftening and humanizing the barba¬
rians who overturned the Roman empire. The idola¬
trous religion which prevailed among thofe tribes before
their converflon to Chriftianity, inftead of difpofing
them to cultivate humanity and mildnefs of manners,
contributed ftrongly to render them fierce and blood-
thirfly, and eager to diftinguifn themfelves by deeds of
favage valour* But no fooner had they fettled in the
dominions of Rome, and embraced the principles of
Chriftianity, than they became a mild and generous
people.
We are informed by Moftielm, who was at pains to
colledt his materials from the moft authentic fources,
that in the 10th century Chriftian princes exerted them¬
felves in the converfion of nations whofe fiercenefs they
had experienced, in order to foften and render them
more gentle. The mutual humanity with which nations
at war treat each other in modern times, is certainly
owing, in a great meafure, to the influence of the mild
precepts of the Gofpel. It is a fa£t worthy of notice,
too, that during the barbarous ages, the fpiritual courts
of juftice were more rational and impartial in their de-
cifions than civil tribunals.
How many criminal praflices which prevailed among
heathen nations have been aboliflied by their converfion
to Chriftianity ! Chriftians of all nations have been ob-
ferved to retain the virtues and reject the vicious prac¬
tices of their refpeftive'countries. In Parthia, where
polygamy prevailed, they are not polygamifts 5 in Perfia,
the Chriflian father does not marry his own daughter.
nizing bar
barians.
11] R E L
By the laws of Zoroafter the Perfians committed inceft Religion,
until they embraced the Gofpel ; after which period
they abtlained from that crime, and obferved the duties
of chaflity and temperance, as enjoined by its precepts.
Even the poliihed and enlightened Romans were cruel
and blood-thirfty before the propagation of the Gofpel.
The breaking of a glafs, or feme fuch trifling offence,
was fufiicient to provoke Vidius Pollio to caft his flaves
into fiih-ponds to be devoured by lampreys. The ef-
fufion of human blood was their favourite entertainment j
they delighted to fee men combating with beafls, or
with one another j and we are informed on refpedlable
authority, that no wars ever made fuch havock on man¬
kind as the fights of gladiators, which fometimes depri¬
ved Europe of 20,000 lives in one month. Not the
humanity of Titus, nor the wifdom and virtue of Tra¬
jan, could abolifh the barbarous fpebtacle. However
humane and wife in other inftances, in this practice thofe
princes complied with the cuftom of their country, and
exhibited fplendid Ihows of gladiators, in which the
combatants were matched by pairs j who, though they
had never injured nor offended each other, yet were ob¬
liged to maim and murder one another in cold blood.
Chriftian divines foon exererfed their pens againft thefe
horrid pradtices •, the Chriftian emperor Conftantine re-
ftrained them by edicts, and Honorius finally aboliflied
them. It would be tedious to proceed through an enu¬
meration of particulars j but wherever Chriftianity has
been propagated, it has conftantly operated to the civi¬
lization of the manners of mankind, and to the abolition
of abfurd and criminal practices. The Irifh, the Scotch,
and all the ancient inhabitants of the Biitifh ifles, were,
notwithftanding their intercourfe with the Romans, rude
barbarians, till fuch time as they were converted to Chri¬
ftianity. The inhuman pradlice of expofing infants, which
once prevailed fo generally over the world, and itill pre¬
vails among fome Pagan nations, even under very hu¬
mane and enlightened legiflatures, yielded to the influ¬
ence of Chriftianty.
Let us likewife remember, in honour of Chriflianity,
that it has contributed eminently to the diffufion of
knowledge, the prefervation and the advancement of
learning. When the barbarians overfpread Europe,
■what muft have become of the precious remains of po¬
liihed, enlightened antiquity, had there been no other
dep@fitaries to preferve them but the heathen priefts ?
We allow that even the Romiih clergy during the dark
ages did not ftudy the celebrated models of ancient
times with much advantage themfelves, and did not
labour with much affiduity to make the laity acquaint¬
ed with them. It muft even be acknowledged, that
they did not always preferve thofe monuments of ge¬
nius with fufficient care, as they were often ignorant
of their real value. Yet, after all, it will be granted,
it cannot be denied, that had it not been for the clergy
of the Chriftian church, the lamp of learning would, in
all probability, have been entirely extinguifhed, during
that night of ignorance and barbarity in which all Eu¬
rope was buried for a long feries of centuries, after
the irruption of the barbarians into the Roman empire.
Such is the excellence of the Chriftian fyftem, and
fuch its tendency to meliorate the human character, that
its beneficial influence Has not been confined to thofe
rvho have received its doftrines and precepts, and have
profeffed therafeives Chriftians j it- has even- produced
many
SP
Learning
is much
ir.de bled td
Chrithanii
ty-
5*
The bensi
ficiat influ¬
ence of
Chiiftiani-
ty has ex¬
tended even
to thofe
who h; ve
not embra¬
ced it.
R E L 1-7
^Religion. ^ naany happy effefts on the ciicumflances and the cha-
v rafters of Pagans and infidels, who have had opportuni¬
ties of beholding the virtues of Chriftians, and learning
the excellence of the morality of the gofpel. Thole
Virtues which diftinguilhed the charafter of the apoftate
Julian were furely owing in no inconfiderable degree to
his acquaintance with Chriftianity ; and it is an undeni¬
able faft, that after the propagation of Chriftianity
through the Roman empire, even while the purity of
that holy religion was gradually debafed, the manners
of thofe Pagans who remained unconverted became more
pure, and their religious doftrines and worlhip lefs im¬
moral and abfurd.—We might here adduce a tedious
feries of fafts to the fame purpofe. Whenever Chrifti¬
ans have had any intercourfe with Pagan idolaters, and
have not concealed the laws of the gofpel, nor {hewn by
their conduft that they difregarded them, even thole
who have not been converted to Chriftianity have, how'-
ever, been improved in their difpofitions and manners by
its influence. The emperor, whofe virtues we have men¬
tioned as arifing, in a certain degree, from his acquaint¬
ance with Chriftianity, in a letter to an Heathen pontiff,
defires him to turn his eyes to the means by which the
fuperftition of Chriftians was propagated ; by kindnefs to
ft rangers, by fanftity of life, and by the attention which
they paid to the burial of the dead. He recommends
an imitation of their virtues, exhorts him to caufe the
priefts of Galatia to be attentive to the worlhip of their
gods,, and authorifes him to ftrip them of the facerdotal
funftion, unlefs they obliged their wives, children, and
lervants, to pay attention to the fame duties. Pie like-
wife enjoins works of beneficence, defires the piieft to
relieve the diftrefled, and to build houfes for the accom¬
modation of ftrangers of whatever religion ; and fays it
is a difgrace for Pagans to difregard thofe of their owm
religion, while Chriftians do kind offices to ftrangers and
enemies. This is indeed an eminent inftance of the
happy influence of Chriftianity even on the fentiments
and manners of fhofe who regarded the Chriftian name
32 with abhorrence.
mob'epre- ^Von t^le whole, then, may We not, from the particu-
ierred to all \ar? ^ere exhibited concerning the influence of this re-
other reli- hgion on the manners and happinefs of men in fociety,
gions. conclude that Chriftianity is infinitely fuperior to the
fuperftitions of Paganifm ? as being in its tendency uni¬
formly favourable to the virtue and the happinefs of
mankind, and even to the fyftem of religion and lawrs
delivered by Mofes to the children of Ifrael : becaufe,
while the religion, of the Jews was calculated only for
one particular nation, and it may almoft be faid for one
particular ftage in the progrefs of fociety, Chriftianity
is an univerfal religion, formed to exert its happy in-
, fluence in all ages and among all nations ; and has a
tendency to difpel the (hades of barbarifm and ignorance,
to promote, the cultivation of the powers of the human
underftanding, and to encourage every virtuous refine-
"Viewof ment manners.
Mahome- 4not^er re%\on> which has made and ftill makes
tanifm. a confpicuous figure in the wTorld, remains yet to be ex¬
amined. The religion of Mahomet is that -which we
here alluded to. Whether we confider through what
an extenfive part of the globe that religion prevails, the
political importance of the nations among whom it is
profeffed,^ or the ftriking peculirrity of charafter by
which it is diftinguilhed from all other religious fyftems
I
12 1 R E L
—‘it is for all thefe reafons well worthy of particular Religion-
notice. Like the Jewifh religion, it is not barely a fy- —v-"*"*
ftem of religious doftrines and general moral precepts;
it forms both the civil legiftature and the religious fy¬
ftem of thofe nations among whom it is profefied •, and,
like it too, it would appear to be calculated rather for
one particular period in the progrefs of mankind from
rudenefs to refinement, than for all ages and all ftates of
fociety.
The hiftory of its origin is pretty well known, and
we have had occafion to enlarge upon it under a former
article (fee Mahomet and Mahometanism). We are
not here to trace the impoftures of the prophet, or to
confider the arts by which he fo fuccefsfully accomplifli-
ed his defigns 5 but merely to confider the morality of
his religion, and its influence on civil order and the hap¬
pinefs of fociety. ^
If we view the ftate of the nations among whom it It is ment¬
is eftabliflied, xve cannot hefitate a moment to declare ^ t0 ig110-
it friendly to ignorance, to defpotifm, and to impurity ra"cf’c*ei\
of manners. The Turks, the PerfianS, and the Malays, Impurity!1
are all Mahometans •, and in reviewing their hiftory and
confidering their prefent ftate, we might find a fiiffi-
cient number of fafts to juftify the above aflertion :
and we muft not negleft to obferve, that, as thofe na¬
tions are not known to have ever been fince their con-
verfion to Mahometanifm under a much happier govern¬
ment, or in a much more civilized ftate than at prefent,
it cannot be, with any degree of fairnefs, argued, with
refpeft to Mahometanifm as with refpeft to Chriftiani¬
ty, that it is only when its influence is fa oppofed by
other caufes as to prevent it from producing its full ef-
fefts, that it does not conduft thofe focieties among
which it is eftabliffied to a high ftate of civilization and
refinement. $$
One, and that by no means an inconfiderable, part of RemarI;3
the Koran, wras occafionally invented to folve fome dif-0111^5.
ficulty with which the prophet found himfelf at theian’
time perplexed, or to help him to the gratification of
his ruling paffions, luft and ambition. When he and his
followers were, at any time, unfuccefsful in thofe wars
by which he fought to propagate his religion, to pre¬
vent them from falling away into unbelief, or finking
into defpondency, he took care to inform them that
God fuffeted fuch misfortunes to befal believers, as a
puniffiment for their fins, and to try their faith. The
doftrine of predeftinatioh, which he affiduoufiy inculca¬
ted, had a happy effeft to perfuade his followers to
ruffi boldly into the midft of death and danger at his
command. He prevailed with Zeyd to put away his
wife, married her himfelf, and pretended that his crime
had the approbation of heaven ; and, in the Koran, he
introduces the Deity approving of this marriage. Be¬
ing repulfed from the fiege of Mecca, he made a league
with the inhabitants j but on the very next year, find¬
ing it convenient to furprife the city, by violating this
treaty, he juftified his perfidy by teaching his followers
to difregard promifes or leagues made with infidels. In
fome infiances again, we find abfurd prohibitions enjoin¬
ed for fimilar reafons: his officers, having on fome occa¬
fion drunk to excefs, excited much riot and confufion in
the camp, he prohibited the ufe of wine and other in¬
ebriating liquors among his followers in future. Now,
though it muft be acknowledged that many evils arife
from the ufe of thefe liquors, yet we cannot but think
that.
R E L r 7
Religion, that, when ufed in moderation, they are in many cafes
^ beneficial to men ; and certainly as much allowed by
God as opium, which the Mahometans have fubltituted
^ in their place.
Mahome- Mahomet is allowed to have copied from the Chriftian
tanifm a and the Jewith religions, as well as from the idolatrous
Chriftia ^ ^uPerftitions prevailed through Arabia, and thus
nity Ju- t0 ^ave forraed a motley mixture of reafon and abfurdi-
daifm, and ty> °f Pure theifm and wild fuperifition. He coniidered
the fuper- allb the circumftances of his country, and the prejudices
ftitions of of his countrymen. When he attended to the former,
* ra ia’ he was generally judicious enough to fuit his doflrines
and decifions to them with furticient fkill 5 the latter he
alfo managed with the greateft art: but he entered into
accommodation with them in inftances when a true pro¬
phet or a wife and upright legillator would furely have
oppofed them with decifive vigour. Where the prophet
indulges his own fancy, or borrows from the fuperfti-
tions of his countrymen, nothing can be more ridiculous
than that rhapfody of lies, contradidlions, and extrava¬
gant fables, which he delivers to his followers. Ama¬
zing are the abfurdities which he relates concerning the
patriarchs, concerning Solomon, and concerning the ani-
mals that were aflembled in Noah’s ark.
Notion of But in the whole tilTue of abfurdities of which his fy-
heaven and flem conlifts, there is nothing more abfurd, or more
helf happily calculated to promote impurity of manners, than
\ his defcriptions of heaven and hell •, the ideas of future
rewards and punilhments which he fought to imprefs
On the minds ol his followers. Paradife was to abound
with rivers, trees, fruits, and lhady groves j wine which
would not intoxicate was to be there plentifully ferved
up to believers ; the inhabitants of that happy region
were all to enjoy perpetual youth ; and their powers of
enjoyment were to be enlarged and invigorated, in or¬
der that fo many fine things might not be thrown away
upon them. “ In dead of infpiring the blefled inhabi¬
tants of paradife with a liberal tafte for harmony and
fcience, converfation and friendlhip (fays Mr Gibbon),
Muhomet idly celebrates the pearls and diamonds, the
robes ox filk, palaces of marble, dilhes of gold, rich
wines, artificial dainties, numerous attendants, and the
whole train of fenfual luxury.—Seventy twx> houris, or
black-eyed girls of refplendent beauty, blooming youth,
virgin purity, and exquifite fenfibility, will be created
for the ufe of the meaneft believer; a moment of plea-
fure will be prolonged for 1000 years, and his faculties
■will be increafed 100 fold, to render him worthy of his
felicity.” It mud be acknowledged that he allows be¬
lievers other more refined enjoyments than thefe } thus
they are to fee the face of God morning and evening ;
a pleafure which is far to exceed all the other pleafures
of paradife. The following is his defcription of the pu-
nidiments of hell : The wicked are there to drink
nothing but boiling dinking water ; breathe nothing but
hot winds; dwell for ever in continual burning fire and
fmoke; eat nothing but briars and thorns, and the fruit
of a tree that rifeth out of the bottom of hell, whofe
branches referable the heads of devils, and whofe fruits
fhall be in their bellies like burning pitch.
All that we can conclude from a general view of the
religion of Mahomet, from confidering the charafter of
the prophet, or from reviewing the hidory of the nations
among whom it has been edabliihed, is, that it is one
tiffue of abfurdities, with a few truths, however, and
You XVII. Part II.
3 1 R E L
valuable precepts incongruoufly intermixed 3 that a great Religiof!
part ot it is unfavourable to virtuous manners, to wife i|
and equal laws, and to the progrefs of knowledge and ^e~'ol0U 'I
refinement. It often inculcates in a diredl manner fen- "
timents that are highly immoral 3 it fubditutes trilling
fuperditious obfervances in the room of genuine piety
and moral virtue.; and it gives fuch views of futurity as
render purity of heart no neceffary qualification for feeing
God.
Surely, therefore, even the deid, who rejefts all but Mahome-
natural religion, would not hefitate to prefer Chridiani-tamfm to
ty, and even Judailm, to the religion of Mahomet. Ju-'^e prefer,
daifm, calculated for a peculiar people, was undoubted-re(* .b0 Pa"
ly much more lublime and much more happily framed^am m”
to render that people virtuous and happy in the circum-
dances in which they were placed 3 and Chridianity we
find to be an univerfal religion, fuited to all circumdan-
ces and to all the dages of fociety, and afting, where-
ever it is received, with more or lefs force to the fup-
port of civil order, virtuous manners, improvement of
arts, and the advancement of fcicnce. However, asMa-
hometanifm forms in fome meafure a regular fydem, as
it has borrowed many of the precepts and dodtrines of
Judaifm and Chridianity, not indeed without corrupting
and degrading them 3 and as it has contributed confider-
ably to the fupport of civil government, although in a
very imperfect form, in thofe countries in which it has
obtained an eftabliihment 3 for all theie reafons we can¬
not but give it the preference to the fuperditions of Pa-
ganifm.
The whole refult of our inquiries under this article, Ccnefufion.
therefore, is, 1. That as man, by the conditution of his
mind, is naturally fitted for acquiring certain notions
•concerning the exidenceof invifible, fuperior beings, and
their influence on human life 3 fo the religious ideas
which we find to have in all ages of the world, and in
all the different ftages of the progrefs of fociety, prevail¬
ed among mankind, appear to have originated partly
from the natural exertions of the human imagination,
underdanding, and padions, in various circumftances,
and partly from fupernatural revelation.
2. That though religious opinions, together with the
moral precepts, and the rites of worfhip connected with
them, may appear to have been in numerous inftances
injurious to the virtue and happinefs of fociety 3 yet, as
they have often contributed to lead the mind to form
moral diftinftions, when it would otherwife in all proba¬
bility have been an entire ftranger to fuch diftin&ions j
and as they have always contributed in an effential man¬
ner to the eftablifiiment and the fupport of civil govern¬
ment—it mud therefore be acknowledged that they have
always, even in their humbled date, been more benefi¬
cial than hurtful to mankind.
3. That when the different fyftems of religion that
have prevailed in the world are comparatively viewed
with refpeft to their influence on the welfare of fociety,
we find reafon to prefer the polytheifm of the Greeks
and Romans to the ruder, wilder, religious ideas and
ceremonies that have prevailed among favages; Maho-
metanifrn, perhaps in fome refpedls, to the polytheifm of
the Greeks and Romans 3 Judaifm, however, to Maho-
metanifm 3 and Chriftianity to all of them.
RELIGIOUS, in a general fenfe, fomething that
relates to religion.—We fay, a religious life, religious
4 X fociety.
Religious,
Rembrandt
REM [71
fociety, &c.—Churches and churchyards are religious
■ places.—A religious war is alfo called a croifade. See
Croisade.
Religious, is alfo ufed fubftantially for a perfon en¬
gaged by folcmn vows to the monaftic life •, or a perfon
fhut up in a monaftery to lead a life of devotion and au-
flerity, under fome rule or inftitution. The male reli¬
gious we popularly call monks and friars ; the female,
nuns and canoneffes.
REMBRANDT Van Rhin, a Flemifh painter and
engraver of great eminence^ was born in 1606, in a
mill upon the banks of the Rhine, from whence he de¬
rived his name of Van Rhin. This matter was born
with a creative genius, which never attained perfe£tion.
It was faid of him, that he would have invented paint¬
ing, if he had not found it already difcovered. With¬
out ftudy, without the afliftance of any matter, but by
his own inftinft, he formed rules, and a certain prafti-
cal method for colouring *, and the mixture produced
the defigned effeft. Nature is not fet off to the greateft
advantage in his piftures; but there is fuch a linking
truth and limplicity in them, that his heads, particularly
his portraits, feem animated, and rifmg from the can¬
vas. He was fond of ftrong contrails of light and fhade.
The light entered in his working-room only by a hole,
in the manner of a camera obfcura, by which he judged
with greater certainty of his produflions. This artift
confidered painting like the ftage, where the characters
do not ftrike unlefs they are exaggerated. He did not
purfue the method of the Flemith painters of finittiing
his pieces. He fometimes gave his light fuch thick
touches, that it feemed more like modelling than paint¬
ing. A head of his has been fhown, the nofe of which
was fo thick of paint, as that which he copied from
nature. He was told one day, that by his peculiar me¬
thod of employing colours, his pieces appeared rugged
and uneven—-he replied, he was a painter, and not a
dyer. He took a pleafure in dreffmg his figures in an
extraordinary manner : with this view he had collefted
a great number of eaftern caps, ancient armour, and
drapery long fince out of fafnion. When he was ad-
vifed to confult antiquity to attain a better tafte in
drawing, as his was ufually heavy and uneven, he took
his counfellor to the clofet where thefe old veftments
were depofited, faying, by way of derifion, thofe were
his antiques.
Rembrandt, like molt men of genius, had many ca¬
prices. Being one day at work, painting a whole fa¬
mily in a fingle piClure, word being brought him that
his monkey was dead, he was fo affefted at the lofs of
this animal, that, without paying any attention to the
perfons who were fitting for their pictures, he painted
the monkey upon the fame canvas. This whim could
not fail of difpleafing thofe for whom the piece was de¬
figned ; but he would not efface it, choofing rather to
lofe the fale of his picture.
This freak will appear ftill more extraordinary in
Rembrandt, when it is confidered that he was extremely
avaricious 5 which vice daily grew upon him. He prac-
tifed various ttratagems to fell his prints at a high price.
The public were very defirous of purchafing them, and
not without reafon. In his prints the fame tafte prevails
as in his piffures; they are rough and irregular, but
pi&ureique. In order to heighten the value of his
prints, and increafe their price, he made his fpn fell them
Reminif-
4 ] REM
as if he had purloined them from his father j others he Rembrandt
expofed at public fales, and went thither himfelf in dit-
guife to bid for them; fometimes he gave out that he
was going to leave Holland, and fettle in another coun- ■
try. Thefe ftratagems were fuccefsful, and he got his
own price for his prints. At other times he would print
his plates half finittred, and expofe them to fale 5 he af¬
terwards finifhed them, and they became frefh plates.
When they wanted retouching, he made fome altera¬
tions in them, which promoted the fale of his prints a
third time, though they differed but little from the firft
impreflions.
His pupils, who were not ignorant of his avarice,
one day painted fome pieces of money upon cards *, and
Rembrandt no fooner faw them, than he was going to
take them up. He was not angry at the pleafantry j
but it had no effeft in checking his avarice. He died
in 1674.
REMEMBRANCE, is when the idea of fomething
formerly known recurs again to the mind without the
operation of a like objeclt on the external fenfory. See
Memory and Reminiscence.
REMEMBRANCERS, anciently called clerks of
the remembrance, certain officers in the exchequer,
whereof three are diftinguithed by the names of the king's
remembrancer, the lord treafureVs remembrancer, and
the remembrancer of the firjl fruits. The king’s remem¬
brancer enters in his office all recognizances taken be¬
fore the barons for any of the king’s debts, for appear¬
ances or obferving of orders j he aifo takes all bonds for
the king’s debts, &c. and makes out proceffes thereon.
He likewife iffues procefles againft the colleftors of the
cuftoms, excife, and others, for their accounts; and in¬
formations upon penal ftatutes are entered and fued in
his office, where all proceedings in matters upon Engliffi
bills in the exchequer-chamber remain. His duty far¬
ther is to make out the bills of compofitions upon penal
law7s, to take the ftateraent of debts j and into his office
are delivered all kinds of indentures and other evidences
which concern the affuring any lands to the crown. He
every year in crafhno ammarum, reads in open court
the ftatute for eleftion of Iheriffs; and likewife openly
reads in court the oaths of all the officers, when they
are admitted.
The lord treafurer’s remembrancer is charged to make
out procefs againft all ftieriffs, efeheators, receivers, and
bailiffs, for their accounts. He alfo makes out writs of
fieri facias, and extent for debts due to the king, either
in the pipe or with the auditors ; and procefs for all fuch
revenue as is due to the king on account of his tenures.
He takes the account of fheriffs; and alio keeps a re¬
cord, bv which it appears whether the ffieriffs or other
accountants pay their proffers due at Eafter and Mi¬
chaelmas 5 and at the fame time he makes a record,
whereby the Iheriffs or other accountants keep their pre¬
fixed days : there are likewife brought into his office all
the accounts of cuftomers, comptrollers, and account¬
ants, in order to make entry thereof on record } alfo all
eftreats and amercements are certified here, &c.
The remembrancer of the firft-fruits takes all com¬
pofitions and bonds for the payment of firft-fruits and
tenths *, and makes out procefs againft: fuch as do not
pay the fame.
REMINISCENCE, that power of the human mind,
whereby it recolle&s itfelf, or calls again into its remem¬
brance.
HEM r 71
iflfon bi’ance, fuch ideas or notions as it bad really forgot: in
II which it differs from memory, which is a treafuring up
Phan‘ of things in the mind, and keeping them there, without
forgetting them.
REMISSION, in Physics, the abatement of the
power or efficacy of any quality j in oppofition to the
increafe of the fame, which is called intenjicn.
Remission, in Law, &c. denotes the pardon of a
crime, or giving up the punifhment due thereto.
Remission, in Medicine, is when a diitemper abates
for a time, but does not go quite off.
REMITTANCE, in Commerce, the trafnck or re¬
tain of money from one place to another, by bills of ex¬
change, orders, or the like.
REMONSTRANCE, an expoftulation or humble
{application, addreffed to a king, or other fuperior, be-
feeching him to refleft on the inconveniences or ill con-
fequences of fome order, edidf, or the like. I his
word is alfo ufed for an expoflulatory counfel, or ad¬
vice 5 or a gentle and handfome reproof, made either in
general, or particular, to apprize of or corredl fome
fault, &c.
REMONSTRANTS, in church-hiflory, a title which
w;as given to the Arminians in confequence of the re-
monftrance made by them in the year 1610 to the Hates
of Holland, againfl the fentence of the fynod of Dort,
which pronounced them to be heretics. The chief lead¬
ers of the Remonlirants wrere Epifcopius and Grotius;
and their principles wxere firil openly countenanced in
England by Archbifhop Laud. In oppofition to the re-
prefentation or remonflrance of the Arminians, the
Hutch Calvinifls prefented an addrefs, which was called
a counter-remonflrance j and hence they obtained tlm
denomination of Counter-remonjlrants. A great deal of
keen controverfy was agitated in this affair, by theie ri¬
val feds. See Arminians.
REMORA, or Sucking-fish, a fpecies of Eche-
neis. See Echeneis, Ichthyology Index.—Many
incredible things are related of this animal by the an¬
cients ; as that it had the power of flopping the large!!
and Iwifteft veffel in its courfe } and even to this day it
is afierted by the fiftiermen in the Mediterranean, that
it has a power of retarding the motion of their boats by-
attaching itfelf to them j for whicn reafon they kill it
whenever they fancied this retardation took place. .
REMORSE, in its worit fenfe, means that pain or
anguifli which one feels after having committed fome
bad adtion. It alfo means tendernefs, pity, or fympathe-
tic forrow. It is moft generally ufed in a bad fenfe, and
is applied to perfons who feel compundion for iome
great crime, as murder and fucn like. Murders which
have been committed with the utrnoft circumfpection
and fecrecy, and the authors of which could never have
been difcovered by any human inveftigation, have been
frequently unfolded by the remorfe and conftflion of the
perpetrators, and that too many years afterwards. Of
this there are numerous inflances, which are well au¬
thenticated, and which are fo generally known that it is
needlefs to relate them here. See Repentance. ^
REMPHAN, an idol or Pagan god whom St Ste-
.phen fays the Ifraelites worfhipped in the wilderness as
they palled from Egypt to the E nd of Promife : " N ea,
ye took up the Tabernacle of Moloch', and the liar of
your god RempHAN; figures which ye made to worlhip
than.” That the martyr here quotes the folknvmg
5 ] REM
words of the prophet Amos, all commentators are a* Rempfan.
greed : “Ye have borne the tabernacle of your Moloch,' "
and Chiun your images, the ftar of your god, which
ye made to yourfelves.” But if this coincidence be¬
tween the Chriftian preacher and the Jewilh prophet
be admitted, it follows, that Chiun and Remphan are
turn names of one and the fame deity. This is indeed
farther evident from the LXX tranllators having fub-
ftituted in their verlion the word F«<(p<ev, inftead of Chiun,
which we read in the Hebrew and Englilh Bibles. But
the queftion which ftill remains to be anfwered is, what
god was worlhipped by the name of Remphan, Raiphan,
or Chiun I for about the other divinity here mentioned
there is no difpute. See Moeoch.
That Chiun or Remphan wras an Egyptian divinity,
cannot be queftioned j for at the era of the Exodus the
Hebrews mull have been flrangers to the idolatrous
worlhip of all other nations 5 nor are they ever accufed
of any other than Egyptian idolatries during their 40
years wanderings in the wildernefs, till towards the end
of that period that they became infefted by the Moa¬
bites with the worlhip of Baal-peor. That Moloch, Mo¬
led:, Meld, or Milcom, in its original acceptation, de¬
notes a king or chief is known to every oriental fcholar;
and therefore when it is ufed as the name of a god, it
undoubtedly fignifies the fun, and is the fame divinity
with the Egyptian OJiris. Reafoningin this way, many
critics, and we believe Selden is in the number, have
concluded that Chiun, and of courfe Remphan, is the
planet Saturn; becaufe Chiun is written Ciun, Cevan,
Ceuan, Chevvin ; all of which are modern oriental names
of that planet.
But again!! this hypothefis infurmountable obje£lions
prefent themfelves to our minds. It is univerlally al¬
lowed (fee Polytheism), that the fir!! objefts of ido¬
latrous worlhip wrere the fun and moon, comideied as the
king and queen of heaven. I he fixed ftais, indeed, and.
the planets, wxere afterwards gradually admitted into the
Pagan rubric but we may be fure that thole would be
fid! affociated with the two prime luminaries which moft
refembled them in brightnefs, and were fuppofed to be
moft benignant to man. But the planet Saturn appears
lo the naxed eye with lo leebie a luitre, that, m i.he in¬
fancy of aftronomy, it could not maKe men an impref-
fion on the mind as to excite that admiration which we
mull conceive to have always preceded planetary wor-
ftiip. It is to be oblerved, too, that by the Pagan wri¬
ters of antiquity Saturn is conilantiy reprefented as^ a
ftar of baleful influence. He is termed the leaden pla¬
net ; the planet of malevolent afpect; tne difmai, tLe in¬
humane far. That the Egyptians, at fo early a peiiod
as that under confideration, lliould have adored as one
of their greateft gods a planet obfeure in its appearance,
diftant in its lituation, and baleful in its influence, is
wholly incredible.
There is, however, another ftar which they might
naturally adore, and which we know they actually did
adore, as one of their moft beneficent gods, at a very
early period. This •is the or of the
Greeks, the cams or Jl til a cuuicularis 01 the iicmans,
and the dog-far of modern Europe. By the Egyptians
it was called Sothis or Soth, which ffd^fcfety, bene¬
ficence, fecundity; and it received this' name, becaufe
‘making its appearance in the heavens at the very time
when the Nile overflowed the country, it was fuppofed
a X 2 to
HEM f <7
Rcmpnan. to regulate the inundation. On this account Piutarch
^ y (P- et O/ir.) tells us, they believed the foul of their il¬
lustrious benefaftrefs IJis to have tranfnrdgrated into the
flar Sot his, which they therefore vcrlhippcd as the divi-
m.y which rendered their country fruitful. It made its
appearance, too, on the firft day of the month Thoth (a),
which was the beginning of the Egyptian year, and as
fuch celebrated with feafling and fetiivity 5 and being
by much the brightelt liar in the heavens, Horopollo
(cap. 3.) informs us it was confidered as fovereign over
the rett. A combination of fo many important circum-
flances might have induced a people lefs fuperftitious
than the Egyptians to pay divine homage to that glori¬
ous luminary, which was confounded with Iju, who had
been long regarded with the higheft veneration 5 and as
Ills was the wife and niter of Ofiris, and always affbci-
ated with him, the liar of Ills or Retnpkan wras naturally
alTociated with Moloch, the fame with Ofiris.
But it will be alked, how the liar which by the E-
gyptians was called Soth or Sothis came to be worlhip-
ped by the Hebrews under the appellation of Chiun or
Remphan.? This is a very pertinent queftion, and we
fliall endeavour to anfwer it.
Every one knows that the pronunciation of oriental
words is very uncertain ; and that as the vowels were
often omitted in writing, it is of very little importance
to the meaning how they be fupplied, provided w’e re¬
tain the radical confonants. The wrord Chiun may with
equal propriety be written Ktun, Kion, or even Kyon,
the Hebrew ;W being convertible into the Greek v or
the Roman y; but the words Cane, Chan, Kan, or
Khan, which are often diverfified into Ken, Kyn, Cohen,
Cahan, fignifying Head, Chief, Prince, King, &c. are
diffufed through a great part of Alia and Europe. In
the Chinefe language -§b/zv, which fignifies a King, is
fo fimilar to the word Chiun or Khiun under confidera-
tion, that no etymologifl will hefitate to pronounce them
of the fame original and the fame import. The word
Kan or Khan is univerfally known to be an honorary
title in I artary j and Kaian or Kam, which is manifeft-
ly cognate of the wrord Chiun or Kiun, is, in the Pllievi
or old Perfian language, the epithet applied to the dy-
nafty of princes which fucceeded Cyrus the Great.
Among the Scythians or ancient Tartars, Ghiun figni¬
fies the Sun and likewfife the day; and Kun^, Kinung,
Kun, runs through all the diale&s of the Gothic
tongue, everywhere denoting a chief or fovereign. In
the Syrian dialed!, Kon fignifies a prince •, and hence
the Almighty is ftyled (Gen. xiv. 19.) Konah, which
is tranflated/>o^^or, but might have, with perhaps more
propriety, been rendered Sovereign of heaven and earth.
In Hebrew, the word Kahan or Kahen, which is the
very fame with Khan or Kan, fignifies either a prief or
•a prince ; and in Egypt Kon was the name of the firft
Hercules or fnt fun. Hence the fame w7ord in compofi-
tion denotes greatnefs, as Can-obus the great ferpent 5
Can athoth, the great Thoth or Mercury : Can-o/iris. the
great Ofris.
From this .deduftion we would conclude, that the
word, which is found in fo many tongues, and always
6 1 R E tsT
denotes Chief, Prince, Sovereign, is the very word Chiun Remphan
which the Egyptians and Hebrews applied to Sothis, as il
being, in their conceptions, the chiet or fovereign of all
the itars. This will appear ftill more probable, when,., tcr'
we have afcertained the import of the word Remphan, ' V
or, as the LXX have it, Raiphan.
Phan, the latter part of this word, is unqueftionably
the fame with Pan, the moft ancient of the Egyptian
gods (fee Pan). It is hkewife a cognate of the Hebrew
Phanah, confpexit, fpediavit, vidit; and the radical
word feems to be phah, which fignifies fometimes the
countenance and fometimes light. Hence Phaethon,
which is compounded of pha, “ light,” ethoxefh, “ fire,”
and on, “ ftrength,” came to be one of the names of the
fun.. Rai, which we commonly write Rajah, has long
fignified, among the Indians, a fubordinate prince 5 and
we knotv, that between India and Egypt there was a
very early intercourfe. Raiphan, therefore, may be ei¬
ther.the royal light or the bright prince, fubordinate to
Ofiris ; and in either fenfe, it was a very proper epithet
of Sothis in the Egyptian kalendar. The word Rem or
Rom, again (for it is fometimes written Remphan, and
fometimes Rompha), is no other than the Hebrew tm,
Rum, “ high, exalted.” Hence Remphan is the high
or exalted light, which Sothis certainly was.
For this etymological difquifition we are indebted to
Dr Doig, the learned atithor of Letters on the Savage
State, who has written a diflertation on Chiun and Rem¬
phan, of fuch value that we hope it will not be much
longer withheld from the public. The afcertaining
the identity of thofe names, and the god to which they
belonged, is the leaft of its merit; for°it will be found to
throw much light upon many palfages in the Old Tef-
tament. What confirms his interpretation is, that the
idol confecrated by the Egyptians to Sothis or the dog-
ftar, was a female figure with a ftar on her head ; and
hence the prophet upbraids his countrymen with having
borne the Star of their deity.
Action of REMOVING, in Scots Law. See
Law, N° clxvii. 18.
REMURIA, feftivals eftablifhed at Rome by Romu¬
lus to appeafe the manes of his brother Remus. They
were aftenvards called Lemuria, and celebrated yearly/
REMUS, the brother of Romulus, was expofed to¬
gether with his brother by the cruelty of his grandfa¬
ther. In the conteft which happened between the two
brothers about building a city, Romulus obtained the
preference, and Remus, for ridiculing the rifing walls,
was put to death by his brother’s orders, or by Romulus
himfelf (fee Romulus). 'The Romans were affli&ed
with a plague after this murder •, upon which the oracle
ivas confulted, and the manes of Remus appeafed by the
inftitution of the Remuria.
RENAL, fomething belonging to the reins or Kid¬
neys.
RENCOUNTER, in the military art, the encoun¬
ter of turn little bodies or parties of forces. In which
fenfe rencounter is ufed in oppofition to a pitched bat¬
tle.
Rencounter, in fmgle combats, is ufed by way of
contradiftimRion
Equiloxe^ See that^rticle^ ^ rem°te Peri°d ' ^ ^ 0thenvife at Prefent» owInS to the PRECESSION of the
K E N
Rendezvous contradiftxn&ion to duel.—When two perfons fall out
!1 and fight on the fpot without having premeditated the
Rentrew- com^a^ jt Js called a rencounter.
. . . RENDEZVOUS, or Rendevous, a place ap¬
pointed to meet in at a certain day and hour.
RENDSRURG, the frontier town in Holflein, is
regularly built, and better fortified than any in the Da-
nifh dominions. It is fituated on a canal which runs
from the Baltic. This is a work of confiderable com¬
mercial confequence, and deferves to be particularly no¬
ticed. It has its fource three miles north of Keil, form¬
ing the boundary of Holftein and Slefwick, and by
means of it (hips of 140 tons can come up from the Bal¬
tic. This canal was begun in 1777, and it is intended
to make it llretch acrofs the whole peninfula, the utility
of which will be clearly perceived by all thofe who are
acquainted with the value of inland navigation. Rendf-
burg is a place of confiderable trade, and contains about
2800 inhabitants, including the garrifon wdiich is ufu-
ally flationed there.
ilENEALMIA, a genus of plants belonging to the
monandria clals. See Botany Index.
RENEGADE, or Renegado, a perfon who has apof-
tatized or renounced the Chriftian faith to embrace fome
other religion, particularly Mahometanifm.
RENFREW, a royal borough, and the county town
of Renfrewfhire, fituated not far from the fouth bank of
the Clyde, about five miles w'eft from Glafgow, and three
north from Paifley. It has only one narrow fireet half
a mile long, and its trade is inconfidprable, though fa¬
vourably fituated for commerce. I he river Clyde having
fiiifted its bed, a canal wras formed in it, by which veffels
of 200 tons burden can come up to the town during
Ipring tides. The manufadlure of thread has been long
carried on here, and that of foap and candles to a great
extent. Many looms are conftantly employed in the fa¬
brication of filk ap.d muflin. In the year 1164 it be¬
came memorable for a battle between Somerled thane of
Argyle and Gilchrift earl of Angus, in which the former
was defeated. King Robert II. made it a rojal borough }
and charters were afterwards granted to it by James VI.
and Queen Anne. Its political conftitution confifis of
a provoft, two bailies, and 16 counfellors, who have the
management of about 360I. of annual revenue, anfing
from lands, falmon filhing, &c. In the year 1791 the
population amounted to 1628. The foil confifts of clay,
fand, and rich loam, the latter of which is the moft pre¬
dominant. The whole of the land is enclofec. ard w ell
cultivated. It is a place of very great antiquity, as we
find mention made of it in the chartularies of the ab¬
beys of Dunfermline and Paifiey.
RENFREWSHIRE, a fmall but populous county of
Scotland, bounded on the fbuth-weft by the hills which
run along the northern part of Ayrfhire ; towards the
weft and north by the river Clyde, and on the eaft by
Lanarklhire. It is rather level along the north eaft and
north part of it; and it has few hills which rife to any
confiderable height. But the fummits of Balagich and
Dunware, in the parilh of Eaglefham, are about 1000
feet above the level of the fea.
The waters of Renfrewfhire are not extenfive, but
REN
human induftry has rendered them of confiderable im- Rtnfrewv
portance; and they are rather employed to turn fome vaft ^lire'
water wheel or other piece of machinery, than to give va- ¥
riety to the beauties of a park, or to pleafe the eye with
the romantic feenery wdiich nature fometimes delights to
diiplay. The chief rivers are the White and Black
Carts, and the Grief, which ultimately form a junction,
and difeharge themfelves into the Clyde below Inchin-
nan bridge.
The number of lakes in this county is increafed for
the purpofe of colledfing wrater to give motion to the
machinery of cotton mills, or to anfwer the demands of
extenfive bleachfields.
The general appearance of this county is favourable
to agriculture, the population being very extenfive, and
the inclofures numerous, while manure in abundance is
obtained from the neighbouring towns. Commerce and
manufadlures have been fo often fuccefsfully purfued,pro¬
ducing great and hidden riches, that in a greater or lefs
degree they occupy the attention of almoft every indi¬
vidual. Although a confiderable part ©f it might be
conftantly kept with advantage under arable crops, yet
fo extenfive is the demand for the produ&s of the
dairy, that a very large proportion of the foil is perpe¬
tually kept in grafs. With refpect to crops, potatoes
generally conftitute a part of every rotation. This is
the ufual arrangement: Oats from grafs ; potatoes or
barley dunged j oats, with five pounds of red clover and
3 firlots of rye-grafs } hay for two years ; pafture.
The proprietors of land in this county have fliewn a
laudable zeal for the making of excellent roads, wdiich
are conftantly kept in the belt repair, and fteelyards are
fixed at every toll-bar to prevent carts from being over¬
loaded 5 15 cwt. being allowed in the vicinity of Paifley
as the load for a cart with one horfe.
The mineral produdlions are not very extenfive, but
they are very abundant in the vicinity of Paifley. No
coal has been met with near Greenock, or Port.Glaf¬
gow but what is called ofmund Jlone is found in the
parifhes of Eaglefnam and Kilbarchan, fo very foft at
firft that it may be cut with a chifel, but it becomes
much harder bv expofure to the air. It is of various co¬
lours j breaks in every diredlion $ readily abforbs w^ater $
and if recently heated in the fire, the abforption is ac¬
companied wTith a hifling noKe. There are twyo mineral
fprings in the fame vicinity of Eaglefham 5 the one pof-
fefling a purgative quality, and the other is regarded as
a remedy for w’hat is called the moor-ill in black cat-
tie. # .....
The moft remarkable field of minerals is in tne vici¬
nity of Paifley ; the moft Angular being the coal at
Quarreltown, upwards of 30 feet thick, confiftmg of five
ftrata in contaa with each other (a). The Hurlet coal,
belonging to Lord Glafgowq about three miles fouth-eaft
of Paifley, is five feet three inches thick, and fuppofed
to have been wTought for more than two centuries. In¬
flammable air and fixed air are met with in this mine,
but from the precautions adopted accidents are not fo
frequent as might otherwife be apprehended. The coal¬
mines of Hurlet have for a long time afforded the ma¬
terials for a copperas manufa£lory on a fmall fcale} and
one
[ /I? 1
(a) Fora detailed account of this Angular mafs of coal, the reader is referred to the Appendix to Williams?
Mineral Kingdom, by Dr Millar, 2 vols, 8vo, 1809,
Renfrew.
fliire.
REN f 7
one of the moft extenfive manufaSories of alum in Bri¬
tain has been eftablifhcd and fiiccefsfully carried on by a
fpirited and enterprifing company, forfeveral years paft,
at the fame place. Coal is alfo found in the upper part
of the county, as in the parifh of Cathcart, and alfo not
far from Renfrew. Limeflone is abundant in many part
of the county, as in the parifh of Cathcart ; and at Lord
Glafgow’s coal work at Hurlet, it forms a very confi-
derable llrata covering the coal. But one of the moft
remarkable mailes of limeflone is found at the entrance
to a romantic glen called Glenniffer, three miles to the
fouth of Paifley. The limeftone is in a mafs of about
io feet thick, dips to the centre, and is wrought by dri¬
ving mines under a thick mafs of whinftone which co¬
vers it. Ironltone is alfo abundant along xvith the coal
ftrata in fome parts of the county.
The ruins of an old caftle, called the Peel, to which
the lairds of Semple retreated in times of imminent dan¬
ger, are ftill to be feen in an ifland of Caftle Semple
loch ; and the ruins of the caftle of Newark, lower
down the country, are even at this day deferving of at¬
tention. They are lofty, and have ftill an air of magni¬
ficence, and fome parts of it were inhabited about half
a century ago. It is fituated on the eaftern part of the
bay containing the town and harbour of Port Glafgow
and Newark. This caftle is very ancient, is the pro¬
perty of Lord Belhaven, but when it was eredled cannot
be fully afeertained. Mearns Caftle, another ruin, ftands
in the fouth-eaft part of the county near the village and
church of the fame name. Crookftone Caftle is fituated
about three miles to the fouth-eaft of Paifley. The
itrong pofition and commanding profpeft of this magni¬
ficent ruin muft have rendered it a favourite refidence of
the powerful family of Lennox, to whom it originally
belonged. Near the caftle there is a yew tree, venera¬
ble from its antiquity, but ftill more fo, according to the
legendary lore of the country, as having afforded its
fhade to the unfortunate Queen Mary and her equally
unfortunate hufhand Darnley. If this be true, the faid
tree is not lefs than three centuries old.
There are four cups in the parifli of Kilmacolm which
were ufed by the celebrated reformer John Knox at the
difpenlation of the Lord’s fupper. They are formed of
the pureft filver, and feem to have been originally in¬
tended for candlefticks, although neceflity converted
them into communion cups. This facred ufe of them,
joined to their antiquity, makes them much efteemed by
the people at larg«.
Renfrew is the only royal borough in this county, a
privilege which was conferred upon it by Robert Bruce.
It clefts a member of parliament along xvith Glafgow,
Dunbarton, and Rutherglen.
The other towns are Paifley, Greenock, Port Glaf¬
gow ; and fome of fmaller note, as Kilbarchan, Loch-
winnoch, Neilfton, Gourock, and Auldkirk. Among
thefe deferv.es alfo to be mentioned Johnfton, which
within a period of little more than 20 years has become
a large town, owing to the progrefs and profperity of the
cotton manufafture.
The manufafture of filk gauze was introduced into
Paifiey about the year 1760, in imitation of that of
Spittalfields in London 5 experiencing at firft many dif¬
ficulties to which new inventions are very frequently ex-
pofed. Patterns and defigns of fancy xvorks xvere ori¬
ginally compofed at Paris) but the manufafturers at
4
Rennes.
18 I REM
Paifley eftablilhed draughtfmen of their oxvn, and the Retifrew-
pattefns thus executed were fent to London and Paris in *lure»
order to be approved of. By means of induftry and ge- v
nius properly encouraged, the moft curious fabrics came
to be deviled j and the vaft variety of elegant and
highly ornamented gauze manufaftured here is allowed
to be fuperior to every thing of the kind xvhich had for¬
merly made its appearance. Even London itfelf xvas
obliged to relinquiftl this manufafture $ merchants from
the metropolis came to carry it on at Paifley ; and
warehoufes xvere opened in London, in Dublin, and Pa¬
ris for vending their commodities. We formerly faid
that Paifley muft contain upxvards of 25,000 inhabitants
(fee Paisley) 5 but wre haxre fince feen a more recent
computation, by wdrich they are ftated at upwards of
31,000. . ^ •
The whole population of Renfrewfhire amounted to
78,000 in 1801, of which Paifley alone contains much
more than A third. In the year 1755 the population of
this county w7as 26,645, that in the courfe of half a
century it has been nearly tripled. The folloxvdng table
exhibits a viewT of the population of each parilh accord¬
ing to the reports communicated to the Statiftical Kif-
tory of Scotland.
Farijhes.
I Cathcart
Eagleflham
Eaftwood
Erfkine
5 Greenock
Houfton
Inchinnan
Innerkip
Kilbarchan
10 Kilmacolm
Lochwdnnoch
Mearns
Neilfton
Paifley, towm
Ditto, Abbey parifli
*5
Port Glafgow
17 Renfrexv
Population
in 1755-
499
II03
II42
829
3853
947
347
I59°
j48S
*495
153°
886
1299
4290
2509
1695
1091
26,645
Population in
1790—179S.
697
1000
2642
808
15,000
io34
306
12S0
2506
95i
2613
143b
2333
13,800
10,792
4036
1628
62,853
26,645
Increafe 36,208
RENNES, a town of France, in Bretagne, and cai
pital of that province. Before the revolution it had a
bifliop’s fee, twro abbeys, a parliament, and a mint. It
is very populous ; the houfes are fix or feven ftories
high, and the fuburbs of larger extent than the toxvn
itfelf. - The cathedral church is large, and the parlia-
ment-houfe a handfome ftrufture. The great fquare
belonging to it is furrounded with handfome houfes.
There is a toxver, formerly a pagan temple, which noxv
contains the town-clock. It is feated on the river Vil-
laine, xvhich divides it into twro parts, and xvas anciently
fortified, but the walls are now in ruins, and the ditch
nearly filled up. The fiege of the city by Edward III.
king of England is very celebrated in hiftory. The
Englifh and Breton army confifted of 40,000 men ; and
neverlhelefsj after having remained before it fix months,
were
REP [ 719 ] REP
Pvennet were obliged to retire without fuccefs. E. Long. o. 23.
II N. Lat. 48. 7.
RepeJtory-, RENNET. See Runnet.
RENT, in Lmv, a him of money, or other confidera-
tion, iffuing yearly out of lands or tenements.
RENTERING, in the manufaftories, the fame with
fine-drawing. It confifts in fewing two pieces of cloth
edge to edge, without doubling them, fo that the feam
fcarce appears’, and hence it is denominatedy?tte-<//vzu>-
ing. It is a French word meaning the fame thing, and
is derived from the Latin retrahere, of re, z«, and tra-
here, becaufe the feam is drawn in or covered. We are
*- LeWes told *, that in the Eait Indies, if a piece of fine muflin
Edifiantes ke torn and afterwards mended by the fine-drawers, it
et Cuneu- w-ij imp0{fit>le to difcover where the rent was. In
J S' this country the dexterity of the fine-drawers is not fo
great as that of thofe in the eaft ; but it is Hill fuch as
to enable them to defraud the revenue, by fewing a head
or flip of Engliflr cloth on a piece of Dutch, Spanifli, or
other foreign cloth j or a flip of foreign cloth on a
piece of Englifli, fo as to pafs the whole as of a piece,
and by that means avoid the duties, penalties, &c. The
trick was difcovered in France by M. Savary.
RENTERING, in tapeftry, is the working new wTarp
into a piece of damaged tapeftry, whether eaten by the
rats or otherwife deftroyed, and on this warp to reftore
the ancient pattern or defign. The warp is to be of
woollen, not linen. Among the titles of the French
tapeftry-makers is included that of renterers. Fine-
drawing is particularly ufed for a rent or hole, which
happens in drefling or preparing a piece of cloth artfully
fewed up or mended with filk. All fine drawings are
reckoned defedls or blemiflies, and fhould be allowed
for in the price of the piece.
RENVERSE, inverted, in Heraldry, is when any
thing is fet with the head downwards, or contrary to its
natural way of Handing. Thus, a chevron renverfe is a
chevron with the point downwards. They ufe alfo the
fame term when a beaft is laid on its back.
RENUNCIATION, the aft of renouncing, abdi¬
cating, or relinquithing, any right, real or pretended. _
REPARTEE, a fmart, ready reply, efpecially in
matters of wit, humour, or raillery. See Raillery.
REPEALING, in Laxv, the revoking or annulling
of a ftatute or the like.
No aft of parliament {hall be repealed the fame feflion
in which it was made. A deed or will may be repealed
in part, and Hand good for the reft. Is is held tnat a
pardon of felony may be repealed on difproving the fug-
geftion thereof.
REPELLENTS, in Medicine, remedies which are
fuppofed to drive back a morbid humour into the mafs
of blood, from whence it was unduly fecreted.
REPENTANCE, in general, means forrow for any
thing paft. In theology it means fuch a forrow for fin
as produces newnefs of iife, or fuch a conviftion of the
evil and danger of a finful courfe as is fufficient to pro¬
duce ft'.ame and forrow in the review ot it, and effeftual
refolutions of amendment. In this fenfe the evangelical
writers ufe fiwxu.t'Kiict and y.irxvoix. See Peni i rnce
and Theology.
REPERCUSSION, in Mufic, a frequent repetition
of the fame found.
REPERTORY, a place wherein things are orderly
difpofcd, fo as to be eafily found when wanted. The
Replevy.
indices of books are repertories, {bowing wliere the Repetend
matters fought for are treated of. Common-place
books are alfo kinds of repertories. 1
REPETEND, in Arithmetic, fignifies that part of
an infinite decimal fraftion, which is continually repeat¬
ed ad infinitum. Thus in the numbers 2. 13 13 13 &c.
the figures 13 are the repetend and marked thus 13.
Thefe repetends chiefly arife in the reduftion of vulgar
fraftions to decimals. Thus, 3—0.333 &c.=o.3.
REPETITION, the reiterating of an aftion.
Repetition, in Mujic, denotes a reiterating or play¬
ing over again the fame part of a compofition, whether
it be a whole ftrain, part of a ftrain, or double ftrain*
&.C.
When the fong ends with a repetition of the firft
ftrain, or part ot it, the repetition is denoted by da
capo, or D. C. i. e. “ from the beginning.”
Repetition, in Rhetoric, a figure which gracefully
and emphatically repeats either the fame word, or the
fame fenfe in different words. See Oratory, N° 67
—80.
The nature and defign of this figure is to make deep
impreflions on thofe we addrefs. It expreffes anger and
indignation, full aflurance of what we affirm, and a ve¬
hement concern for what we have efpoufed.
REPHIDIM, in Ancient Geography, a ftation of the
Ifraelites near Mount Floreb, where they murmured for
w’ant of water j when Mofes was ordered to finite the
rock Horeb, upon which it yielded wrater. Here Jo-
ftiua difeomfited the Amalekites. This rock, out of
which Mofes brought water, is a ftone of a prodigious
height and thicknefs, riling out of the ground j on two
fides of which are feveral holes, by which the wTater ran.
(Thevenot).
REPLEGIARE, in Law, fignifies to redeem a
thing taken or detained by another, by putting in legal
De homine REPLEGIANDO. See Homine.
REPLEVIN, in Law, a remedy granted on a di-
ftrefs, by which the firft poffeffor has his goods reftored
to him again, on his giving fecurity to the fheriff that
he will purfue his aftion againft the party diftraining,
and return the goods or cattle if the taking tnem fliali
be adjudged lawful.
In a replevin the perfon diftrained becomes plaintiff;
and the perfon diftraining is called the defendant or avow-
ant, and his juftification an avowery.
At the common law replevins are by writ, either out
of the king’s-bench or common-pleas ; but by ftatute,
they are by plaint in the fheriff’s court, and court-ba¬
ron, for a" perfon’s more fpeedily obtaining the goods
diftrained.
If a plaint in replevin be removed into the court of
king’s bench, &c. and the plaintiff makes default and
becomes non-fuited, or judgement is given againft him,
the defendant in replevin fliall have the writ of retorno
habendo of the goods taken in diftrefs. See the next
article.
REPLEVY, in Law, is a tenant’s bringing a writ of
replevin, or replegiari facias, where his goods are taken
by diftrefs for rent j which muft be done within five days
after the diftrefs, otherwife at the five days end they are
to be appraifed and fold.
This word is alfo ufed for bailing a perfon, as in the
cafe of a homine replegando. REPORT
HEP [ '
Report REPORT, the relation made upon oath, by officers
j! _ ^ or perfons appointed to vifit, examine, or eftimate the
OlP'Qw' Rate, expences, &c. of any thing.
Report, in Law, is a public relation of cafes judici¬
ally argued, debated, refolved, or adjudged in any of the
king’s courts of juftice, with the caufes and reafons of
. the fame, as delivered by the judges. Alfo when the
Court of chancery, or any other court, refers the Rating
of a cafe, or the comparing of an account, to a mafter of
chancery, or other referee, his certificate thereon is call¬
ed a report.
REPOSE, in 'Poetry, &c. the fame with reft and
paufe. See Rest, &c.
Repose, in Painting, certain maffies or large aflem-
blages of light and ihade, which being well conducted,
prevented the confufion of objects and figures, by enga¬
ging and fixing the eye fo as it cannot attend to the
Other parts of the painting for fome time ; and thus lead¬
ing it to confider the feveral groups gradually, proceed¬
ing as it were from ftage to ftage.
REPRESENTATION, in the drama, the exhibi¬
tion of a theatrical piece, together with the fcenes, ma¬
chinery, &c.
REPRESENTATIVE, one who perfonates or fup-
plies the place of another, and is inverted with his right
and authority. Thus the houfe of commons are the re-
prefentatives of the people in parliament. See Commons
and Parliament.
REPRIEVE, in Criminal Law, (from reprendre, “ to
take back”), is the withdrawing of a fentence for an in¬
terval of time ; whereby the execution is fufpended. See
Blackjt. Judgement.
Comment. I his may be, firft, ex arbitrio jadicis, either before or
after judgement: as, where the judge is not fatisfied with
the verdift, or the evidence is fufpicious, or the indict¬
ment is infufficient, or he is doubtful whether the of¬
fence be within clergy ; or fometimes if it be a final!
felony, or any favourable circumftances appear in the
criminal’s character, in order to give room to apply to
the crown for either an abfolute or conditional pardon.
Thefe arbitrary reprieves may be granted or taken off by
the juftices of gaol-delievery, although their feflion be
finiffied, and their commiffion expired : but this rather
by common ufage than of ftriCt right.
Reprieves may alfo be ex necejfitate legis: as wffiere
a woman is capitally convicted, and pleads her preg¬
nancy. Though this is no caufe to ftay judgement, yet
it is to refpite the execution till fhe be delivered. This
is a mercy dictated by the law of nature, in favorempro-
lis ; and therefore no part of the bloody proceedings in
the reign of Queen Mary hath been more juftly detert-
ed, than the cruelty that was exercifed in the ifland of
Guernfey, of burning a woman big with child 5 and,
when through the violence of the flame the infant
fprang forth at the ftake, and was preferved by the by-
ftanders, after fome deliberations of the priefts who af-
fifted at the facrifice, they cart it into the fire as a young
heretic. A barbarity which they never learned from
the laws of ancient Rome ; which direCt, with the fame
humanity as our own, quodprcegnantis mulieris damnatce
poene differatur, quoadpariat: which doChine has alfo
prevailed in England, as early as the firft memorials of
our laws will reach. In cafe this plea be made in ftay
of execution, the judge muft direft a jury of twelve ma¬
trons or difcreet women to inquire into the fad : and
20 ] It t V
if they bring in their verdict quick with child (for bare- Reprie ve,
ly with child, unlefs it be alive in the womb, is not fuf- RePr‘fals-
ficient), execution fhall be ftaid generally till the next " v
feffion 5 and fo from feflion to feflion, till either fhe is
delivered, or proves by the courfe of nature not to have
been with child at all. But if fire once hath had the
benefit of this reprieve, and been delivered, and after¬
wards becomes pregnant again, fhe fhall not be intitled
to the benefit of a farther refpite for that caufe. For
fhe may now be executed before the child is quick in the
womb 5 and fhall not, by her own incontinence, evade
the fentence of juftice.
Another caufe of regular reprieve is, if the offender
become non compos between the judgement and the award
of execution : tor regularly, though a man be compos
when he commits a capital crime, yet if he becomes
non compos after, he fhall not be indidted j if after in¬
dictment, he fhall not be convibted; if after conviction,
he fhall not receive judgement; if after judgement, he
fhall not be ordered for execution : for furioftis folo fu¬
rore punitur; and the law knows not but he might have
offered fome reafon, if in his fenfes, to have flayed thefe
refpedtive proceedings. It is therefore an invariable
rule, when any time intervenes between the attainder
and the award of execution, to demand of the prifoner
what he hath to allege why execution fliould not be
awarded againft him ; and, if he appears to be infane,
the judge in his difcretion may and ought to reprieve
him. Or, the party may plead in bar of execution $
which plea may be either pregnancy, the king’s par¬
don, an a£t of grace, or diverfity of perfon, viz. that
he is not the fame that was attainted, and the like. In
this cafe a jury fliail be impanelled to try this colla¬
teral iffue, namely, the identity of his perfon; and not
whether guilty or innocent, for that has been decided
before. And in thefe collateral iffues the trial fhall be
injlanter; and no time allowed the prifoner to make his
defence or produce his witneffes, unlefs he will make
oath that he is not the perfon attainted : neither fhall
any peremptory challenges of the jury be allowed the
prifoner, though formerly fuch challenges were held to
be allowable whenever a man’s life was in queftion. If
neither pregnancy, infanity, non-identity, nor other plea,
will avail to avoid the judgement, and ftay the execution
confequent thereupon, the laft and fureft refort is in the
king’s moft gracious pardon 5 the granting of which is
the moft amiable prerogative of the crown. See the ar¬
ticle Pardon.
REPRISALS, a right which princes claim of ta¬
king from their enemies any thing equivalent to what
they unjuftly detain from them or their fubjedls. For
as the delay of making -war may fometimes be detri¬
mental to individuals who have fuffered by depredations
from foreign potentates, our laws have in fome refpefts
armed the fubjedt with powers to impel the preroga¬
tive ; by directing the minifters of the crown to iffue
letters of marque and reprifal upon due demand: the
prerogative of granting ivhich is nearly related to, and
plainly derived from, that other of making war; this
being indeed only an incomplete ftate of hoftilities, and
generally ending in a formal denunciation of war. Thefe
letters are grantable by the law of nations, whenever the
fubje&s of one ftate are oppreffed and injured by thofe
of another-, and juftice is denied by that ftate to which
the oppreffor belongs. In this cafe letters of marque
and
REP [7
Reprifal, and reprifal (words ufed as fynonyrrious j and fignity-
Reproba- jng^ iatter a taking in return, the former the pafling
, the frontiers in order to fuch taking) may be obtained,
in order to feize the bodies or goods of the fubje&s of
the offending flate, until fatisfadtion be made, where-
ever they happen to be found. And indeed this cuftom
of reprifals feems di&ated by nature herfelf j for which
reai’on we find in the moft ancient times very notable
inftances of it. But here the neceffity is obvious of
calling in the fovereign power, to determine when re¬
prifals may be made j elfe every private fufferer wrould
be a judge in his own caufe. In purfuance of which
principle, it is with us declared by the flat. 4 Hen. V.
c. 7. that, if any fubjefts of the realm are oppreifed in
time of truce by any foreigners, the king will grant
marque in due form, to all that feel themfelves grieved.
Which form is thus directed to be obferved: the fufferer
mull firlt apply to the lord privy-feal, and he (hall make
out letters of requeft under the privy-feal j and if after
fuch requeft of fatisfadion made, the party required do
not within convenient time make due fatisfadlion or re-
ititution to the party grieved, the lord chancellor fhall
make him out letters of marque under the great feal;
and by virtue of thefe he may attack and feize the pro¬
perty of the aggreffor nation, without hazard of being
condemned as a robber or pirate.
Reprisal, or Recaption, is a fpecies of remedy al¬
lowed to an injured perfon. This happens when any
one has deprived another of his property in goods or
chattels perfonal, or wrongfully detains one’s wife, child,
or fervant : in which cafe the owner of the goods, and
the hufband, parent, or mafter, may lawfully claim and
retake them, wherever he happens to find them 5 fo it
be not in a riotous manner, or attended with a breach
of the peace. The reafon for this is obvious fince it
may frequently happen that the owner may have this
only opportunity of doing himfelf juftice : his goods
may be afterwards conveyed away or deftroyed ; and
his wife, children, or fervants, concealed or carried out
of his reach ; if he had no fpeedier remedy than the or¬
dinary procefs of law. If therefore he can fo contrive
it as to gain poffeftion of his property again, without
force or terror, the law favours and will juftify his pro¬
ceeding. But, as the public peace is a fuperior con-
fideration to any one man’s private property 5 and as, if
individuals were once allowed to ufe private force
as a remedy for private injuries, all focial juftice muft
ceafe, the ftrong would give law to the weak, and
every man w'ould revert to a ftate of nature •, for thefe
reafons it is provided, that this natural right of recap¬
tion {hall never be exerted, where fuch exertion muft
occafion ftrife and bodily contention, or endanger the
peace of fociety. If, for inftance, my horfe is taken
away, and I find him in a common, a fair, or a public
inn, I may lawfully feize him to my own ufe ; but I
cannot juftify breaking open a private liable, or entering
on the grounds of a third perfon, to take him, except
he be felonioufly ftolen j but muft have recourfe to an
adlion at law.
REPROBATION, in Theology, means the aft of
abandoning, or ftate of being abandoned, to eternal de-
ftruftion ; and is applied to that decree or refolve which
God has taken from all eternity to punifh finners who
ihall die in impenitence j in which fenle it is direclly op-
pofed to eledlion. When a finner is fo hardened as to
Vol. XVII. Part IL
ii ] & E P
feel no remorfe or mifgiving of confidence, it is confidercd ft-fprota*
as a fign of reprobation^ which by the cafuifts has been t10"'
diftinguithed into pofitive and negative. The firft is that J.jon>
whereby God is fuppofed to create men with a pofitive y-—J
and abfolute refolution to damn them eternally. This
opinion is countenanced by St Auguftine and other
Chriftian fathers, and is a peculiar tenet of Calvin and
moft of his followers. The church of England, in The
thirty-nine Articles, teaches fomething like it ; and the
church of Scotland, in the Conftjfion of Faith, maintains
it in the ftrongeft terms. But the notion is generally
exploded, and is believed by no rational divine in either
church, being totally injurious to the juftice of the Deity.
Negative or conditional reprobation is that whereby God,
though he has a fincere defire to fave men, and furnifhes
them with the neceffary means, fo that all if they will
may be faved, yet fees that there are many who will not be
faved by the means, however powerful, that are afford¬
ed them} though by other means which the Deity fees,
but will not afford them, they might be faved. Re¬
probation refpe&s angels as well as men, and refpedls
the latter either fallen or unfallen. See Predestina¬
tion.
REPRODUCTION is ufually underftood to mean
the reftoration of a thing before exifting, and fince de¬
ftroyed. It is very well known that trees and plants
may be raifed from flips and cuttings; and fome late ob-
fervations have ftiown, that there are fome animals which
have the fame property. The polype * was the firft in- * See Po«
ftance we had of this} but we had fcarce time to won- h'pus.
der at the difcovery Mr Trembley had made, when Mr
Bonnet difcovered the fame property in a fpecies of wa¬
ter-worm. Amongft the plants which may be raifed from
cuttings, there are fome which feem to pofl'efs this quality
in fo eminent a degree, that the fmalleft portion of them
will become a complete tree again.
It deferves inquiry, whether or not the great Author
of nature, wdien he ordained that certain infedls, as thefe
polypes and worms, Ihould referable thofe plants in that
particular, allowed them this power of being reproduced
in the fame degree ? or, which is the fame thing, whe¬
ther this reproduftion will or will not take place in what¬
ever part the worm is cut ? In order to try this, Mr
Bonnet entered on a courfe of many experiments on the
water-worms which have this property. Thefe are, at
their common growth, from twra to three inches long,
and of a brownifh colour, with a cart of i-eddifti. From
one of thefe worms he cut off the head and tail, taking
from each extremity only a fmall piece of a twelth of an
inch in length 3 but neither of thefe pieces were able to
reproduce what was wanting. They both perifhed in
about 24 hours} the tail firft:, and afterwards the head.
As to the body of the worm from which thefe pieces were
feparated, it lived as well as before, and feemed indeed
to fuffer nothing by the lofs, the head-part being imme¬
diately ufed as if the head was thereon, boring the crea¬
ture’s way into the mud. There are, befides this, two
other points in wdiich the reproduftion will not take place}
the one of thefe is about the fifth or fixth ring from the
head, and the other at the lame diftance from the tail }
and in all probability the condition of the great artery in
thefe parts is the caufe of this.
What is faid of the want of the reproduftive power
of thefe parts relates only to the head and tail ends}
for as to the body, it feels very little inconvenience from
4 Y ' the
K E P r 722 ] Jl E P
Reproc’uc- the lofs of what is taken off, and very fpeedlly reprodu-
, t!°n~ . ces thofe parts. Where then does the principle of life
refide in fuch worms, which, after having their heads
cut off, will have not only the fame motions, but even
the inclinations, that they had before ? and yet this dif¬
ficulty is very fmall, compared to feveral others which
at the fame time offer themfelves to our reafon. Is this
wonderful reproduction of parts only a natural confe-
quence of the laws of motion ? or is there lodged in the
body of the creature a chain of minute buds or (hoots,
a fort of little embryos, already formed and placed in
fuch parts where the reproductions are to begin ?• Are
thefe worms only mere machines ? or are they, like
more perfeCt animals, a fort of compound, the fprings of
whofe motions are aCtuated or regulated by a fort, of
foul ? And if they have themfelves fuch a principle,
how is it that this principle is multiplied, and is found
in every feparate piece ? Is it to be granted, that there
are in thefe worms, not a fingle foul (if it is to be fo
called) in each, but that each contains as many fouls as
th ere are pieces capable of reproducing perfeCt animals ?
Are we to believe with Malpighi, that thefe forts of
worms are all heart and brain from one end to the other!
This may be j but yet if we knew that it was fo, we
(hould know in reality but very little tire more for
knowing it; and it feems, after all, that in cafes of this
kind we are only to admire the works of the great Crea¬
tor, and fit down in filence.
The nice fenfe of feeling in fpiders has been much
talked of by naturalifts 5 but it appears that thefe worms
have yet fomewhat more furprifing in them in regard
to this particular. If a piece of (lick, or any other
fubftance, be brought near them, they do not flay for
its touching them, but begin to leap and frifk about as
foon as it comes towards them. There want, however,
fome farther experiments to afeertain whether this be
really owing to feeling or to fight ; for though we can
diicover no diftinCI organs of light in thefe creatures,
yet they feera affeCted by the light of the fun or a
candle, and always frifk about in the fame manner at
the approach of either ; nay, even the moon-light has
fbme effeft upon them.
A twig of willow, poplar, or many other trees, being
planted in the earth, takes root, and becomes a tree,
every piece of which will in the fame manner produce
other trees. The cafe is the fame with thefe worms :
they are cut to pieces, and thefe feveral pieces become
perfect animals ; and each of thefe may be again cut
into a number of pieces, each of which will in the fame
inanner produce an animal. It had been fuppofed by
fome that thefe worms were oviparous: but Mr Bon¬
net, on cutting one of them to pieces, having obferved
a flender fubftance, refembling a fmall filament, to move
at the end of one of thefe pieces, feparated it j and on
examining it with glaffes, found it to be a perfect worm,
of the fame form with its parent, which lived and grew
larger in a veil'd of water into which he put it. Thefe
fmall bodies are eafily divided, and very readily complete
ttremfelves again, a day ufually fervmg for the produc¬
tion of a head to the part that wants one j and, in ge¬
neral, the fmaller and flenderer the worms are, the foon-
er they complete themfelves after this operation. When
the bodies of tbe large worms are examined by the mi-
crofeope, it is very eafy to fee the appearance of the
young worms alive, and moving about within them :
but it requires greater precifion and exadnefs to be cer- Reproduc-
tain of this ; fir.ee the ramifications of the great artery t,; "•
have very much the appearance of young worms, and y——J
they are kept in a fort of continual motion by the ly-
ftoles and diafioles of the feveral portions of the artery,
which ferve as fo many hearts. It is very certain, that
what we force in regard to thefe animals by our opera¬
tions, is done alio naturally every day in the brooks and
ditches where they live. A curious obferver will find
in thefe places many of them without heads or tails, and
fome without either j as alfo other fragments of various
kinds, all which are then in the a6t of completing them¬
felves : but whether accidents have reduced them to
this ftate, or they thus purpofely throw off parts of their
own body for the reprodwftion of more animals, it is
not eafy to determine. They are plainly liable to many
accidents, by which they loie the feveral parts of their
body, and muff perilh very early if they had not a power
of reproducing what was loft : they often arc broken
into two pieces, by the refiftance of fome hard pieces of
mud which they enter; and they are iubjeci to a difeale,
a kind of gangrene, rotting off the feveral parts of their
bodies, and muff inevitably perilh by it, had they not,
this furprifing property.
This worm was a lecond inftance, after the polype,
of the furprifing power in an animal of recovering its
moft effential parts when loft. But Nature does not
feem to have limited her beneficence in this refpedl to
thefe two creatures. Mr Bonnet tried the fame expe-
runents on another fpecies of water-worm, differing flora
the former in being much thicker. This kind of worm,
when divided in the fummer leafon, very often (hows the
fame property : for if it be cut into two or three pieces,
tfie pieces will lie like dead for a long time, but after¬
wards will move about again ; and will be found in this
ftate of reft to have recovered a head, or a tail, or both.
After recovering their parts, they move very little ; and,
according to this gentleman’s experiments, feidom live
more than a month.
It (hould feem, that the more difficult fuccefs of this
laft kind of worm, after cutting, and the long time it
takes to recover the loft parts, if it do recover them at
all, is Giving to its thicknefs 5 fince we always find in
that fpecies of worms which fucceeds bed of all, that
thofe which are thinneft always recover their parts much
fooner than the others.
The water-inledls alfo are not the only creatures
which have this power of recovering their loft parts.
The earth affords us fome already difeovered to grow in
this manner from their cuttings, and thefe not lefs de-
ferving our admiration than thofe of the water : the
common earth-worms are of this kind. Some of thefe
worms have been divided into two, others into three or
four pieces ; and fome of thefe pieces, after having paf-
fed two or three months without any appearance of life
or motion, have then begun to reproduce a head or tail,
or both. The reproduction of the anus, after fuch a
ftate of reft:, is no long work ; a few days do it : but it
is otherwife with the head, that does not feem to per¬
form its functions in the divided pieces till about feven
months after the feparation. It is to be obferved, that
in all thefe operations both on earth and water-worms,
the hinder part fuffers greatly more than the fore part
in the Cutting; for it always twifts itfelf about a long
time,.as if aCtuated by ftrong convulfions} whereas the
head
n e p [ 72
roduc- Lead ufuaily crawls away without the appearance of any
l0n’ great uneafinef-.
p1 f s~, The reproduction of feveral parts of lobfters, crabs,
&c. makes alio oire of the great curiofities in natural
hiilory. That, in lieu of an organical part of an ani¬
mal broken off, another ihall rife perfe&ly like it, may
feem inconiiftent with the modern fyitem of generation,
where the animal is fuppofed to be wholly formed in
the egg. Yet has the matter of fa£t been well attefted
by the fiihermen, and even by feveral virtuofos who have
taken the point into examination, particularly M. de
Reaumur and M. Pcrrault, whofe fkill and accuracy in
things of this nature will hardly be queftioned. The
legs "of lobiters, &c. coniiih each of five articulations :
now, when any of the legs happen to break by any ac¬
cident, as in walking, &c. which frequently happens,
the frafture is always found to be in a part near the
fourth articulation •, and what they thus lofe is precife-
ly reproduced fome time afterwards ; that is, a part
of a leg (hoots out, confifting of four articulations, the
firft whereof has two claws as before •, fo that the lofs
is entirely repaired.
If a lobfier’s leg be broken off by defign at the fourth
or fifth articulation, what is thus broken off always
comes again •, but it is not fo if the fraflure be made
m the firft, fecond, or third articulation. In thofe cafes,
the reproduction is very rare if things continue as they
are. But what is exceedingly furprlfing is, that they
do not; for, upon viiiting the lobfter maimed in thefe
barren and unhappy articulations, at the end of two or
three days, all the other articulations are found broken
off to the fourth; and it is fufpe&ed they have perform¬
ed the operation on themfelves, to make the reproduc¬
tion of a leg certain.
The part reproduced is not only perfe&ly like that
retrenched, but alfo, in a certain {pace of time, growls
equal to it. Hence it is that we frequently fee lob-
fters, which have their two big legs unequal, and that
in all proportions. This fhows the fmaller leg to be a
new one.
A part thus reproduced being broken, there is a fe¬
cond reproduftion. The fummer, which is the only
feafon of the year when the lobfters eat, is the moft
favourable time for the reproduflion. It is then per¬
formed in four or five weeks ; whereas it takes up eight
or nine months in any other feafon. I he fmafi legs aie
fometimes reproduced, but more rarely, as well as more
flowly, than the great ones : the horns do the fame.
The experiment is moft eafily tried on tne common
crab. . .
REPTILES, in Natural Hijfory, a kind of animals
denominated from their creeping or advancing on the
belly. Or rentiies1 are thofe animals, which, inftead of
feet, reft on one part of the body, while they advance
forward with the reft. Such are earthworms, fnakes,
caterpillars, 8tc. Indeed, moft of the reptiles have feet ;
only thofe very fmall, and the legs fhort in proportion
to the bulk of the body.
Naturalifts obferve a svorld of artful contrivance for
the motion of reptiles. Thus, particularly in the earth¬
worm, Dr Willis tells us, the whole body is only a chain
of annular mufcles ; or, as Dr Derham fays, it is only
one continued fpiral mufcle, the orbicular fibres where¬
of being contraaed, render each ring narrower and
longer than before j by which means it is enabled^ like
3 ] REP
the worm of an augre, to bore its paffage into the Reptiles
earth. Its reptile motion might alfo be explained by Hpf.on
a wire wound on a cylinder, which when flipped oft,. ^ 
and one end extended and held faft, will bring the
other near to it. So the earthworm having fhot out
or extended his body (which is with a wreathing),
it takes hold by thele {mail feet it hath, and (o con¬
trails the hinder part of its body. Dr Tyfon adds,
that when the forepart of the body is ftretehed out,
and applied to a plane at a dHlance, the hind part
relaxing and fhortening is eafily drawn towards it as a
centre.
Its feet are difpofed in a quadruple row the whole
length of the worm, with which, as with fo many hooks,
it fallens down fometimes this and fometimes that part
of the body to the plane, and at the fame time ftretches
out or drags after it another.
The creeping of ferpents is effe&ed after a fomewhat
different manner-, there being a difference in their ftruc-
ture, in that thefe laft have a compages of bones articu¬
lated together.
The body here is not drawn together, but as it were
complicated; part of it being applied on the rough
ground, and the reft ejaculated and (hot from it, which
being fet on the ground in its turn, brings the other af¬
ter it. The {pine of the back varioufly wreathed has
the fame effedl in leaping, as the joints in the feet of
other animals } they make their leaps by means of mui-
cles, and extend the plicae or folds. See Erpetology
and Ophiology.
REPTILIA, the name of one of the orders of the
clafs amphibia, including tortoifes, frogs, lizards. See
Erpetology.
REPUBLIC, or Commonwealth, a popular Hate or
government j or a nation where the people have the
government in their own hands. See Governme><j ,
Aristocracy, Democracy, and Monarchy.
REPUBLIC of Letters, a phrafe ufed collectively of
the whole body of the ftudious and learned people.
REPUDIATION, in the Civil Law, the a£t of di¬
vorcing. See Divorce.
REPULSION, in Physics, that property of bodies
whereby they recede from each other, and, on certain
occaftons, mutually avoid coming into contact.
Repulsion, as •well as attraction, has of late been
confidered as orte of the primary qualities of all matter^
and has been much uied in explaining the phenomena
of nature 1 thus the particles of air, fire, {team, eleCtric
fluid, &c. are all fald to have a repulfive power with
refpeCt to one another.— I hat this is the cafe with the
air, and vapour of all kinds, is certain j becaufe when
they are compreffed into a fmall fpace, they expand
with great force: but as to fire, light, and electricity,
our experiments fail} nay, the {uppofition of a repullLe
power among the particles of the eleCtric fluid is incon-
fiftent with the phenomena, as has been demonftrated
under the article Electricity. Even in thofe fluids,
air and fteam, where a repulfive power moft manifeftly
exifts, it L demonftrable that the repulfton cannot be a
primary quality, fince it can be increafed to a great de¬
gree by heat, and diminifhed by cold : but it is impoi-
fible that a primary quality of matter cati be incieafed
or diminifhed by any external circumftances whatever
for whatever property depends upon external circum¬
ftances, is not a primary but a fecondary one.—The re-
4 Y 2 puuion
Repul lion
H
Requefts.
R E Q
Mlackfi.
Sommenf,
pullion of eleftrified bodies is explained under the article
Electricity : that of others is lefs fubjeft to invefti-
j gation j and the moft that can be faid concerning it is,
that in many cafes it feems to be the confequence of a
modification of fire, and in others of ele&ricity.
REPUTATION means credit, honour, or the cha¬
racter of good ; and fince we are deilined to live in fo-
ciety, is necefiary and uleful more or lefs to every human
being. 1 here is no man, except one who is overgrown
with pride and felf-conceit, or whofe actions are bad, but
pays attention to his reputation, and withes to poffefs the
good opinion of his neighbours or the world. The love
of reputation and of fame are moft powerful fprings of
adtion; but though they proceed from the fame prin¬
ciple, the means of attaining them, and the effefts of
them, are not altogether the fame.
Many means indeed ferve equally to fupport the re¬
putation and to increafe the fame, differing only in de¬
grees ; others, however, belong peculiarly either to the
one or to the other. An honeft reputation is within the
reach of the bulk of mankind 5 it is obtained by the fo-
cial virtues and the conftant pradfice of the common du¬
ties of life. This kind of reputation indeed is neither
extenfive nor brilliant, but it is often the moft ufeful in
point of happinefs. Wit, talents, and genius, are the
neceffary requifites for fame 5 but thofe advantages are
perhaps lefs real in their confequences than thofe arifing
from a good reputation. What is ©f real ufe cofts
little 5 things rare and fplendid require the greateft la¬
bour to procure, and yield perhaps a more ideal happinefs.
Fame can be poffefled, comparatively fpeaking, but
by few individuals ; as it requires either very fuperior
anilities, fupported by great efforts, or very fortunate
circumftances. It is conftituted by the applaufe of man¬
kind, or at leaft by that of a fingle nation ; whilft repu¬
tation is of much lefs extent, and arifes from different
circumftances. That reputation which is founded on
deceit and artifice is never folid ; and the moft honour¬
able will always be found to be the moft ufeful. Every
one may fafely, and indeed ought to, afpire to the confi-
deration and praife due to his condition and merit; but
he who afpires to more, or who feeks it by dilhoneft
means, will at length meet with contempt.
REQUEST, in Law, a fupplication or petition pre¬
ferred to a prince, or to a court of juftice ; begging re
Lef in fome confcionable cafes where the common law
grants no immediate redrefs.
Court of REQUESTS {curia requifi.tionum') was a court
of equity, of the fame nature with the court of chan¬
cery, but inferior to it; principally inftituted for the re¬
lief of fuch petitioners as in confcionable cafes addref-
fed themfelves by fupplication to his majefty. Of this
court the lord privy-leal was chief judge, aflifted by the
mafters of requefts; and it had beginning about the 9
Hen. VII. according to Sir Julius Caefar’s traftate upon
this fubjed \ though Mr Gwyn, in his preface to his
Readings, faith it began from a commiflion firft granted
by King Henry VIII. This court, having affumed
great power to itfelf, fo that it became burthenfome,
Mich, anno 4.0 <md 4* E/fss. in the court of common-
pleas it was adjudged upon folemn argument, that
\he court of requefts was no court of judicature, &c.
and by Hat. and 17 Car. I. cap. 10. it was taken
a. way.
There are ftill courts of requefts, or courts of con-
r 724 ]
R E Q
fcience, conftituted in London and other trading and Reqaefts,
populous diftrids for the recovery of fmall debts. Requiem.
The firft of thefe was eftablilhed in London fo early
as the reign of Henry VIII. by an ad of their common
council; which however was certainly infufficient for
that purpofe, and illegal, till confirmed by ftatute 3 Jac.
I. c. ij. which has lince been explained and amended
by ftatute 14 Geo. II. c. 10. The conftitntion is this :
tw'O aldermen and four commoners fit twice a week
to hear all caufes of debt not exceeding the value of
forty Ihillings ; which they examine in a fummary way,
by the oath of the parties or other witneffes, and
make fuch order therein as is confonant to equity and
good confcience. The time and expence of obtain¬
ing this fummary redrefs are very inconfiderable, which
make it a great benefit to trade ; and thereupon divers
trading towns and other diftrids have obtained ads
of parliament for eftabliihing in them courts of con¬
fcience upon nearly the fame plan as that in the city of
London.
Ey 25 Geo. III. c. 45. (which is confined to profe-
cutions in courts of confcience in London, Middlefex,
and the borough of Southwark), and by 26 Geo. III.
c. 3 8. (which extends the provifions of the former ad
to all other courts inftituted for the recovery of fmall
debts), it is enaded, that after the firft day of Septem¬
ber 1786, no perfon whatfoever, being a debtor or de¬
fendant, and who has been or (hall be committed to any
gaol or prifon, by order of any court or commiflioners
authorifed by any ad or ads of parliament for conftitu-
ting or regulating any court or courts for the recovery
of fmall debts, where the debt does not exceed twenty
Ihillings, ftiall be kept or continued in cuftody, on any
pretence wEatfoever, more than twenty days from the
commencement of the laft mentioned ad ; or from the
time of his, her, or their commitment to prifon : and
wEere the original debt does not amount to or exceed
the fum of forty (hillings, more than forty days from the
commencement of the faid ad, or from the time of his,
her, or their commitment as aforefaid ; and all gaolers
are thereby required to difcharge fuch perfons accord-
ingly. And by fed. 2. if it ftrall be proved to the fa-
tisfadion of the court, that any fuch debtor has money
or goods which he has wilfully and fraudulently con¬
cealed : in that cafe the court (hall have powder to en¬
large the aforefaid times of imprifonment for debts un¬
der twenty {hillings, to any time not exceeding thirty
days, and for debts under forty {hillings, to any time not
exceeding fixty days ; which faid ground of farther de¬
tention {hall be fpecified in the faid commitment. And
that (by fed. 3.) at the expiration of the faid refpec-
tive times of imprifonment, every fuch perfon {hall im¬
mediately be difcharged, without paying any fum of
money, or other reward or gratuity whatfoever, to the
gaoler of fuch gaol on any pretence wEatfoever ; and
every gaoler demanding or receiving any fee for the dif¬
charge of any fuch perfon, or keeping any fuch perfon
prifoner after the faid refpedive times limited by the faid
ad, {hall forfeit five pounds, to be recovered in a fum¬
mary way before twro juftices of the peace, one moiety
thereof to be paid to the overfeers of the poor of the pa-
riflr where the offence {hall be committed, and the other
to the informer.
REQUIEM, in the Romilh hiftory, a mafs fung for
the reft of the foul of a perfon deceafed.
RESCISSION,
RES [72
Refciffiun RESCISSION, in the Civil Law, an a£Uon intend*
II ed for the annulling or fetting afide any contradf, deed,
Pvet'em-
. bla”ce~ . RESCRIPT, an anfwer delivered by an emperor, or
a pope, when confulted by particular perions on fome
difficult queftion or point of law, to ferve as a decifion
thereof.
RESEDA, a genus of plants belonging to the dode-
candria clafs •, and in the natural method ranking under
the 54th order, Mlfccllaneae. See Botany Index.
The Lnteola or Dijer's-weed, Yellow-weed, Weld, or
Wild-woad, is one of the molt valuable of the fpecies,
on account of its extenfive ufe in dyeing. See Dyeing.
The odorata or mignionette is well known for the fweet-
nefs of its fragrance, and as an ornament of the dower-
garden.
RESEMBLANCE and Dissimilitude, the rela¬
tions of likenefs and difference among obje£ts. See
Comparison.
Llem. of The connexion that man hath with the beings around
Criticifm. him, requires fome acquaintance with their nature, their
powers, and their qualities, for regulating his conduct.
For acquiring a branch of knowledge fo effential to our
well-being, motives alone of reafon and intereft are not
fufficient : nature hath providentially fuperadded curio-
fity, a vigorous propenfity, which never is at reft. This
f See JVo- propenfity alone attaches us to every new objecft; f ; and
vclty. incites us to compare objefts, in order to difcover their
differences and refemblances.
Refemblance among objedls of the fame kind, and
diffimilitude among objeds of different kinds, are too
obvious and familiar to gratify our curiofity in any de¬
gree : its gratification lies in difcovering differences
among things where refemblance prevails, and refem¬
blances where difference prevails. Thus a difference in
individuals of the fame kind of plants, or animals, is
deemed a difcovery, while the many particulars in which
they agree are negleded 5 and in different kinds, any
refemblance is greedily remarked, without attending to
the many particulars in which they differ.
A comparifon of the former neither tends to gra¬
tify our curiofity, nor to fet the objeds compared in
a ftronger light: two apartments in a palace, fimilar
in ffiape, fize, and furniture, make feparately as good
a figure as when compared ; and the fame obfervation
is applicable to two fimilar compartments in a garden :
on the other hand, oppofe a regular building to a fall
of water, or a good pidure to a towering hill, or even
a little dog to a large horfe, and the contrail will pro¬
duce no effed. But a refemblance between objeds of
the fame kind, have remarkably an enlivening effed.
Xhe poets, fuch of them as have a juft tafte, draw ctll
their fimilies from things that in the main differ wide¬
ly from the principal fubjed •, and they never attempt
a contrail, but where the things have a common genus,
and a refemblance in the capital circumftances : place
together a large and a fmall fized animal of the fame
fpecies, the one will appear greater, the other lefs, than
when viewed feparately : when we oppofe beauty to
deformity, each makes a greater figure by the compa¬
rifon. We compare the drefs of different nations witli
curiofity, but without furprife j becaufe they have no
fuch refemblance in the capital parts as to pleafe us by
contrailing the fmaller parts. But a new cut of a
5 1 RES
ileeve, or of a pocket, enchants by its novelty ; and, in ^efem-
oppofition to the former falhion, raifes forae degree of, bliince-
furprife.
That refemblance and diffimilitude have an enliven¬
ing effed upon objeds of fight, is made lufficiently evi¬
dent *, and that they have the fame effed upon objeds
of the other fenfes, is alfo certain. Nor is that law con¬
fined to the external fenfes •, for charaders contrafted
make a greater figure by the oppofilion: lago, in the
tragedy of Othello, fays,
He hath a daily beauty in his life
That makes me ugly.
The charader of a fop, and of a rough warrior, are-
nowhere more fuccefsfully contrafted than in Shake-
fpeare :
Hotfpnr. My liege, I did deny no prifoners :
But I remember, when the fight was done,
When I was dry with rage, and extreme toil,
Breathlefs and faint, leaning upon my fword,
Came there a certain lord, neat, trimly drefs’d,
Freffi as a bridegroom j and his chin, new-reap’d,
Show’d like a ftubble-land atharveft-home.
He was perfumed like a milliner ;
And ’twixt his finger and his thumb he held
A pouncet-box, which ever and anon
He gave his nofe :—and ftill he fmil’d and talk’d $.
And as the foldiers bare dead bodies by,
He call’d them untaught knaves, unmannerly.
To bring a flovenly, unhandfome corfe
Betwixt the wind and his nobility.
With many holiday and lady terms
He queftion’d me : among the reft, demanded
My pris’ners, in your Majefty’s behalf.
I then, all fmarting with my wounds j being gall’d
To be fo pefter’d with a popinjay,
Out of my grief, and my impatience,
Anfwer’d, negledtingly, I know not what:
He fhould, or fhould not j for he made me mad,
To fee him ffiine fo brifk, and fmell fo fweet,
And talk fo like a waiting gentlewoman,
Of guns, and drums, and wounds, (God fave the mark !)
And telling me, the fovereign’ft thing on earth
Was parmacity for an inward bruife j
And that it was great pity, fo it was,
This villanous faltpetre ffiould be digg’d
Out of the bowels of the harmlefs earth,
Which many a good, tall fellow had deftroy’d
So cowardly : and but for thefe vile guns,
He would himfelf have been a foldier. 
Firjl part, Henry IV. aft i. fc. 4.
Paffions and emotions are alfo inflamed by compari¬
fon. A man of high rank humbles the byftanders even
to annihilate them in their own opinion : Caefar, behold¬
ing the ftatue of Alexander, was greatly mortified, that
now, at the age of 32, when Alexander died, he had
not performed one memorable aftion.
Our opinions alfo are much influenced by comparifon.
A man whofe opulence exceeds the ordinary ftandard is
reputed richer than he is in reality j and wildom or weak-
nefs, if at all remarkable in an individual, is generally
carried beyond the truth.
The opinion a man forms of his prefent diftrefs
m
R E
is lieiglitened by contrafiing it with his former happi-
’ ance' , nefs :
-Could I forget
What I have been, I might the better bear
What I’m deftin’d to. I’m not the firft
That have been wretched : but to think how much
I have been happier.
Southern's Innocent Adultery, aft ii.
The diftrefs of a long journey makes even an indif¬
ferent inn agreeable : and, in travelling, when the road
is good, and the horfeman well covered, a bad day
may be agreeable, by making him fenfible how fnug
he is.
The fame effeft is equally remarkable, when a man
opppfes his condition to that of others. A fliio tof-
fed about in a ftorm, makes the fpeflator refleft upon
his own eafe and fecurity, and puts thefe in the ftrongeft
light.
A man in grief cannot bear mirth; it gives him a
more lively notion of his unhappinefs, and of courfe
makes him more unhappy. Satan, contemplating the
beauties of the terreftrial paradife, has the following
exclamation:
With what delight could I have walk’d thee round,
If I could joy in ought, fweet interchange
Of hill and valley, rivers, woods, and plains,
Now land, now lea, and fhores with foreft crown’d,
Rocks, dens, and caves ! but I in none of thefe
Find place or refuge ; and the more I fee
Pleafures about me, fo much more I feel
Torment within me, as from the hateful fiege
Of contraries: all good to me becomes
Bane, and in heav’n much worfe would be my Hate.
Paradife Lojl, book ix. 1. 114.
r appearance of danger gives fometimes pleafure,
sometimes pain. A timorous perfon upon the battle¬
ments of a high tower, is feized with fear, which even
the confcioufnefs of fecurity cannot diffipate. But upon
one of a firm head, this fituation has a contrary effefl :
the appearance of danger heightens, by oppofition, the
confcioufnefs of fecurity, and confequently the fatisfac-
tion that arifes from fecurity : here the feelino- refem-
bles that above-mentioned, occafioncd by a Ihip labour¬
ing in a ftorm.
.1 he eft eel of magnifying or leflening objecls by
means of comparifon is to bt attributed to the in¬
fluence of paflion over our opinions. This will evidently
appear by reflefling in what manner a fpe&ator is af-
iceted, when a Very large animal is for the firft time pla¬
ced befide a very fmall one of the fame fpecies. The
firft thing that ftrikes the mind is the difference be¬
tween the two animals, which is fo great as to occafion
urpnie; and this, like other emotions, magnifying its
objedf makes us conceive the difference to be" the
greateft tnat can be : we fee, or feem to fee, the one
ammar extremely little, and the other extremely large.
The emotion of furprife arifing from any unufual re-
lemblance, ferves equally to explain, why at firft view
we are apt to think fuch refemblance more entire than
it is in reality. And it muft be obferved, that the cir-
cumftances of more and lefs, which are the proper fub-
jecls o. comparifon, raife a perception fo indiftincf and
t ague as to facilitate the effedl deferibed ; we have no
'26 j R E S
mental ftandard of great and little, nor of the feveral
degrees ol any attribute ; and the mind, ihus unreftraih-
ed, is naturally dxlpofed to indulge its furprife to the ut- V
moft extent.
In exploring the operations of the mind, fome of
which are extremely .nice and flippery, it is neceffary
to proceed with the utmoft circumfpection : and after
all, feldom it happens that fpeculations of that kind
afford any fatisfaftion. Luckily, in the prefent cafe,
our fpeculations are fupported by facts and folid argu¬
ment. Firft, a fmall ohjedt of one fpecies oppofed to
a great objedt of another, produces not, in any degree,
that deception which is fo remarkable when both ob¬
jects are of the fame fpecies. The greatelt difparity
between objedts of different kinds, is io common as to
be obferved with perfedt indifference ; but fuch difpa¬
rity between the objedts of the fame kind being uncom¬
mon, never fails to produce furprife : and may we not
fairly conclude, that furprife, in the latter cafe, is what
occaftons the deception, when we find no deception in
the former ? In the next place, if furprife be the foie
caufe of the deception, it follows necefiarily that the
deception will vanifti as foon as the objedts compared
become familiar. This holds fo unerringly, as to leave
no reafonable doubt that furprife is the prime mover :
our furprife is great, the firft time a fmall lapdog is
feen with a large maftiff; but when two fuch animals
are conftantly together, there is no furprife, and it
makes no difference whether they be viewed feparately
or in company. We fet no bounds to the riches of a
man who has recently made his fortune ; the furprifing
disproportion between his prefent and his part fituation
being carried to an extreme; but with regard to a fa¬
mily that for many generations hath enjoyed great
wealth, the fame falfe reckoning is not made. It is
equally remarkable, that a trite fimile has no effedt : a
lover compared to a moth fcoxching itfelf at the flame
of a candle, originally a fprightly fimile, has by fre¬
quent ufe loft all force j love cannot now be compared
to fire, without fome degree of dilguft. It has been
juftly obferved againft Homer, that the lion is too often
introduced into his fimiles; all the variety he is able to
throw into them not being fufiicient to keep alive the
reader’s furprife.
To explain the influence of comparifon upon the. mind,
we have chofen the fimpleft cafe, viz. the firft fight of
two animals of the fame kind, differing in fize only ; but
to complete the thebry, other circumftances muft be ta¬
ken in. And the next fuppofition we make, is where
both animals, feparately familiar to the fpedfator, are
brought together for the firft time. In that cafe, the
effedl of magnifying and diminifliing is found remarkablv
greater than in that firft mentioned ; and the reafon will
appear upon analyfing the operation : the firft feeling we
have is of furprife at the uncommon difference of two
creatures of the fame fpecies; we are next fenfible, that
the one appears lefs, the other larger, than they did
formerly ; and that new circumftance increafing our fur¬
prife, makes us imagine a ftill greater oppofition between
the animals, than if we had formed no notion of them
beforehand.
Let us make one other fuppofition, that the fpedfa¬
tor was acquainted beforehand with one of the animals
only ; the lapdog, for example. This new circumftance
will vary the effedl; for, inftead of widening the natu¬
ral
Rcfem-
hhiuce.
RE S [ 7
Refem- ral dilTerence, by enlarging in appearance the one ani-
lance. and dim’nifh’ng the other in proportion, the
whole apparent alteration will reft upon the lapdog:
the furprifc to find it lefs than it appeared formerly,
directs to it our whole attention, and makes us conceive
it to be a molt diminutive creature : the maftiff in the
mean time is quite overlooked. To illuftrate this ef-
feift by a familiar example. Take a piece of paper or of
linen tolerably white, and compare it with a pure white
of the fame kind 5 the judgment we formed of the firft
object is inftantly varied •, and the furprife occafioned by
finding it lefs white than, was thought, produceth a hafty
conviction that it is much lefs white than it is in reality :
withdrawing now the pure white, and putting in its place
a deep black, the furprife occafioned by that new cir-
cumftanee carries us to the other extreme, and makes us
conceive the cbjeift firft mentioned to be a pure white •,
and thus experience compels us to acknowdedge, that
our emotions have an influence even upon our eye-fight.
This experiment leads to a general obfervation, that
whatever is found mjre ftrange and beautiful than was
expelled, is judged to be more ftrange and beautiful than
it is in reality. Hence a cbmmon artifice, to depreciate
beforehand what we with to make a figure in the opinion
of others.
The comparifons employed by poets and orators are
of the kind laft mentioned 5 for it is always a known
objeft that is to be magnified or leffened. The former
is effe&ed by likening it to fome grand obje£l, or by
contrafting it with one of an oppofite charaflcr. To
eftedduate the latter, the method muft be reverfed : the
obie£t muft be contrafted with fomething fuperior to it,
or likened to fomething inferior. The whole effeeft
is produced upon the principal objedt; which by that
means is elevated above its rank, or depreffed below it.
In accounting for the effedl that any unufual refem-
blance or diffimilitude hath upon the mind, no caufe
has been mentioned but furprife *, and to prevent con-
fufion, it was proper to difeufs that caufe firft. But
furprife is not the only caufe of the effedft deferibed :
another occurs, which operates perhaps not lefs power¬
fully, viz. a principle in human nature that lies ftill
in obfeurity, not having been unfolded by any writer,
though its effedfs are extenfive : and as it is not diftin-
guifhe'd by a proper name-, the reader muft be fatisfied
with the following defeription. Every man w’ho ftu-
dies himfelf or others, muft be fenfible of a tendency
or propenfity in the mind to complete every work that
is begun, and to carry things to their full perfection.
There is little opportunity to difplay that propenfity
upon natural operations, which are feldom left imper-
fedt ; but in the operations of art it hath great fcope :
it impels us to perfevere in our own work, and to wiftr
for the completion of w7hat another is doing : we feel a
fenfible pleafure when the work is brought to perfec¬
tion ; and our pain is not lefs fenfible when we are dif-
appointed. Hence our uneafinefs when an interefting
ftory is broke off in the middle, when a piece of mufic
ends without a clofe, or when a building or garden is
left unfiniflied. The fame propenfity operates in making
colledfions ; fuch as the whole works, good and bad, of
any author. A certain perfon attempted to colledf prints
of all the capital paintings, and fucceeded except as to a
few. La Bruyere remarks, that an anxious fearch was
27 1 RES
made for thefe j not for their value, but to complete the Refem-
fet. blance.
fhe final caufe of the propenfity is an additional
proot cl its exillence. Human works are of no figni-
ficancy till they be completed; and reafon is not always
a fufficient counterbalance to indolence : fome prin¬
ciple over and above is neceffary to excite our induftry,
and to prevent our flopping ihort in the middle of the
courfe.
We need not lofe time to deferibe the co-operation
of the foregoing propenfity with furprife, in producing
the efftcl that follows any unufual refemblance or dii-
fimilitude. Surprife firft operates, and carries our opi¬
nion of the relemblance or diffimilitude beyond truth.
The propenfity we have been deferibing carries us ftill
farther ; for it forces upon the mind a conviction, that
the refemblance or diffimilitude is complete. We need
no better illuftration, than the refemblance that is fan¬
cied in fome pebbles to a tree or an infeft; which re¬
femblance, however faint in reality, is conceived to be
wonderfully perfett. The tendency to complete a re-
femblance a£Hng jointly with furprife, carries the mind
fometimes fo faiy as even to prefume upon future events.
In the Greek tragedy entitled PJnneides, thofe unhappy
women feeing the place where it was intended they Ihould
be flain, cried out with anguiffi, “ They now faw their Arijl. Poet,
cruel deftiny had condemned them to die in that place,II”
being the fame where they had been expofed in their
infancy.1’
The propenfity to advance every thing to its per¬
fection, not only co-operates with furprife to deceive
the mind, but of itfelf is able to produce that •effeCt.
Of this we fee many inftances where there is no place
for furprife j and the firft we (hall give is of refem¬
blance. Unumquodque eodem modo dijjblvitur quo colli-
gatum ejl, is a maxim in the Homan law that has no
foundation in truth 5 for tying and loofing, building
and demolifiiing, are aCls oppofite to each other, and
are performed by oppofite means : but when thefe a£ls
are connected by their relation to the fame ftibjeCt,
their connexion leads us to imagine a fort of refem¬
blance between them, which by the foregoing propen¬
fity is conceived to be as complete as poffible. The
next inftance ihall be of contrail. Addifon obferves,
“ That the paleft features look the moft agreeable in ^pcSiator^
white ; that a face which is overflulhed appears to advan- ^ 2h^‘-
tage in the deepeft fcarlet 3 and that a dark complexion
is not a little alleviated by a black hood.” The forego¬
ing propenfity ferves to account for thefe appearances :
to make this evident, one of the cafes Ihall fuftice. A
complexion, however dark, never approaches to black :
when thefe colours appear together, their oppofition
ftrikes us $ and the propenfity we hare to complete the
oppofition, makes the darknefs of complexion vanilli out
of fight.
The operation of this propenfity, even where there
is no ground for furprife, is not confined to opinion or
conviction : fo powerful it is, as to make us fometimes -
proceed to adtion, in order to complete a refemblance
or diffimilitude. If this appear obfeure, it will be
made clear by the following inftance. Upon what
principle is the lex talionis founded, other than to make
the punilhment refemble the mifehief ? Reafon dictates,
that there ought to be a conformity or refemblance be¬
tween
RES [7:
Refem- tween a ciime and its puniHiment j and die foregoing
1 blance- _ propenfity impels us to make the refemblance as com-
* Lib. i. pleie as poffible. Titus Livius under the influence
§ iS. of that propenfity, accounts for a certain punifhment, by
a refemblance between it and the crime too fubtile'for
common apprehenfion. Speaking of Mettus Fuffetius,
the Alban general, who, for treachery to the Romans
his allies, was fentenced to be torn to pieces by horfes,
he puts the following fpeech in the mouth of Tullus
Hoftilius, who decreed the punifliment. “ Mette Fuf-
feti, mquit, Jl ipfe difcere pojjcs Jidem ac ftxdera fervare,
vivo tibi ea difciplma a me adhibita ejfet. Nunc, quo-
niam tuum infanabile ingenium ejl, at tu tuo fupplicio\doce
humanum genus ea fanBa credere, quce a te violata funt.
Ut igitur paulo ante animum inter Fidenatem Roma-
namque rem ancipitem gejjijli, it a jam corpus pajjim dif-
trahendum dabisN By the fame influence, the fentence
is often executed upon the very fpot where the crime
was committed. In the EleSlra of Sophocles, Egif-
theus is dragged from the theatre into an inner room of
the fuppofed palace, to fuffer death where he murdered
Agamemnon. Shakefpeare, whofe knowledge of nature
is not lefs profound than extenfive, has not overlooked
this propenfity :
“ Othello. Get me fome poifon, lago, this night.
I’ll not expoftulate with her, left her body and her
beauty unprovide my mind again. This night, lago.”
“ lago. Do it not with poifon 5 ftrangle her in her
bed, even in the bed fire hath contaminated.”
“ Othello. Good, good : the juft ice of it pleafes :
very good.” ' Othello, a&iv. fc. 5.
Perfons in their laft moments are generally feized with
an anxiety to be buried with their relations. In the
Amynta of Taffo, the lover, hearing that his miftrefs
was torn to pieces by a wolf, expreffes a defire to die
the fame death.
Upon the fubjeft in general we have two remarks
to add. The firft concerns refemblance, which, when
too entire, hath no effeft, however different in kind the
things compared may be. The remark is applicable
to works of art only ; for natural obje£ls of different
kinds have fcarce ever an entire refemblance. To give
an example in a work of art: Marble is a fort of matter
very different from what compofes an animal; and
marble cut into a human figure, produces great plea-
fure by the refemblance : but if a marble ftatue be co¬
loured like a pi&ure, the refemblance is fo entire as at
a diftance to make the ftatue appear a real perfon : we
difcover the miftake when we approach j and no other
emotion is raifed, but furprife occafioned by the de¬
ception the figure ftill appears a real perfon, rather
than an imitation ; and w^e muft ufe reflettion to corre&
the miftake. This canpot'happen in a pidture $ for the
refemblance can never be fo entire as to difguife the
imitation.
The other remark belongs to contraft. Emotions
make the greateft figure when contrafted in fucceffion j
but then the fucceffion ought neither to be rapid, nor
immoderately flow : if too flow, the effeft of contraft
becomes faint by the diftance of the emotions; and if
rapid, no Angle emotion has room to expand itfelf to
its full fize, but is ftifled, as it were, in the birth by
a fucceeding emotion. The funeral oration of the bi-
Ihop of Meaux upon the duchefs of Orleans, is a per-
1
8 ] RES
fedl hodge-podge of cheerful and melancholy reprefenta- P-efern-
tions, following each other in the quickeft fucceffion: fiance,
oppofite emotions are beft felt in fucceflion ; but each
emotion feparately fhould be raifed to its due pitch,
before another be introduced.
What is above laid down, will enable us to deter¬
mine a very important ^queftion concerning emotions
raifed by the fine arts, viz. Whether ought fimilar
emotions to fucceed each other, or diffimilar ? The
emotions raifed by the fine arts are for the moft part
too nearly related to make a figure by refemblance;
and for that reafon their fucceffion ought to be regu¬
lated as much as poffible by contraft. This holds
confeffedly in epic and dramatic compofitions ; and the
beft writers, led perhaps by tafte more than by rea-
foning, have generally aimed at that beauty. It holds
equally in mufic: in the fame cantata all the variety of
emotions that are within the power of mufic, may not
only be indulged, but, to make the greateft; figure,
ought to be contrafted. In gardening, there is an ad¬
ditional reafon for the rule : the emotions raifed by
that art, are at beft fo faint, that every artifice fhould
be employed to give them their utmoft vigour : a field
may be laid out in grand, fweet, gay, neat, wild, me¬
lancholy fcenes; and when thefe are viewed in fuccef¬
fion, grandeur ought to be contrafted with neatnefs,
regularity with wildnefs, and gaiety with melancholy,
fo as that each emotion may fucceed its oppofite:
nay, it is an improvement to intermix in the fucceffion
rude uncultivated fpots as well as unbounded views,
which in themfelves are difagreeable, but in fucceflion
heighten the feeling of the agreeable objeft ; and we
have nature for our guide, which in her moft beautiful
landfcapes often intermixes rugged rocks, dirty marfties,
and barren ftony heaths. The greateft mafters of mu¬
fic have the fame view7 in their compofitions: the fecond
part of an Italian fong feldom conveys any fentiment:
and, by its harfhnefs, feems purpofely contrived to
give a greater relifti for the interefting parts of the
compofition.
A fmall garden, comprehended under a Angle view,
affords little opportunity for that embelliftiment. Difli-
milar emotions require different tones of mind ; and
therefore in conjunction can never be pleafant : gai¬
ety and fwreetnefs may be combined, or wildnefs and
gloominefs; but a compofition of gaiety and gloomi-
nefs is diftafteful. The rude uncultivated compartment
of furze and broom in Richmond garden, hath a good
effeCl in the fucceflion of objeCts ; but a fpot of that
nature would be infufferable in the midft of a polifhed
parterre or flowTer-plot. A garden, therefore, if not of
great extent, admits not diffimilar emotions •, and in
ornamenting a fmall garden, the fafeft courfe is to
confine it to a Angle expreflion. For the fame reafon,
a landfcape ought alfo to be confined to a Angle ex¬
preflion ; and accordingly it is a rule in painting, that
if the fubjeCl be gay, every figure ought to contribute
to that emotion.
It follows from the foregoing train of reafoning, that
a garden near a great city ought to have an air of foli-
tude. The folitarinefs, again, of a wafte country ought
to be contrafted in forming a garden 5 no temples, no
obfcuie walks j but jets d'eau, cafcades, obieCls aftive,
gay, and Splendid. Nay, fuch a garden fhould in fome
meafure avoid imitating nature, by taking on an ex-
_ traordinary
RES [ 729 ] RES
ftefem-
biance
Referva-
tion.
traordlnary appearance of regularity and art, to fhow
the bufy hand of man, which in a wafte country has a
fine effedl by contrail.
Wit and ridicule make not an agreeable mixture
with grandeur. Diffimilar emotions have a fine effeft
in a (low fucceflion ■, but in a rapid fucceflion, which
approaches to co-exiftence, they will not be reliihed.
In the midft of a laboured and elevated defcription of
battle, Virgil introduces a ludicrous image, which is
certainly out of its place :
Obvius ambuftum torrem Chorinaeus ab ara
Corripit, et venienti Ebufo plagamque ferenti
Occupat os flammis : illi ingens barba reluxit,
Nidoremque ambufta dedit. JEn. xii, 298.
E qual tauro ferito, il fuo dolore
Verio mugghiando e fofpirando fuore.
Gierujal. cant. iv. ft. 1.
It would howreVer be too auftere to banifti altoge¬
ther ludicrous images from an epic poem. This poem
doth not always foar above the clouds: it admits great
-variety j and upon occafion can defcend even to the
ground without finking. In its mere familiar tones, a
ludicrous fcene may be introduced without improprie-
ti fcfjgiti ty. This is done by Virgil * in a foot-race : the cir-
fib. v. cumftances of which, not excepting the ludicrous part,
are copied from Homer f. After a fit of merriment,
S79. we are, it is true, the left difpofed to the ferious and
fublime : but then, a ludicrous fcene, by unbending
the mind from fevere application to more interefting
fubje&s, may prevent fatigue, and preferve our relith
entire.
RESEN, (Mofes) \ a town on the Tigris, built by
Nimrod 5 thought to be the Lftrijfa of Xenophon j
which fee. But as Larijfa is a name in imitation of a
Greek city •, and as there were no Greek cities, con-
fequently no Larijfa, in Affyria, before Alexander the
Great •, it is probable that the Greeks alking of what
city thofe were the ruins they faw, the Affyrians might
anfwer, Larcfen, “ Of Refen which word Xenophon
exprefled by Larijfa, a more familiar found to a Greek
tar, (Wells).
RESENTMENT, means a ftrong perception of
good or ill, generally a deep fenfe of injury, and may be
diftinguiihed into anger and revenge. “ By anger (lays
Archdeacon Paley), I mean the pain we fuffer upon the
receipt of an injury or affront, with the ufual effedfts of
that pain upon ourfelves. By revenge, the inflicting
of pain upon the perlbn who has injured or offended
us, farther than the juft ends of punilhment or repara¬
tion require. Anger prompts to revenge; but it is
pofiible to fufpend the effeCt when we cannot altoge¬
ther quell the principle. We are bound affo to endea¬
vour to qualify and correft the principle itfelf. So that
our duty requires two different applications of the mind:
and for that reafon anger and revenge fivould be con-
fidered feparately.” See RevEN'GE.
RESERVATION, in Law, an aClion or claufe
whereby fomething is referved, or fecured to one’s felf.
Mental Reser vation, a propofition which, ftriCtly
tak^n, and according to the natural import of the terms,
is falfe; but, if qualified by fomething concealed in the
mind, becomes true.
Vol. XVII. Part IL
Mental refervations are the great refuge of religious Refervation
hypocrites, who ufe them to accommodate their con- Re^j ,a;
fciences with their interefts: the Jefuits are zealous ad-.'~ ' AA
vocates for mental refervations j yet are they real lies,
as including an intention to deceive.
RESERVE, in Law, the fame with refervation. See
Reservation.
Body of Reserve, or Corps de Reserve, in military
affairs, the third or laft line of an army, drawn up for
battle; fo called becaufe they are referved to fuftain the
reft as cccafion requires, and not to engage but in cafe
of neceflity*
RESERVOIR, a place where water is collefted and
referved, in order to be conveyed to diftant places
through pipes, or fupply a fountain or jet d’eau.
RESET, in Law, the receiving or harbouring an
outlawed perfon. See Outlawry.
Reset of Theft, in Scots Law. See Law, N° clxxxvi.
29.
RESIDENCE, in the Canon and Common Law, the
abode of a perfon or incumbent upon his benefice } and
his afliduity in attending on the fame.
RESIDENT, a public minifter, who manages the
affairs of a kingdom or ftate, at a foreign court.
They are a clafs of public minifters, inferior to am-
baffadors or envoys 5 but, like them, are under the pro¬
tection of the law of nations.
RESIDUAL analysis, a calculus invented by Mr
Landen, and propofed as a fubltitute for the method ot
fluxions. The defign of it was to avoid introducing the
idea of motion, and of quantities infinitely final], into
mathematical inveftigation. The refidual analyfis ac¬
cordingly proceeds, by taking the difference of the fame
funCtion of a variable quantity in two different ftates of
that quantity, and denoting the relation of this difference
to the difference between the two ftates of the laid vari¬
able quantity. This relation being firft generally ex-
preffed, is next confidered in the cafe when the diffe¬
rence of the two ftates of the variable quantity is ~o *,
and by that means it is obvious, that the fame thing is
done as when the funCtion of a variable quantity is af-
figned by the ordinary methods.
The evolutions of the functions, confidered in this
very general view, requires the aid of a new theorem,
difcovered by Mr Landen, and remarkable for its fim-
plicity and great extent. It is, that
if x and v are any two
* * A? — *1}
variable quantities  
x.—v
V V1 v* , x
= V X 
I+(f) +u) +(*) ■'
where m and n are any integer numbers.
- 0)
This theorem is the bafis of the calculus, and from
the exprefiicns x‘—v", and x—v having the form of
what algebraifts denominate refduals, the inventor gave
to his method the name of the refidual analyfis.
Mr Landen publifhed the firft account of this method
in 1758. which he denominated A Dfcourfe concerning
4 Z t he
RES [ 730 ] RES
Refidaal the Refuliial Analyjis. The firfl book of the analyfis
Rejjn appeared in 1764, which contained an explanation of
I LL ; the principles of the new calculus, with its application
to problems of the direbt method of fluxions, and the fe-
cond book folved feveral problems of the inverfe me¬
thod, but it was never publifhed.
If wm eftimate the value of this analyfis by its prac¬
tical utility, it may be hi id to poffefs no great merit.
Its principles are much lefs eafily apprehended than the
fluxionary calculus j they are not fo luminous, and lefs
direbf in their application, as well as inferior to it for
enlarging the boundaries of mathematical fcience.
RESIDUAL Figure, in Geometry, the figure remaining
after the fubtrablion of the lefs from the greater.
RESIDUAL Root, is a root competed of two members
only connebled by the fign — or minus. Thus, a—b,
or 5—3, is a refidual root; and is fo called, becaufe its
true value is no more than the refidue, or difference be¬
tween the parts a and b or $ and 3, which in this cafe
is 2.
RESIDUE, the remainder or balance of ah account,
debt, or obligation.
RESIGNATION, in general, fignifies the implicit
fubmiflion of ourfelves, or of fomething we poffefs, to
the will of another. In a religious fenfe it fignifies a
perfebt fubmiflion, without difeontent, to the will of
God. See Moral Philosophy, N° 110.
RESIN, in Natural Hi/lory, a vifeid juice oozing
either Ipontanooufly, or by incifion, from feveral trees,
as the pine, fir, &c.—A premium for feveral years has
been offered by the London Society for Encouraging
Arts, &c. for difeovering a mode of reducing the in¬
flammable quality of refin, fo as to adapt it to the pur-
pofes of making candles; but no fuch difeovery has yet
been made.
F./aJHc Resin. See Caoutchouc, Chemistry
Index.
Gum Resin, a mixture of gum and refin. See Che¬
mistry and Materia Medica Index.
Red Gum RESIN, is procured from the red gum tree,
or eucalyptus refinifera 5 a tree fo large and lofty as to
exceed in fize the Englifh oak. The wood of the tree
is brittle, and of little uie but for firewood, from the
large quantity of refinous gum it contains. The tree
is diffinguifhed by having pedunculated flowers, and an
acute or pointed conical calyptra. To obtain the juice
from this tree incifionj are made in the trunk of it,
and fometimes upwards of 60 gallons of red refinous
White's juice have been obtained from one of them. “ When
thisiuice is dried> ^ becomes a very powerful aftrin-
. gent gum-refin, of a red colour, much refembling that
known in the {hops by the name of lino, and, for all
medical purpofes, fully as efficacious. Mr White ad-
miniftered it to a great number of patients in the dy-
fentery, which prevailed much foon after the landing
of the convibls, and in no one inflance found it to fail.
This gum-refin diffolves almoft entirely in fpirit of
wine, to which it gives a blood-red tinblure. Water
diffolves about one-fixth part only, and the watery folu-
lion is of a bright red. Both thefe folutions are power¬
fully aftringent.”
Yellow Gum Resin, is procured from the yellow re¬
fin trefe, which is as large as the Englith walnut tree.
The properties of this refin are equal to thofe of the
moff fragrant balfams. It exudes from the bark fpon- Refin,
laneoufly, but more readily if incifions are made. The Refinance,
colour of it is yellow, and at firft it is fluid ; but after “
being infpiffated in the fun, it becomes fohd. When
burnt on hot coals, it fmells like a mixture of balfam
of Tolu and benzoin, approaching fomewhat to fforax.
“ It is perfebtly foluble in fpirit of wine, but not in wa- White's
ter, nor even in effential oil of turpentine, unlefs \tbe Voyage’:,
digefted in a ftrong heat. The varnilh which it makes Abla“ !X'
with either is very weak, and of little ufe. With re-
fpebt to its medicinal qualities, Mr White has found
it, in many cafes, a good pebloial medicine, and very
balfamic. It is not obtainable in fo great abundance as
the red gum produced by the eucalyptus refinifera.
The plant which produces the yellow gum feems to be
perfeblly unknown to botanifts, but Mr White has com¬
municated no fpecimens by which its genus or even clafs
could be determined.”
RESINOUS ELECTRICITY, is that kind of cleblri-
city which is produced by exciting bodies of the refin¬
ous kind, and which is generally negative. See Elec¬
tricity pajfim.
RESISTANCE, or Resisting Force, in Rhilofophy,
denotes, in general, any power which abls in an oppo-
fite direbtion to another, fo as to deftroy or diminiffi its
effebb See Mechanics, Hydrodynamics, and Pneu¬
matics. r
Of all the refiflances of bodies to each, there is un-importance
doubtedly none of greater importance than the re- °f die fub-
fiftance or reablion of fluids. It is here that we mufti6^
look for a theory of naval architeblure, for the impulfe
of the air is our moving power, and this muff be modi¬
fied fo as to produce every motion we want by the form
and difpofition of our fails; and it is the refiffance of
the water which muff be overcome, that the fliip may
proceed in her courfe ; and this muff alfo be modified
to our purpofe, that the fliip may not drive like a log to
leeward, but on the contrary may ply to windward,
that the may anfwer her helm brifldy, and that ffie may
be eafy in all her motions on the furface of the troubled
ocean. The impulfe of wind and water makes them
ready and indefatigable fervants in a thoufand lhapes for
driving our machines; and we Ihould iofe much of their
fervice did we remain ignorant of the laws of their ac¬
tion : they would fometimes become terrible mafters, if
we did not fall upon methods of eluding or foftening
their attacks. ^
We cannot refufe the ancients a confiderable know- The an-
ledge of this fubjebL It was equally interefting to them cients were
as to us •, and we cannot read the accounts of the naval tolerably
exertions of Phoenicia, Carthage, and of Rome, exertions
which have not been furpaffed by any thing of modern wkhffi
date, without believing that they poffeffed much prac¬
tical and experimental knowledge of this fubjebL It
■was not, perhaps, poffeffed by them in a ftrift and
fyftematic form, as it is now taught by our mathema¬
ticians •, but the mafter-builders, in their dockyards, did
undoubtedly exercife their genius in comparing the
forms of their fineff ftnps, and in marking thofe cir-
cumflances of form and dimenfion which were in faB
accompanied with the definable properties of a ffiip,
and thus framing to themfelves maxims of naval archi-
teblure in the fame manner as we do now. For we
believe that our naval architebls are not difpofed to
grant
Refiftance.
3
But even
now it is
not perfect¬
ly under-
ftood.
4
S’.rl. New¬
ton firft ap¬
plied ma¬
thematics
to it.
Difficulties
he met with
in it.
Me propo-
fed a
theory,
which does
not, how¬
ever, agree
with expe¬
riment.
RES [73
grant that they have profited much by all the labours
of the mathematicians. But the ancients had not made
any great progrefs in the phyficomathematical fciences,
which confift chiefly in the application of calculus to
the phenomena of nature. In this branch they could
make none, becaufe they had not the means of invefti-
gation. A knowledge oi the motions and actions of
fluids is acceflible only to thole who are familiarly ac¬
quainted with the fluxionary mathematics 5 and without
this key there is no admittance. Even when poflefled
of this guide, our progrefs has been very flow, helita-
ting, and devious; and we have not yet been able to
eftabliih any fet of doffiines which are fufceptible of an
eafy and confident application to the arts of life. If we
have advanced farther than the ancients, it is becaufe
we have come after them, and have profited by their
labours, and even by their mifiakes.
Sir Ifaac Newton was the firfi: (as far as we can re¬
collect) who attempted to make the motions and ac¬
tions of fluids the fubjeCt of mathematical difcuflion.
lie had invented the method of fluxions long before
he engaged in his phyfical refearches ; and he proceeded
in thefe fud matheji facem praferente. Yet even with
this guide he was often obliged to grope his way, and
to try various bye-paths, in the hopes of obtaining a
legitimate theory. Having exerted all his powers
in eftablifliing a theory of the lunar motions, he was
obliged to reft contented with an approximation in-
ftead of a perfeCI folution of the problem which afeer-
tains the motions of three bodies mutually afling on
each other. This convinced him that it was in vain
to expeft an accurate inveftigation of the motions and
aCIions of fluids, where millions of unfeen particles
combine their influence. Pie therefore call about to
find fome particular cafe of the problem which would
admit of an accurate determination, and at the fame
time furnifh circumftances of analogy or refemblance
fufficiently numerous for giving limiting cafes, which
ihould include between them thofe other cafes that did
not admit of this accurate inveftigation. And thus,
by knowing the limit to which the cafe propofed did
approximate, and the circumrtance -which regulated the
approximation, many ufeful propofitions might be de¬
duced for direfling us in the application of thefe doc¬
trines to the arts of life.
He therefore figured to himfelf a hypothetical col-
leflion of matter which pofleffed the charafleriftic pro¬
perty of fluidity, viz. the qudqudverfum propagation
of preflure, and the moft perfefl intermobility (pardon
the uncouth term) of parts, and which formed a phy¬
fical whole or aggregate, whofe parts were connefled
by mechanical forces, determined both in degree and
in direflion, and fuch as rendered the determination of
certain important circumftances of their motion fufcep¬
tible of precife inveftigation. And he concluded, that
the laws which he ftiould difeover in thefe motions muft
have a great analogy with the laws of the motions of
real fluids: And from this hypothefis he deduced a fe-
ries of propofitions, which form the bafis of almoft all
the theories of the impulfe and refiftance of fluids which
have been offered to the public fince his time.
It muft be acknowledged, that the refults of this
theory agree but ill with experiment, and that, in the
way in which it has been %ealoujhj profecuted by fubfe-
1 ] B E $
quent mathematicians} it proceeds on principles or aft Refiftance.
lumptions which are not only gratuitous, but even falfe. y—
But it aftords fuch a beautiful application of geometry
and calculus, that mathematicians have been as it were
fafeinated by it, and have publifhed fyftems fo elegant
and fo extenfively applicable, that one cannot help la¬
menting that the foundation is fo flimfy. John Ber¬
noulli’s theory, in his difiertation on the communica¬
tion of motion, and Bouguer’s in his Trade du Navirc,
and in his Theorie du Manceuvre et de la Mature dcs Vaif-
feaux, muft ever be confidered as among the fineft fpe-
cimens of phyficomathematical fcicnce which the world ^
has feen. And, with all its imperfeftions, this theory gut jt4 „ti~
ftfil furnifhes (as was expefled by its illuftrious author) lity is ftilt
many propofitions of iramenfe practical ufe, they be- vei7 cod¬
ing the limits to which the real phenomena of the im-^cra^ie'
pulle and refiftance of fluids really approximate. So
that when the law by which the phenomena deviate
from the theory is once determined by a well chofen
feries of experiments, this hypothetical theory becomes
almoft as valuable as a 'true one. And we may add,
that although Mr d’Alembert, by treading warily in
the fteps of Sir Ifaac Newton in another route, has
difeovered a genuine and unexceptionable theory, the
procefs of inveftigation is fo intricate, requiring every
fineffe of the moft abftrufe analyfis, and the final equa¬
tions are fo complicated, that even their moft expert
author has not been able to deduce more than one
Ample propofition (which too wTas difeovered by Daniel
Bernoulli by a more Ample procefs) which can be ap¬
plied to any ufe. The hypothetical theory of Newton,
therefore, continues to be the groundwork of all cur
praflical knowledge of the fubjeft.
We lhall therefore lay before our readers a very ftiort
view of the theory, and the manner of applying it. We
ftiall then fliow its defefls (all of which were pointed
out by its great author), and give a hiftorical account
of the many attempts which have been made to amend
it or to fubftitute another : in all which we think it our
duty to ftiow, that Sir Ifaac Newton took the lead, and
pointed out every path which others have taken, if we
except Daniel Bernoulli and d’Alembert; and we lhall
give an account of the chief fets of experiments which
have been made on this important fubjefl, in the hopes
of eftabliihing an empirical theory, which may be em¬
ployed with confidence in the arts of file. p ^
We know by experience that force muft be applied The term
to a body in order that it may move through a fluid, refiftance,
fuch as air or water •, and that a body projefled with
any velocity is gradually retarded in its motion, andp^j^^
generally brought to reft. The analogy of nature
makes us imagine that there is a force afling in the
oppofite dire£lion, or oppofing the motion, and that
this force refides in, or is exerted by, the fluid. And
the phenomena referable thofe which accompany the
known refiftance of a&ive beings, fuch as animals. There¬
fore we give to this fuppofed force the metaphorical
name of Resistance. We alfo know that a fluid in
motion will hurry a folid body along with the ftream,
and that it requires force to maintain it in its place.
A fimilar analogy makes us fuppofe that the fluid exerts
force, in the fame manner as when an aftive being im¬
pels the body before him ; therefore we call this the
IMPULSION of a Fluid. And as our knowledge of na-
4 Z 2 ture
RES [ 732 ] RES
Rf-fiiUnce. ture Informs us that the mutual aftions of bodies are in
v—^ £very cafe equal and oppofite, and that the obferved
change of motion is the only indication, charadderiftic,
and meafure, of the changing force, the forces are the
fame (whether we call them impulfions or refiftances)
when the relative motions are the fame, and therefore
depend entirely on thefe relative motions. The force,
therefore, which is neceffary for keeping a body im¬
moveable in a ftream of wrater, flowing with a certain
velocity, is the fame with what is required for moving
this body with this velocity through ftagnant water.
To any one who admits the motion of the earth round
the fun, it is evident that we can neither obferve nor
reafon from a cafe of a body moving through ftiil water,
nor of a ftream of water prefling upon or impelling a
quiefcent body.
A body in motion appears to be refifted by a ftag¬
nant fluid, becaufe it is a law of mechanical nature that
force muft be employed in order to put any body in
motion. Now the body cannot move forward without
putting the contiguous fluid in motion, and force muft
be employed lor producing this motion. In like man¬
ner, a quiefcent body is impelled by a ftream of fluid,
becaufe the motion of the contiguous fluid is diminilh-
ed by this folid obftacle; the reftftance, therefore, or
impulfe, no way differs from the ordinary communica-
10 tions of motion among folid bodies.
Sir Haac Sir Ifaac Newton, therefore, begins his theory of the
Newton reflftanee and impulfe of fluids, by felefting a cafe
twoffte swhere, though he cannot pretend to afcertain the mo-
fimilar in tions themfelves which are produced in the particles of
their parts, a contiguous fluid, lie can tell precifely their mutual ra-
and each ties.
part ha- pje fUpp0fcs pwo fyftems of bodies fuch, that each
ft'a'nt ratio" hody of the firft is fimilar to a correfponding body of
to each. the fecond, and that each is to each in a conftant ratio.
He alfo fuppofes them to be fimilarly fituated, that is,
at the angles of fimilar figures, and that the homologous
lines of thefe figures are in the fame ratio with the dia¬
meters of the bodies. He farther fuppofes, that they
attraft or repel each other in fimilar diredfions, and
that the accelerating connedling forces are alfo propor¬
tional ; that is, the forces in the one fyftem are to the
correfponding forces in the other fyftem in a conftant ra¬
tio, and that, in each fyftem taken apart, the forces are
as the fquares of the velocities direftly, and as the dia¬
meters of the correfponding bodies, or their diftances,
11 inverfely.
Effedt of This being the cafe, it legitimately follows, that if
the fimilar fimilar parts of the two fyftems are put into fimilar mo-
parts being tions, in any given inftant, they will continue to move
bon.m m° each correfpondent body deferibing ftmilar
curves, with proportional velocities: For the bodies be¬
ing fimilarly fituated, the forces which aft on a body in
ene fyftem, arifing from the combination of any number
of adjoining particles, will have the fame direftion with
the force afting on the correfponding body in the other
fyftem, arifing from the combined aftion of the fimilar
and fimilarly direfted forces of the adjoining correfpon¬
dent bodies of the other fyftem *, and thefe compound
forces will have the fame ratio with the fimple forces
which conftitute them, and will be as the fquares of
the velocities direftly, and as the diftances, or any ho¬
mologous lines inverfely j and therefore the chords cf
curvature, having the direftion of the centripetal or Rellftance.
centrifugal forces, and fimilarly inclined to the tangents ~v-—1
of the carves deferibed by the correfponding bodies,
wall have the fame ratio with the diftances of the par¬
ticles. The curves deferibed by the correfponding bodies
will therefore be fimilar, the velocities will be propor¬
tional, and the bodies will be fimilarly fituated at the
end of the firft moment, and expofed to the aftion of
fimilar and fimilarly fituated centripetal or centrifugal
forces ; and this wall again produce fimilar motions du¬
ring the next meraent, and fo on for ever. All this is
evident to any perfon acquainted with the elementary
doftrines of curvilineal motions, as delivered in the
theory of phyfical aftronomy. x
From this fundamental propofition, it clearly follow’s, Conil--
that if two fimilar bodies, having their homologous lines quence
proportional to thofe of the twm fyftems, be fimilarly cle{*uc.&'*
projefted among the bodies of thofe two fyftems wdth any hom ltj
velocities, they wdll produce fimilar motions in the twTo
fyftems, and will themfelves continue to move fimilarly j
and therefore will, in every fubfequent moment, fuffer
fimilar diminutions or retardations. If the initial velocities
of projeftion be the fame, but the denfities of the two
fyftems, that is, the quantities of matter contained in an
equal bulk or extent, be different, it is evident that the
quantities of motion produced in the tw?o fyftems in the
fame time wall be proportional to tbe denfities; and if
the denfities are the fame, and uniform in each fyftero,
the quantities of motion produced will be as the fquares
of the velocities, becaufe the motion communicated to
each correfponding body will be proportional to the ve¬
locity communicated, that is, to the velocity of the im¬
pelling body j and tbe number of fimilarly fituated par¬
ticles wdiich will be agitated will alfo be proportional to
this velocity. Therefore, the whole quantities of mo¬
tion produced in the fame moment of time wrill be pro¬
portional to the fquares of the velocities. And laftly, if
the denfities of the two fyftems are uniform, or the fame
through the whole extent of the fyftems, the number of
particles impelled by fimilar bodies will be as the furfaces
of thefe bodies.
Now the diminutions of the motions of the projefted
bodies are (by Newton’s third law of motion) equal to
the motions produced in the fyftems; and thefe diminu¬
tions are the meafures of what are called the refiftances
oppofed to the motions of the projefted bodies. There¬
fore, combining all thefe circumftances, the refiftances
are proportional to the fimilar furfaces of the moving bo¬
dies, to the denfities of the fyftems through which the
piotions are perfoimed, and to the fquares of the veloci¬
ties, jointly. _ ^
We cannot form to ourfelves any diftinft notion of a a
fluid, otherwife than as a fyftem of fmall bodies, or aconfidered
colleftion of particles, fimilarly or fymmetrically arran-as a
ged, the centres of each being fituated in the angles of°f jniail ;
regular folids. We muft form this notion of it, whether
we fuppofe, with the vulgar, that the particles are little ranged,
globules in mutual contaft, or, with the partifans of cor-
pufcular attraftions and repulfions, we fuppofe the parti¬
cles kept at a diftance from each other by means of thefe
attraftions and icpulfions mutually balancing each other.
In this laft cafe, no other arrangement is coniiftent with
a quiefcent equilibrium and in this cafe, it is evident,
from the th«ory of curvilineal motions, that the agi¬
tations
RES [ 733 ] RES
Refiftanre. tations of tbe particles will always be fucb, that the con-
nefting forces, in aftual exertion, wTill be proportional
to the fquares of the velocities dire&ly, and to the chords
of the curvature having the dire&ion of the forces in-
verfely.
Fir ft law of Prop. I. The refiftances, and (by the third law of mo-
“ tion), the impulfions of fluids on fimilar bodies, are
of fluids ' proportional to the furfaces of the folid bodies, to the
denfities of the fluids, and to the fquares of the velo¬
cities, jointly.
We mull now obferve, that when wre fuppofe the par¬
ticles of the fluid to be in mutual contaft, w'e may either
luppofe them elailic or unelatlic. The motion commu¬
nicated to the colleftion of elaftic particles mult be double
of what the fame body, moving in the fame manner,
would communicate to the particles of an elaftic fluid.
The impulfe and refiftance of elaftic fluids muft therefore
be double of thofe of unelaftic fluids.—But w7e muft
caution our readers not to judge of the elailicity of fluids
Elafticity hy their fenfible compreffibility. A diamond is incom-
©f water, parably more elaftic than the fineft foot ball, though not
comprefiible in any fenfible degree.—It remains to be
decided, by well chofen experiments, whether w'ater be
not as elaftic as air. If we fuppofe, wdth Bofcovich, the
particles of perfecl fluids to be at a diltance from each
other, wTe {hall find it difficult to conceive a fluid void
of elafticity. We hope that the theory of their impulfe
and refiftance will fuggeft experiments which will decide
this queltion, by pointing out what ought to be the ab-
folute impulle or refiftance in either cafe. And thus the
. fundamental propofition of the impulfe and refiftance of
fluids, taken in its proper meaning, is fufceptible of a ri¬
gid demonftration, relative to the only dillindt notion
that we can form of the internal conftitution of a fluid.
We fay, taken in its proper meaning ; namely, that the
impulfe or refiftance of fluids is a preffure, oppofed and
meafured by another preffure, fuch as a pound weight,
the force of a fpring, the preffure of the atmofphere, and
the like. And we apprehend that it would be very dif¬
ficult to find any legitimate demonftration of this leading
propofition different from this, which we have now bor¬
rowed from Sir Ifaac Newton, Prop. 23. B. II. Pnncip.
We acknowledge that it is prolix and even circuitous :
but in all the attempts made by his commentators and
their copyifts to fimplify it, we fee great defers of
logical argument, or aflumption oi principles, which
are not only gratuitous, but inadmiffible. We {hall
have occafion, as we proceed, to point out fome of thefe
defeats •, and doubt not but the illuftrious author of this
demonftration had exercifed his uncommon patience and
fagacity in fimilar attempts, aud was diffatisfied writh
them all.
Before we proceed farther, it will be proper to make
a general remark, which wdll fave a great deal of dilcuf-
fion. Since it is a matter of univerlal experience, that
every action of a body on others is accompanied by an
equal and contrary re aflion } and fince all that W'e can
demonftrate concerning the refiftance of bodies during
their motions through fluids proceeds on this fuppofition,
(the refiftance of the body being ajfumed as equal and
oppofite to the fum of motions communicated to the par-
ticks of the fluid; eftimated in the direction of the bodies
motion), wTe are intitled to proceed in the contrary order, Rtfiftance.^
and to confider the impulfions which each of the particles
of fluid exerts on the body at reft, as equal and oppofite
to the motion which the body w'ould communicate to that
particle if the fluid w7ere at reft, and the body were moving
equally fwift in the oppofite direction. And therefore
the whole impulfionof the fluid muft; be conceived as the
meafure of the whole motion which the body w ould thus
communicate to the fluid. It muft; therefore be alfo
confidered as the meafure of the refiftance which the
body, moving w7ith the lame velocity, would luftain
from the fluid. When, therefore, we {hall demonftrate
any thing concerning the impulfion of a fluid, eftimated
in the diredlion of its motion, rve muft confider it as de-
monftrated concerning the refiftance of a quicfcent fluid
to the motion of that body, having the fame velocity in
the oppofite direction. ’I he determination of thefe im¬
pulfions being much eafier than the determination of the mo¬
tions communicated by the body to the particles of the
fluid, this method wall be followed in moft of the fubfs4
quent difcuflions.
The general propofition already delivered is by means
fufficient for explaining the various important phenomena
obferved in the mutual actions of folids and fluids. In
particular, it gives us no affiftance in afcertaining the
modifications of this refiftance or impulfe, which depend
on the lliape of the body and the inclination of its impel¬
led or refilled furface to the direftion of the motion. Sir
Ifaac Newton found another hypothefis neceffary ; name¬
ly, that the fluid ftrould be fo extremely rare that the
diftance of the particles may be incomparably greater
than their diameters. This additional condition is necel-
fary for confidering their a£lions as fo many feparate col-
lifions or impulfions on a folid body. Each particle mull
be fuppofed to have abundant room to rebound, or other-
wife efcape, after having made its ftroke, without fenfi-
bly affedling the fituations and motions of the particles
which have not yet made their ftroke : and the motion
muft be fo fwift as not to give time for the fenfible
exertion of their mutual forces of attractions and repul-
fions.
Keeping thefe conditions in mind, we may proceed to
determine the impulfions made by a fluid on lurfaces ot
every kind : And the moft convenient method to purfue
in this determination, is to compare them all either with
the impulfe which the fame furface would receive from
the fluid impinging on it perpendicularly, or wfith the
impulfe which the fame f ream of fluid would make when
coming perpendicularly on a furlace of fuch extent as- to
occupy the w'hole ftream. _ 16
It will greatly abbreviate language, if we make u.e of rfcrms ex-
a few terms in an appropriated fenfe. . . , plained.
By zflream, w7e {hall mean a quantity of fluid moving
in one direftion, that is, each particle moving in parallel
lines j and the breadth of the ftream is a line perpendi¬
cular to all thefe parallels.
A filament means a portion of this ftream »f very
fmall breadth, and it confitts of an indefinite number of
particles following one another in the fame direClion,
and fucceflively impinging on, or gliding along, the fur¬
face of the folid body.
The bafe of any furface expofed to a ftream of fluid,
is that portion of a plane perpendicular to the ftream,
which is covered or proteCled irom the action 01 ^ne
ftream
/
Reuilance.
Plate
CCCCLXI.
Fij. i.
’U E 3 [
ftieara by tlie furface expofed to its impulfe. Thus the
bafe of a fphere expofed to a ftream of fluid is its great
circle, whole plane is perpendicular to the ilream. If
£C (flg. i.) be a plane lurface expofed to the aftion
of a llream of fluid, moving in the dire&ion DC, then
HR, or SE, perpendicular to DC, is its bafe.
Birstl impulfe (hall exprefs the energy or adfion of the
particle or filament, or ilream of fluid, when meeting the
lurface perpendicularly, or when the lurface is perpendi¬
cular to the direction of the ftream.
Abfolute impulfe means the actual preffure on the im¬
pelled furface, ariiing from the adtion of the fluid, whe¬
ther linking the furface perpendicularly or obliquely} or
it is the force imprelfed on the furface, or tendency to
motion which it acquires, and which mult be oppofed
by an equal force in the oppofite direction, in order that
the furface may be maintained in its place. It is of im¬
portance to keep in mind, that this preflure is always
perpendicular to the furface. It is a propofition found¬
ed on univerfal and uncontradicted experience, that the
mutual adtions of bodies on each other are always ex¬
erted in a direction perpendicular to the touching fur-
faces. 1 hus, it is obferved, that when a billiard ball
A is ftruck by another B, moving in any direction what¬
ever, the ball A always moves off in the diredtion perpen¬
dicular to the plane which touches the two balls in the
point of mutual contadl, or point of impulfe. This
indudtive propofition is iupported by every argument
which can be drawn from what we know concerning the
forces which conned! the particles of matter together,
and are the immediate caules of the communication of
motion. It would employ much time and room to
Rate them here ; and we apprehend that it is unnecef-
lary : for no reafon can be afbgned why the preflure
Ihould be in any particular oblique diredlion. If any
one fhould lay that the impulfe wall be in the diredtion
of the ftream, wre have only to defire him to take no¬
tice of the effedl of the rudder of a Ihip. This (hows
that the impulfe is not in the dircllion of the f ream, and
is therefore in fome diredlion tranfverfe to the ftream.—
Tie will alfo find, that when a plane furface is impelled
obliquely by a fiuid, there is no diredlion in wfoich it
can be fupported but the diredlion perpendicular to it-
felf. It is quite fafe, in the mean time, to take it as
an experimental truth. We may, perhaps, in fome
other part of this work, give what will be received as
a rigorous demonftration.
Relative or ejfe&ive impulfe means the preflure on the
furface eftimated in fome particular diredlion. Thus
BC (fig. i.) may reprefent the fail of a (hip, impelled
by the wind blowing in the dire&ion DC. GO may
be the diredlion of the (hip’s keel, or the line of her
courfe. The wind ftrikes the fail in the diredlion GH
parallel to DC j the fail is urged or preffed in the di¬
redlion GI, perpendicular to BC. But we are inte-
refted to know what tendency this will give the (hip to
move in the direaion GO. This is the effective or re¬
lative impulfe. Or BC may be the tranfverfe fedlion of
the fail of a common wind-mill. This, by the conftruc-
tion of the machine, can move only in the diredlion GP
perpendicular to the diredlion of the wind 5 and it is on¬
ly in this diredlion that the irnpulfe produces the defired
effedl. Or BC may be half of the prow of a punt or
lighter, riding at anchor by means of the cable DC, at¬
tached to the prowr C. In this cafe, GQ, parallel to
3
734 1 R E S
Dc-, is that part of the abfolute impulfe which is em- Rtfiftahce.
ployed in draining the cable. —v-~*~
I ne angle of incidence is the angle IGC contained
between the diredlion of the ftream EG and the plane BC.
Ihe angle of obliquity is the angle OGC contained
between the plane and the direction GO, in which we
with to eftimate the impulfe.
1 ROP. II. 1 he diredl impulfe of a fluid on a plane fur-Second law
face, is to its abiolute oblique impulfe on the fame fur-ot retift-
face, as the fquare of the radius to the fquare of theance*
fine of the angle of incidence.
^ Let a ftream of fluid, moving in the diredlion DC,
(fig. .1.), adl on the plane BC. With the radius CBpjg. r
deicribe the quadrant ABE. j draw CA perpendicular
to CE, and drawr MNBS parallel to CE. Let the par¬
ticle F, moving in the diredlion EG, meet the plane in
G, and in E G produced take GH to repreient the mag¬
nitude of the diredl impulie, or the impulfe wliich the
particle wrould exert on the plane AC, by meeting it in
V. Draw GI and HK perpendicular to BC, and HI
perpendicular to GI. Alio draw BR perpendicular to
J he force GH is equivalent to the two forces GI
and GK; and GK being in the diredlion of the plane
has no (hare in the impulie. The abfolute impulfe,
therefore, is reprefented by GI ; the angle GHI is’
equal to EGC, the angle of incidence; and therefore
GH is to GI as radius to the fine of the angle of inci¬
dence . I here!ore the diredl rmpulfo of each particle
or filament is to its abfolute oblique impulfe as radius to
the fine of the angle of incidence. But further, the
number of particles or filaments which (trike the furface
AC, is to the number of thofe which (trike the furface
BC as AC to NC : for all the filaments between LA
and MB go pall the oblique forface BC without ftrik-
ing it. But EC : NC = rad. : fin. NBC, = rad. : fin.
^GC, — rad.: fin. incidence. Now the whole impulfe
is as the impulfe of each filament, and as the number of-
(ilaments exerting equal impulfes jointly ; therefore the
whole diredl impulfe on AC is to the whole abfolute
impulfe on BC, as the fquare of radius to the fquare of
the fine of the angle of incidence.
Let S exprefs the extent of the furface, 1 the angle
of incidence, 0 the angle of obliquity, v the velocity of
the fluid, and d its denfity. _ Let F reprefent the diredl
impulfe, f the abfolute oblique impulfe, and ip the re¬
lative or effedtive impulfe : And let the tabular fines and
cofines be confidered as decimal fraaions of the radius
unity.
Ihis propofition gives us F ly'— R*: Sin.s i — \ \
Sind i, and therefore /- F x Sin.* i. Alfo, becaufe
impulses are in the proportion of the extent of furface
fimilarly impelled, we have, in general, y'=: FS x
Sin.*, i.
_ The fir ft who publiflied this theorem was Pardies, in
his Oeuvres de Mathematique, in 1673. We know that
Newton had inveftigated the chief propofitions of the
Principia before 1670.
Prop. III. The direa impulfe on any furface is to the Third kw.
effeaive oblique impulfe on the fame furface, as the
cube of radius to the folid, which has for its bafe the
fquare of the fine of incidence, and the fine of obli¬
quity for its height.
For,
Refiftance.
19.
Proportion
of the di¬
rect im¬
pure to tha
effedtive
oblique im-
pulfe.
1°
Impulfe on
a furface in
motion.
Fig. 2.
Proportion
of the di-
Jedt im-
pulfe of
a given
ftream to
the effec¬
tive oblique
impulfe in
the fame
diredtion.
R E S [ 73
For, vvlien GH reprefents the direcf impulfe of a par¬
ticle, GI is the abfolute oblique impulfe, and GO is the
effective impulfe in the direftion GO : Now GI is to
GO as radius to the fine of GIO, and GIO is the com¬
plement of 1GO, and is therefore equal to CGO, the
angle of obliquity.
Therefore f: <p—-R : Sin. O.
But F : y'rzR1: Sin.1 i
Therefore F : <p~Pt3 : Sin.1/ X Sin. O. and
F X Sin.* / X Sin. O.
Cor.—The direft impulfe on any furface is to the ef-
fedlive oblique impulfe in the diredlion of the ftream, as
the cube of radius to the cube of the fine of incidence.
For draw IQ and GP perpendicular to GH, and IP
perpendicular to GP j then the abfolute impulfe GI is
equivalent to the impulfe GQ in the diredlion of the
ftream, and GP, which may be called the tranfverfe im¬
pulfe. The angle GIO is evidently equal to the angle
GHI, or FGC, the angle of incidence.
Therefore f: q> — GI : GQ, ~ R : Sin. ?.
But F:/= ' R* : Sin.*/.
Therefore F : = R3 : Sin.3/.
And =: F X Sin.3 /.
Before we proceed further, we fhall confider the im¬
pulfe on a furface which is alfo in motion. This is evi¬
dently a frequent and an important cafe. It is perhaps
the moft frequent and important.: It is the cafe of a flap
under fail, and of a wind or water-mill at work.
Therefore, let a ftrearn of fluid, moving with the di-
redlion and velocity DE, meet a plane BC, ( fig. 2.)
which is moving parallel to itfelf in the direction
and with the velocity DF: It is required to determine
the impulfe ?
Nothing is more eafy : The mutual aflions of bodies
depend on their relative motions only. i he motion,
DE of the fluid relative to BC, which is alfo in motion,
is compounded of the real motion of the fluid and the
oppofite to the real motion of the body. Thercfoie pro¬
duce FD till D/zrDF, and complete the parallelogram
D fe E, and draw the diagonal D e. The itnpulfe on
the plane is the fame as if the plane were at reft, and
every particle of the fluid impelled it in the d i reel ion
and with the velocity D e; and may therefore be de¬
termined by the foregoing propofition. Ihis propolition
applies to every poflible cafe ; and we fhall not beftow
more time on it, but referve the important modification
of the general propofition for the cafes which {hall oc¬
cur in the praftical applications of the whole doftrine
of the impulfe and refiftance of fluids.
Prop. IV. The dire& impulfe of a ftream of fluid,
whofe breadth is given, is to its oblique effedive im¬
pulfe in the direftion of the ftream, as the fquare of
radius to the fquare of the line of the angle of inci¬
dence.
For the number of filaments which occupy tne ob¬
lique plane BC, would occupy the portion NC of a
perpendicular plane, and therefore we have only to
compare the perpendicular impulfe on any point V with
the effeiftive impulfe made by the fame filament FV on
the oblique plane at G. Now GH reprefents the im¬
pulfe which this filament would make at V j and G Q
is the effe&ive impulfe of the fame filament at G, efti-
5 1 RES
mated in the dire&ion GH of the ftream \ tuid GH is Refiftancf
to GQ as GH* to GI*, that is, as rad.* to fin.2/. ' ■" *
Cor. 1. The effeftive impulfe in the direction of the
ftream on any plane furface BC, is to the direct impulfe
on its bafe BR or SE, as the fquare of the fine of the
angle of incidence to the fquare of the radius.
2. If an ifofceles wedge ACB (fig. 3.) be expofed to Fig. 3,
a ftream of fluid moving in the direftion of its height
CD, the impulfe on the lides is to the direft impulfe on
the bafe as the fquare of half the bafe AD to the fquare
of the fide AC, or as the fquare of the fine of half the
angle of the wedge to the fquare of the radius. For it
is evident, that in this cafe the two tranfverfe impulfes,
fuch as GP in fig. x. balance each other, and the only
impulfe which can be obferved is the fum of the two
impulfes, fuch as GQ of fig. 1. which are to be compar¬
ed ivith the impulfes on the two halves AD, DB of the
bafe, Now AC : AB =2 rad. : fin. ACD, and ACD is
equal to the angle of incidence.
Therefore, if the angle ACB is a right angle, and
ACD is half a right angle, the i’quare of AC is twice
the fquare of AD, and the impulfe on the fides of a
re&angular wedge is half the impulfe on its bafe.
Alfo, if a cube ACBE (fig. 4.) be expofed to a Fig. 4.
ftream moving in a direction perpendicular to one of its
fides, and then to a ftream moving in a direction per¬
pendicular to one of its diagonal planes, the impulfe in
the firft cafe will be to the impulfe in the fecond as V2
to 1. Call the perpendicular impulfe on a fide F, and
the perpendicular impulfe on its diagonal plane f, and
the efledtive oblique impulfe on its lides q> ;—we have
F :/= AC : AB = 1 : ^2, and
f:q>— AC*: AD*r=; 2:1. Therefore
Y : 2 : ^2, = V 2 : 1, or
very nearly as 10 to 7.
The fame reafoning will apply to a pyramid whofe
bafe is a regular polygon, and whofe axis is perpendicu¬
lar to the bafe. If fuch a pyramid is expofed to a
ftream of fluid moving in the direction of the axis, the
direct impulfe on the bafe is to the effeftive impulfe on
the pyramid, as the fquare of the radius to the fquare of
the fine of the angle which the axis makes with the fides
of the pyramid.
And, in like manner, the direft impulfion on the bafe
of a right cone is to the effedtive impulfion on the coni¬
cal furface, as the fquare of the radius to the fquare of
the fine of half the angle at the vertex of the cone.
This is demonftrated, by fuppofing the cone to be a py¬
ramid of an infinite number of fides.
We may in this manner compare the impurfe on any
polygonal furface with the impulfe on its bafe, by com¬
paring apart the impulfes on each plane with thefe in -
their correfponding bafes, and taking their fum.
And we may compare the impulfe on a curved furface
with that on its bafe, by refolving the curved furface
into elementary planes, each of which is impelled by an
elementary filament of the ftream.
The following beautiful propofition, given by Le
Seur and Jaquier, in their Commentary on the fecond
book of Newton’s Principia, with a few examples of its
application, will Mice for any further account of this
theory.
& £ S
Hefiftance. Prop. V. Let ADB (fig. 5.) be tbe feftion of a furface
of firaple curvature, iuch as is tbe furface of a cylin¬
der. Let this be expofed to the aftion of a fluid
moving in the diredtion AC. Let BC be the feftion
of the plane (which we have called its bafe), perpen¬
dicular to the dircdlion of the tlream. In AC pro¬
duced, take any length CG ; and on CG deferibe the
fernicircle CHG, arid complete the rectangle BCGO.
Through any point D of the curve draw ED parallel
to AC, and meeting BC and OG in Q and P. Let
DF touch the curve in D, and draw the chord GH
parallel to DF, and HKM perpendicular to CG,
meeting ED in M. Suppofe this to be done for every
point of the curve ADB, and let LMN be the curve
which paffes through all the points of interfedtion of
the parallels EDP and the correfponding perpendicu¬
lars HKM.
The effedtive impulfe on the curve furface ADB in
the diredtion of the ftream, is to its diredt impuffe on
the bafe BC as the area BCNL is to the rectangle
BCGO.
Draw edqrnp parallel to EP and extremely near it.
The arch D of the curve may be conceived as the
fedtion of an elementary pldne* having the pofition of
the tangent DF. The angle EDF is the angle of in¬
cidence of the filament ED*/e. This is equal to CGH,
becaufe ED, DF, are parallel to CG, GH 5 and (be-
eaufe CHG is a femicircle) CH is perpendicular to
GH. Alfo CG : CH Z= CH : CK, and CG : CK =
CG1 : CHZ, = rad.* : fin.*, CGH, ~ rad,* : fin.1 in-
cid. Therefore if CG, or its equal DP, reprefent the
diredt impulfe on the point O of the bafe, CK, or its
equal QM, will reprelent the effective impulfe on the
point D of the curve. And thus, Q ^ P will repre¬
fent the diredt impulfe of the filament on the element
(>) <7 of the bafe, and wz M will reprefent the ef-
fedtive impulfe of the lame filament on the element
D d of the curve. And, as this is true of the whole
curve ADB, the effedtive impulfe on the whole curve
will be reprefented by the area BCNML ; and the di¬
redt impulfe on the bafe wall be reprefented by the redt-
angle BCGO } and therefore the impulfe on the curve-
furface is to the impulfe on the bafe as the’area BLMNC
is to the redtangle BOGC.
It is plain, from the conflrudtion, that if the tangent
to the curve at A is perpendicular to AC, the point N
will coincide with G. Alfo, if the tangent to the
curve at B is parallel to AC, the point L will coincide
with B.
"Whenever, therefore, the clirve ADB is fuch that an
equation can be had to exhibit the general relation be¬
tween the abfeifla AR and the ordinate DR, we fliall
deduce an equation which exhibits the relation between
the abfeifs C K and the ordinate K M of the curve
LMN ; and this will give us the ratio of BLNC to
BOGC.
Thus, if the lurface is that of a cylinder, fo that the
curve BDA£ (fig. 6.), which receives the impulfe of
the fluid, is a femicircle, make CG equal to AC, and
conftrudt the figure as before. The curve BMG is a
parabola, wdiofe axis is CG, whofe vertex is G, and
whofe parameter is equal to CG. For it is plain, that
CG = DC, and GH = CQ, = MK. And CG X G K
as GH* — KM*. That is,,the curve is fuch, that- the
4
ft £ S
fquare of the ordinate KM is equal to the redtangle of Refutanee.
the abfeiffa GK and a conftant line GC ; and it is there-
fore a parabola whofe vertex is G. Now, it is well
known, that the parabolic area BMGC is two thirds
of the parallelogram BCGO. Therefore the impulfe
on the quadrant ADB is two thirds of the impulle on
the bafe BC. The fame may be faid of the quadrant
Kdb and its bafe cb. Therefore, The impulfe on a cy- xhe im-
hnder or half cylinder is two thirds of the direEl impulfe pulfe on a
on its tranfuerfe plane through the axis ; or it is two cylinder,
thirds of the diredt impulfe on one fide of a parallelepiped
of the fame breadth and height.
Prop. VI. If the body be a folid generated by the re¬
volution of the figure BDAC (fig. 5.) round the axis
AC; and if it be expofed to the adtion of a ftream of
fluid moving in the diredtion of the axis AC ; then
the effedtive impulfe in the diredtion of the ftream is
to the diredt impulfe on its bafe, as the folid generated
by the revolution of the figure BLMNC round the
axis CN to the cylinder generated by the revolution
of the redtangle BOGC.
This fcarcely needs a demonftration. The figure
ADBLMNA is a fedtion of thefe folids by a plane paf-
fing through the axis ; and what has been demonftrated
of this fedtion is true of every other, becaufe they are all
equal artd fimilar. It is therefore true of the w'hole fo¬
lids, and (their bafe) the circle generated by the revo¬
lution of BC round the axis AC.
Hence we eafily deduce, that The impulfe on a fphere a fphere,
is one half of the direct impulfe on its great circle^ or on and
the bafe of a cylinder of equal diameter.
For in this cafe the curve BMN (fig. 6.) which ge¬
nerates the folid exprefling the impulfe on the fphere
is a parabola, and the folid is a parabolic conoid. Now
this conoid is to the cylinder generated by the revolution
of the redtangle BOGC round the axis CG, as the fum
of all the circles generated by the revolution of ordinates
to the parabola fuch as KM, to the fum of as many
circles generated by the ordinates to the redtangle fuch
as KT ; or as the fum of all the fquares deferibed on
tbe ordinates KM to the fum of as many fquares deferibed
on tbe ordinates KT. Draw BG cutting MK in S. The
fquare on MK is to the fquare on BC or TK as the
abfeiffa GK to the abfeiffa GC (by the nature of the
parabola), or as SK to EC; becaufe SK and BC are
refpedtively equal to GK and GC. Therefore the fum
of all the fquares on ordinates, fiich as MK, is to the
fum of as many fquares on ordinates, fuch as TK, as the
fum of all the lines SK to the fum of as many lines TK ;
that is, as the triangle BGC to the redlangle BOGC ;
that is, as one to twm : and therefore the impulfe on the
fphere is one half of the diredl impulfe on its great circle.
From the fame conftrudtion we may very eafily de- on thc
duce a very curious and feemingly ufeful truth, that of fruftum of
all conical bodies having the circle whofe diameter isa cone*
AB (figi 3.) for its bafe, and FD for its height, the
one which fuftains the fmalleft impulfe or meets with
the fmalleft refiftanCe is the fruftum AGHB of a cone
ACB fo conftrudted, that EF being taken equal to ED,
EA is equal to EC. This fruftum, though more ca¬
pacious than the cone AFB of the fame height, will be
lefs refifted.
Alfo, if the folid generated by tbe revolution of
BDAC (fig. J.) have its anterior part covered with a
fruftum
t 73<S 1
The im¬
pulfe on a
curvet fur¬
face com¬
pared with
that oil his
bafe
Flg- 5-
Reliftance
26
^Different
^mpulfions
cooi|)ared
'with the
prefTure of
gravity.
H £ S [7
fru^um of a cone generated by the lines Da, a A,
forming the angle at a of 135 degrees j this folid,
though more capacious than the included folid, will be
lefs refifted.
And, from the fame principles, Sir Ifaac Newton
determined the form^of the curve ADB, which would
generate the folid which, of all others of the fame
length and bafe, flrould have the lead refillance.
Thefe are curious and important deductions, but are
not introduced here, for realbns which will foon ap¬
pear.
The reader cannot fail to obferve, that all that we
have hitherto delivered on this fubjeft, relates to the
comparifon of different impulfes or refiftances. We
have always compared the oblique impulfions with the
dire£f, and by their intervention we compare the ob¬
lique impullions with each other. But it remains to
give abfolute meafures of fome individual impullion ;
to which, as to an unit, we may refer every other.
And as it is by their preffure that they become ufe-
ful or hurtful, and they muff be oppofed by other pref-
fures, it becomes extremely convenient to compare them
all with that preffure with w'hich we are molt familiarly
acquainted, the preffure of gravity*
The manner in which the comparifon is made, is this.
When a body advances in a fluid with a known velocity,
it puts a known quantity of the fluid into motion (as is
fuppofed) with this velocity; and this is done in a known
time. We have only to examine what weight will put
this quantity of fluid into the fame motion, by aCting on
it during the fame time. This weight is conceived as
equal to the refiftance. Thus, let us fuppofe that a
Bream of water, moving at the rate of eight feet per fe-
cond, is perpendicularly obllruCted by a fquare foot of
folid furface held faff in its place. Conceiving water to
aa in the manner of the hypothetical fluid now describ¬
ed, and to be without elafticity, the \yhole effba is the
gradual annihilation of the motion ot eight cubic feet of
water moving eight feet in a fecond. And this is done
in a fecond of time. It is equivalent to the gradually
putting eight cubic feet of water into motion with this
velocity ; and doing this by aaing uniformly during a
fecond. What weight is able to produce this effed ?
The weight of eight feet of water, aeffing during a fe¬
cond on it, will, as is Well known, give it the velocity
of thirty-two feet per fecond ; that is, four times greater.
Therefore, the weight of the fourth part of eight cubic
feet that is, the weight of two cubic feet, afting dur¬
ing a fecond, will do the fame thing, or the weight of
a ^column of water whofe bafe is a fquare loot, and
whofe height is two feet. This will not only produce
this effeft in the fame time with the impulfion ot the io-
lid body but it will alfo do it by the fame degrees, as
any one’ will clearly perceive, by attending to the gra¬
dual acceleration of the mafs of water urged by one-
fourth of its weight, and comparing this with the gra¬
dual production or exthaion of motion m the fluid by
the nrogrefs of the reflfted furface.
Now it is well known that eight cubic feet of w;|ter»
by falling one foot, which it will do in one fourth ot
a fecond, will acquire the velocity of eight feet per te-
cond by its weight; therefore the force which produ¬
ces the fame effea in a whole fecond is one-tourth ot
tbis This force is therefore equal to the weight of a
column of water, whofe bafe is a fquare toot, and whole
Vol. XVII. Part II.
37 ] It E S
height is two feet; that is, twice the height neceffary R-efutancf,
for acquiring the velocity of the motion by gravity. '
The conclufion is the fame whatever be the iiirface
that is refifted, whatever be the fluid that reiifts, and
whatever be the velocity of the motion. In this induc¬
tive and familiar manner we learn, that the direci im-
pulfe or rejifiance of an unelajlic fluid on any plane fur¬
face, is equal to the weight of a column of the fluid hav¬
ing the furface for its bafe, and twice the fall necejfary
for acquiring the velocity of the motion for its height: and
if the fluid is confidered as elaftic, the impulfe or refift¬
ance is twice as great. See Newt. Princip. B. II. prop.
35. and 38. _ . . 27
It now remains to compare this theory with experi-This theory
ment. Many have been made, both by Sir Ifaac New-tIied byd;f*
ton and by fubfequent writers. It is much to be
mented, that in a matter of fuch importance, both to
the philofopher and to the artift, there is fuch a difa-
greement in the refults with each other. We {hall
mention the experiments which feem to have been made
with the greateft judgement and care. I bofe of Sir
Ifaac Newton were chiefly made by the ofcillations of
pendulums in water, and by the deicent oi balls both in
water and in air. Many have been made by Mariotte
(Traite de Mouvement des Eaux). Gravefande has pub-
liftied, in his System of Natural Philofophy, experiments
made on the reftftance or impulftons on ioiids in the
midft of a pipe or canal. They are extremely well con¬
trived, but are on fo fmall a fcale that they are of very
little ufe. Daniel Bernoulli, and his pupil Profeffor
Kraffr, have publiftied, in the Comment. Acad. Petropol.
experiments on the impulfe of a ftream or vein of water
from an orifice or tube ; TLhefe are ot great value, the
Abbe Boffut has publiflred others of the fame kind in
his Hydrodynamique. Mr Robins has publiihed, m his
New Principles of Gunnery, many valuable expeiiments
on the impulfe and refiftance of air. Ihe Ciiev. de
Borda, in the Mem. Acad. Paris, 1763 and 1767, has
given experiments on the refiftance ol air and alio of
water, which are very interefting. I he molt complete
colle&ion of experiments on the refiftance of water are
thofe made at the public expence by a committee of the
academy of fciences, confifting of the marquis de Con-
dorcet, Mr d’Alembert, Abbe boffut, and others. L he
Chev. de Buat, in his Hydraulique, has publiftied fome
moft curious and valuable experiments, where niany im¬
portant circumftances are taken notice ol, which had
never been attended to before, and which give a view
of the fubject totally different from what is ufually ta¬
ken of it. Don George d’Ulloa, in his Examine Ma¬
ritime, has alio given fome important experiments, fimi-
lar to thofe adduced by Bouguer in his Manoeuvre des
Vaifeaux, but leading to very different conclufions. All
thefe fhould be confulted by fuch as would acquire a
praftical knowledge of this fubjeft. We muft content
ourfelves with giving their moft general and fteady re¬
fults. Such as,
1. It is very confonant to experiment that the rehlt-
ances are proportional to the Iquares of the velocities.
When the velocities of water do not exceed a levs feet
per fecond, no fenfible deviation is obferved. In very
fmall velocities the refiftances are fenfibly greater than
in this proportion, and this excefs is plainly owing to
the vilbidity or imperfedt fluidity of water. Sir Ifaac
Newton has fliown that the refiftance arifing from this
- A cau-ie
R E S [ 7
RtWcarcf. cauie is conftant, or the fame in every vdcciiy j and
when he has taken off a certain part of the total refift-
fisrce, he found tire remainder was very exailly propor¬
tionable to the fquare of the velocity. His experiments
-to this purpofe were made with balls a very little hea¬
vier than water, lb as to defcend very (lowly ; and they
were made with his ufual care and accuracy, and may
28 be depended on.
Canfes of In the experiments made with bodies floating on the
Tvient1 bI C ^uf^ace w/ater, there is an addition to the refiffance
with them. arifing f10111 the inertia of the water. The water heaps
up a little on the anterior furface of the floating body,
and is depreffed behind it. Hence arifes a hydroffatical
prellure, afling in concert with the true refillance. A
limilar thing is obferved in the reiiftance of air, which
is condenfed before the body and rarefied behind it, and
thus an additional refiftance is produced by the unba¬
lanced elaflicity of the air 5 and alfo becaufe the air,
which is^ actually difplaced, is denfer than common air.
Thefe circumftances caufe the refiftances to increafe
fader than the fquares of the velocities : but, even in¬
dependent of this, there is an additional refiftance ari-
iing from the tendency to rarefaction behind a very
iwnt body 5 becaufe the preffure of the furrounding
tiuid can only make the fluid fill the (pace left with a
determined velocity.
v\ e have had occafion to fpeak of this circumftance
more particularly under Gunnery and Pneumatics,
when confidering very rapid motions. Mr Robins had
remarked that the velocity at which the obferved re¬
fiftance of the air began to increafe fo prodigioufly, was
that of about 1100 or 1200 feet per fecond, and that
this was the velocity with which air would rufli into a
void. He concluded, that when the velocity was great-
ci than tnis, the ball was expofed to the additional re¬
fiftance arifing from the unbalanced ftatical preffure of
the air, and that this conftant quantity behoved to be
tiuded to the refiftance arifing from the air’s inertia in
all greater velocities. This is very reafonable : But he
imagined that in imaller velocities there was no fuch
unbalanced preffure. But this cannot be the cafe : for
although in fmaller velocities the air will ftill fill up the
*pace behind the body, it will not fill it up with air of
/ue fame denfity. I his would be to fuppofe the mo-
' !^on the air into the deferted place to be inftantane-
’ ous. There rnuft therefore be a rarefaftion behind the
body, and a preffure backward; arifing from unbalan¬
ced elafticity, independent of the condenfation on the
anterior part. The condenfation and rarefadlion are
caufed by the (lime thing, viz. the limited elafticity of
the air. Were this infinitely great, the fmalleft conden-
fation before the body w’ould be inftantly diffufed over
the wrhole air, and fo ivould the rarefaftion, fo that no
preffure of unbalanced elafticity wmuld be obferved ; but
-he elafticity is fuch as to propagate the condenfation
with the velocity of found only, 7'. e. the velocity of
1142 feet per fecond. Thereiore this additional re¬
fiftance does not commence precifely at this velocity,
but is ienfible in all fmaller velocities, as is very juftly
obferved by Euler. But we are net yet able to afeer-
tam the law of its increafe, although it is a problem
which (eems fufceptible of a tolerably accurate folu-
tion.
. Precifely fimilar to this is the refiftance to the mo¬
tion of Keating bodies, arifing from the accumulation
38 ] R E S
or gorging up of the water on their anterior furface, PcfiT
and its depreffion behind them.- Were the gravity of '—-“v-
the water infinite, while its inertia remains the fame,
tne wave railed up at the prow of a (hip would be in¬
ftantly diffufed over the whole ocean, and ii would
therefore be infinitely fmall, as alfo the depreffion be¬
hind the poop. But this wave requires time for its
diffufion ; and while it is not diffufed, it acts by hydrolla-
tical preffure. We are equally unable to aiceriain the
law of variation of this part of the refiflance, the me-
chanifm of waves being but very imperfectly under-
ftood. The height of the wave in the experiments of
the French academy could not be meafured with fuffi-
cient. precifion (being only obferved en pyjj'ant') for af-
certaining its relation to the velocity. The chev. Euat
attempted it in his experiments, but without fuccefs. This
mult evidently make a part of the refiftance in all velo¬
cities : and it ftill remains an undecided queftion, “ What
relation it bears to the velocities ?” When the folid bo¬
dy is wholly buried in the fluid, this accumulation docs
not take place, or at leaft not in the fame way : It
may, however, be obferved. Every perion may recoi¬
led, that in a very fwift running ftream a large ft one
at the bottom will produce a fmall fvvell above it ; un-
lefs it lies very deep, a nice eye may ftill obferve it.
1 Ire water, on arriving at the obftacle, glides paft it m
every diredion, and is defleded on all hands; and there-
fore what pafles over it is alfo defleded upwards, and
caufes the water over it to rife above its level. lie
nearer that the body is to the furface, the greater will
be the perpendicular rife of the water, but it will be
lefs dihufed; and it is uncertain whether the whole ele¬
vation will be greater or Ids. By the whole elevation
we mean the area of a perpendicular fedion of the ele¬
vation by a plane perpendicular to the diredion of the
ftream. We are rather difpofed to think that this area '
will be greateft when the body is near the furface.
H’Ulloa has attempted to conftder this fubjed fcienU-
ficaliy ; and is of a very different opinion, which he
confirms by the fingle experiment to be mentioned by
and by. . Mean time, it is evident, that if the water
which glides part the body cannot fall in behind it with '
fufficient velocity for filling up the fpace behind, there
muft be a void there ; and thus a hydroftatical preffure
muft be fuperadded to the refiflance arifing from the
inertia of the water. All muft have obferved, that if
tne end of a flick held in the hand be drawn (lowly
through the w ater, the water will fill the place left by
the flick, and there will be no curled wrave : but if the
motion be very rapid, a hollow trough or gutter is left
behind, and is not filled up till at f’ome diflance from
the flick, and the wave which forms its fides is very
much broken and curled. The writer of this article
has often looked into the water from the poop of a
fecond rate man of wTar when fhe was failing 11 miles
per hour, which is a velocity of 16 feet per fecond
nearly ; and he not only obferved that the back of the
rudder w^as naked for about two feet below' the load
water-line, but alfo that the trough or w ake made by the
fhip was filled up with w-ater which was broken and
foaming to a confiderable depth, and to a confiderahle
diftance from the veffel : There muft therefore have been
a void. He never faw the wake perfcclly tranfparent
(and therefore completely filled with water) when the
velocity exceeded 9 or 10 feet per fecend. While this
broken
V\ E. S
Refiftarce. broken water is obferved, there can be no doubt that
there is a void and an additional refinance. But even
when tiie fpace left by the body, or the fpace behind a
ftill body expol’ed to a ftream, is completely filled, it
may not be filled fufficiently faft, and there may be
(and certainly is, as we fiiali fee afterwards) a quantity
of water behind the body, which is moving more {low¬
ly away than the reft, and therefore hangs in fome
fiiape by the body, and is dragged by it, increafing the
refinance. The quantity of this muft depend partly on
the velocity of the body or ftream, and partly on the
rapidity wdth which the lurrouhding w7ater comes in
behind. This laft muft depend on the preffure of the
furrounding water. It would appear, that when this
adjoining preffure is very great, as muft happen when
the depth is great, the augmentation of refiftance now
fpoken of would be lefs. Accordingly this appears in
Newton’s experiments, where the balls were lefs retard¬
ed as they wTere deeper under wTater.
Thefe experiments are fo fimple in their nature, and
were made wdth fuch care, and by a perfon fo able to
detedl and appreciate every circumftance, that they de-
ferve great credit, and the conclufions legitimate!;! drawn
from them deferve to be confidered as phyfical laws.
We think that the prefent deduflion is unexception¬
able : for in the motion of balls, which hardly defeend-
ed, their preponderancy being hardly fenfible, the effedl
of depth muft have borne a very great proportion to the
whole refiftance, and muft have greatly influenced their
motions; yet they wTere obferved to fail as if the refift¬
ance had no way depended on the depth.
The fame thing appears in Borda’s experiments,
where a fphere which was deeply immerfed in the water
was lefs refilled than one that moved with the fame ve¬
locity near the furface ; and this was very conftant and
regular in a courfe of experiments. D’Ulloa, however,
affirms the contrary : He fays that the refiftance of a
board, rvhich -was a foot broad, immerfed one foot in a
ftream moving two feet per fecond, was 154 lbs. and the
refiftance to the fame board, when immerfed 2 feet in a
ftream moving x-f feet per fecond (in -which cafe the
fin-face was 2 feet), was 26^- pounds (a).
We are very forry that wTe cannot give a proper ac¬
count of this theory of refiftance by Don George Juan
D’Ulloa, an author of great mathematical reputation,
and the infnedfor of the marine academies in Spain. We
■have not been able to procure either the original or the
French tranflation, and judge of it only by an extraift
by Mr Prony in his ArchiteBure Hydralique, § 868.
&c. The theory is enveloped (according to Mr Pro-
ny’s cuftom) in the moll complicated exprefllons, fo that
the phyfical principles are kept almoft out of fight.
When accommodated to the fimpleft poffible cafe, it is
nearly as follows.
Let 0 be an elementary orifice or portion of the fur-
face of the fide of a veffel filled with a heavy fluid, and
let h be its depth under the horizontal furface of the
fluid. Let ^ be the denfity of the fluid, and the ac¬
celerative power of gravity, = 32 feet velocity acquired
in a fecond.
[ 739 1
RES
■29
Singula¬
rity of
D’Ulioa’s
experi¬
ments.
30
tyS theory
“of reiift-
ance.
It is known, fays he, that the water would flow out Rd-ftaace.
at this hole with the velocity and u2~2(ph
ll3"
and /£:=—. It is alfo known that the preffure /> on
• • ll^
the orifice 0 h q> 00 h, — 0 ^0 ux.
Now, let this little furface 0 be fuppofed to move
with the velocity v. The fluid would meet it with the
velocity a-j-u, or u—v, according as it moved in the
oppofite or in the fame diredlion with the efflux. In
the equation p — \ ^ ou1, fubftitute u z±zv for u, and
0 0 ^
wre have the preffure on o~pz=— (zyzTuu)1, ——
This preffure is a weight, that is, a mafs of matter
m actuated by gravity <?, or /> r= <p tn, and m—^o
ibis elementary furface being immerfed in a ftag-
nant fluid, and moved with the velocity v, will fuftain
on one fide a preffure £ 0 ^ ^/i
other fide a preffure 0 (*/ h-
V 2<p
and on the
sj ^
and the fen¬
fible refiftance will be the difference of thefe two pref-
fures, which is 3 0 4 J h—li— or ooAJh-,-, that
*/ 2 q> ^ Q
. c) 0 hv
y' 2<p’
becaufe /y/2^ — 8
a quantity which is
in the fubduplicate ratio of the depth under the furface
of the fluid, and the fimple ratio of the velocity of the
refilled furface jointly.
There is nothing in experimental philofophy more
certain than that the refiftances are very nearly in the
duplicate ratio of the velocities ; and we cannot con¬
ceive by what experiments the ingenious author has fup-
ported this conclufion.
But there is, befides, what appears to us to be an Defe^tr ,-n'
effemial defedl in this inveftigation. The equation ex-his invelft-
hibits no refiftance in the cafe of a fluid without weight, gation.
Now a theory of the refiftance of fluids ftiould exhibit
the retardation arifing from inertia alone, and ftiould di-
fiinguifh it from that arifing from any other caufe : and
moreover, while it ajfigns an ultimate fenfible refiftance
proportional (cceterisparibus) to the fimple velocity, it
([{fumes as a firft principle that the preffure p is as 7/
It alfo gives a falfe meafure of the ftatical preffures : for
thefe (in the cafe of bodies immerfed in our w-aters at
leaf!) are made up of the preffure of the incumbent wa¬
ter, which is meafured by and the oreffure of the at-
mofphere, a conftant quantity.
Whatever reafon can be given for fetting out with
the principle that the preffure on the little" furface 0,
moving with the velocity u, is equal to 4- 2 0 (vriru)1,
makes it indifpenfably neceffary to take for the velocity
u, not that with which water would iffue from a hole
vvhofe depth under the furface is h, but the velocity
5 A 2 with
(a) There is fomething very unaccountable in thefe experiments. The refiftances are much greater than any
other author has obferved.
RES' [740
ftance. ^vith which it will iffue from a hole whofe depth
"v is -f- 33 feet. Becaufe the prelfure of the atmo-
fphere is equal to that of a column of water 33 feet
high : for this is the acknowledged velocity with which
it wTould ruih in to the void left by the body. If
therefore this velocity (which does not exift) has any
fliare in the effort, we muff have for the duxion of
preffure not - y-—but 4-~-—. This would not
V 2<p *J2<P
only give preffure or refiftances many times exceeding
thofe that have been obferved in our experiments, but
would alfo totally change the proportions which this
theory determines. It was at any rate improper to em-
barrafs an invefligation, already very intricate, with the
preffure of gravity, and with two motions of efflux,
which do not exift, and are neceffary for making the
preflures in the ratio of and u—v*.
Mr Prony has been at no pains to inform his readers
of his reafons for adopting this theory of refiftance, fo
contrary to all received opinions, and to the moft diftinft
experiments. Thofe of the French academy, made un¬
der greater preffures, gave a much fmaller refiftance ;
and the very experiments adduced in fupport of this
theory are extremely deficient, wanting fully one-third
of what the theory requires. The refiftances by experi¬
ment wrere 15-^ and 26^, and the theory required 204-
and 39. The equation, however, deduced from the
theory is greatly deficient in the expreffion of the pref-
1 lures cauled by the accumulation and depreflion, Hating
the heights of them as =r . They can never be fo
high, becaufe the heaped-up wyater flow’s off at the
lides, and it alfo comes in behind by the fides j fo that
the preffure is much lefs than half the weight of a co-
lumn wfflofe height is -— j both becaufe the accumula¬
tion and deprefflon are lefs at the fides than in the mid¬
dle, and becaufe, when the body is wholly immerfed,
the accumulation is greatly diminifhed. Indeed in this
cafe, the final equation does not include their effects,
though as real in this cafe as when part of the body is
above water.
Upon the whole, we are fomewhat furprifed that an
author of D’Ulloa’s eminence fhould have adopted a
theory fo unneceffarily and fo improperly embarraffed
with foreign circumftances ; and that Mr Prony fhould
have inferted it with the explanation by which he w?as
to abide, in a work deftined for practical ufe.
This point, or the effefl of deep immerfion, is ftill
much contefted ; and it is a received opinion, by many
not accuftomed to mathematical refearches, that the re-
fiftance is greater in greater depths. This is affumed as
an important principle by Mr Gordon, author of a T/ie-
cry of Naval ArchiteBure ; but on very vague and flight
grounds : and the author feems unacquainted wnth the
manner of reafoning on fuch fubjefts. It fhall be con-
fidered afterwards.
With thefe corredfions it may be afferted that theory
and experiment agree very wmll in this refpeft, and that
the refiftance may be afferted to be in the duplicate ra¬
tio of the velocity.
We have been more minute on this fubjeft, becaufe
it is the leading prppofition in the theory of the action
] RES
of fluids. Newton’s demonftration of it takes no notice Refinance,
of the manner in which the various particles of the fluid *
are put in motion, or the motion which each in particu¬
lar acquires. He only fhows, that if there be nothing
concerned in the communication but pure inertia, the
fum total of the motions of the particles, eftimated in
the direction of the bodies motion, or that of the ftream,
will be in the duplicate ratio of the velocity. It w’as
therefore of importance to fhow that this part of the
theory was juft. To do this, w?e had to conftder the ef-
fetft of every circumftance which could be combined
with the inertia of the fluid. All thefe had been fore-
feen by that great man, and are moft briefly, though
perfpicuoufly, mentioned in the laft fcholium to prop.
36. B. II. . _
2. It appears from a comparifon of all the experi- impulfe
ments, that the impulfes and reftftances are very nearly and refift-
in the proportion of the furfaces. They appear, how’-anfesnear*
ever, to increafe fomewhat fafter than the furfaces. The
chevalier Borda found that the reftftance, wdth the fame the fur-
velocity, to a furface of
faces.
9 inches'
16
36
81
► inftead of
9
. WuSSd
I 42,75°
-I04>737J
The deviation in thefe experiments from the theory
increafes with the furface, and is probably much greater
in the extenfive furfaces of the fails of ftiips and wind¬
mills, and the hulls of (hips.
3. The refiftances do by no means vary in the dupli¬
cate ratio of the fines of the angles of incidence.
As this is the moft interefting circumftance, having
a chief influence on all the particular modifications of
the refiftance of fluids, and as on this depends the whole
theory of the conftruftion and W’orkiiig of flrips, and the
action of -water on our moft important machines, and
feems moft immediately connefted with the mechanifm
of fluids, it merits a very particular confideration. We
cannot do a greater fervice than by rendering more ge¬
nerally known the excellent experiments of the French
academy.
Fifteen boxes or veffels were conftrudfted, which were EXpe^f_
two feet wide, two feet deep, and four feet long. One ments of
of them was a parallelepiped of thefe dimenfions j the the French
others had prows of a wedge form, the angle ACE aca^eiriy>
(fig. 8.) varying by 12° degrees from i2°to i8o°j fo Fig. S.
that the angle of incidence increafed by 6° from one to
another. Thefe boxes were dragged acrofs a very large
bafon of fmooth water (in which they were immerfed
two feet) by means of a line pafflng over a wheel con-
nefted with a cylinder, from which the aftuating weight
was fufpended. The motion became perfectly uniform
after a very little w’ay ; and the time of pafiing over 96
French feet with this uniform motion was very careful¬
ly noted. The refiftance was meafured by the weight
employed, after deducing a certain quantity (properly
eftimated) for fri&ion, and for the accumulation of the
w’ater againft the anterior furface. The refults of the
many experiments are given in the following table j
where column ift contains the angle of the prow’, co¬
lumn 2d contains the refiftance as given by the preced¬
ing theory, column 3d contains the refiftance exhibited
in the experiments, and column 4th contains the devia¬
tion of the experiment from the theory.
Rose Alexander
RES
^fiftance.
I.
180
168
^6
144
132
120
108
96
84
72
60
48
36
24
12
II.
10000
9890
9568
9°45
8346
75°°
6545
5523
4478
3455
2500
j654
955
432
109
III.
10000
9893
9578
9084
8446
7710
6925
6148
5433
4800
44°4
4240
4T42
4063
3999
IV.
o
+3
-j-10
+ 39
+100
-j- 2 xo
-j-380
+625
+ 955
+ 1345
4-1904
4-2586
+3i87
+363!
4-3890
34
ar.d other
The refiftance to I fquare foot, French meafure, mo¬
ving with the velocity of 2,56 feet per fecond, was very
nearly 7,625 pounds French.
Reducing thefe to Englilh meafures, we have the fur-
face = 1,1363 feet, the velocity of the motion equal
to 2,7263 feet per fecond, and the refiftance equal to
8,234 pounds avoirdupois. The weight of a column
of frefh w’ater of this bafe, and having for its height
the fall neceffary for communicating this velocity, is
8,264 Pounds avoirdupois. The refinances to other ve¬
locities were accurately proportional to the fquares of the
velocities.
There is great diverhty in the value which different
authors have deduced for the abfolute refiftance of wTa-
ter from their experiments. In the value now given
nothing is taken into account but the inertia of the wa¬
ter. The accumulation againft the forepart of the box
was carefully noted, and the ftatical preflure backwards,
arifing from this caufe, was fubtrafted from the whole
refiftance to the drag. There had not been a fufficient
variety of experiments for difcovering the ftiare which
tenacity and friftion produced ; fo that the number of
pounds fet down here may be confidered as fomewhat
fuperior to the mere efFe£fs of the inertia of the water.
We think, upon the whole, that it is the moft accurate
determination yet given of the refiftance to a body in
motion : but we fhall afterwards fee reafon for believing,
that the impulfe of a running ftream having the fame
velocity is fomewhat greater j and this is the form in
which moft of the experiments have been made.
Alfo obferve, that the refiftance here given is that to
a veflel two feet broad and deep and four feet long.
The refiftance to a plane of two feet broad and deep
would probably have exceeded this in the proportion of
15,22 to 14,54, for reafons we (hall fee afterwards.
5. From the experiments of Chevalier Buat, it appears
that a body of one foot fquare, French meafure, and
two feet long, having its centre 15 inches under water,
moving three French feet per fecond, luftained a prefiure
of 1454 French pounds, or 15,63 Englifh. This redu¬
ced in the proportion of 31 to 2,56* gives 11,43 Poun8s,
confiderably exceeding the 8,24.
Mr Eouguer, in his Manoeuvre des V'iijfeauxfays. that
he found the refiftance of fea-water to a velocity of one
foot to be 23 ounces poids des Marc.
The chevalier Borda found the refiftance of fea-w ater
to the face of a cubic foot, moving againft the w-ater
one foot per fecond, to be 21 ounces nearly. But this
741 ] RES.
experiment is complicated : the wave was not dedmSled j Refinance.
and it was not a plane, but a cube. v
Don George d’UUoa found the impulfe of a ftream of
fea-water, running two feet per fecond on a foot fquare,
to be 154 pounds Englifti meafure. . This greatly ex¬
ceeds all the values given by others. 35
From thefe experiments we learn, in the firft place, Confequen-
that the dire£t reftftance to a motion of a plane furface ces fr°ra
through water, is very nearly equal to the weight of a
column of water having that furface for its bafe, and
for its height the fall producing the velocity of the mo¬
tion. This is but one half of the refiftance determined
by the preceding theory. It agrees, how’ever, very well
with the beft experiments made by other philofophers on
bodies totally immerfed or furrounded by the fluid j and
fufficiently ftiowrs, that there muft be fome fallacy in the
principles or reafoning by which this refult of the theory
is fuppofed to be deduced. We ihall have occafion to
return to this again.
But we fee that the effefts of the obliquity of inci¬
dence deviate enormoully from the theory, and that this
deviation increafes rapidly as the acutenefs of the prow
increafes. In the prow of 6o° the deviation is nearly
equal to the whole refiftance pointed out by the theory,
and in the prow of 12° it is nearly 40 times greater than
the theoretical refiftance.
The refiftance of the prow of 90° fhould be one halt
the refiftance of the bafe. We have not fucb a prow 5
but the medium between the refiftance of the prow' of
96 and 84 is 5790, inftead of 500.
Thefe experiments are very conform to thofe of other
authors on plane furfaces. Mr Robins found the refift¬
ance of the air to a pyramid of 450, with its apex fore-
moft, was to that of its bafe as 1000 to 1411, inftead
of one to twm. Chevalier Borda found the refiftance of
a cube, moving in w7ater in the dire£!ion of the fide,,
was to the oblique refiftance, when it was moved in the
direcfion of the diagonal, in the proportion of 5J- to 7 4.
whereas it ftiould have been that of ^2 to 1, or of 1 o to 7
nearly. He alfo found, that a wedge whofe angle was
90°, moving in air, gave for the proportion of the refift-
ances of the edge and bafe 7281 : 10000, inftead of
5000 : 10000. Alfo, when the angle of the wedge
was 6o°, the refiftances of the edge and bale were 52
and 100, inftead of 25 and 100.
In Ihort, in all the cafes of oblique plane furfaces, the
refiftances were greater than thofe which are afligned by
the theory. The theoretical law agrees tolerably with
obfervation in large angles of incidence, that is, in inci¬
dences not differing very far from the perpendicular j
but in more acute prows the rtfiftances are more nearly
proportional to the fines- of incidence than to their
fquares.
The academicians deduced from thefe experiments
an expreffion of the general vaiue of tne refiftance,
which correfponds tolerably well with obfervation. Thus
let .v be the complement of the half angle of the prow,,
and let P he the direft preffure or refiftance, with an
incidence of 90°, and /> the effecTive oblique preffure :
/ \ 2 2 r
then /> = P X cofine1* 4- 3,153 + This gives
for a prow of 1 2° an error in defeft about -rs-?? and nv
larger angles it is much nearer the truth 5 and this is
exact enough for any practice.
This is an abundantly fimple formula j but if we in¬
troduce
©
c4
RES' r 740 ] RES
with which it will iffue from a hole vvhofe depth
is -f* 33 J3ecaufe the pi'effare of the atmo-
fphere is equal to that of a column of water 33 feet
high : for this is the acknowledged velocity with which
it would rulh in to the void left by the body. If
therefore this velocity (which does not exift) has any
lliare in the effort, we muff have for the tluxion of
prdfure not ^^V, but . This would not
V 2<? 2<p
only give preffure or refiftances many times exceeding
thofe that have been obferved in our experiments, but
would alfo totally change the proportions which this
theory determines. It was at any rate improper to em-
barrafs an inveftigation, already very intricate, with the
preffure of gravity, and with two motions of efflux,
which do not exift, and are neceffary for making the
preflures in the ratio of u-j-v1 and u—tft.
Mr Prony has been at no pains to inform his readers
of his reafons for adopting this theory of refiftance, fo
contrary to all received opinions, and to the moft diftinft
experiments. Thofe of the French academy, made un¬
der greater preffures, gave a much fmaller refiftance ;
and the very experiments adduced in fupport of this
theory are extremely deficient, wanting fully one-third
of what the theory requires. The refiftances by experi¬
ment were 15^ and 26\, and the theory required 20?
and 39. The equation, however, deduced from the
theory is greatly deficient in the expreffion of the pref¬
fures caufed by the accumulation and depreflion, ftating
the heights of them as — —. They can never be fo
high, becaufe the heaped-up vrater flow’s off at the
fides, and it alfo comes in behind by the fides; fo that
the preffure is much lefs than half the weight of a co-
v1
lumn whofe height is — ; both becaufe the accumula¬
tion and depreffion are lefs at the fides than in the mid¬
dle, and becaufe, when the body is wholly immerfed,
the accumulation is greatly diminilhed. Indeed in this
cafe, the final equation does not include their effects,
though as real in this cafe as when part of the body is
above water.
Upon the whole, we are fomew’hat furprifed that an
author of D’Ulloa’s eminence fhould have adopted a
theory fo unnecefiarily and fo improperly embarraffed
with foreign circumftances •, and that Mr Prony fhould
have inferted it with the explanation by which he wras
to abide, in a work deftined for practical ufe.
This point, or the effect of deep immerfion, is ftill
much contefted ; and it is a received opinion, by many
not accuftomed to mathematical refearches, that the re¬
fiftance is greater in greater depths. This is affumed as
an important principle by Mr Gordon, author of a T/ie-
cry of Naval ArchiteBure ; but on very vague and flight
grounds : and the author feems unacquainted wfith the
manner of reafoning on fuch fubjedts. It fhall be con-
fidered afterwards.
With thefe correftions it may be afferted that theory
and experiment agree very well in this refpefr, and that
the refiftance may be afferted to be in the duplicate ra¬
tio of the velocity.
We have been more minute on this fubjeff, becaufe
it is the leading prppofition in the theory of the a£tion
of fluids. Newton’s demonftration of it takes no notice Refinance,
of the manner in which the various particles of the fluid >
are put in motion, or the motion which each in particu¬
lar acquires. He only ftrows, that if there be nothing
concerned in the communication but pure inertia, the
fum total of the motions of the particles, eftimated in
the direction of the bodies motion, or that of the ftream,
will be in the duplicate ratio of the velocity. It w’as
therefore of importance to fhow that this part of the
theory was juft. To do this, we had to confider the ef¬
fect of every circumftance which could be combined
with the inertia of the iluid. All thefe had been fore-
feen by that great man, and are moft briefly, though
perfpicuoufly, mentioned in the laft fcholium to prop.
36. B. II. .
2. It appears from a comparifon of all the experi- Impulfe
merits, that the impulfes and refiftances are very nearly and refift-
in the proportion of the furfaces. They appear, howr-anfes near"
ever, to increafe fomewhat fafter than the furfaces. The
chevalier Borda found that the refiftance, wfith the fame the iur-
velocity, to a furface of
faces.
9 inches
16
36
81
7 r9 7
> was < r 1
f / 42>750 f
J LI04>737 J
inftead of
The deviation in thefe experiments from the theory
increafes with the furface, and is probably much greater
in the extenfive furfaces of the fails of fhips and wind¬
mills, and the hulls of (hips.
3. The refiftances do by no means vary in the dupli¬
cate ratio of the fines of the angles of incidence.
As this is the moft interefting circumftance, having
a chief influence on all the particular modifications of
the refiftance of fluids, and as on this depends the w hole
theory of the conftru&ion and working of fhips, and the
adlion of w’ater on our moft important machines, and
feems moft immediately conneffed with the mechanifm
of fluids, it merits a very particular confideration. We
cannot do a greater fervice than by rendering more ge¬
nerally known the excellent experiments of the French
academy.
Fifteen boxes or veffels were conftru&ed, which w’ere Expeit-
two feet wide, twro feet deep, and four feet long. One merits of
of them was a parallelopiped of thefe dimenfions •, the the French
others had prows of a wTedge form, the angle ACE a^-deniy,
(fig. 8.) varying by 12° degrees from i2°to 180°; fo Fff. S.
that the angle of incidence increafed by 6° from one to
another. Thefe boxes were dragged acrofs a very large
bafon of fmooth water (in which they were immerfed
two feet) by means of a line palling over a wheel con-
nefted with a cylinder, from which the actuating weight
was fufpended. The motion became perfeflly uniform
after a very little wTay j and the time of palling over 96
French feet with this uniform motion was very careful¬
ly noted. The refiftance wTas meafured by the weight
employed, after deducing a certain quantity (properly
eftimated) for friftion, and for the accumulation of the
water againft the anterior furface. The refults of the
many experiments are given in the following table y
w’hcre column xft contains the angle of tire prowq co¬
lumn 2d contains the refiftance as given by the preced¬
ing theory, column 3d contains the refiftance exhibite
in the experiments, and column 4th contains the devia
tion of the experiment from the theory.
I
RES
[ 74
R^fiftance.
I.
180
168
*56
144
132
120
108
96
84
72
60
48
3^
24
12
II.
10000
9890
9568
9° 4 5
8346
7500
6545
5523
4478
3455
2 (TOO
1^54
955
43 2
109
III.
10000
9893
9578
9084
8446
7710
6925
6148
5433
4800
44°4
4240
4142
4063
3999
IV.
o
+3
-}-jo
+ 39
+ICO
+ 210
4-380
+625
+ 955
+ 1345
+ 19°4
+ 2586
+3i87
+3631
4-3890
34
ar.d others.
The refinance to I fquare foot, French meafure, mo¬
ving with the velocity of 2,36 feet per fecond, was very
nearly 7,625 pounds French.
Reducing thefe to Englifh meafures, we have the fur-
face — 1,1363 feet, the velocity of the motion equal
to 2,7263 feet per fecond, and the refiflance equal to
8,234 pounds avoirdupois. The weight of a column
of frefh water of this bafe, and having for its height
the fall neceffary for communicating this velocity, is
8,264 poun(ls avoirdupois. The refiitances to other ve¬
locities were accurately proportional to the fquares of the
velocities.
There is great diverfrty in the value which different
authors have deduced for the abfolute refiitance of wa¬
ter from their experiments. In the value now given
nothing is taken into account but the inertia oi the wa¬
ter. The accumulation againft the forepart of the box
was carefully noted, and the ilatical preffure backwards,
arifing from this caufe, 'was fubtra£ted from the whole
refiftance to the drag. There had not been a fufhcient
variety of experiments for difcovering the tliare wThich
tenacity and friftion produced } fo that the number of
pounds fet down here may be conlidered as fomewhat
faperior to the mere effects of the inertia of the w7ater.
We think, upon the whole, that it is the moft accurate
determination yet given of the reliilance to a body in
motion : but wTe (hall afterwards fee reafon for believing,
that the impulfe of a running ftream having the fame
velocity is fomewhat greater ; and this is the form in
which moft of the experiments have been made.
Alfo obferve, that the refiftance here given is that to
a veffel two feet broad and deep and four feet long.
The refiftance to a plane of two feet broad and deep
would probably have exceeded this in the proportion of
15,22 to 14,54, for reafons we (hall fee afterwards.
From the experiments of Chevalier Buat, it appears
that a body of one foot fquare, French meafure, and
two feet long, having its centre 15 inches under water,
moving three French feet per fecond, luftained a preffure
of 1454 French pounds, or I5»63 Englifh. Phis redu¬
ced in the proportion of 3* to 2,56* gives u,43 Pounds,
confiderably exceeding the 8,24.
Mr Bouguer, in his Manoeuvre des Vaijfeaux,ffays, tnat
he found the refiftance of fea-water to a velocity of one
foot to be 23 ounces poids des Marc.
The chevalier Borda found the refiftance of fea-w ater
to the face of a cubic foot, moving againft the water
one foot per fecond, to be 2J ounces nearly. But this
i ] RES.
experiment is complicated : the wave was not dedu&ed; RfMance.
and it wms not a plane, but a cube. v
Don George d’Ulloa found the impulfe of a ftream of
fea-water, running two feet per fecond on a foot fquare,
to be 15^ pounds Englifh meafure. , P'his greatly ex¬
ceeds all the values given by others. 35
From thefe experiments we learn, in the firft place, Confequen-
that the diretft refiftance to a motion of a plane furface ces
through water, is very nearly equal to the weight of a l^em'
column of water having that furface for its bafe, and
for its height the fall producing the velocity of the mo¬
tion. 'Phis is but one half of the refiftance determined
by the preceding theory. It agrees, however, very well
with the belt experiments made by other philofophers on
bodies totally immerfed or furrounded by the fluid ; and
fufficiently ftiowrs, that there muft be fome fallacy in the
principles or reafoning by which this refult of the theory
is fuppofed to be deduced. We ftiall have occafion to
return to this again.
But we fee that the effetts of the obliquity of inci¬
dence deviate enormoufly from the theory, and that this
deviation inmeafes rapidly as the acutenefs of the prow
increafes. In the prow of 6o° the deviation is nearly
equal to the whole refiftance pointed out by the theory,
and in the prow of 12° it is nearly 40 times greater than
the theoretical refiftance.
The refiftance of the prow of 90° fhould be one halt
the refiftance of the bafe. We have not fuch a prow 5
but the medium between the refiftance of the prow7 of
96 and 84 is 5790, inftead of 500.
Thefe experiments are very conform to thofe of other
authors on plane furfaces. Mr Robins found the refift¬
ance of the air to a pyramid of 450, with its apex fore-
moft, was to that of its bafe as 1000 to 1411, inftead
of one to twm. Chevalier Borda found the refiftance of
a cube, moving in water in the direftion of the fide,,
was to the oblique refiftance, when it was moved in the
direction of the diagonal, in the proportion of 5J- to 7 4
w'hereas it fhould have been that of ^/2 to 1, or of 1 o to 7
nearly. He alfo found, that a wedge whofe angle was
90°, moving in air, gave for the proportion of the refift-
ances of the edge and bafe 7281 : 10000, inftead of
5000 : 10000. Alfo, when the angle of the wedge
was 6o°, the refiftances of the edge and bafe were 52
and 100, inftead of 25 and too.
In fhort, in all the cafes of oblique plane furfaces, the
refiftances were greater than thofe which are afligned by
the theory. The theoretical law agrees tolerably with
obfervation in large angles of incidence, that is, in inci¬
dences not differing very far from the perpendicular 5
but in more acute prows the refiftances are more nearly
proportional to the fines- of incidence than to their
fquares.
The academicians deduced from thefe experiments
an expreffion of the general vaiue of the refiftance,
which correfponds tolerably well with obfervation. Thus
let x be the complement of the half angle of the p^ow,.
and let P be the direct preffure or refiftance, with an
incidence of QO°, and /> the effeiftive oblique preffure :
25
then /> = P X cofine1 *4-3,153 {g>J' ■ Tins gives
for a prow of 12° an error in defeft about 3118 hv
larger angles it is much nearer the truth , and this is
exact enough for any practice.
This is an abundantly Ample formula 3 but if we in¬
troduce
\
R E S
[
KciifUt.cc troduce it in our calculations of the reSftanccs of curvi-
—2;neaj prowSj rencjers them fo complicated as to be al-
moft u^elefs ; and what is M’orfc, when the calculation
is completed for a curvilineal prow, the refiftance which
refults is found to differ widely from experiment. This
fhows that the motion of the iiuid is fo modified by the
action of the mod prominent part of the prow, that its
impulfe on what fucceeds is greatly a fie died, lo that we
are not allowed to confider the prow as compofed of a
number of parts, each of which is affected as if it were
detached from all the refi.
As the very nature of naval architecture feems to re¬
quire curvilineal forms, in order to give the necelfary
Ilrength, it feemed of importance to examine moie par¬
ticularly the deviations of the refiltances of fuch prows
from the refifiances afligned by the theory. The aca¬
demicians therefore made veffels with prows of a cylin¬
drical fliapeone of thefe was a half cylinder, and tire
other was one-third of a cylinder, both having the fame
breadth, viz. two feet, the fame depth, alfo two feet,
and the fame length, four feet. The refiftance of the
half cylinder was to the refiftance of the perpendicular
prow in the proportion of 13 to 25, inftead of being as
13 to 19.5. The chevalier Borda found nearly the
lame ratio of the refiftances of the half cylinder, and its
diametrical p’ane when moved in air. He alfo compa¬
red the refiftances of two prifms or wedges, of the fame
breadth and height. The firft had its fides plane, in¬
clined to the bafe in angles of 6o° : the fecond had its
tides portions of cylinders, of which ihe planes were the
chords, that is, their fe£tions were arches of circles of
6o°. Their refiftances were as 133 to 100, inftead of
being as 133 to 220, as required by the theory j and as
the refiftance of the firft was greater in proportion to
that of the bale than the theory allows, the refiftance of
the laft was lefs.
Mr Robins found the refiftance of a fphere moving
in air to be to the refiftance of its great circle as 1 to
2.27 ; whereas theory requires them to b* as 1 to 2.
He found, at the fame time, that the abfolute refiftance
was greater than the weight of a cylinder of air of the
lame diameter, and having the height neceffary for ac¬
quiring the velocity. It wTas greater in the proportion
of 49 to 40 nearly.
Borda found the refiftance of the fphere moving in
■water to be to that of its great circle as toco to 2508,
and it was one-ninth greater than the weight of the"co¬
lumn of water whole height was that nect ffiu v for pro-
ducingthe velocity. lie alio found the refiftance of air
to the fphere was to its refiftance to its great circle as 1
to 2.45.
It appears, on the whole, that the theory gives the
■gives fome refiftance of oblique plane furfaces too (mail/and that
too^fmalT 0f curved Zir/aces to° great; and that it is quite unfit
andoThcrs *°r a^certaining the modifications of refiftance arifing
too great. from the figure of the body. The moft prominent part
of th« prow changes the idlion of the fluid on the fuc-
ceeding parts, rendering it totally different from what it
would be were that part detached from the reft, and ex¬
posed to the ftream with the fame obliquity. It is of no
confequence, therefore, to deduce any formula from the
valuable experiments of the French academy. The ex¬
periments themfelves are of great importance, becaufe
they give us the impulfes on plane furfaces with every
obliquity. They therefore put it in our power to feledt
2
36
The theory
42 I R ES
the moft proper obliquity in a thoufand Important cafes. Re H ft an re.
By appealing to them, we can tell what is the proper -~i'
angle of the fail for producing the greateft impulfe in the
direction of the thip’s courfe ; or the belt inclination of
the fail of a wind-mill, or the beft inclination of the
float ora water-wheel, &:c. &c. Thefe deductions will
be made in their proper places in the courfe of this
work. We fee alfo, that the deviation from the fimple
theory, is not very confiderable till the obliquity is
great; and that, in the inclinations which other circum-
ftances would induce us to give to the floats of water-
wheels, the fails of wind-mills, and the like, the refults
of the theory are fufficiently agreeable to experiment,
for rendering this theory of very great ufe in the con-
ftiuftion of machines. Its great defedt is in the impul-
fions on curved furfaces, w'hich puts a flop to our im¬
provement of the fcience of naval architedlure, and the
working of fhips.
But it is not enough to detedl the faults of the theo¬
ry : we fliculd try to amend it, or to fubflitute ano¬
ther. It is a pity that fo much ingenuity fhould have
been thrown away in the application of a theory fo de-
fedlive. Mathematicians were feduced, as has been al¬
ready obferved, by the opportunity which it gave for
exercifing their calculus, which was a new7 thing at the
lime of publifhing this theory. Newton faw clearly
the defedls of it, and makes no ufe of any part of it
in his fubfequent difcuflions, and plainly has ufed it
merely as an introdudlion, in order to give fome gene¬
ral notions in a fubjeft quite new, and to give a demon-
flration of one leading truth, viz. the proportionality of
the impulfions to the fquares of the velocities. While wye
profefs the higheft refpedt for the talents and labours
of the great mathematicians who have followed New¬
ton in this moft difficult refearcb, we cannot help being
forry that fome of the greateft of them continued to
attach themfelves to a theory which he negledled, mere¬
ly becaufe it afforded an opportunity of difplaying their
profound knowledge of the new calculus, of w hich they
were willing to alcribe the difcovery to Leibnitz. It
has been in a great meafure owing to this that we have
been fo late in difcovering our ignorance of the fub-
jeft. Newton had himfelf pointed cut all the defeclsj-.5 ;///•><,
of this theory ; and he fet himfelf to work to difcoverted out
another which fhould be more conformable to the na-by New-
ture of things, retaining only fuch dedudfions from.theton-
other as his great fagacity allured him would Hand the
left of experiment. Even in this he feems to have been
miflaken by bis followers. He retained the pronor-
iionality of the refiftance to the fquare of the velccitv.
This they have endeavoured to demonftrate in a man¬
ner conformable to Newton’s determination of the
oblique impulfes of fluids; and under the cover of the
agreement of this propofition with experiment, they in¬
troduced into mechanics a mode of expreffien, and even
of conception, which is inconfiftent with all accurate
notions of thefe fubjedls. Newton’s propofition was,
that the motions communicated to the fluid, and there¬
fore the mo1 ions loft by the body, in equal times, were
as the fquares of the velocities; and he conceived thefe
as proper mcafures of the refiftances. It is a matter of
experience, that the forces or preffures by which a body
mult be fupported in oppofition to the impulfes of
.fluids, are in this very proportion. In determining the
proportion of the diredt and oblique refiftances of plane
furfaces.
RES [ 743 ] RES
Refinance, fur faces, he confidfets the refiftances to arife from mu-
*——v—‘— tual colliuons of the furface and fluid, repeated at inter¬
vals of time too ini dll to be perceived. But in making
this companion, he has no occaflon whatever to conii-
der this repetition ; and when he ailigns the proportion
between the refiliance of a cone and of its bafe, he, in
fact, affigns the proportion between two Jimultaneous
and mftantaneous impuifes. But the mathematicians
who followed him have confidered this repetition as
equivalent to an augmentation of the initial or firfl im-
pulfe ; and in this way have attempted to demonllrate
that the refiltances are as the fquares of the velocities.
When the velocity is double, each impulfe is double,
and the number in a given time is double ; therefore,
fay they, the refiltance, and the force which will with-
frand it, is quadruple ; and obfervation confirms their
dedudlien : yet nothing is more gratuitous and illogi¬
cal. It is very true that the refiitance, conceived as
Newton conceives it, the Ids of motion fuflamed by a
body moving in the fluid, is quadruple j but the inilan-
taneous impulfe, and the force which can withftand it,
is, by all the laws of mechanics, only double. What is
„s the force which can withftand a double impulfe ? No-
No compa- thing but a double impulfe. Nothing but impulfe can
rif n be- be oppofed to impulle ^ and it is a grofs mifconceplion
tween im to fhjp.k of ilating any kind of comparifon between irn-
preil’ur r'Cl Pu^e ancl preffure. It is this which has given rife to
J e much jargon and falie realoning about the force of
percuffion. This is ftated as infinitely greater than
any preffure, and as equivalent to a preflure infinitely
repeated. It forced the abettors of thefe do&rines at
laft to deny the exiftence of all preffure whatever, and
to afl'ert that all motion, and tendency to motion, was
the refult of impulfe. The celebrated Euler, perhaps
the firfl: mathematician, and the lowed: philofopher, of
this century, fays, “ fince motion and impulfe are feen
to exlft, and fince we fee that by means of motion pref¬
fure may be produced, as when a body in motion ftrikes
another, or as when a body moved in a curved channel
preffes upon it, merely in confequence of its curvilineal
motion, and the exertion of a centrifugal force ; and fince
Nature is mofi: wifely economical in all her operations;
it is abfurd to fuppofe that preffure, or tendency to mo¬
tion, has any other origin 5 and it is tne bufinefs of a
philofopher to difeover by what motion any obferved
preffure is produced.” Whenever any preffure is ob¬
ferved, fuch as the preffure of gravity, of magnetifm,
of ele&ricity, condenfed air, nay, of a fpring, and ef
elafticity and cohefion themfelves, however difparate,
nay, oppofite, the philofopher muff immediately caff
about, and contrive a fet of motions ^creating pro re
nr.td the movers) which will produce a preffure like
the one obferved. Having pleafed his fancy with this,
he cries out ivpy.a “ this will produce the preffure et
frujlra fit per plum quod fen poteft per pnucioT <j, ‘ there¬
fore in this way the preffure is produced.” I bus the
vortices of E* fcartes are brought back in triumph, and
have produced vortices without number, which fill the
univerfe with motion and preflure.
Such bold attempts to overturn long-received doc-
tr’nes in mechanics, could not be received without much
criticifm and oppofition ; and many able differtations
appeared from time to time in defence of the common
dodlrines. In confequence of the many objeflions to
the comparifon of pure preffure with pure percuffion
or impulfe, John 'Bernoulli and others were at laiT obji- Refiftanee.
ged to affert that there were no pet fedliy hard bodies
in nature, nor could be, but that all bodies were elanic $
and that in the communication of motion by percuffion,
the velocities of both bodies were gradually changed by
their mutual elafficity adting during the finite but im¬
perceptible time of the collilion. This was, in faff, gi¬
ving up the whole argument, and baniihing percuffion,
while their aim was to get rid of preffure. For what is
elafficity but a preffure l and how ihali it be produced ?
To a£t in this inftance, muff it arife from a full Fmaller
impulfe ? But this will require another elarticity, and lo
on without end.
Thefe are all legitimate confequenccs of this attempt
lo ftate a companion betweeen percuffion and preflure.
Numberlefs experiments have been made to confirm the
ftatement; and there is hardly an itinerant lecluxing
ffiowman who does not exhibit among his apparatus
Gravefande’s machine (Vol. I. plate xxxv. fig. 4.).
But nothing affords fo fpecious an argument as the ex-
perimenled proportionality of the impulfe of fluids to
the fquare of the velocity. Here is every appearance
of the accumulation of an infinity of minute impuifes,
in the known ratio of the velocity, each to each, pro¬
ducing preflures which dre in the ratio of the fquares oi
the velocities.
The preffures are obferved ; but the impuifes or per-
cuffions, whole accumulation produces thefe preffures,
are only fuppofed. The rare fluid, introduced by New¬
ton for the purpofe already mentioned, either does not
exift in nature, or does not a£t in the manner we have
faid, the particles making their impulfe, and then efca-
ping through among the reft without affecting their mo¬
tion. We cannot indeed fay what may be the proportion
between the diameter and the diftance of the particles:
The fir ft may be incomparably fmaller than the fecond,
even in mercury, the denfeft fluid which we are famili¬
arly acquainted with : but although they do not touch
each other, they aft nearly as if they did, in confe¬
quence of their mutual attraftions and repulfions. We
have, feen air a thoufand times rarer in feme experi¬
ments than in others, and therefore the dillance of the
particles at leaft ten times greater than their diameters;
and yet, in this rare ftate, it propagates all preffures or
impuifes made on any part of it to a great diftance, almoft
in an inftant. It cannot be, therefore, that fluids aft
on bodies by impulfe. It is very poffible to conceive
a fluid advancing with a flat furface againft the flat
furface of a folid. The very firft and fuperficial par¬
ticles may make an impulle \ and if they were annihi¬
lated, the next might do the fame : and if the velocity
were double, thefe impuifes would be double, and would
be wilhftood by a double force, and not a quadruple,
as is obferved : and this very circumitance, that a qua¬
druple force is neceffary, Ihould have made us conclude
that it was not to impulfe that this force was oppofed.
The firft particles having made their ftroke, and not be- 39
ing annihilated, muft efcape laterally. In their efca-ft^p'^T
ping they effeftually prevent every farther impulfe,
caufe they come in the wray of thofe filaments which can make
rvould have ftruck the body. The whole procefs feems any impulfe
to be fomewhat as follows : °n a lu1"'
When the flat furface of the fluid has come into con- '*e"
f aft wuth the plane furface AD (fig. 7.), perpendicularFlg 7.
to the direction DC of their motion, they muft defleft
to
RES
•Hefiftance,
40
No hnpulfe
on the edge
of a prifm.
Fig. 8.
4* .
The ordi¬
nary theo¬
ry of no
ufe in na¬
val archi-
tedlure.
Fig. 9.
to both fides equally, and in equal portions, becaufe
no reafon can be affigned why more (hould go to either
fide. By this means the filament EF, which would
have 11 ruck the furface in G, is deflected before it arrives
at the furface, and defcribes a curved path EFIHK,
continuing its rectilineal motion to l, where it is inter¬
cepted by a filament immediately adjoining to EF, on
the fide of the middle filament DC. The dift’erent par¬
ticles of DC may be fuppofed to impinge in fucceflion
at C, and to be defleCted at right angles j and gliding
along CB, to efcape at B. Each filament in fucceflion,
outwards from DC, is deflefted in its turn ; and being
hindered from even touching the furface CB, it glides
off in a direftion parallel to it 5 and thus EF is deflect¬
ed in I, moves parallel to CB from I to H, and is again
defleCted at right angles, and defcribes HK parallel to
DC. The fame thing may be fuppofed to happen on
the other fide of DC.
And thus it would appear, that except two filaments
immediately adjoining to the line DC, which bifeCts the
furface at right angles, no part of the fluid makes any
impulfe on the furface AB. All the other filaments are
merely prefled againft it by the lateral filaments without
them, which they turn afide, and prevent from finking
the furface.
In like manner, when the fluid ftrikes the edge of a
prifm or wedge ACB (fig. 8.), it cannot be faid that
any real impulfe is made. Nothing hinders us from
fuppofing C a mathematical angle or indivifible point,
not fufceptible of any impulfe, and ferving merely to di¬
vide the ftream. Each filament EF is effectually pre¬
vented from impinging at G iri the line of its direction,
and with the obliquity of incidence EGCj by the fila¬
ments between EF and DC, which glide along the fur¬
face CA; and it may be fuppofed to be defleCted when
it comes to the line CF which bifeCts the angle DCA,
and again defleCted and rendered parallel to DC at I.
The fame thing happens on the other fide of DC; and
we cannot in that cafe aflert that there is any impulfe.
We now fee plainly how the ordinary theory muft be
totally unfit for furnilhing principles of naval architec¬
ture, even although a formula could be deduced from
fuch a feries of experiments as thofe of the French Aca¬
demy. Although we (hould know precifely the impulfe,
or, to fpeak now more cautioufly, the action, of the fluid
on a furface GL (fig. 9.") of any obliquity, when it is
alone, detached from all others, we cannot in the fmall-
eft degree tell what will be the aCtion of part of a fiream
or fluid advancing towards it, with the fame obliquity,
when it is preceded by an adjoining furface CG, having
a different inclination ; for the fluid will not glide along
G L in ihe fame manner as if it made part of a more ex-
tenflve furface having the fame inclination. The pre¬
vious defleCtions are extremely different in thefe two ca¬
fes •, and the previous defleCtions are the only changes
which we can obferve in the motions of the fluid, and
the only caufes of that preflure which we obferve the
body to fuftain, and which we call the impulfe on it.
This theory muft, therefore, be quite unfit for afcer-
taining the aCtion on a curved furface, which may be
confidered as made up of an indefinite number of fuccef-
five planes.
We now fee with equal evidence how it happens that
the aCtion of fluids on folid bodies mav and muft be op-
pofed by preffures, and may be compared with and mea-
I
744 1
RES
fured by the preffure of gravity. We are not corftpa- Refiftanf?*
ring forces of different kinds, percuflions with preffures,' * ^
but preffures with each ether. Let us fee whether this pre^e
view of the fubjeCt wall afford us any method of compa-theaflicn
rifon or abfolute meafurement. of fluids.
When a filament of fluid, that is, a rowr of corpufcles,
are turned out of their courfe EF (fig. 'j.), and forced F.g. 7.
to take another courfe IH, force is required to produce
this change of direction. The filament is prevented
from proceeding by other filaments which lie between it
and the body, and which defleCt it in the fame manner
as it it were contained in a bended tube, and it will
prels on the concave filament next to it as it would prefs
on the concave fide of the tube. Suppofe fuch a bended
tube ABE (fig. 10.), and that a ball A is projefted F1!1 I0,
along it with any velocity, and moves in it without fric¬
tion : it is demonftrated, in elementary mechanics, that
the ball will move with undiminifhed velocity, and will
prefs on every point, fuch as B, of the concave fide ef
the tube, in a direction BF perpendicular to the plane
CBD, wdiich touches the tube in the point B. This
preffure on the adjoining filament, on the concave fide
of its path, muft; be withftood by that filament which
defleCts it 5 and it muff be propagated acrofs that fila¬
ment to the next, and thus augment the preffure upon
that next filament already preffed by the deffeCHon of
the intermediate filament ; and thus there is a preffure
towards the middle filament, and towards the body, ari-
fing from the defleClion of all the outer filaments \ and
their accumulated fum muff be conceived as immediate¬
ly exerted on the middle filaments and on the body, be¬
caufe a perfeCt fluid tranfmits every preffure undimi¬
ni Ihed.
The prfeffure BF is equivalent to the two BH, BG,
one of which is perpendicular, and the other parallel,
to the direction of the original motion. By the firft
(taken in any point of the curvilineal motion of any fi¬
lament), the two halves of the ftream are preffed toge^
ther ; and in the cafe of fig. 7. and 8. exaCtly balance
each other. But the preffures, fuch as BG, muff be
ultimately wnthftood by the furface ACB j and it is by
thefe accumulated preffures that the folid body is urged
down the ftream j and it is thefe accumulated preffures
w7hich we obferve and meafure in our experiments. We
ftiall anticipate a little, and fay that it is moil eafily de¬
monftrated, that when a ball A (fig. 10.) moves with un-
diminifhed velocity in a tube fo incurvated that its axis
at E is at right angles to its axis at A, the accumulated
aCHon of the preffures, fuch as BG, taken for every
point of the path, is precifely equal to the force which
would produce or extinguifli the original motion.
This being the cafe, it follows moll obvioufly, that if
the two motions of the filaments are fuch as we have de*
feribed and reprefented by fig. 7. the whole preffure in
the direClion of the ftream, that is, the whole preffure
which can be obferved on the furface, is equal to the 43
weight of a column of fluid having the furface for its Whether
bale, and twice the fall produftive of the velocity for^^®r
its height, precifely as Newton deduced it from other not
confiderations; and it feems to make no odds whether
the fluid be elaftic or unelaftic, if the deflections and
velocities are the fame. Now it is a faff, that no dif¬
ference in this refpeft can be ohferved in the aftions of
air and water ; and this had always appeared a great
defeat in Newton’s theory : but it was only a deleft of
the
R E S [ 74S ] RES
fttfiftance. tlie theory attributed to him. But it is alfo true, that the
obferved aftion is but one-half of what is jult now de¬
duced from this improved view of the fubjeft. Whence
arifes this difference ? The reafon is this : We have gi¬
ven a very erroneous account of the motions of the fila¬
ments. A filament EF does not move as reprefented in
fig. 7. with two reftangular inflexions at I and at H,
and a path IH between them parallel to CB. The pro-
Fig. 11. cefs of nature is more like what is reprefented in fig. II.
It is obferved, that at the anterior part of the body AB,
there remains a quantity of fluid ADB, alirioft, if not
altogether ftagnant, of a lingular flmpe, having two cur¬
ved concave fides A d D, B D, along which the mid-
44 die filaments glide. This fluid is very flowly changed.-:—
Important Xhe late Sir Charles Knowles, an officer of the Britifh
raeiiu by na'vy) equally eminent for his feientific profeflional
Sir Charles knowledge and for his military talents, made many
Knowles, beautiful experiments for afcertaining the paths of the
filaments of water. At a diftance up the ffream, he
allowed fmall jets of a coloured fluid, which did not
mix with water, to make part of the ftream 3 and the
experiments were made in troughs with fides and bottom
of plate-glafs. A fmall taper was placed at a confider-
able height above, by which the fliadows of the colour¬
ed filaments were mofl diftindlly projeXed on a white
plane held below the trough, fo that they were accu¬
rately drawn with a pencil. A few important particu¬
lars may be here mentioned.
The. ft 111 water ADC, fig. II. lafted for a long while
before it was renewed 5 and it feemed to be gradually
Wafted by abrafion, by the adhefion of the furrounding
■water, which gradually licked away the outer parts from
D toA and B ; and it feemed to renew itfelf in the direc-
tion'CD, oppofite to the motion of the ftream. There was,
however, a confiderable intricacy and eddy in this mo¬
tion. Some (feemingly fuperficial) water was continu¬
ally, but flowly, flowing outward from the line DC,
while other water was feen within and below it, coming
inwards and going backwards.
The coloured lateral filaments were moft conftant in
their form, while the body was the fame, although the
velocity was in fome cafes quadrupled. Any change
Which this produced feemed confined to the fuperficial
filaments.
As the filaments were deftefted, they were alfo con-
ftipated, that is, the curved parts of the filaments were
nearer each other than the parallel ftraight filaments up
the ftream 5 and this conftipation was more eonfiderable
as the prow was more obtufe and the deflexion greater.
The inner filaments were ultimately more defleXed
than thofe without them ; that is, if a line be drawn
touching the curve EFIH in the point H of contrary
flexure, where the concavity begins to be on the fids
next the body, the angle HKC, contained between
the axis and the tangent line, is fo much the greater as
the filament is nearer the axis.
When the body eXpofed to the ftream was a box of
upright fides, flat bottom, and angular prow, like a
wedge, having its edge alfo upright, the filaments were
not all defleXed laterally, as theory would make us ex-
peX ; but the filaments near the bottom were alfo de¬
fleXed downwards as well as laterally, and glided along
at fome diftance under the bottom, forming lines of
double curvature.
The breadth of the ftream that was defleXed was much
VoL. XVIL Part II,
greater than that of the body } and the fenfible deflec- Refiftance.
tion began at a confiderable diftance up the ftream, efpe-
cially in the outer filaments.
Laftly, the form of the curves was greatly influenced
by the proportion between the width of the trough and
that of the body. The curvature was always lefs when
the trough was very wide in proportion to the body.
Great varieties were alfo obferved in the motion or
velocity of the filaments. In general, the filaments
increafed in velocity outwards from the body to a cer¬
tain fmall diftance, which was nearly the fame in all.
cafes, and then diminiftied all the way outward. This
wTas obferved by inequalities in the colour of the fila¬
ments, by which one could be obferved to outftrip an¬
other. The retardation of thofe next the body feemed
to proceed from friXion ; and it was imagined that
without this the velocity there would always have been
greateft. 45
Thefe obfervations give us confiderable information With infe-
refpeXing the mechanifm of thefe motions, and the ac-^^s ^rom
tion of fluids upon folids. The preflure in the duplicate 1
ratio of the velocities comes here again into view. We
found, that although the velocities were very different*
the curves were precifely the fame. Now the obferved
preffures arife from the tranfverfe forces by which each
particle of a filament is retained in its curvilineal path j
and we know that the force by which a body is retain¬
ed in any curve is direXly as the fquare of the velocity,
and inverfely as the radius of curvature. The curvature,
therefore, remaining the fame, the tranfverfe forces, and
confcquently the preffure on the body, muft be as the
fquare of the velocity : and, on the other hand, we can
fee pretty clearly (indeed it is rigoroufly demonrtrated
by D’Alembert), that whatever be the velocities, the
curves will be the fame. For it is known in hydraulics,
that it requires a fourfold or ninefold preffure to pro¬
duce a double or triple velocity. And as all preffures
are propagated through a perfeX fluid without diminu¬
tion, this fourfold preffure, while it produces a double
velocity, produces alfo fourfold tranfverfe preffures,
which will retain the particles, moving twice as fail, in
the fame curvilineal paths. And thus we fee that the
impulfes, as they are called, and refiftances of fluids,
have a certain relation to the weight of a column of
fluid, whofe height is the height neceffary for producing
the velocity. How it happens that a plane furface, im-
merfed in an extended fluid, fuftains juft half the pref¬
fure which it would have fuftained had the motions been
fuch as are fketched in figure 7th, is a matter of more
curious and difficult inveftigation. But we fee evidently
that the preffure muft be lei's than what is there affigned j
for the ftagnant water a-bead of the body greatly di-
minifhes the ultimate defleXions of the filaments : And
it may be demonftrated, that when the part BE of the
canal, fig. 10. is inclined to the part AB in an angle
lefs than 90°, the prtffures BG along the whole canal
are as the verfed fine of the ultimate angle of defleXion,
or the verfed fine of the angle which the part BE makes
with the part AB. Therefore, fince the defleXions re-
femble more the Iketch given in fig. 11. the accumulated
fum of all thefe forces EG of fig. 10. muft be lers than
the fimilar fum correfporrding to fig. 7. that is, lefs than
the weight of the column of fluid, having twice the pro-
duXive height for its height. How it is juft one half,
Ihall be our next inquiry.
5 B And
Rtfiftr.nce.
46
Inveftiga-
tions ot
Newton
47
•liable tf)
great 0b-
jedticns,
R E S J; 74
And here we muft return to the labours of Sir Ifaac
Newton. After many beautiful obfervations on the na¬
ture and mechanifm of continued fluids, he fays, that
the refiftance which they occanon is but one half of that
occafioned by the rare fluid which had been the fubjedf
of his former propofition j “ which truth,” (fays lie,
with his ufual caution and modefty), “ I (hall endeavour
to ihow.”
Pie then enters into another, as novel and as difficult
an inveftigation, viz. the laws of hydraulics, and endea¬
vours to afcertain the motion of fluids through orifices
when urged by preffures of any kind. Pie endeavours
to afcertain the velocity with which a fluid efcapes
through a horizontal orifice in the bottom of a velfel,
by the action of its weight, and the prelTure which this
vein of fluid will exert on a little circle which occupies
part of the oidflce. To obtain this, he employs a kind
of approximation and trial, of which it would be ex¬
tremely difficult to give an extracf ; and then, by in-
creafing the diameter of the veil'd and of the hole to in¬
finity, he accommodates his reafomng to the cafe of a
plane furface expofed to an indefinitely extended ftream
of fluid ; and, laflly, giving to the little circular furface
the motion which he had before aferibed to the fluid, he
fays, that the refiitance to a plane furface moving through
anunelaftic continuous fluid, is equal to the weight of a
column of the fluid whofe height is one-half of that ne-
ceffary for acquiring the velocity ; and he fays, that the
refiftance of a globe is, in this cafe, the fame with that
of 3. cylinder of the fame diameter. The refiftance,
■therefore, of the cylinder or circle is four times lefs, and
that of the globe is twice lets than their refiftances on a
rare elaftic medium.
But this determination, though founded on princi¬
ples or affumptions, which are much nearer to the real
Hate of things, is liable to great objections. It de¬
pends on his method for afeertaining the velocity of
the iffuing fluid ; a method extremely ingenious, but
defective. The cataraCf, which he fuppofes, cannot
exift as he fuppofes, defetnding by the full action of
gravity, and furrounded by a funnel of ftagnant fluid.
Imr, in fuch circumftances, there is nothing to balance
the hydroftatical preflure of this furrounding fluid ; be-
caufe the whole preffure of the central catarad! is em¬
ployed in producing its own defeent. In the next
place, the preflure which he determines is beyond all
doubt only half of what is obferved on a plane furface
in all our experiments. And, in the third place, it is
repugnant to all our experience, that the refiftance of
a globe or of a pointed body is as great as that of its
circular bafe. H;s icafons are bv no means convincing.
He fuppofes them placed in a tube or canal ; and lince
they are fuppofed of the fame diameter, and therefore
leave equal fpaces at their fides, he concludes, that be-
caufe the water efcapes by their fides with the fame ve¬
locity, they will have the fame refiftance. But this is
by no means a heceffary confequence. Even if the
water fhould be allowed to exert equal preffures on
them, the preffures being perpendicular to their fur-
faces, and thefe furfaces being inclined to the axis,
while in the cafe of the bafe of a cylinder, it is in
the direction of the axis, there muft be a difference in
the accumulated or compound preffure in the direfh’on
of the axis. He indeed fays, that in the cafe of the
cylinder or the circle obftrucling the canal, a quantity
> ] RES
of water remains ftagnant on its upper furface ; viz. Rtfillv.r.-e,
all the water whofe motion would not contribute to v
the moft ready paffage of the fluid between the cy¬
linder and the fides of the canal or tube ; and that
this water may be confidered as frozen. If this be
the cafe, it is indifferent what is the form of the body
that is covered with this mais of frozen or ftagnant wa¬
ter. It may be a hemifphere or a cone ; the refiftance
will be the fame.—But Newton by no means affigns, ei¬
ther with precifion or with diilinct evidence, the form
and magnitude of this ftagnant water, fo as to give con¬
fidence in the refults. He contents himfelf with fay¬
ing, tiiat it is that water whofe motion is not neceffary
or cannot contribute to the moft eafy paffage of the
water. 4S
There remains, therefore, many imperfe6lions in this though
theory. But notwithftanding thefe defecls, we cannot
but admire the efforts and fagacity of this great phi- ®
lofopher, who, after having difeovered i’o many fublimc
truths of mechanical nature, ventured to trace out a
path for the folution of a problem which no perfon had
yet attempted to bring within the range of mathematical
invelligation. And his folution, though inaccurate,
fliines throughout with that inventive genius and that
fertility of refource, which no man ever pofleffed in fo
eminent a degree.
Thofe who have attacked the folution of Sir Ifaac
Newton have not been more fuccefsful. Moft of them,
inftead of principles, have given a great deal of calculus ;
and the chief merit which any of them can claim, is that
of having deduced fome fingle propofttion which happens
to quadrate with fome fingle cafe of experiment, while
their general theories are either inapplicable, from dif¬
ficulty and obfeurity, or are difeordant with more gene¬
ral obfervation.
, We muft, however, except from this number Daniel
Bernoulli, who was nixt only a great geometer, but
one of the firft philofophers of the age. He pcffeffed
all the talents, and was free from the faults of that
celebrated family; and while he was the mathemati¬
cian of Europe who penetrated fartheft in the invefti-
gation of this great problem, he was the only perfon
who felt, or at leaft who acknowledged, its great dif-
ficulty. 49
In the 2d volume of the Comment. Pefropol. 1727, he Bernouillrs
propofes a formula for the refiftance of fluids, deduced general for-
from confiderations Quite different from thofe on which ’gaui fbun-
Newton founded his folution.
^ But he delivers it with
modeft diffidence •, becaufe he found that it gave a refif¬
tance four times greater than experiment. In the fame
differtation he determines the reiiftance of a fphere to be
one half of that of its great circle. But in his fubfequent
theory of Hydrodynamics (a work which muft ever rank
among the firft productions of the age, and is equally
eminent for refined and elegant mathematics, and inge¬
nious and original thoughts in dynamics), he calls this
determination in queftion. It is indeed founded on the
fame hypothetical principles which have been unlkilfully
detached from the reft of Newtcn’s phyfics, and made
the groundwork of all the fubfequent theories on this
fubjedt. 5°
In 1741 Mr Daniel Bernoulli publifned another dif-t.nfitts,,
fertation (in the 8th volume of the Com. Pelropol.') Ca parti-
on the adlion and refiftance of fluids, limited to a very cular cafe
particular cafe ; namely, to the impulfe of a vein of with great
fluid Fecifio11’
RES [7
Refinance. Huid falling perpendicularly on an infinitely extended
plane futface. This he demonftrales to be equal to the
rvcight of a Column of the fluid vvhofe bafe is the area
of the vein, and rvhcfe height is twice the fall producing
the velocity. This demonilration is drawn Irorn the true
principles of mechanics and the acknowledged laws of
hydraulics, and may be received as a Uriel phyfical de¬
monilration. As it is the only propofition in the whole
theory that has as yet received a demonilration accefii-
bieto readers not verfant in all the refinements of modern
analyfis ; and as the principles on Which it proceeds will
undoubtedly lead to a folution of every problem which
can be propofed, once that our mathematical knowledge
fnall enable us to apply them—we think it our duty to
give it in this place, although we mull acknowledge,
that this problem is lo very limited, that it will hardly
bear an application to any cafe that differs but a little
from the exprefs conditions of the problem. There do
occur cafes however in practice, where it may be applieu
to very great advantage.
Daniel Bernoulli gives two demonflrations; one of
which may be called a popular one, and the other is
more fcientific and introductory to further inveftigation.
t We (hall give both.
Determines Bernoulli firft determines the whole action exerted
the action in the efflux of the vein of fluid. Suppofe the velocity
exerted in Qf efflux v is that which would be acquired by falling
the efflux ofthrough the height /1. It is tv ell known that a body
fluid'.n ^ moving during the time of this fall with the velocity v
would deferibe a fpace 2 h. The efftft, therefore, of
the hydraulic aftion is, that in the time t of the fall
there iffues a cylinder or prifm of water whole bafe is
the crofs fe£lion f or area of the vein, and whofe length
is 2 h. And this quantity of matter is now moving
with the velocity v. The quantity of motion, therefore,
which is thus produced is 2 s h v ; and this quantity ot
■ motion is produced in the time t. And this is the ac¬
cumulated effefft of all the expelling forces, eftimated
in the direction of the efflux. Now, to compare this
with the exertion of fome prefling fewer with which
we are familiarly acquainted, let us fuppofe this pillar
2 s A to be frozen, and, being held in the hand, to be
dropped. It is well known, that in the time t it will
fall through the height /l, and wnll acquire the velocity
v, and now poffeffes the quantity of motion 2 s A v—
and all this is the effetl of its weight. The weight,
therefore, of the pillar 2 s A produces the fame effect,
and in the lame time, and (as may eafily be feen) in the
fame gradual manner, with the expelling forces of the
fluid in the veffel, which expelling forces arife from the
preffure of all the fluid in the veffel. Therefore the
accumulated hydraulic preffure, by which a vein of a
heavy fluid is forced, out through an orifice in the bottom
or fide of a veffel, is equal (when eftimated in the direc¬
tion of the efflux) to the weight of a column cf the
fluid, having for its bafe the fedlion of tne vein, and
twice the fall produaive of the velocity of efflux for its
height. , , n- 1
Tig. 12. Now let ABDC (fig. 12.) be a quadrangular veffel
with upright plane Aides, in one of which is an orifice
EF. From every point of the circumference of this
orifice, fuppofe horizontal lines E e, F/, &c. which will
mark a fim'ilar furface on the oppofite fide of the veffel.
Suppofe the orifice EF to be (hut. There can be no
doubt but that the furfaces EF and e/will be equally
47 ] . P\ E S
preffed in oppofite direaions. Now open the orifice
EF j the water will rufti out, and the preffure on EF ' 'v
is now removed. There will therefore be a tendency
in the veffel to move back in the direaion E e. And
this tendency mull be precilely equal and oppofite to the
whole effort of the expelling forces. This is a conclu-
fion as evident as any propofition in mechanics. It is
thus that a gun recoils and a rocket rifts in the air} and
on this is founded the operation of Air Parents or Dr
Barker’s mill, deferibed in all treatifes of mechanics,
and moil learnedly treated by Euler in the Berlin Me¬
moirs.
Now, let this ftream of water be received on a circu¬
lar plane MN, perpendicular to its axis, and let this
circular plane be of fuch extent, that the vein elcapes
from its fides in an infinitely thin Iheet, the water flow¬
ing off in a direction parallel to the plane. The vein by
this means will expand into a trumpet-like Ihape, having
curved fides, EKG,l‘EHfig. 13* abftraft at preientl'6' D-
the a ft ion of gravity which would caufe the vein to bend
downwards, and occafion a greater velocity at FI than at
G ; and we fuppofe the velocity equal in every point of
the cir cumference. It is plain, that if the action or
gravitv be neglefted after the water has iffued through
the orifice EF, the velocity in every point of the cir¬
cumference of the plane MN will be that of the eillux
through EF. ^
Now, becaufe EKG is the natural Chape nffumed by
the vein, it is plain, that if the whole vein were covered
by a tube or mouth-piece, fitted to its Ihape, and per-
feftly polffhed, fo that the water {hall glide along it,
without any filftion (a thing which vve may always fup¬
pofe), the w ater will exert no preffure whatever on this
trumpet mouth piece. Laftly, let us _ fuppofe that the
plane MN is attached to the mouth-piece by fome bits
of wire, fo as to allow the w ater to cfcape all round by
the narrow chink between the mouth-piece and the plane.
We have now a veffel confifting of the upright part
A BDC, the trumpet GKEFLH, and the plane MN ;
and the water is efcaping from every point of the cir¬
cumference of the chink GHNAI with the velocity v.
If any part of this chink w^ere {hut up, there would be a
preffure on that part equivalent to the force of efflux from
the oppofite part. I herefore, when ail is open, thefe
efforts of efflux balance each other all round. Ihere is
not therefore any tendency in this compound vefiel to
move to any fide. But take away the plane AIN, and
there would immediately arife a preffure in the direftion
E e equal to the weight of the column 2 s h. This is
therefore balanced by the pveflure on the circular plane
AIN, which is therefore equal to this weight, and the
propofition is demonftrated.
A number of experiments rvere made by Profeffor
Kraft at St Peterfburg, by receiving the vein on a plane
AIN (fig. 1 2.) which was faftened to the arm of a ba¬
lance OP£), having a fcale R hanging on the oppofite
arm. The refiftance or preffure on the plane was mea-
fttied by weights put into the fcale R j and the velocity
of the jet was meafured by means of the diftance KH,
to which it fpouted on a horizontal plane.
The refults of thefe experiments were as conformable
to the theory as could be wifhed. The refiftance was th^eory
always a little lefs than what the theory required, but an<] expert-
greatly exceeded its half; the refult of the generally re- merits ac-
ceived theories. This defeft ftiould be expefted j for counted
c B 2 the tor>
RES [ 748 ] RES
Refinance, the demonftration fuppofes the plane MN to be infinite¬
ly extended, lb that the film of water which iftues
through the chink may be accurately parallel to the
plane. This never can be completely effe&ed. Alfo it
was filppofed, that the Velocity was juftly meafured by
the amplitude of the parabola EGK. But it is well
known that the very putting the plane MN in the way
of the jet, though at the diftance of an inch from the
orifice, will dimimlh the velocity of the efflux through
ihis orifice. This is eafily verified by experiment. Ob-
ferve the time in which the veffel will be emptied when
there is no plane in the way. Repeat the experiment
with the plane in its place j and more time will be ne-
ceffary. The following is a note of a courfe of experi¬
ments, taken as they Hand, without any fele&ion.
JSI0! 2 3 4 5 6
Tlefift by theory 1701 1720 1651 1602 1528 1072
Refift. by experiment 14*3 1463 1486 1401 1403 1021
Difference 298 "257 165 201 125 51
In order to demonftrate this propofition in fuch a
manner as to furnifh the means of inveftigating the
whole mechanifm and adtion of moving fluids, it is necef-
fary to premife an elementary theorem of curvilineal mo¬
tions.
Fig. 14. If a particle of matter deferibes a curve line ABCE
(fig. 14.) by the continual adtion of defledting forces,
which vary in any manner, both with refpedt to inten-
fity and diredlion, and if the adtion of thefe forces, in
every point of the"curve, be refolved into two diredfions,
perpendicular and parallel to the initial diredtion AK }
then,
1. The accumulated effedl of the defledling forces,
eftimated in a diredlion AD perpendicular to AK, is to
the final quantity of motion as the fine of the final change
r, of diredlion is to radius.
His propo- Let us firfl: fuppofe that the accelerating forces adt
fition de- by Harts, at equal intervals of time, when the body is in
monftrated.the points A, B, C, E. And let AN be the defledling
force, which, adding at A, changes the original direc¬
tion AK to AB. Produce AB till BH =r AB, and
complete the parallelogram BFCH. Then FB is the
force which, by adling at B, changed the motion BH
(the continuation of AB) to BC. In like manner
make C// (in BC produced) equal to BC, and complete
the parallelogram CfE/i. Cf is the defledling force
at C, &c. Draw BO parallel to AN, and GBK per¬
pendicular to AK. Alfo draw lines through C and E
perpendicular to AK, and draw through B and C lines
parallel to AK. Draw alfo HL, /J perpendicular, and
FG, HI, hi, parallel to AK.
It is plain that BK is BO or AN eftimated in the
diredlion perpendicular to AK, and that BG is BF
eftimated in the fame way. And fince BHnnAB, HL
or IM is equal to BK. Alfo Cl is equal to BG.
Therefore CM is equal to AP-}-BG. By fimilar rea-
foning it appears that 'Em ~ E/-j-^/, — C^ -f- CM, — Cg
-f-BG,+ AP.
Therefore if CE be taken for the meafure of the
final velocity or quantity of motion, Em will be the
accumulated effedl of the defledling forces eftimated in
the diredlion AD perpendicular to AK. But Ewz is
to CE as the fine of mCE is to radius •, and the angle
mCE is the angle contained between the initial and final
diredlions, becaufe Cm is parallel to AK. Now let the
intervals of time diminilh continually and the frequency
of the impulfes increafe. The defledlion becomes ulti- Refinance,
mately continuous, and the motion curvilineal, and the
propofition is demonilrated.
We fee that the initial velocity and its fubfequent
changes do not aflfe^l the conclufion, which depends en- »
tirely on the final quantity of motion.
2. The accumulated effedl of the accelerating forces,
when eftimated in the diredlion AK of the original mo¬
tion, or in the oppofite diredlion, is equal to the differ¬
ence between the initial quantity of motion and the pro-
dudl of the final quantity of motion by the cofine of tire
change of diredlion.
For Cm— C /— m /, = BM_/y
BM-B1 ML, - AK—FG
AKnrAO—OK,-AO—PN.
Therefore PN-j-FG-R/'Q^ (the accumulated impulfe
in the diredlion OA)=AO—CM,=AO—CEx co-
fine of ECM.
Cor. 1. I he fame adlion, in the diredlion oppofite
to that of the original motion, is neceftary for caufing
a body to move at right angles to its former diredlion
as for flopping its motion. For in this cafe, the co¬
fine of the change of diredlion is — 0, and AO—CE
X cofine ECM^r AO—0, — AO, — the original mo¬
tion.
Cor. 2. If the initial and final velocities are the fame,
the accumulated adlion of the accelerating forces, efti¬
mated in the diredlion OA, is equal to the produdl of
the original quantity of motion by the verfed fine of the
change of diredtion.
The application of thefe theorems, particularly the
fecond, to our prefen t purpofe is very obvious. All the
filaments of the jet were originally moving in the direc¬
tion of its axis, and they are finally moving along the
refilling plane, or perpendicular to their former motion.
Therefore their tranfverfe forces in the diredlion of the
axis are {in cumulo') equal to the force which would
flop the motion. For the aggregate of the fimulta-
neous forces of every particle in the whole filament is
the fame with that of the fucceflive forces of one particle,
as it arrives at different points of its curvilineal path.
All the tranfverfe forces, etlimated in a diredlion per¬
pendicular to the axis of the vein, precifely balance and
fuftain each other ; and the only forces which can pro¬
duce a fenfible effedl are thofe in a diredlion parallel
to the axis. By thefe all the inner filaments are pref-
fed towards the plane MN, and mull be withftood by it.
It is highly probable, nay certain, that there is a quanti¬
ty of ftagnant water in the middle of the vein which fuf-
tains the preffures of the moving filaments without it,
and tranfmits it to the folid plane. But this does not
alter the cafe. And, fortunately, it is of no confequence
what changes happen in the velocities of the particles
while each is deferibing its own curve. And it is from
this circumftance, peculiar to this particular cafe of per¬
pendicular impulfe, that we are able to draw the con¬
clufion. It is by no means difficult to demonftrate that
the velocity of the external furface of this jet is con-
fiant, and indeed cf every jet which is not adled on by
external forces after it has quitted the orifice : but this
difeuffion is quite unneceffary here. It is however ex¬
tremely difficult to afeertain, even in this moft fimple
cafe, what is the velocity of the internal filaments in the
different points cf their progreff.
Such
Refiftance.
fig. 15-
54
His theory
attempted
in vain to
be render¬
ed general.
RES [ ^49 ] RES
Such is the demonftralion which Mr Bernoulli has
given of this propofition. Limited as it is, it is highly
valuable, becaufe derived from the true principles of hy¬
draulics.
He hoped to render it more extenfive and applicable
to oblique impulfes, when the axis AC of the vein
(fig. 15.) is inclined to the plane in an angle ACN.
But here all the fimplicity of the cafe is gone, and we
are now obliged to afcertain the motion of each fila¬
ment. It might not perhaps be impofiible to deter¬
mine what muft happen in the plane of the figure,
that is, in a plane palling through the axis of the vein,
and perpendicular to the plane MN. But even in this
cafe it would be extremely difficult to determine how
much of the fluid will go in the direction EKG, and
what will go in the path FLH, and to afcertain the
form of each filament, and the velocity in its different
points. But in the real Hate of the cafe, the water
will diffipate from the centre C on every fide ; and we
cannot tell in what proportions. Let us however con-
fider a little what happens in the plane of the figure,
and fuppofe that all the water goes either in the courfe
EKG or in the courfe FLH. Let the quantities of
water which take thefe two courfes have the propor¬
tions of p and IT. Let la be the velocity at A,
^.b be the velocity at G, and 7be the velocity
at H. ACG and ACH are the two changes of di-
reflion, of which let c and —c be the cofines. Then,
adopting the former reafoning, we have the preffure of
the watery plate GKEACM on the plane in the di-
p 
s&ion AC— —-- x —7cb, and the preffure of the
late HLFACN=:—X 2tf-|-2£'/3, and their fum
/> + n
= /.XM-2^+nx2a+^. wMch multlpUed
>y the fine of ACM or 1 — gives the preffure per-
. , — ^ — PX^-a—2cb4-TlX7.a
icndicular to the plane MN ==  
But there remains a preffure in the direftion perpen¬
dicular to the axis of the vein, which is not balanced,
as in the former cafe, by the equality on oppofite fides
of the axis. The preffure arifing from the water
which efcapes at G has an effeft oppofite to that pro¬
duced by the water which efcapes at H. When this
is taken into account, we {hall find that their joint ef¬
forts perpendicular to AC are^-j-— X 2a x'l—o’, which,
being multiplied by the cofine of ACM, gives the ac¬
tion perpendicular to MN:
-n
p+n
X 2ac
V1-
The fum or joint effort of all thefe preffures is
pX2a—2c^4-n x 2fl-t-2c/3 — ^--n
p+n ^ P -j-11
VT—cL
Thus, from this cafe, which is much fimpler than
can happen in nature, feeing that there will always be
i. lateral efflux, the determination of the impulfe is as
uncertain and vague as it was fure and precife in the for- Rtfiitancc.
mer cafe. ✓ "" ~y
It is therefore without proper authority that the
abfolute impulfe of a vein of fluid on a plane which re¬
ceives it wholly, is aflerted to be proportional to the
fine of incidence. If indeed we fuppofe the velocity
in G and H are equal to that at A, then b—ft, —a, and
the whole impulfe is 2aV1—c2, as is commonly iup-
pofed. But this cannot be. Both the velocity and
quantity at H are lefs than thafe at G. Nay, frequent¬
ly there is no efflux on the fide H when the obliquity
is very great. We may conclude in general, that the
oblique impulfe will always bear to the direft impulfe
a greater proportion than that of the fine of incidence
to radius. If the whole water efcapes at G, and none
goes off laterally, the preffure will be 2a-\-2ac—2bcx
x—c1. The experiments of the Abbe Boffut (how
in tbe plaineft manner that the preffure of a vein, ftri-
king obliquely on a plane which receives it wholly, di-
miniihes fafter than in the ratio of the fquare ot the
fine of incidence ; whereas, when the oblique plane is
wholly immerfed in the ftream, the impulfe is much
greater than in this proportion, and in great obliquities
is nearly as the fine.
Nor will this propofition determine the impulfe of a
fluid on a plane wholly immerfed in it, even when the
impulfe is perpendicular to the plane. The circum-
flance is now wanting on which we can eftabliffi a
calculation, namely, the angle of final defledlion. Could
this be afeertained for each filament, and the velocity
of the filament, the principles are completely adequate
to an accurate folulion of the problem. In the expe¬
riments which we mentioned to have been made under
the infpe&ion of Sir Charles Knowles, a cylinder of
fix inches diameter was expofed to the adtion of a
ftream moving precifely one foot per fecondj and when
certain deductions were made for the water which was
held adhering to the pofterior bafe (as will be noticed
afterwards), the impulfe was found equal to 3^ ounces
avoirdupois. There were 36 coloured filaments diftri-
buted on the ftream, in fuch fituations as to give the moft
ufeful indications of their curvature. It was found ne-
ceffary to have fome which paffed under the body and
fome above it j for the form of thefe filaments, at the
fame diftance from the axis of the cylinder, wasconfider-
ably different: and thofe filaments which were fituated
in planes neither horizontal nor vertical took a double
curvature. In fhort, the curves were all traced with
great care, and the deflecling forces were computed for
each, and reduced to the diredlion of the axis j and
they were fummed up in fuch a manner as to give the
impulfe of the whole ftream. The defle&ions -were
marked as far a-head of the cylinder as they could be
affuredly obferved. By this method the impulfe was
computed to be 2^ ounces, differing from obfervation
of an ounce, or about of the whole ; a difference
which may moft reafonably be aferibed to the adhefion
of the water, which muft be moft fenfible in fuch fmall
velocities. Thefe experiments may therefore be confi-
dered as giving all the confirmation that can be defired
of the juftnefs of the principles. This indeed hardly ad¬
mits of a doubt: but, alas ! it gives us but fmall affift-
ance j for all this is empirical, in as far as it leaves us in
every cafe tke talk of obferving the form of the curves
'Rt'fulance
55 ,
A method
recommen¬
ded for ob¬
taining a
general
theory.
R E .S [ 7
and the velocities in their different points. To derive
fervice from this moil judicious method of Daniel Ber¬
noulli, we mull dilcover fome method of determining,
a priori, what wi ll be the motion of the tfuid whole
courfe is obftrufted by a body of any form. And
here we cannot omit taking notice of the cafual ob-
fervations of Sir Ifaac Newton when attempting to de¬
termine the reiiftance of the plane furface or cylinder,
or fphere expofed to a Itream moving in a canal. He
fays, that the form of the refilling furface is of lefs con-
fequence, becaufe there is always a quantity of water
llagnant upon it, and which may therefore be confider-
ed as frozen 5 and he therefore conliders that water
only whole motion is neceffary for the moll expedi¬
tious difcharge of the water in the veffel. He endea¬
vours to diicriminate that water from the reft ; and
although it mull be acknowledged that the principle
which he affumes for this purpofe is very gratuitous,
becaufe it only {hows, that if certain portions of the wa¬
ter, which he determines very ingenioufly, were really
frozen, the reft will iffue, as he fays, and wall exert the
preffure which he afligns ; ftill we mull admire his fer¬
tility of refource, and his fagacily in thus forefeeing
what fubfequent obfervation has completely confirmed.
We are even difpofed to think, that in this cafual ob¬
fervation Sir ifaac Newton has pointed out the only
method of arriving at a folution of the problem ; and
that, if we could difeover what motions are not ncceffary
for the mofl expeditious pafjage of the water, and could
thus determine the form and magnitude of the llagnant
water which adheres to the body, we Ihould much more
eafily afeertain the real motions which occafion the ob-
ferved refiltance. We are here difpofed to have recourfe
to the economy of nature, the improper ule of which we
have fometimes taken the liberty of reprehending. Mr
Maupertuis publilhed as a great dilcovery his princi¬
ple of fmalleil aclion, where he Ihowed that in all
the mutual a6lions of bodies the quantity of aftion was
a minimum •, and he applied this to the folution of many
difficult problems with great fuccefs, imagining that
he was really reafoning from a contingent law of na¬
ture, felefted by its infinitely wife Author, viz. that in
all occalions there is the ImRlleft poffible exertion of na¬
tural powers. Mr D’Alembert has, however, fhown
(vid. Encyclopedic Franpoife, Action) that this was
but a whim, and that the minimum ob'erved by Mau-
pertuis is merely a minimum of calculus, peculiar to a
formula which happens to exprefs a combination of ma¬
thematical quantities which frequently occurs in our
way of confidering the phenomena of nature, but which
is no natural meafure of adlion.
But the chevalier D’Arcy has fhown, that in the
trains of natural operations which terminate in the pro-
duflion of motion in a particular direction, the interme¬
diate communications of motion are fuch that the fmall-
eft poffible quantity of motion is produced. We feern
obliged to conclude, that this law will be obferved in
the prefent inftance ; and it feems a problem not above
our reach to determine the motions which refult from
it. We would recommend the problem to the eminent
mathematicians in fome fimple cafe, fuch as the propo-
fttion already demonftrated by Daniel Bernoulli, or the
perpendicular impulfe on a cylinder included in a tubu¬
lar canal •, and if they fucceed in this, great things may
be expelled. We think that experience gives great
3
50 ] RES
encouragement. We fee that the refiftance to a plane P-tfiftauce.
lurface is a very fmall matter greater than the weight
of a column of the fluid having the fall productive of
the velocity for its height, and the fmall excefs is melt
probably owing to adhefion, and the meafure of the real
refiftance is probably precilely this weight. The velo¬
city of a fpouting fluid was found, in fait, to be that ac¬
quired by falling from the furface of the fluid ; and it
was by looking at this, as at a pole liar, that Newton,
Bernoulli, and others, have with great fagacity and in¬
genuity dilcovered much of the laws of hydraulics, by
fearching for principles which would give this refult.
We may hope for limilar fuccefs.
In the mean time, we may receive this as a phyfical
truth, that the perpendicular impulfe or refiftance of a
plane furface, wholly immerfed in the fluid, is equal
to the weight of the column having the furface for
its bafe, and the fall producing the velocity for its
height.
This is the medium refult of all experiments mace in
thefe precile circumilances. And it is confirmed by a
fet of experiments of a kind wholly different, and which
feem to point it out more certainly as an immediate con -
fequence of hydraulic principles. ^
If Mr Pitot’s tube be expofed to a ftream of fluid Expenm?nt
iffuing from a refervoir or veffel, as reprefented in by Mr Pi-
fig. 16. with the open mouth I pointed dire&ly again ft101'''’ tu'je"
this ftream, the fluid is obferved to Hand at K in the up-Fig- l6-
right tube, precifely on a level with the fluid AB in the
refervoir. Here is a moll unexceptionable experiment,
in which the impulfe of the ftream is allually oppofed to
the hydroftatical preffure of the fluid on the tube. Pref¬
fure is in this cafe oppofed to preffure, becaufe the iffu¬
ing fluid is dcfielted by what flays in the mouth of the
tube, in the fame way in which it would be deflected by
a firm furface. We fliall have occafion by and by to
mention fome moft valuable and inftruclive experiments
made with this tube.
It was this which fuggefted to the great mathema- p. ^ -7
tician Euler another theory of the impulfe and refill- Te'un
ance of fluids, which muft not be omitted, as it is ap¬
plied in his elaborate performance On the Theory of
the Conftrultion and Working of Ships, in two vo¬
lumes qto, which was afterwards abridged and ufed as a
text-book in fome marine academies. Pie fuppofes a
ftream of fluid ABCD (fig. 17.), moving with any ve-p,jr
locily, to ftrike the plane BD perpendicularly, and that
part of it goes through a hole EF, forming a jet
EGHF. Mr Euler fays, that the velocity cf this jet
will be tire fame with the velocity of the ftream. Now
compare this with an equal ftream iffuing from a hole
in the fide of a veffel with the fame velocity. The one
ftream is urged out by the preffure occafioned by the
impulfe of the fluid; the other is urged out by the
preffure of gravity. The effelfs are equal, and the mo¬
difying circumftances are the fame. The caufes are
therefore equal, and the preflure occafioned by the im¬
pulfe of a ftream of fluid, moving ivith any velocity, is
equal to the weight of a column of fluid whofe height
is productive of this velocity, &c. He then determines
the oblique impulfe by the refolution of motion, and de¬
duces the common rules of refiftance, &c.
But all this is without juft grounds. This gentle¬
man was always fatisfied with the flighted analogies
which would give him an opportunity of exhibiting his
great
Refinance
5S
Without
foundation.
59
Ingenious
folution of
d’Alem¬
bert.
RES [7
great dexterity in algebraic analylis, and was not after¬
wards ftartled by any difcordancy with obfervation.
Anali/Ji mngis fidendum is a frequent affertion with him.
Though he wrote a large volume, containing a theory
of light and colours totally oppofite to Newton’s, he
has publilhed many differtations on optical phenomena
on the Newtonian principles, exprefsly becaufe his own
principles non idea facile anfatn prcebebat analysi infra-
endce.
Not a fliadow of argument is given for the leading
principle in this theory, viz. that the velocity of the jet
is the fame with the velocity of the dream. None can
be given, but faying, that the preffure is equivalent to
1 ts production •, and this is affuming the very thing he
labours to prove. The matter of fa& is, that the velo¬
city of the jet is greater than that of the dream, and
may be greater almod in any proportion. Which cu¬
rious circumdance was difeovered and ingenioudy ex¬
plained long ago by Daniel Bernoulli in his Ylijdrodijna-
tnica. It is evident that the velocity mud be greater.
Were a dream of fand to come againd the plane, what
goes through would indeed prelerve its velocity un¬
changed : but when a real fluid Itnkes the pkine, all that
does not pafs through is deflected on all tides j and by
thefe deflections forces are excited, by which the fila¬
ments which fur round the cylinder immediately fronting
the hole are made to prefs th> cylinder on all tides, and
as it were fqneeze it between them : and thus the par¬
ticles at the hole mud oi necedily be accelerated, and
the velocity of the jet mud be greater than that of the
Bream. We are difpofed to think that, in a fluid per-
fe6Uy incompreflible, the velocity will be double, or at
lead increafed in the proportion of 1 to \/ 2. If the
fluid is in the dualled degree compreflible, even in the
very imall degree that water is, the velocity at the firit
impulfe may be much greater. D. Bernoulli found that
a column of water moving 5 lset Pcr lecond, in a tube
fome hundred feet long, produced a velocity of 136 feet
per fecond in the fird moment.
There being this radical defedf in the theory of Mr
Euler, it is needlefs to take notice of its total infuffici-
ency for explaining oblique impulfes and the refidance of
curviiineal prows.
We are extremely ferry that our readers are deriving
fo little advantage from all that w7e have faid; and that
having taken them by the hand, we are thus obliged to
grope about, with only a few fcattered rays of light to
dire£1 our deps. Let us fee what ailidance we can get
from Mr d’Alembert, who has attempted a folution of
that problem in a method entirely new and extremely
ingenious He faw clearly, that all the followers of
Newton had forfaken the path which he had marked
out for them in the fecond part of his inveftigation, and
had merely arnufed themfelves with the matnematical
difeuffion with which his introduftory hypotheds gave
“them an opportunity of occupying themfelves. ^ He
paid the deferved tribute of applaufe to Daniel Ber¬
noulli for having introduced the notion of pure preffure
as the chief agent in this buunefs; and be law that he
was in the right road, and that it was from hydrodati-
cal principles alone that we had any chance of explain¬
ing the phenomena of hydraulics. Bernoulli had only
contidered the preflures which were excited in come-
quence of the curviiineal motions of the particles. Mr
d’Alembert even thought that thefe preffures were not
5 r ] RES
the confequences, but the caufes, of thefe curvilineal Refinance,
motions. No internal motion can happen in a fluid vJ
but in confequence of an unbalanced preffure j and every
fuch motion will produce an inequality of preffure,
which will determine the fucceeding motions. He there¬
fore endeavoured to reduce all to the difeovery ot thofe
difturbing preffures, and thus to the laws of hydroda-
tics. He had long before this hit on a very refined
and ingenious view of the aftion of bodies on each
other, which had enabled him to folve many of the molt
difficult problems concerning the motions of bodies, fuch
as the centre of ofciilation, of fpontaneous converfion,
the preceffion of the equinoxes, &c. &c. with great fa¬
cility and elegance. He faw that the fame principle
would apply to the ailion of duid bodies. I he princi¬
ple is this.
“ In whatever manner any number of bodies are fup-
pofed to acl on each other, and by thefe aclions come to
change their prefent motions, if we conceive that the mo¬
tion which each body would have in the following in¬
fant (if it became freef is rcfolved into two other
motions; one of which is the motion which it really
tabes in the following infant; the other will be fuch,
that if each bodij had no other motion but this fecond,
the whole bodies would have remained in equilibria.^
We here obferve, that “ the motion which each
body would have in the following in dan t, if it became
free,” is a continuation of the motion which it has in
the fird indant. It may therefore perhaps be better
expreffed thus:
If the motions of bodies, anyhow aching on each other,
be confdered in two confecuiive infants, and if we con¬
ceive the motion which it has in the frf infant as com¬
pounded of two others, one of which is the motion which
‘it aciually takes in the fecond infant, the other is fuch,
that if each body had only thofe fecond motions, the whole
fystem would have remained m equilibria.
The propofition itfelf is evident. For if thefe fecond
motions be not fuch as that an equilibrium of the whole
lydem would refult from them, the other component
motions would not be thofe which the bodies really have
alter the change ; for they would neceffanly be altered
by thefe unbalanced motions. See D’Alembert Efai ds
Dynamique.
Affided by this incontedable principle, M. d’Alem¬
bert demondrates, in a manner equally new and fimple,
thofe propofitions which Newton had fo cautioufly de¬
duced from his hypothetical fluid, Blowing that they
were not limited to this hypothefis, viz. that, the mo¬
tions produced by fimilar bodies, fimilarly projefted in
them, would be flmilar ; that whatever were the pref-
fures, the curves deferibed by the particles would be the
fame ; and that the refidances would be proportional to
the fquares of the velocities. He then conies to condder
the fluid as having its motions condrained by. the form,
of the canal or by folid obdacles interpofed.
We fhall here give a fummary account of his funda¬
mental propofition. ^ _ 60
It is evident, that if the body ABCE (fig. 18.) did Summary
not form an obfirruftion to the motion of the water, the account of
particles would deferibe parallel lines 1 F, OK, PS, &c. pr(>
But while yet at a didance from the body in F, K, S, p0fltjon<
they gradually change their dire6tions, and deferibe the ^
curves FM, K m, S n, fo much more incurvated as they 13
are nearer to the body. At a certain didance ZY this
cuj'vatur'g
RES [ 752
'Refinance, curvature will be mfenfible, and tbe fluid included in be
L'u"n the fpace ZYH(^ will move uniformly as if the folid
body were not there. The motions on the other fide
of the axis AC will be the fame ; and we need only at¬
tend to one half, and we fhall confider thefe as in a itate
of permanency.
No body changes either its direction or velocity other-
wife than by infenfible degrees: therefore the particle
which is moving in the axis will not reach the vertex
A of the body, where it behoved to defied inftantane-
oully at right angles. It will therefore begin to be de-
flefted atfome point F a-head of the body, and will de-
fcribe a curve FM, touching the axis in F, and the bo¬
dy in M 5 and then, gliding along the body, will quit
it at fome point L, defcribing a tangent curve, which
will join the axis again (touching it) in R ; and thus
there will be a quantity of ftagnaiit water FAM before
or a-head of thfe body, and another LCR behind Or
aftern of it4
Let a be the Velocity of a particle of the fluid in
any inflant, and a' its velocity in the next inftant. The
’velocity a may be confidered as compounded of a' and
a". If the particles tended to move with the velocities
a" only, the whole fluid would be in equilibrio (general
principle), and the preffure of the fluid would be the
lame as if all were flagnant, and each particle were
Fig. ijj.
urged by a force —, t- exprcfling an indefinitely fmall
moment of time. (N. B. is the proper expreffion of
the accelerating force, which, by a&ing during the mo¬
ment /•, would generate the velocity a'*; and a" is fup-
pofed an indeterminate quantity, different perhaps for
each particle). Now let a be fuppofed conftant, or
a—d. In this cafe d’ —0. That is to fay, no preflure
whatever will be exerted on the folid body unlefs there
happen changes in the velocities or direflions of the par¬
ticles.
Let a and d then be the motions of the particles in
two confecutive inftants. They would be in equilibrio
d'
it urged only by the forces —. Therefore if y be the
point where the particles which defcribe the curve FM
begin to change their velocity, the preffure in D would
be equal to the preffure which the fluid contained in the
canal y FMD would exert, if each particle were folicited
d'
by its force . The queftion is therefore reduced to
the finding the curvature in the canal yFMD, and the
a" t
accelerating forces — in its different parts.
It appears, in the firfl: place, that no preiTure is ex¬
erted by any of the particles along the curve FM : for
fuppofe that the particle a (fig. 19.) defcribes the in¬
definitely fmall ftraight line a b \t\ the firft inftant, and
b c m the fecond inftant 5 produce ab till bd—ab, and
joining dc, the motion ab or bd may be confidered as
compofed of be, which the particle really takes in the
next inftant, and a motion dc which fhould be deftrov-
ed. .Draw bt parallel to dc, and ie perpendicular to be.
It is plain that the particle b, folicited by the forces
b e, ei (equivalent to dc) fhould be in equilibrio. This
being eftablifhed, be muft be — 0, that is, there will be
bo accelerating or retarding force at b ; for if there
4
] RES
draw b m (fig. 20.) perpendicular to b F, and the RefiffoncC'
parallel//^infinitely near it. The part bn of the fluid ”—   
contained in the canal £ fly///would fuftain fome pref- FiS- %0‘
fore from b towards //, or from n towards b. Therefore
fince the fluid in this ftagnant canal fltould be in equili¬
brio, there muff alfo be fome atftion, at leaft in one of
the parts b m, mq, q n, to counterbalance the aftion on
the part bn. But the fluid is ftagnant in the foace
FAM (in confequence of the law of continuity).
Therefore there is no force which can aft on b m, m q,
q n ; and the preflure in the canal in the direftion bn or
nb is nothing, or the force be-zo, and the force ie is
perpendicular to the canal 5 and there is therefore no
prelfure in the canal FM, except what proceeds from
the part y F, or from the force ei; which laft being
perpendicular to the canal, there can be no force exert¬
ed on the point M, but what is propagated from the
part y F.
The velocity therefore in the canal FM is conflant
if finite, or infinitely fmall if variable : for, in the firft
cafe, the force b e would be abfolutely nothing ; and in
the fecotid cafe, it would be an infinitefimal of the fe¬
cond order, and may be confidered as nothing in com-
parifon with the velocity, which is of the firft order.
We fhall fee by and by that the laft is the real ftate of
the cafe. Therefore the fluid, before it begins to
change its direftion in F, begins to change its velocity
in fome point y a-head of F, and by the time that it
reaches F its velocity is as it wTere annihilated.
Cor. r. 'J'herefore the preflure in any point D arifes
both from the retardations in the part y F, and from
the particles which are in the canal MD : as thefe laft
a"
move along the furface of the body, the force de-
ftroyed in every particle, is compounded of two others,
one in the direction of the furface, and the other per¬
pendicular to it; Call thefe p and p'i The point D is
prefled perpendicularly to the furface MD ; iff, by all
the forces p in the curve MD ; 2d, by the force p' aft-
ing on the Angle point D. This may be neglefted in
comparifon of the indefinite number of the others;
therefore taking in the arch MD, an infinitely fmall
portion N m, r~ s, the prefiure on D, perpendicular to
the furface of the body, will be
and this flu¬
ent mutt be fo taken as to be 0 in the point M.
Cor. 2. Therefore, to find the preflure on D, we
muft: find the force p on any point N. Let u be the
velocity of the particle N, in the direftion N m in any
inftant, and u-\-u its velocity in the following inflant;
we muft have p.
Therefore the whole queflion
is reduced to finding the velocity u in every point N, in
the direftion N m.
And this is the Erim of a feries of propofitions which His final
follow, in which the author difplays the moft accurate ec3uatl0n
and precife conception of the fubjeft, and great addrefs ^oJves
and elegance in his mathematical analyfis. He at length blem^buf
brings out an equation which exprefies the preflure on
the body in the moft general and unexceptionable man¬
ner. We cannot give an abftraft, becaufe the train of
reafoning is already concife in the extreme : nor can we
even exhibit the final equation ; for it is conceived in
the
RES
tot
From the
imperfect
itate of
mathema¬
tics, it is
ufe let's.
Itefrftance. the moft refined and abftrufe form of indeterminate
funftions, in order to embrace every poffible circum-
rtance. But we can aflure our readers, that it truly ex-
preffes the folution of the problem. But, alas ! it is of
no ufe. So imperfeft is our mathematical knowledge,
that even Mr d’Alembert has not been able to exem¬
plify the application of the equation to the fimpleft cafe
which can be propofed, fuch as the direct impulfe on
a plane furface wholly immerfed in the fluid. All that
he is enabled to ^do, is to apply it (by fome modifica¬
tions and fubftitutions which take it out of its ftate of
extreme generality) to the direft impulfe of a vein of
fluid on a plane which deflects it wholly, and thus to
ihow its conformity to the folution given by Daniel
Bernoulli, and to obfervation and experience. He
fhows, that this impulfe (independent of the deficiency
arifing from the plane’s not being of infinite extent) is
fomewhat lefs than the weight of a column whofe bafe
is the fe&ion of the vein, and whofe height is twice the
fall neceffary for communicating the velocity. This
great philofopher and geometer concludes by faying,
that he does not believe that any method can be found
for halving this problem that is more diredl and fimple j
and imagines, that if the deductions from it fhall be
found not to agree with experiment, we muft give up all
hopes of determining the refiftance of fluids by theory
and analytical calculus. He fays analytical calculus ;
for all the phyfical principles on which the calculus pro¬
ceeds are rigoroufly demonftrated, and will not admit
of a doubt. There is only one hypothefis introduced
in his invefligation, and this is not a phyfical hypothe¬
fis, but a hypothefis of calculation. It is, that the
quantities which determine the ratios of the fecond flu¬
xions of the velocities, eflimated in the direftions pa¬
rallel and perpendicular to the axis AC (fig. i8.) are
fun&ions of the abfciila AP, and ordinate PM of the
curve. Any perfon, in the leaf! acquainted with ma¬
thematical analyfis, will fee, that without this fuppofi-
tion no analyfis or calculus whatever can be inftituted.
But let us. fee what is the phyjical meaning of this hy¬
pothefis. It is fimply this, that the motion of the par¬
ticle M depends on its fituation only. It appears im-
polfible to form any other opinion j and if we could
form fuch an opinion, it is as clear as day-light that the
cafe is defperate, and that we mufl renounce all hopes.
We are forry to bring our labours to this conclufion \
but we are of opinion, that the only thing that remains
is, for mathematicians to attach themfelves with firm-
nefs and vigour to fome fimple cafes; and, without
aiming at generality, to apply M. d’Alembert’s or Ber¬
noulli’s mode of procedure to the particular circum-
flances of the^cafe. It is not improbable but that, in
the folutions which may be obtained of thefe particular
cafes, circumftances may occur which are of a more ge¬
neral nature. Thefe will be fo many laws of hydrau¬
lics to be added to our prefent very fcanty flock ; and
thefe may have points of refemblance, which will give
birth to laws of ftill greater generality. And we re¬
peat our expreffion of hopes of fome fuccefs, by endea¬
vouring to determine, in fome fimple cafes, the minimum
pcjp.uile of motion. The attempts of the Jefuit com¬
mentators on the Principia to afcertain this on the New¬
tonian hypothefis do them honour, and have really given
us great affiftance in the particular cafe which came
through their hands.
Vol» XVII. Part II.
[ 753 1
R E S
Fig. iS.
<5.3
Mathema.
ticians
fhould ap¬
ply to
fimple
eafes;
And we fhould multiply experiments on the refill- Relulairf-.
ance of bodies. r.l hofe of the French academy are un- "" LJ-
doubtedly of ineftimable value, and will always be aP-,i ^,!ti
pealed to.. But there are circumltanees in thofe expeii-p'y eXperi-
ments which render them more complicated than is merits,
proper for a general theory, and which therefore limit
the conclufions which we with to draw from them. The
bodies were floating on the furface. This greatly mo¬
difies the deflections of the filaments of water, caufing
fome. to defied laterally, which would otherwife have
remained in one vertical plane; and this citeumfiancc
alfo neceilarily produced what the academicians called
the remou, or accumulation on the anterior part of the
body, and depreflion behind it. This produced an ad¬
ditional refiftance, which was meafured with great diffi¬
culty and uncertainty. The effeft of adhefion muft
alfo have been very confiderable, and very different in.
the different cafes } and it is of difficult calculation. It
cannot perhaps be totally removed in any experiment,
and it is neceffary to confider it as making part of the
refiftance in the moft important practical cafes, viz. the
motion of fhips. Here we fee that its effect is very
great. Every feaman knows that the fpeed, even of a
copper-flieathed fhip, is greatly increafed by greafmg her
bottom. The difference is too remarkable to admit
of a doubt : nor fhould we be furprifed at this, when we
attend to the diminution of the motion of water in long
pipes. A fmooth pipe four and a half inches diame¬
ter, and 500 yards long, yields but one-fifth of the
quantity ivhich it ought to do independent of friction.
But adhefion does a great deal which cannot be com¬
pared with friCtion. We fee that water flowing through
a hole in a thin plate will be increafed in quantity
fully one-third, by adding a little tube whofe length is
about twice the diameter of the hole. The adhefion
therefore will greatly modify the aCtion of the fila¬
ments both on the folid body and on each other, and
will change both the forms of the curves and the velo¬
cities in different points; and this is a fort of objection
to the only hypothefis introduced by d’Alembert. Yet
it is only a fort of objection •, for the effeCt of this ad¬
hefion, too, muft undoubtedly depend on the fituation of
the particle.
The form of thefe experiments of the academy is ill- xhe e'xpe-
fuited to the examination of the refiftance of bodies riments of
wholly immerfed in the fluid. The form of experi- Robins and
ment adopted by Robins for the refiltance of air, and B r<*a fuf"
afterwards by the Chevalier Borda for water, is free t°
from thefe inconveniences, and is fufceptible of equal able accu-
accuracy. The great advantage of both is the exaCt racy,
knowledge which they give us of the velocity of the
motion ; a circumftance effentially neceflary, and but
imperfeCtly known in the experiments of Mariotte and
others, who examined quiefcent bodies expofed to the
aCtion of a ftream. It is extremely difficult to meafure
the velocity of a ftream. It is very different in its dif¬
ferent parts. It is fwiftefl of all in the middle fuperfi-
cial filament, and diminifhes as we recede from this to¬
wards the fides or bottom, and the rate of diminution
is not precifely known. Could this be afcertained with
the necefiary precifion, we fhould recommend the fol¬
lowing form of experiment as the moft fimplc, eafy, eco¬
nomical, and accurate.
Let a, b, c, d, (fig. 21.) be four books placed in a Fig. 21,
horizontal plane at the corners of a rectangular paral-
5 C lelogram,
Refu'Hnce
66
f’^mple ex-
(.erimer,t
lor meafu-
ring the
velocity of
a ftream.
Fi-. 18.
Fig. ii.
RES [ 75
lelogram, tlie fides a b, c d being parallel to llie direc¬
tion of the itream ABCD, and the fides a b, c d being
perpendicular to it. Let the body G be fattened to
an axis cf of flith-tempered fteel-wire, fo that the fur-
face on which the fluid is to aft may be inclined to
the ftream in the precife angle we defire. Let tins
axis have hooks at its extremities, which are hitched
into the loops of four equal threads, fu!pended from the
hooks <7, b, c,d; and let H be a fifth thread, fuipend-
ed from the middle of the line joining the points of
iufpenfion a, b. Let HIK be a graduated arch, whofe
centre is H, and whofe plane is in the direftion of the
ftream. It is evident that the Impulie on the body G
will be meafured (by a procefs well known to every
mathematician) by the deviation of the thread II <r from
the vertical line HI; and this will be done without any
intricacy of calculation, or any attention to the centres,
of gravity, of ofcillation, or of percufiion. Thefe muft
be accurately afeertained with refpeft to that form in
which the pendulum has always been employed for
meafuring the impulfe or velocity of a ftream. Thefe
advantages arife from the circuraftance, that the axis
ef remains aKvays parallel to the horizon. We may
be allowed to obferve, by the bye, that this would have
been a great improvement of the beautiful experiments
of Mr Robins and Dr Hutton on the velocities of can¬
non-(hot, and would have faved much intricate calcu¬
lation, and been attended with many important advan¬
tages.
_ The great difficulty is, as we have obferved, to mea-
fure the velocity of the ftream. Even this maybe done
in this way with fome precifton. Let two floating bo¬
dies be dragged along the furface, as in the experiments
of the academy, at fome diftance from each other late¬
rally, fo that the water between them may not be fen-
fibly difturbed. Let a horizontal bar be attached to
them, tranfverfe to the direction of their motion, at a
proper height above the furface, and let a fpherical pen¬
dulum be fufpended from this, or let it be lufpended
from four points, as here deferibed. Now let the de¬
viation of this pendulum be noted in a variety of velo¬
cities. This will give us the law of relation betwTeen
the velocity and the deviation of the pendulum. Now,
in making experiments on the reftftance of bodies, let
the velocity of the ftream, in the very filament in which
the refiftance is meafured, be determined by the devia¬
tion of this pendulum.
It were greatly to be wifhed that fome more palpable
argument could [be found for the exiftence of a quantity
of ftagnant fluid at the anterior and pofterior parts of
the body. The one already given, derived from the
coniideration that no motion changes either its velocity
or' direftion by finite quantities in an inftant, is unex¬
ceptionable. But it gives us little information. The
fmalleft conceivable extent of the'curve FM in fig. 18.
will anfwer this condition, provided only that it touches
the axis in fome point F, and the body in fome point
M, fo as not to make a finite angle with either. But
furely there are circumftances which rigoroufly deter¬
mine the extent of this ftagnant fluid. And it appears
without doubt, that if there wrere no cohefion or fric¬
tion, this fpace will have a determined ratio to the lize
of the body (the figures of the bodies being fuppofed
fimilar). Suppofe a plane furface AB, as in fig. it.
there can be no doubt but that the figure A « D £ B
I 1 RES
will in every cafe be fimilar. But if we fuppofe an R
adhefion or tenacity which is conftant, this may make1—""v
a change both in its extent and its form : for its con-
ftancy of form depends on the diiturbing forces being
always as the squares of the velocity ; and this ratio of
the difturbing forces is prelerved, while the inertia of
the fluid is the only agent and patient in the proceis.
But when we add to this the conftant (that is, invaria¬
ble) difturbing force of tenacity, a change of form and
dimenfions muft happen. In like manner, the friftion,
or fomething analogous to friction, which produces an
effeft proportional to the velocity, muft alter this nc-
ceiTary ratio of the whole difturbing forces. We may
conclude, that the effeft of both thefe circumftances
will be to diminilh the quantity of this ftagnant fluid,
by licking it away externally ; and to this we mull
aferibe the faft, that the part FAM is never perfeftly
ftagnant, but is generally difturbed with a whirling mo¬
tion. We may alio conclude, that this ftagnant fluid
will be more incurvated between F and M than it would
have been, independent of tenacity and friction ; and
that the arch LR will, on the contrary, be Ids incur¬
vated.—And, laftly, vve may conclude, that there will
be lomething oppolite to preffure, cr iomething which
wc may call abjlraclion, exerted on the pofterior part of
the body which moves in a tenacious fluid, or is expo-
fed to the ftreatn of fuch a flui : ; for the ftagnant
fluid LCR adheres to the furface LC ; and the palling
fluid tends to draw it away both by its tenacity and by
its friftion. This muft augment the apparent impulfe
of the ftream on fuch a body ; and it muft greatly
augment the refiftance, that is, the motion loft by tins
body in its progrels through the tenacious fluid : for t he
body muft drag along with it this ftagnant fluid, and
drag it in oppofition to the tenacity and friftion of the
furrounding fluid. The eifeft of this is molt remark¬
ably feen in the refinances to the motion cf pendulums ,
and'the chevalier Buat, in his examination of Newtcr s
experiments, clearly Ihows that this cohiiitutes the
greateft part of the refiftance.
This moft ingenious writer has paid great attention
to this part of the procefs of nature, and has laid the
foundation of a theory of refiftance entirely different
from all the preceding. We cannot abridge it ; and it
is too hnperfeft in its pielent condition to be offered as
a body of doftrine: but we hope that the ingenious au¬
thor will profecute the fubjeft.
<57
We cannot conclude this difiertation (which we ac- Account of
knowledge to be very unfatisfaftory and imperfeft) the cheva-
better, than by giving an account of feme experiments fier Buat’s
of the chevalier Buat, which feem of immenfe confe-eTen"
quence, and tend to give us very new views of the fab-’ " ’
jeft. Mr Buat obferved the motion of water iffuing
from a glafs cylinder through a narrow ring formed by
a bottom of fmaller diameter ; that is, the cylinder was
open at both ends, and there was placed at its lower
end a circle of fmaller diameter, by way of bottom,
which left a ring all around. He threw fome powder¬
ed fealing wax into the water, and obferved with great
attention the motion of its final] particles. He law
thofe which happened to be in the very axis of the cy¬
linder defeend along the axis with a motion pretty
uniform.
R E S r 75
Refrimce. uniform, till they came very near the bottom ; from
*—--■v—this they continued to defcend very (lowly, till they were
aim oft in contad with the bottom j they then ^ devia¬
ted from the centre, and approached the orifice in
ilraight lines and with an accelerated motion, and at
haft darted into the orifice with great rapidity. He
had obferved a thing fimilar to this in a horizontal ca¬
nal, in which he had fet up a (mail board like a dam or
bar, over which the wrater flowed. He had thrown a
gooi’eberry into the water, in order to meafure the velo¬
city at the bottom, the goofeberry being a (mail matter
heavier than rvater. It approached the dam uniform¬
ly till about three inches from it. Here it almoft flood
liill, but it continued to advance till almoft in con tad.
It then rofe from the bottom along the inlide of the
dam with an accelerated motion, and quickly efcaped
over the top.
Hence he concluded, that the rvater which covers
the anterior part of the body expofed to the (beam is
not perfectly ftagnant, and that the filaments recede
from the axis in curves, which converge to the furface
of the body as .different hyperbolas converge to the
fame affymptote, and that they move with a velocity
continually increafing till they efcape round the fides of
UHe had eftablifhed (by a pretty reafonable theory,
confirmed by experiment) a propofition concerning the
preffure which water in motion exerts on the furface
along which it glides, viz. that the preflitre is equal to
that which it would exert if at refi minus the weight of
the column whofe height would produce the velocity °f1 f
pqfjing Jiream. Confequently the preffure which the
ft ream exerts on the furface perpendicularly expofed to
it will depend on the velocity with which it glides along
ii, and will diminiih from the centre to the circumfe-
This, fays he, may be'the reafon why the im-
pnlfe on a plane wholly immerfed is but one half of that
on a plane which defleds the whole ftream.
He contrived a very ingenious inftrument for exami¬
ning this theory. A fquare brafs plate ABGF (fig.
U~ tuuiw- 2 2.) was pierced with a great number of holes, and fixed
ved for exa- in front Gf 3 fallow box reprefen ted edgewife in fig.
mining his - . . . • i m. _ ^
theory.
Fig. 22-
Fig. 23.
68
and of the
inftrument
he contri-
2 t. The back of this box was pierced with a hole c,
in which was inferted the tube of glafs CDE, bent
fquare at D. This inftrument was expofed to a ftream
of water, which beat op the brafs plate. The water
bavine filled the box through the holes, flood at an
equal height in the glafs tube when the furroundmg
water was ftagnant ; but when it was in motion it al¬
ways flood in the tube above the leyel of the fmooth
water without, and thus indicated the preffure occafioned
by the aftion of the flream. , „ . r , .
' When the inftrument was not wholly immerfed, there
vas alwavs a confiderable accumulation againft the Iront
cf the box, anffa depreffion behind it The water before
it was by no means ftagnant: indeed it Ihould not be,
as Mr Buat obferves ; for it confifls of the water which
efcaping on all fides, and therefore upwards from
the axis of the ftream, which meets the plate perpendi¬
cularly in c confiderably under the furface. It elcapes
upwards •, and if the body were fufficiently immerfed,
it would efcape in this direaion almoft as .eafily as
laterally. But in the prefent circumftances, it heaps
up till the elevation occafions it to fall oft fidevne as
faft as it is renewed. When the inftrument was nnmer-
- ] K E S
fed more than its femiciiameter under the iuna^v., uw  ,
water full rofe above the level, and there was a great
depreflisn immediately behind this elevation, in con-
fequence of this difficulty of efcaping upwards, the wa¬
ter flows off laterally ; and if the horizontal dimenfions
of the furface is great, this lateral eftlux becomes more
difficult, and requires a greater accumulation. From
this it happeps, that the refiftance of broad furfaces
equally immerfed is greater than in the proportion of
the breadth. A plane of two feet wide and one foot
deep, when it is not completely immerfed, will be more
refilled than a plane two feet deep and one foot wide |
for there will be an accumulation againft both : and
even if thefe were equal in height, the additional fur¬
face will be greateft in the wideft body ; and the ele¬
vation will be greater, becaufe the lateral efcape is more
difficult. 1 r r ■
The circumftances chiefly to be attended to are the e.
The preffure on the centre was much greater tuan to't0
' wards the border, and, in general, the height of the wa-be aU8nd-
ter in the tube DE was more than 4 of the height ne-cd coin
ceffary for producing the velocity when only the cei,‘''municnt.
tral hole was open. When various holes were opened 
at different diftances from the centre, the height or the
water in DH continually diminifhed as the hole was
nearer the border. At a certain diftance from the bor¬
der the water at E was level with the lurrounding u-a-
ter, fo that no preffure was exerted on that hoie. Tut ^^7^
the moft unexpected and remarkable circumftance was, able cir_
that, in great velocities, the holes at the very border, curiftai cc.
and even to a fmall diftance from it, not only fubftamed
no preffure, but even gave out water; for the water m
the tube was lower than the furroundmg water. ^ Mr
Buat calls this a non-preffort. In a cafe in wnicn the
velocity of the ftream was three feet, and the preffure on
the central hole caufed the water in the vertical tube to
fiand 33 lines or U of inch ab.ove the lpVf 01 tfe
furrounding fmocth water, the aClion on a hole at the
lower corner of the fquare caufed it to Hand 12 hnes
lower than the furrounding water. Now tne velocity
of the ftream in this experiment was 36 inches per se¬
cond. This requires 2l± lines for its productive falH
whereas the preffure on the central hole was 33. ilns
approaches to the preffure on a furface u'hich denects
it wholly. The intermediate holes gave every variation
of preffure, and the diminution was more rapid as the
holes were nearer the edge ; but the law or unninu-
tion could not be obferved.
This is quite a new and moft unexpea«d circum-not mcon-
ftance in the aftlon of fluids on folid bodies, and ren-fiftent wuh
ders thefubjeft more intricate than ever; yet it is byde/ofhv.
no means inconfiftent with the genuine principles otdrcftatics
hydroftatics or hydraulics. In as far as M. Luat^or hydra*-
propofition concerning the preffure of moving fluids Uo.
is true it is very reafonable to fay, that when the
lateral velocity with which the fluid tends to efcape
exceeds the velocity of percuffion, the height necefla-
ry for producing this velocity muft exceed that which
would produce the other, and a non-preffion muft be
obferved. And if we confider the forms of the la¬
teral filaments near the edge of the body, we fee t rat
the concavity of the curve is turned towards the. bo¬
dy, and that the centrifugal forces tend to dimimm
their preffure on the body. If the middle alone were
ftruck with a confiderable velocity, the water might
c C 2 even
Refrftance
„ 72
Subftance
of Boat’s
theory.
73
Experi¬
ments by
which it is
.confirmed.
RES [ 75
^ even rebound, as is frequently obferved. This attual
rebounding is here prevented by the furrounding wa¬
ter, which is moving with the fame velocity : but
the preffure may be almoft annihilated by the tendency
to leoound of the inner filaments.
Part (ana perhaps a confiderable part) of this ap-^a-
tent non-preflion is undoubtedly produced by the tena¬
city of the water, which licks off with it the water
ymg m the hole.. But, at any rate, this is an im¬
portant faff, and gives great value to thefe experiments.
t gives a key to many curious phenomena in the re-
liitance of fluids; and.the theory of Mr Buat deferves a
very ferious confideration. It is all contained in the two
following propofitions.
T - “ If: by any caufe whatever, a column of fluid, whe¬
ther mahng part of an indefinite fluid, or contained in /olid
canals, come to move with a given velocity, the preffure
which. it exerted laterally before its motion, either on the
adjoining fluid or on the fldes of the canal, is diminifljed
by the weight of a column having the height necefjary for
communicating the velocity of the motion.
2J. u Theprefure on the centre of a plane furface per¬
pendicular to theflream, and wholly immerfed in it, is \ of
the weight of a column having the height neceffaru for
communicating the velocity. For 33 is ± of 2i±”
He attempted to afcertain the medium preffure on
tie whole furface, by opening 625 holes difperfed all
over it. With the fame velocity of current, he found
the height m the tube to be 29 lines, or 74 more than
e. height neceffary for producing the velocity. But
e J. / concluded this to be too great a meafure, be¬
came the holes were £ of an inch from the edge : had
there been lioles at the very edge, they would have fuf-
_ ained a. non-preffion, which would have diminifhed the
height m the tube very confiderably. He expofed to
the Iame “ream a conical funnel, which raifed the wa¬
ter to 34 lines. But this could not be confidered as
a meafure of the preffure on a plane folid furface 1 for
the central water was undoubtedly fcooped out as it
were and the filaments much more defleaed than they
would have been by a plane furface. Perhaps fomething
ot this happened even in every fmall hole in the fo£
mer experiments And this fuggefts fome doubt as to
,le accuyacy or the meafurement of the preffure and of
the velocity of a current by Mr Pitot’s tube. It furely
renders lome correftions abfolutely neceffary. It is a
ihim -b tnWheU mXp°fe? t£> a vein of fluid coming
ta ough a. rtiort paffage, the water in the tube Hands on
cvel with that in the refervoir. Now we know that
rhe velocity of this ftream does not exceed what would
Le produced by a fall equal to of the head of wa-
ter m th, refervorr. Mr Buat made many valuable ob-
.^rvatiGHs and improvements on this moft ufeful inftru-
t’ w}lIch will be taken notice of in the articles Rr
VERS and WATEB-Works.
Mr Buat, by a fcrupulous attention to all the circum-
ffances, concludes, that the medium of preffure an the
whole furface is equal to ^ of the weight of a co-
iumn having theAurfaoe for its bafe> and the duc_
e faI! for its height. But we think that there is an
uncertainty in this conclufion j becaufe the height of the
water in the vertical tube was undoubtedly augmented
by 3n hydroftalical preffure arifing from ,L
6 1 RES
tion of water above the body which was expofed to the Refi.lanre.
ffream. ".. 
Since the preffures are as the fquares of the veloci¬
ties, or as the heights h which produce the velocities,
we may exprefs this preffure by the fymbol h or
21. J 5
186. This
1.186 h, or m h, the value of m being i.iou. j ms
exceeds confiderably the refult of the experiments of
the French academy. In thefe it does not appear that
m lenfibly exceeds unity. Note, that in thefe experi-
ments the body was moved through ftill water 5 here
it is expofed to a ftream. Thefe are generally fuppofed
to be equivalent, on the authority of the third law of
motion, whicn makes every adfion depend on the rela¬
tive motions. We fnall by and by fee fome caufes of
dmerence.
I he writers on this fubjecl feem to think their talk The adion
completed when they have confidered the acftion of theon the h>n-
ffuid on the anterior part of the body, or that part 0fclerpartof
it which is before the broadelt fedlion, and have paidS,?1',
little or no attention to the hinder part. Yet thofe wholy fnZ!
are molt interefted in the fubjedl, the naval archite£ts,tant with’
feem convinced that it is of no lefs importance to at-that on the
tend to the form of the hinder part of a fhip. Andf°re'part'
the umverfal pradtice of all nations has been to make
the hinder part more acute than the fore-part. This
has. undoubtedly been deduced from experience 5 for it
is in diredl oppofition to any notions which a perlbn
would naturally form on this fubjedt. Mr Buat there¬
fore thought it very neceffary to examine the adfion of
the water on the hinder part of a body by the fame ?S
method. And, previous to this examination, in order£xpen'
to acquire fome fcientific notions of the fubjeft, he made SubU
tiie tollowing very curious and inftrudlive experiment, by Buat,
. Two Ilttle conical pipes AB (fig. 24.) were inferted FiS- 24*
into the upright fide of a prifmatic vefl'el. They were
an inch long, and their diameters at the inner and outer
ends were five and four lines. A was 57 lines under
the furface, and B was 73.. A glafs fyphon was made
or the fliape reprefented in the figure, and its internal
diameter was 14 lines. It was placed with its mouth
m the axis, and even with the bafe of the conical pipe.
The pipes being fhut, the veffel was filled with water,
and it was made to ftand on a level in the two legs of
the fyphon, the upper part being full of air. When
this fyphon was applied to the pipe A, and the water
running freely, it rofe 32 lines in the ffiort leg, and funk
as much in the other. When it was applied to the
pipe B, the water rofe 41 lines in the one leg of the
fyphon, and funk as much in the other. ^ ^5
He reafons in this manner from the experiment. Theancl bis
■mg comprehended between the end of the fyphon andreafoilinS
he fides of the conical tube beino- thp uP°n ft>
r J r 1 r “X v pnun ana
tne titles or the conical tube being the narroweft part
of the orifice, the water iffued with the velocity cor-
refponding to the height of the water in the veffel
above the orifice, diminiflied for the contra&ion. If
therefore the cylinder of water immediately before the
mouth of the fyphon iffued with the fame velocity the
tube would be emptied through a height equal to this
bead of water (charge). If, on the contrary, this
cylinder of water, immediately before the mouth of the
lyphon, were ftagnant, the water in it would exert its
tub preffure on the mouth of the fyphon, and the water
in the fyphon would be level with the water in the veffel.
Between
Pi E S [73
Refiftance. Between tnefe extremes we muft find the real Hate of
—v 1 the cafe, and we muft meafure the force of non-preffure
by the rife of the water in the fyphon.
We fee that in both experiments it bears an accurate
proportion to the depth under the furface.. Tor 57:
73“3 2 : 41 very nearly. He therefore eftimates the
non-preffure to be ^ of the height of the water above
the orifice.
feemingly We are difpofed to think that the ingenious author
inaccurate. bas not reafoned accurately from the experiment. In
the firft place, the force indicated by the experiment,
whatever be its origin, is certainly double of what he
fuppofes j for it muft be meafured by the him of the
rife of the water in one leg, and its deprefhon in the
other, the weight of the air in the bend of the fyphon
being neglefted. It is precifely analogous to the force
adting on the water ofcillating in a fyphon, which is
acknowledged to be the fum of the elevation and de-
preflion. The force indicated by the experiment there¬
fore is m of the height of the water above the ori¬
fice. The force exhibited in this experiment bears a
ftill greater proportion to the prodndlive height 5 for
it is certain that the water d/d not iffue with the velo¬
city acquired by the fall from the lurfacc, and pro¬
bably did not exceed \ of it. The effedt of contradtion
muft have been confiderable and uncertain. The velo¬
city ftiould have been meafured both by the amplitude
of the jet and by the quantity of water difeharged. In
the next place, we apprehend that much of the eftedt
is produced by the tenacity of the water, which drags
along with it the water which would have llowly iflued
fr®m the fyphon, had the other end not dipped into
the water of the veffel. We know, that if the hori¬
zontal part of the fyphon had been continued far
enough, and if no retardation were occafioned by fric¬
tion, the column of water in the upright leg would have
accelerated like any heavy body j and when the laft of
it had arrived at the bottom of that leg, the whok in
the horizontal part would be moving with the velocity
acquired by falling from the furface. The water ot the
veffel which iffues through the furrounding ring very
quickly acquires' a much greater velocity than what the
water defeending in the fyphon would acquire in the
fame time, and it drags this laft water along with it both
by tenacity’and friftion, and it drags it out till its adion
is oppofed by the want of equilibrium produced in the
fyphon, by the elevation in the one leg and the depref-
fion in the ofher. We imagine that little can be con¬
cluded from the experiment with refpe&tothe real non-
preffure. Nay, if the fides of the fyphon be fuppofed in¬
finitely thin, fo that there would be no curvature of the
filaments of the furrounding water at the mouth of the
fyphon, we do not very diftindly fee any fource of non-
preffure : For we are not altogether fatisfied with the
proof which Mr Boat offers for this meafure of tlm
preffure of a ftream of fluid gliding along a furface, and
objiruEied by fr/Bion or any other caufe. We imagine
that palling water in the prefent experiment would be a
little retarded by accelerating continually the water de¬
feending in the fyphon, and renewed a-top, fuppofing
the upper end open •, becaufe this water would not of it-
felf acquire more than half this velocity. It however
drags it out, till it not only refills with a force equal to
the weight of the whole vertical column, but even ex¬
ceeds it. by tVo’ This it is able to do, becaufe the
7 ] RES
whole preffure by which the water iffies from an orifice ^fnHnce.
has been Ihown (by Daniel Bernoulli) to be. equal to
twice this weight. We therefore confider this beauti-
fuly experiment as chiefly valuable, by giving, us a mea¬
fure of the tenacity of the water •, and we with that it
were repeated in a variety ox depths, in order to difeo-
ver what relation the force exerted bears to the depth.
It would feem that the tenacity, being a certain deter¬
minate thing, the proportion of 100 to 1x2 would not
be conftant; and that the obferved ratio would be made
up of two parts, one of them conftant, and the other
proportional to the depth under the furface. .
But ftill this experiment is intimately conne&ed with
the matter in hand and this apparent non-preffure
on the hinder part of a body expofed to a ftream, trom
whatever caufes it proceeds, does operate in the action
of water on this hinder part, and muft be taken into the
account. • v X*
We muft therefore follow the chevalier de Buat m
his difeuflions on this fubjeft. A priimatic body, ha- 0f
ving its prow and poop equal and parallel iui laces, and
plunged horizontally into a fluid., will require a force
to keep it firm in the direftion of its axis precifely equal
to the difference between the real preffures exerted on
its prow and poop. If the fluid is at reft, this diffe¬
rence will be nothing, becaufe the oppofite dead pref¬
fures of the fluid will be equal: but in a ftream, there
is fuperadded to the dead preffure on the prow the ac¬
tive preffure arifing from the deflexions of the filaments
of this fluid. ... r ..
If the dead preffure on the poop remained m its full
intenfity by the perfeX ftagnation of the water behind
it, the whole fenfible preffure on the body would be the
aXive preffure only on the prow, reprefented by mh.
If, on the other hand, we could fuppofe that the water
behind the body moved continually away from it (being
renewed laterally) with the velocity of the ftream, the
dead preffure would be entirely removed from its poop,
and the whole fenfible preffure, or what muft be op¬
pofed by fome external force, would be mh-\-h. Neither
of thefe can happen *, and the real ftate of the cafe muft.
be between thefe extremes. r p 7?
The following experiments were tried : The perlo- “Pi¬
rated box with its vertical tube was expofed to the
ftream, the brafs plate being turned down the ftream.
The velocity was again 36 inches per fecond.
The central hole A alone being opened, gave a non-
preffure of * 13 lines.
A hole B, ^ of an inch from the edge,
gave - ■ 1 -5
A hole C, near the furface - I5-7
A hole D, at the lower angle - 15-3
Here it appears that there is a very ccnfiderable
non-preffure, increafing from the centre to tne border.
This increafe undoubtedly proceeds bom the greater la¬
teral velocity with which the water is gliding in from
the fides. The water behind was by no means ftag-
nant, although moving off with a much final!er velocity
than that of the paffing ftream, and it was vifibly re¬
moved from the fides, and gradually licked ■ away at its
further extremity.
Another box, having a great number of holes, ail
open, indicated a medium of non-preffure equal to 13. J-
lines.
Another
Rcfirtanee.
RES [ 7S
AnolLer oFlarger dimenfions, but having fewer holes.
 rr  r _ r ° 7
80
•Ore at u-
tiJity of
them in
Ihip-build¬
ing-
rhyfical
caufe ef it
-explained.
indicated a non-preffure of 12-|.
^ -but toe moft remarkable, and the molt important
phenomena, were the following :
1 he firft box was fixed to the fide of another box,
fo that, when all was made fmooth, it made a perfect
cube, of which the perforated brafs plate made the
poop.
1 he apparatus being now expofed on the fire am, with
i-ie periorated plate looking down the ftream,
The hole A indicated a non-preflion
B . _
C - - . 6
.Here was a great diminution of the non-preflions
produced by the diftance between the prow and the
poop.
1 his box was then fitted in the fame manner, fo as
to make the poop of a box three feet long. In this
iituation the non-preffures were as follow :
= 7.2
8
Hole A
B
3-2
. The non-preffions were Hill farther diminifhed by this
increafe of length.
I he box was then expofed with all the holes open, in
-three different fituations :
ill, Single, giving a non-preffure -
2d, Making the poop of a cube . Vo
3d, Making the poop of a box three feet long 3.0
Another larger box :
ill, Single . . i2 2
2d, Poop of a cube .
3d, Poop of the long box - _ 2
Thefe are moll valuable experiments. They plainly
sow now important it is to confider the action on the
hinder part of the body. For the whole impulfe or re¬
finance, which mull be wsthilood or overcome by the
external force, is^ the fum of the active preffare on the
lore-part, and t>f the non-preffure on the hinder part ;
and they (how that this does not depend folely on the
mrm of the prow and poop, but alfo, and perhaps chief¬
ly, on the length of the body. We fee that the non-
preiiure on the hinder-part was prodigioufiv diminifhed
■ u . , <■> g/"•r? maiviiig any change
m tne iorm either of her prow or her poop, will greatly
oirnmnn the reiiilance to her motion through the water :
a-.c. tins increafe of length may be made bv continuino-
:f8 ;0rT°u frame in feveral timbers along
the keel by which the capacity of the (hip, and her
power ot carrying, fail, will be greatly increafed, and
otaer qualities improved, while her {peed is augmen-
It is furely of importance to confider a little the phy-
fieal caufe of this change. The motions are extremely
complicated, and we mud be contented if we can bill
perceive a few leading circumflances.
T he water is turned afide by the anterior part of the
toc-y, and tae velocity of the filaments is increafed, and
they acquire a divergent motion, by which they alfo pulh
auce the lurrcundmg water. On each fide of the body,
therefore, they are moving in a divergent direftion, and
2
3 ] il L S
with, an increafed velocity. But as they are 0:1 all ikies
preffed by the fluid without them, their motions gra¬
dually approach paraiielifm, and tlieir velocities to an
equality with the dream. The progrellive velocity, or
that in the direftion of the dream, 'is checked, aWeaft
at firll. But fince we obferve the filaments condipated
round the body, and that they are not defledle'd at rio-fit
angles to their former direction, it is plain that the real
velocity of a filament in its oblique path is augmented.
We always obferve, that a done lying in the fand, and
expofed to the wafh ot the lea, is laid bare at the bottom,
and the fand.is generally walhed away to feme didance
all round. This is owing to the iacreafed velocity of
the water which comes into contaft with the done. It
takes up more fand than it can keep floating, and it de~
pofits it at a little diltance all around, forming a little
bank, which furrounds the done at a fmall distance.
When the filaments of water have paffed the body, they
are preffed by the ambient fluid into the place which it
has quitted, and they glide round its item, and fill up
the. (pace behind. The more divergent and the more
rapid they are, when about to fall in behind, the more
of the circumambient preffure mud be employed to turn
them, into the trough behind the body, and lefs of it will
remain to prefs them to the body itlelf. The extreme
of . this mud obtain when the dream is obdrufted by a
thin plane only. But when there is fome diftance be¬
tween the prowand the poop, the divergency of the fila¬
ments which had been turned afide by the prow, is dimi¬
nifhed by the time that they have come abreaft of the
ftein, and fhould turn in behind it. They are therefore
more readily made to converge behind the body, and a
more confiderable part of the fur rounding preffure remains
unexpended,, and therefore preffes the water againft the
ftern 5 and it is evident that this advantage mud; be fo
much the greater as the body is longer. But the advan¬
tage will foon be iufceptible of no very confiderable in¬
creafe : for the lateral and divergent, and accelerated
filaments, will foon become fo nearly parallel and equally
rapid with the rell of the dream, that a great increafe of
length will not make any confiderable change in thefe
particularsj and it mud be accompanied\vith an increafe
ot friftiou.
. Fhefe are very obvious refleftions. And if we attend
minutely to the way in which the aimed dagnant fluid
behind the body is expended and renewed, we (hall fee
all thefe eftefts confirmed and augmented. But as we
cannot fay any thing on this fubjeft that is precife, or
that can be made the fubjeft of computation, it is need-
lefs to enter into a more minute difcullion. The diminu¬
tion of the non-preffure towards the centre mod probably
allies from the (mailer force which is neceffary to be ex¬
pended in the infleftion of the lateral filaments, already
inflefted in fome degree, and having their velocity dimi-
nidied. But it is a fubjeft highly deferving the attention
of the mathematicians ; and we prefume to invite them
to the dudy of the motions of thefe lateral filaments,
paffing the body, and prefled into its wake by forces
which are fufceptible of no difficult inveflication. It
feems highly probable, that if a prifmatic box, with a
fquare fiern, were fitted with an addition precifely (haped
like the water which would (abdrafting tenacity and
fnftion) have been dagnant behind it, the quantity of
non.preffion would be the fmalled poffible. The mathe¬
matician would furely diicover circumdances which
would
RefifU"
81
Beat’s de>
duibons
from his
exseri-
ments.
R E S [
e. Tvou-d farniill fame maxims of conftruciion for the hin-
'~J der part as weii as for the prow. And as his fpecula-
tioni on this la it have not been wholly fruitlefs, we may
exnect advantages from ins attention to this part, fo much
negleiffe'd.
in the mean time, let us attend to the deduftions
which Mr de Bust has made from his few experiments.
.When the velocity is three feet per fecond, requiring
the productive height 21.5 lines, the heights correipon-
ding to the non-pretTure on the poop of a thin plane is
jM.41 lines (taking in ieveral circumltances of judicious
correction, which we have not mentioned), that of a
foot cube is 5.8^, and that of a cox of triple length is
3.31. ^ .
"Let q exprefs the variable ratio of thefe to the height
producing the velocity, fo that q h may exprefs the non-
preffure in every cafe } we have,
7-0.67
0.271
r*
75
For a thin plane
a cube
box — 3 cubes
e-MS
It is evident that the value of q has a dependence on
the proportion of the length, and the tranlvevie fection
of the body. -A. i’eries of experiments on prifmatic bo¬
dies fliowed Mr de Boat that the deviation of the fila¬
ments was hmilar in fimilar bodies, and that this ob¬
tained even in diflimilar pritms, ivhen the lengths were
as the fquare-roots of the tranfverfe leftions. Although
therefore the experiments were not fufficiently nume¬
rous for deducing the precile law, it feemed not impof- jfr
fible to derive from them a very ufeful approximation.
By a dexterous comparifon he found, that if / expreffes
the length of the priiin, and .r the area of the tranfverfe
feCtion,° and L expreffes the common logarithm of the
quantity to which it is prefixed, we lhall exprefs the
non-preffure
/
pretty accurately by the formula -=
Hence arlfes an important remark, that when the
height correfponding to the non-predion is greater than
v/ji? and the body is little immerfed in the fluid, there
will be a void behind it. Thus a furface of a fquare
inch, juft immerfed in a current of three feet per fe-
cend, will have a void behind it. A foot fquare will
be in a ftmilar condition when the velocity is 12 feet.
We muft be careful to diftinguifh this non-preffure
from the other caufes of refiftance,. which are always
neceffarily combined with it. It is fuperadditive to
the a Clive impreflion on the prow, to the ftatical piel-
fare of the accumulation a-head 01 tne body, the ftai-ica*
prefiure ariflng from the depreffion behind it, the effe^.ls
of friction, and the effe&s of tenacity. It is indeed next
to impoflible to eftimate them feparatsly, and many of
them are a&ually combined in the meafures now given.
Nothing can determine the pure non-prefiures till ue
can afeertain the motions of the filaments.
M. de Buat here takes occafion to comroveit the
VCJir, a univerfally adopted maxim, tnat the preSlire occaftoned
maxim uni- p,y a flream of fluid on a fixed body is the fame u ith
that on a body moving with equal velocity in a. quief-
cent fluifl. He repeated all thefe experiments with the
perforated box in ftill water. The general diilinftion
was, that both the preflfures and the non-preflure in this
cafe were lefs, and that the odds were chiefly to be cb-
83
He contro¬
verts
verfrliy
adopted,
9 ] RES
ferved near the edges of the fiirface. The general fac- Itefiftance.
tor of the prefiure of a 'ftream on the anterior iurface '  
was m —- 1.186 j but that on a moving body through
a itili fluid is only ni ~ 1. He obferved no non-preffure
even at the very edge of the prow, but even a lenfible
preifure. The preifure, theretore, or refiftance, is more
equablv diffufed over the furface ol the prow than the
impulte is.—He alfo found that the reliftances diminifti-
ed in a lefs ratio than the iquares of the velocities, efpe-
cially in fmall velocities.
'1'he non-preftures increafed in a greater ratio than the
fquares of the velocities. The ratio of the velocities to a
fmall velocity of 2} inches per fecond increafed geome ¬
trically, the value of q increafed arithmetically •, and we
may determine q for any velocity V by this proportion
M T v 1
— ; L —— 0.5 : 7, and 7—
L_V_
2.2
That is, lei:
the common logarithm of the velocity, divided by 2j-,
be confidered as a common number j divide this com¬
mon number by 2tSq, the quotient is 7, which muft be
multiplied by the productive height. The product is
the prefiure.
When Pitot’s tube was expofed to the ftream, we had
m~\ \ but when it is carried through ftiil water, m is
= 1.22. When it was turned from the ftream, we had
7=0.157 ; but when carried through ftill water, 7 is =
0.138. A remarkable experiment. 84
When the tube was moved laterally through the wa- and fup-
ter, fo that the motion was in the dire&ion ot the plane
of its mouth, the non-preffure was = 1. This is one a i.emaIE
of his chief arguments lor his theory of non-preflion.ableexpe-
He does not give the detail of the experiment, and only riment.
inferts the refult in his table.
As a body expofed to a ftream defledls the fluid,
heaps it up, and increafes its velocity; fo a body moved
through a ftill fluid turns it afide, caufes it to fwell up
before it, and gives it a real motion alongfide of it in
the opponte diredion. And as the body expofed to a
ftream has a quantity of fluid almoft ftagnant both be¬
fore and behind *, fo a body moved through a ftill fluid
carries before it and drags after it a quantity of fluid,
which accompanies it with nearly an equal velocity.
This addition to the quantity of matter in motion muft
make a diminution of its velocity ; and this forms a very
confiderable part of the obferved refiftance. _ gt,
We cannot, however, help remarking that it would rhe objec-
require very diftinft and ftrong proof indeed to over-tion not
turn the common opinion, which is founded on our molt ^j L l0iu' '
certain and Ample conceptions of motion, and on a lawr
of nature to which we har e never obferved an excep¬
tion. M. de Buat’s experiments, though nioft judi-
cioufly fcontrived, and executed with fcrupulous care,
are by no means of this kind. They were, of abiolute
neceftity, very complicated ; and many circumftances,
impoflible to avoid or to appreciate, rendered the obfer-
vation, or at leaft the comparifon, of the velocities, very
uncertain. _ S6
We can fee but two circurnftances which do not ad- Remarks
mit of an eafy or immediate comparifon in the tvvo^d^Pe^
Hates of the problem. When a body is expofed to a
ftream m our experiments, in order to have an impulie 0f bodies
made on it, there is a force tending to move the body in running
backwards, independent of the real impulfe or preflure wa
occafioned by the deflexion of the ftream. We cannotlC!"
have
RES
Refiitattce.^ have a ft ream except in coniequence of a Hoping fur-
y face. Suppofe a body floating on this ftream. It will
not only fail down along with theJlrcam, but it will fail
down the Jlream, and will therefore go fafter along the
canal than the itream does: for it is floating on an in¬
clined plane } and if we examine it by the laws of hy-
droftatics, we lhall find, that befides its own tendency
to JUde down this inclined plane, there is an odds of
hydrotlatical preffure, which pujhes it down this plane.
It will therefore go along the canal fafter than the
Itream. For this acceleration depends on the diffe¬
rence of preffure at the two ends, and will be more re¬
markable as the body is larger, and efpecially as it is
longer. This may be diftinftly obferved. All floating
bodies go into the ftream of the river, becaufe there
they find the fmalleft obftrudtion to the acquifition of
this motion along the inclined plane \ and when a num¬
ber of bodies are thus floating down the ftream, the lar-
geft and longeft outftrip the reft. A log of wood float¬
ing down in this manner may be obferved to make its
way very faft among the chips and faw-duft which float
alongfide of it.
Now when, in the courfe of our experiments, a body
•is fupported againft the action of the ftream, and the im-
pulle is meafured by the force employed to fupport it,
it is plain that part of this force is employed to aft:
againft that tendency which the body has to outftrip
the ftream. This does not appear in our experiment,
when we move a body with the velocity of this ftream
through ftill water having a horizontal furface.
The other diftinguifhing circumftance is, that the re¬
tardations of a ftream arifing from friftion are found
to be nearly as the velocities. When, therefore, a
ftream moving in a limited canal is checked by a body
put in its way, the diminution of velocity occafioned by
the friction of the ftream having already produced its ef-
feft, the impulfe is not affefted by it; but when the
body puts the ftill water in motion, the friftion of the
bottom produces fome effeft, by retarding the recefs
of the water. This, however, muft be next to no¬
thing.
The chief difference will arife from its being almoft
impoflible to make an exaft comparifon of the veloci¬
ties : for when a body is moved againft the ftream, the
relative velocity is the fame in all the filaments. But
when we expofe a body to a ftream, the velocity of the
different filaments is not the fame ; becaufe it decreafes
g fi*om the middle of the ftream to the fides.
Mr Buat’s hi. Buat found the total fenfible refiftance of a plate
calculation 12 inches fquare, and meafured, not by the height of
of refill- water in the tube of the perforated box, but by weights
ance, afting on the arm of a balance, having its centre 15
inches under the furface of a ftream moving three feet
per fecond, to be 19.46 pounds; that of a cube of
the fame dimenfions was 15.22; and that of a prifm
three feet long was 13.87 ; that of a prifm fix feet long
was 14.27. The three firft agree extremely well with
the determination of m and by the experiments with
the perforated box. The total refiftance of the laft was
undoubtedly much increafed by friftion, and by the re¬
trograde force of fo long a prifm floating in an inclined
ftream. This laft by computation is 0.223 pounds;
this added to(w-f^'), which is 13.39, g*ves i3-Sij
leaving 0.46 for the effedl of friction.
If the fame refiftances be computed on the fuppofi-
[ 760 ] RES
tion that the body moves in ftill water, in which caff Ilvfftance,
we have ot~i, and q lor a thin plate rmo.433 ; and'
if q be computed for the lengths of the other two bo¬
dies by the formula -=r:L 1.42-j—we lhall get for
q v r
the refiftances 14.94; I2.22; and 11.49. gg
Hence M. Buat concludes, that the refiftances inan(j0fthe
thefe two ftates are nearly in the ratio of 1 ^ to 10. quantity of
This, he thinks, will account for the difference obfervedVVdter aci-
in the experiments of different authors. heung to a
M. Buat next endeavours to afcertain the quantity i'n r'iII
of water which is made to adhere in fome degree to a water, See.
body which is carried along through ftili water, or which
remains nearly ftagnant in the midft of a ftream. He
takes the fum pf the motions in the dire&ion of the
ftream, viz. the fum of the aftual motions of all thofe
particles which have loft part of their motion, and he
divides this fum by the general velocity of the ftream.
The quotient is equivalent to a certain quantity of wa¬
ter perfe&ly ftagnant round the body. Without being
able to determine this with precifion, he obferves, that
it augments as the refiftance diminifhes; for in the cafe
of a longer body, the filaments are obferved to con¬
verge to a greater diftance behind the body. The
flagnant mafs a-head of the body is more conftant ; for
the defleftion and refiftance at the prow are obferved
not to be affefted at the length of the body. M. Buat,
by a very nice anaiyfis of many circumflances, comes
to this conclufion, that the whole quantity of fluid,
, which in this manner accompanies the folid body, re¬
mains the fame whatever is the velocity. He might
have deduced it at once, from the confideration that the
curves deferibed by the filaments are the fame in all ve¬
locities.
He then relates a number of experiments made to af¬
certain the abfolute quantity thus made to accompany
the body. Thefe were made by caufing pendulums to
ofcillate in fluids. Newton had determined the re¬
fiftances to fuch ofcillation by the diminution of the
arches of vibration. M. Buat determines the quantity
of dragged fluid by the increafe of their duration ; for
this ftagnation or dragging is in faft adding a quanti¬
ty of matter to be moved, without any addition to the
moving force. It wTas ingenioufly obferved by Newton,
that the time of ofcillation was not fenfibly affected by
the refiftance of the fluid : a compenfation, almoft com¬
plete, being made by the diminution of the arches of
vibration ; and experiment confirmed this. If, there¬
fore, a great augmentation of the time of vibration be
obferved, it muft be aferibed to the additional quantity
of matter which is thus dragged into motion, and it may
be employed for its meafurement. Thus, let a be the
length of a pendulum Twinging feconds in vacuo, and
/ the length of a fecond’s pendulum fwinging in a fluid.
Let p be the weight of the body in the fluid, and P
the weight of the body difplaced by it; P-}-/> will ex-
prefs its weight in vacuo, and
will be the ratio
P +/'_
P
of thefe weights. We fhall therefore have
and / =
I P-f/*
Let n exprefs the fum of the fluid difplaced, and
the fluid dragged along, n being a greater number than
unity,
I
- ••
.
RES [ 761
Reilftance. unity, to be determined by experiment. The mafs in
motion is no longer P but P -f- «/>, while its
wreight in the fluid is flill />. Therefore we muft have
a and ^ 0 —1).
/:
' nV p — « P
+ 1
8S>
Cliange of
refiftance
produced
] RES
we could fay nothing fufficiently precife on the fubjedl. Reliflance.
Perfons not accuftomed to the difcuflions in the phyfico-
mathematical fciences, are apt to entertain doubts or
falfe notions connefted with this circumftance, which
we (hall attempt to remove 5 and with this we lhall con¬
clude this differtation.
A prodigious number of experiments made by M.
Buat on fpheres vibrating in water gave values of /?,
which were very conftant, namely, from 1.5 to 1.7 j
and by confldering the circumftances which accompa¬
nied the variations of n (which he found to arife chief¬
ly from the curvature of the path defcribed by the
ball), he flates the mean value of the number « at
1.583. * So that a fphere in motion drags along with
it about 4s it-8 ovvn bulk of fluid with a velocity
equal to its own.
He made flmilar experiments with prifms, pyramids,
and other bodies, and found a complete confirmation of
his afiertion, that prifms of equal lengths and fections,
though diflimilar, dragged equal quantities of fluid ; that
fimilar prifms and prilins not flmilar, but whofe lengths
were as the fquare root of their feftions, dragged quan¬
tities proportional to their bulks.
He found a general value of n for prifmatic bodies,
which alone may be confidered as a valuable truth j
namely, that n “ 0.705 ^^4-1.13.
From all thefe circumftances, we fee an intimate con¬
nexion between the prefliires, non-preflures, and the fluid
dragged along with the body. Indeed this is immedi¬
ately deducible from the firft principles ; for what Mr
Buat calls the dragged fluid is in faX a certain portion
of the whole change of motion produced in the direXion
of the bodies motion.
It was found, that with refpeX to thin planes, fpheres,
and pyramidal bodies of equal bafes, the refiftances were
inverfely as the quantities of fluid dragged along.
The intelligent reader will readily obferVe, that thefe
views of the Chevalier Buat are not fo much difcoveries
of new principles as they are claflifications of confe-
quences, which may all be deduced from the general prin¬
ciples employed by D’Alembert and other mathemati¬
cians. But they greatly fiflift us in forming notions of
different parts of the procedure of nature in the mutual
aXion of fluids ahd folids on each other. This muft be
very acceptable in a fubjeX which it is by no means
probable that we ftiall be able 'to inveftigate with ma¬
thematical preciflon. We have given an account of
thefe laft obfervations, that we may omit nothing of
confequence that has been written on the fubjeX •, and
we take this opportunity of recommending the Hydrau-
Hque of Mr Buat as a moft ingenious work, containing
more original, ingenious, and praXically ufeful thoughts,
than all the performances we have met with. His doc¬
trine of the principle of uniform motion of fluids in pipes
and open canals, will be of imtnenfe fel vice to all engi¬
neers, and enable them to determine with fuflicient pre¬
ciflon the moft important queftions in their profeflion 5
‘queftions which at prelent they are hardly able to guefs
at. 'See Rivers and Water Works.
The only circumftance which we have not noticed in
detail, is the change of refi(lance produced by the void,
by the void or tendency to a void, -which obtains behind the body ■,
behind a and tve omitted a particular difeuftiofi, raerelv becaufc
body. VOL. XVII. Part II.
were perfeXly incomprefiible, and were Explained
If a fluid
contained in a veflel incapable of extenfion, it is im-
poflible that any void could be formed behind the body j
and in this cafe it is not very eafy to fee how motion
could be performed in it. A fphere moved in fuch a
medium could not advance the fmalleft diftance, unlefs
fotjie particles of the fluid, in filling up the fpace left
by it, moved with a velocity next to infinite. Some
degree of compreflibility, however fmall, feeros necef-
fary. If this be infenfible, it may be rigidly demon-
ftrated, that an external force of compreflion will make
no fenjible change in the internal motions, or in the re~
fiftances. This indeed is not obvious, but is an imme¬
diate confequence of the quaquaverfum prdfure of fluids.
As much as the preflure is augmented by the external
compreflions in one fide of a body, fo much is it aug¬
mented on the other fide 5 and the fame muft be faid of
every .particle. Nothing more is neceffary for fecuring
the fame motions by the iame partial and internal forces;
and this is fully verified by experiment. Water re¬
mains equally fluid under any compreflions. In fome
of Sir Ifaac Newton’s experiments balls of four inches
diameter were made fo light as to preponderate in wa¬
ter only three grains. Thefe balls defcended in the
fame manner as they would have defcended in a fluid
where the refiftance was equal in every part; yet, when
they were near the bottom of a veflel nine feet deep,
the compreflion round them was at leaft 2400 times the
moving iorce ; whereas, when near the top of the veflel,
it w7as not above 50 or 60 times.
But in a fluid fenfibly compreffible, or which is not
confined, a void may be left behind the body. Its mo¬
tion may be fo fwift that the furrounding preflure may
not fuffice for filling up the deferted fpace^; and, in
this cafe, a ftatical prefiiire will be added to the refift¬
ance. This may be the cafe in a veffel or pond of wa¬
ter having an open furface expoled to the finite or limi¬
ted preffure of the atmofphere. The queftion now is,
whether the refiftance will be increafed by an increafe of
external preffure ? Suppofing a fphere moving near the
furfacc of water, and another moving equally faft at
four limes the* depth. If the motion be fo fwift that a
void is formed in both cafes, there is no doubt but that
the fphere which moves at the greateft depth is moft
refifted by the preffure of the water. If there is no
void in either cafe, then, becaufe the quadruple depth
would caufe the water to flow in with only a double ve¬
locity, it would feem that the refiftance would be
greater ; and indeed the water flowing in laterally with
a double velocity produces a quadmple non-preffure.—
But, on the other hand, the preffure at a fmall depth
may be infufficient for preventing a void, while that
below effeXually prevents it; and tins was obferved in
fome experiments of Chevalier de Borda. The effeX,
therefore, of greater immerfion, or of greater compref-
fion, in an elaftic fluid, does not follow a precife ratio
of the preffure, but- depends partly on abfolute quanti¬
ties. It cannot, therefore, be ftated by any very Ample
formula what increafe or diminution of refiftance will
5 D xefalj;
90
ft E
FIs:. 2s.
UeG(lance refult from a greater dcptli , .
Account that experiments made with moaels of ihips and
nulls are not conclulivc with refpeft to the performance
-of a lav ’e machine of the lame proportions, without cor-
reffions, fometimes pretty intricate. \v e aflert, How¬
ever, with great confidence, that this is of all methods
the moif exaft, and infinitely more certain than any
thing that can be deduced from the moft elaborate cal¬
culation from theory. If the rcfiftances at all depths be
equal, the proportionality of the total refiftance to the
body is exabt, and perfectly conformable to obfervation.
It is only in great velocities where the depth has any
material influence, and the influence is not near io con¬
siderable as we fhould, at firft fight, fuppofe j for, in
eftimatxng the eflbfl of immerfion, which has a iclation
to the difference of preffure, we muff always take in
the preffure of the atmofphere *, and thus the preffure
at 33 feet deep is not 33 times the preffure at_ one foot
deep, but only double, or twice as great. I he atmo-
fpheric preffure is omitted only when the refitted plane
is at the very furface. D'Ullca, in his Ex amino. Mari-
timOy has introduced an equation exprefling this rela¬
tion y but, except with very limited conditions, it will
miflead us prodigioufly. io give a general notion of
its foundation, let AB (fig. 25.) be the feftion of a
plane moving through a fluid in the direction CD, with
a known velocity. The fluid will be heaped up before
it above its natural level CD, becaufe the water will not
be pufhed before it like a folid body, but will be pufli-
cd afide. And it cannot acquire a lateral motion any
other way than by an accumulation, which will diftul’e
itfelf in all direftions by the law of undulatory mo¬
tion. The water will alfo be left lower behind the
plane, becaufe time muji elapfe before the preffure of
the water behind can make it fill the fpace. We may
acquire fome notion of the extent of both the accumu¬
lation and depreffion in this way. I here is a certain
depth CF (= ^-, where v is the velocity, and <p the
accelerating power of gravity) under the furface, fuch
that water would flow through a hole at F with the ve¬
locity of the plane’s motion. Draw a horizontal line FG.
The water will certainly touch the plane in G, and wTe
may fuppofe that it touches it no higher up. Therefore
there will be a hollow, fuch as CGE. The elevation
HE will be regulated by confiderations nearly fimilar.
ED muff be equal to the velocity of the plane, and HE
muff be its produttive height. Thus, if the velocity
of the plane be one foot per fecond, HE and EG will
be -jFf of an inch. This is fuffleient (though not exaft)
for giving us a notion of the tning. We fee that from
this muff arife a preffure in the direftion DC, viz. the
preffure of the whole column HG.
Something of the fame kind will happen although the
plane AB be wholly immerged, and this even to fome
depth. We fee fuch elevations in a fwift running ftream,
where there are large Hones at the bottom.—This occa-
fions an excefs of preffure in the direflion oppofite to the
plane’s motion 5 and we fee that there muft, in every
cafe, be a relation between the velocity and this excefs
of preffure. This D’Ulloa expreffes by an equation.
But it is very exceptionable, not taking properly into
the account the comparative facility with which the wa¬
ter can heap up and diffufe itfelf. It muft always heap
up till it acquires a fufficient head of water to produce a
s r 762 ] 11 e s
and it is chiefly on this lateral and progreffivc diffufion fufficient for the purpofe. Rcfiilan. e.
It is evident, that a fmaller elevation will fuff.ce when v "‘w
the body is more immerfed, becaufe the check or im-
pulfe given by the body below is propagated, not verti¬
cally only, but in every direction } and therefore the
elevation is not confined to that part of the iurface
which is immediately above the moving body, but ex¬
tends fo much further laterally as the centre of agitation
is deeper : Thus, the elevation neceflary for the paffage
of the body is fo much fmaller ; and it is the /ieig/it only
of this accumulation or wave which determines the back¬
ward preffure on the body. D’UUoa’s equation may
happen to quadrate with two experiments at different
depths, without being nearly juft 5 for any two points
may be in a curve, without exhibiting its equation.
Three points will do it with fome approach toprecifion ;
but four, at leaft, are neceffary for giving any notion of
its nature. D’Ulloa has only given two experiments,
which we mentioned in another place.
We may here obferve, that it is this circumftance
which immediately produces the great refiftance to the
motion of a body through a fluid in a narrow canal.—
The fluid cannot pafs the body, unlefs the area of the
feftion be fufficiently extenfive. A narrow canal pre¬
vents the extenfion fidewiie. The water muft therefore
heap up, till the fe&ion and velocity of diffufion are
fufficiently enlarged, and thus a great backward preffure
is produced. (See the fecond feries of Experiments by
the French Academicians ; fee alfo Franklin’s Eflays).
It is important, and will be confideved in another place.
Thus have we attempted to give our readers forne ac¬
count of one of the moft interefting problems in the
whole of mechanical philofophy. W'e are lorry that fo
little advantage can be derived from the united efforts
of the firft mathematicians of Europe, and that there
is fo little hope of greatly improving our feientific
knowledge of the fubjeft. What we have delivered will,
however, enable our readers to perufe the writings of
thofe who have applied the theories to practical pur-
pofes. Such, for inftance, are the treatifes of John
Bernoulli, of Bouguer, and of Euler, on the conftruc-
tion and working of fhips, and the occaftonal differta-
tions of different authors on water-mills. In this laft Impulfe of
application the ordinary theory is not without its va- water on
lue, for the impulfes are nearly perpendicular ; in which water H
cafe they do not materially deviate from the duplicate
proportion of the fine of incidence. But even here this
theory, applied as it commonly is, mifleads us exceed¬
ingly. The impulfe on one float may be accurately
enough ftated by it j but the authors have not been at¬
tentive to the motion of the water after it has made its
impulfe } and the impulfe on the next float is ftated the.
fame as if the parallel filaments of water, which were
not flopped by the preceding float, did impinge on the
oppofite part of the fecond, in the fame manner, and
with the fame obliquity and energy, as if it were de¬
tached from the reft. But this does not in the leaft re-
femble the real procefs of nature.
Suppofe the floats B, C, D, H (fig. 26.) of a wheel Fig. tC.
immerfed in a ftream whofe furface moves in the direc¬
tion AK, and that this furface meets the float B in E.
The part BE alone is fuppofed to be impelled j whereas
the water, checked by the float, heaps up on it to e.—~
Then drawing the horizontal line BE, the part CF of
the
RES r 7
Refinance, tlie next float is fuppofed to be all that is impelled by
Refolution. t]lc parailel filaments of the ftream j whereas the water
bends round the lower edge of the float B by the fur¬
rounding preffure, and rifes on the float c all the way
to f. In like manner, the float D, inftead of receiving
an impulfe on the very fmall portion DG, is impelled all
the way from D to g, not much below the furface of
the ftream. The furfaces impelled at once, therefore,
greatly exceed what this flovenly application of the
theory fuppofes, and the whole impulfe is much greater j
but this is a fault in the application, and not in the
theory. It will not be a very difficult thing to acquire
a knowledge of the motion of the water which has
palfed the preceding float, which, though not accurate,
will yet approximate confiderably to the truth; and
then the ordinary theory will furnith maxims of con-
ftrudlion which will be very ferviceable. This will be
attempted in its proper place 5 and we ihall endeavour,
in our treatment of all the pradlical queftions, to derive
tifeful information from all that has been delivered on
the prefent occafion.
RESOLUTION of Ideas. See Logic, Part I.
chap. iii.
Resolution, in Mufic. To refolve a difeord or dif-
fonance, fays Rouffeau, is to carry it according to rule
into a confonance in the fubfequent chord. There is
for that purpofe a procedure preferibed, both for the
fundamental bafs of the diffonant chord, and for the
part by which the diffbnance is formed.
There is no poffible manner of refolving a difib-
nance which is not derived from an operation of cadence :
it is then by the kind of cadence which we with to
form, that the motion of the fundamental bafs is de¬
termined, (fee Cadence). With refpeft to the part
by which the difibnance is formed, it ought neither to
continue in its place, nor to move by disjointed gra¬
dations ■, but to rife or defeend diatonically, accord¬
ing to the nature of the diflbnance. Theorifts fay,
that major diflbnances ought to rife, and minor to de¬
feend 5 which is not however without exception, fince
in particular chords of harmony, a feventh, although
major, ought not to rife, but to defeend, unlefs in
that chord, which is, very incorredlly, called the chord
of the feventh redundant. It is better then to fay, that
the feventh and all its derivative diffonances ought to
defeend ; and that the fixth fuperadded, and all its de¬
rivative diffonances, ftiould rife. This is a rule truly
general, and without any exception. It is the fame
cafe with the rule of refolving diffonances. There are
fome diffonances which cannot be prepared; but there
is by no means one which ought not to be refolved.
With refpedl to the fenfible note, improperly called
a major dijfonance, if it ought to afeend, this is lefs on
account of the rule for refolving diffcnances, than on
account of that which preferibes a diatonic procedure,
and prefers the ftiorteft road *, and in reality, there are
cafes, as that of the interrupted cadence, in which this
fenflble note does not afeend.
In chords by fuppofttion, one Angle chord often
produces two diffonances j as the feventh and ninth, the
ninth and fourth, &c. Then thefe two diffonances
ought to have been prepared, and both muft likewife
be refolved ; it is becaufe regard ffiould be paid to
every thing which is difeordant, not only in the fun¬
damental, but even in the continued bafs.
63 ] It E S
RESOLUTION, in Chemjlry, the redu£lion of a mixed Refolution
body into its component parts or firft principles, as far as d f,fl.ituti0n.
can be done by a proper analyfis. < Y 1
Resolution, in Medicine, the difappearing of any
tumor without coming to fuppuration or forming an
abfeefs.
RESOLVENTS, in Medicine, fuch as are proper for
diffipating tumors, without allowing them to come to fup¬
puration.
RESONANCE, Resounding, in Mujk, &c. a
found returned by the air inclofed in the bodies of
ftringed inftruments, fuch as lutes, &c. or even in the
bodies of wind-inftrurnents, as flutes, &.c.
RESPIRATION, the aft of refpiring or breathing
the air. See Anatomy, N° 118 Blood, N° 29. Me¬
dicine, N° 104. and Physiology.
ResPIBATION of Fijbes. See ICHTHYOLOGY.
RESPITE, in Law, fignifies a delay, forbearance,
or prolongation ol time, granted to any one for the pay-
rneni of a debt or the like. See Reprieve.
RESPONDENT, in the fchools, one who maintains
a thefis in any art or fcience j who is thus called from
his being to anfwer all the obje&ions propofed by the
opponent.
RESPONDENTIA. See Bottomry.
RESPONSE, an anfwer or reply. A word chiefly
ufed in fpeaking of the anfwers made by the people to
the prieft, in the litany, the pfalms, &c.
RESSORT, a French word, fometimes ufed by En-
gliffi authors to fignify the jurifdiction of a court, and
particularly one from which there is no appeal.— 1 hus
it is faid, that the houfe of lords judge en dernier reffort,
or in the laft reffort.
REST, the continuance of a body in the fame place,
or its continual application or contiguily to the fame
parts of the ambient or contiguous bodies ; and
therefore is oppofed to motion. See the article Mo¬
tion.
Rest, in Poetry, is a fliort paufe of the voice in
reading, being the fame with the caefura, which, in
Alexandrine verfes, falls on the fixth fyllable ; but in
verfes of 10 or 11 fyllables, on the fourth. See Poe¬
try, Part III.
REST-HARROW, or Cammock, the Ononis Ar-
venfs. A deco&ion of this plant has been much re¬
commended to horfes labouring under a ftoppage of
urine. It is the peft of fome corn-fields ; but in its
younger ftate, before the plant has acquired its thorns,
it is a moft acceptable food to ffieep.
RESTAURATION, the ad of re-eftabliftiing or fel¬
ting a thing or perfon in its former good ftate.
RESTIO, a genus of plants belonging to the dioecia
clafs. See Botany Index.
RESTITUTION, in a moral and legal fenfe, is re-
ftoring a perfon to his right, or returning fomething un-
juftly taken or detained from him.
RESTITUTION of Medals, or Ref hut cd Medals, is a
term ufed by antiquaries for fuch medals as rvere ftruck
by the emperors, to retrieve the memory of their pre-
deceffors.
Hence, in feveral medals, we find the letters REST.
This pradice was firft begun by Claudius, by his ftri-
king afrefti feveral medals of Auguftus. Nero did the
fame j and Titus, after bis father’s example, ftruck re-
ftitutions of moft of his predeceffors. Gallienus ftruck
' 5 D 2 »
a e s [764
Reftive a general refUtution of all the preceding emperors on
two medals j the one bearing an altar, the other an
eagle, without the rest.
RESTIVE, or Resty, in the manege, a flubborn,
unruly, ill-broken horfe, that flops, or runs back, in-
ftead of advancing forward.
RESTORATION, the fame with reflauration. See
Restauration.
In England, the return of King Charles II. in 1660,
is, by way of eminence, called the Re/loration ; and the
29th of May is kept as an anniverfary feftival, in com¬
memoration of that event, by which the regal and epif-
copal government was reftored.
RESTORATIVE, in Medicine, a remedy proper
for reftoring and retrieving the flrength and vigour both
of the body and animal fpirits.
All under this clafs, fays Quincy, are rather nutri-
] RES
velation. They fuppofe that the firfl parent of man¬
kind, as a moral agent accountable for his condu£l, was
• r , , v- d* i r  
Definition.
Plan of the
article.
mental than medicinal and are more adminiftered to
repair the waftes of the conflitution, than to alter and
redify its diforders.
RESTRICTION, among logicians, is limiting a
term, fo as to make it fignify lefs than it ufually does.
RESTRING ENT, in Medicine, the fame with a-
ftringent. See Astringents.
RESULT, what is gathered from a conference, in¬
quiry, meditation, or the like j or the conclulion and
effeds thereof.
RESURRECTION, in Theologij, is a rifing again
from the Rate of the dead $ and is that event, the be¬
lief of which contlitutes one of the principal articles in
the Chriftian creed.
In treating of this objed of our faith, it has been
ufual to mention, firft, the refurredion of our Blefled
Lord, with the charader of the witneffes, and the au¬
thenticity of the gofpel hiftory by -which it has been
proved, and from which, as a confequence, ours is in¬
ferred. But as mold of the arguments for his refurrec-
tion are contained in the gofpels, and as merely to re¬
peat them would afford, we hope, but little informa¬
tion to moll of our readers, we mean here to take a
view of the feveral grounds on which the belief of a
future exiitence is fuppofed to be founded ; to colled
together fome of the fentiments of authors and nations
concerning the place where departed fpirits refide } con¬
cerning the nature of their prefent Hate ) concerning
the kinds of their future deftination •, that we may af¬
terwards fee how far their notions differ and agree with
what we conlider as the dodrines of Scripture.
Of a future ftate, there have fometimes been found a
few wandering and ohfcure tribes who feemed to enter¬
tain no notion at all-, though itihould be remarked, that
fome of thefe w'ere likewife obferved in fo low a degree
fcure tribes, of favage barbarity as not to be acquainted with the ufe
of the bow, the dart, or the fling, and as not knowing
how to wield a club, or to throw a Hone, as a weapon of
defence*.
Wherever the human mind has been cultivated, or
properly fpeaking, begun to be cultivated, the opinion
has likewife generally prevailed that hyman exiHence is
not confined to the prefent fcene nay, fo very gene¬
ral has this notion been found among mankind, that
many are puzzled how to account for what they fuppofe
to be almoH next to its univerfality.
To explain the phenomenon, fome have imagined
that it is a notion derived by tradition from primeval re-
The notion
ot a future
ftate un¬
known to
fome ob-
* See Ro-
bertfon's
Hijl of
America-
4
Has been
almoft uni
vtrial.
informed by his Maker of every thing which it was of
importance for him to know } that he mnH have been The origin
acquainted with this doclrine of a future Hate in parti-of this no-
cular j and that he could hardly fail to communicate a ^otV^“ve‘*
matter fo interefling to his pollerity. 'ihey fuppofe, fr^m prjme_
too, that the hiflory of the tranflation of Enoch mufl vai revela-
have made a great noife in the world, and that the re-tiou.
membrance of it mufl have been long retained and
widely diffufed j and they find in the book of Job plain
intimations of a refurre£lion from the dead, which, from
the manner in which they are introduced, they think
that very ancient patriarch mufl have received through
this channel. ^ 5
It is not thought to be any objeftion to thefe iuppo- xht- ufual
fitions, that the Moil High, when delivering his laws objections
from the top of Mount Sinai, did not enforce them byt(? thi-y’P'"
the awful fanefions of a future Hate. The intelligent™^1^
reader of the Scriptures knows that the landlions of a
future ftate belong to a different and more unxverfal dii-
penfation than wras that of Mofes •, that the primeval
revelation related to that difpenfation j and that the
Jewilh law-, with its temporal fan&ions, was introduced
only to preferve the knowledge and worfliip ol the true
God among a people too grofs in their conceptions to
have been properly influenced by the view of future re¬
wards and puniftiments, of fuch a nature as eye hath
not feen, nor ear heard, neither hath it entered into
the heart of man to conceive. He fees at the fame time,
everywhere fcattered through the Old Teflament, plain
indications of the Mofaic economy being no more than
preparatory to the bringing in of a better hope j and
he thinks it evident, that fuch Jews as underftood any
thing of the nature of that better hope, muft have been
convinced, that, however the ceremonial rites of their
religion might be fufficiently guarded by temporal fanc-
tions, the fundamentalprinciples of all religion and virtue
are fupported by rewards and puniftiments to be difpen-
fed in a ftate beyond the grave. See Prophecy and
Theology. ?
That the progenitors of the human race muft have Reafons jn
been infpired by their Creator with the knowledge of fupport of
their immortality, and of every thing neceffary to their die opinion
everlafting welfare, cannot, we fhould think, be quef-
tioned by any one who believes that the world had a
beginning, and that it is under the government of goed-
nefs and juftice. The prog,refs from fenfe to fcience is
fo flow, that however capable we may fuppofe the ear-
lieft inhabitants of this earth to have been of making
philofophical difeoveries, we cannot believe that the Fa¬
ther of mercies left his helplefs creature to difeover for
himfelf his future exiftence. Death, when firft pre¬
fen ted to him, muft have bcea a ghaftly object; and
had he been left without any hope of redemption from
it, he would undoubtedly have funk into liftlefs defpon-
dency.
But a profpetl of immortality is fo pleafing to the
human mind, that if it was communicated to the firft
man, it would of courfe be cherifhed by his pofteri-
ty j and there is no difficulty in conceiving how it
might be handed down by tradition to very remote ages,
among fuch of his defeendents as were not Icattered
over the face of the earth in fmall and favage tribes,—
In the courfe of its progrefs, it would frequently be
new-
RES
[ 765 J
RES
ral pheno¬
mena;
9
as from
dreaming,
&c.
Refurrec- new-modelled by the ever a£Hve imagination j and at
non. many abfurd and fantattic circumftances would
'v" doubtlefs be combined with the original truth, that
death puts not an end to human exiftence.
But though we are firmly convinced that the firii
principles ot ufeful knowledge, and among them the
dodlrine of a future date, were communicated to man
by his Maker j and though this doftrine, in large and
permanent focieties, might certainly be conveyed more
or lefs pure to late pofterity through the channel of tra¬
dition—we are far from attributing fo much to tradition
as fome writers are difpofed to do, or thinking it the
only fource from which mankind could derive the belief
of their exiitence beyond the grave. In fmall tribes of
lavages fuch a tradition could hardly be preferved } and
yet fome indiftinff notions of a future date have been
found among tribes who are faid to have lod all tradi-
3 tionary notions even of the being of a God.
Others ima- Others, therefore, are inclined to believe that, in-
gine the dependent of any traditions, mankind might be led by
,10.tl°n ^ certain phenomena to form fome conjeftures of a future
ronjecdured ftate* They obferve, that although a few individuals
from natu- perhaps may, yet it feldom happens that the whole in¬
dividuals of any nation are exempted from dreaming :
They obferve, too, and this obfervation is founded on
experience, that the images of the dead are from the
remaining impredions of memory frequently fummoned
up in the fancy j and that it appears from all the lan¬
guages of rude nations, who pay the greateft attention
to their dreams, and wdio fpeak of feeing the dead in
their vilions, that thefe images (A) have always been
taken by them for realities ; nay, fome of the learned,
and the celebrated Baxter is of the number, are difpo¬
fed to doubt whether thefe appearances be not fome-
thing more than illulions of the brain : But whether
they really be fo or not, one thing is certain, that all
nations in all countries, in the darkeft ages and the ru-
deft periods, are accuftomed to dream ; and whether
deeping or waking, in the ftillnefs of the night, in the
gloom of folitude, in the fondnefs of friendihip, in the
rovings of love, the delirium of fever, and the anguiih
of remorfe, to fee and converfe with the (hades of the
* Lucret. departed j and Lucretius * has remarked, that even the
lib. 4. inferior animals are not exempted from fuch illufions of
a reftlefs fancy.
For often deeping racers pant and fweat,
Breathe diort, as if they ran their fecond heat;
As if the barrier down with eager pace
They dretch’d, as when contending for the race.
And often hounds, when deep hath clos’d their eyes,
They tofs, and tumble, and attempt to rife j
They open often, often fnuflf the air,
As if they preft the footfteps of the deer ;
And fometimes w’ak’d, purfue their fancy’d prey,
The fancy’d deer, that feem to run away,
Till quite awak’d, the follow’d drapes decay.
1
And fofter curs, that lie and deep at home,
Do often roufe, and walk about the room,
And bark, as if they faw fome ftrangers come.
And birds will dart, and feek the woods, by night,
Whene’er the fancy’d hawk appears in fight,
Whene’er they fee his wing or hear him fight.
Creech.
}
Thefe powers of fancy extend wide over animal crea¬
tion 5 and it is on this general principle that necroman¬
cers and dreamers have in all ages eftablidred their trade,
that the dories of goblins have at all times fo very eafily
procured belief, and that
The village matron, round the blazing hearth,
Sufpends the infant audience with her tales,
Breathing adonidiment! Of witching rhymes
And evil fpirits ; of the deathbed call
Of him who robb’d the widow and devour’d
The orphan’s portion ; of unquiet fouls
Ris’n from the grave to eafe the heavy guilt
Of deeds in life conceal’d j of ihapes that walk
At dead of night, and clank their chains and wave
The torch of hell around the murderer’s head.
Aikenside.
Mankind in general would willingly difpenfe with
thefe troublefome vifits of the dead. To prevent the
return of the numbi or the ghoft, fome nations of Afri¬
ca ufe many fuperftitious rites * j and Kolben tells us, # Voyage to
that the frighted Hottentots leave in the hut where aCo^o
perfon has died all the utenfils and furniture, left the^?0^’.^
angry ghoft, incenfed at their avarice, (hould haunt '
them in their dreams, and infeft them in the night.
Divines and moralifts have laboured to (how that thefe
are merely imaginary terrors : but God and nature feeni
to have determined that they (hall produce the fame
effefts upon certain minds as if they rvere real; and
that while there is any fenfibility in the heart, while
there is any remembrance of the part, and any conjuring
power in the fancy ; the ignorant, the benighted, the
timid, (hall often meet with the goblins of darknefs, the
fpeffres of the tomb, the apparitions that hover round
the grave, and the forms of the dead in the middle
dream. See Spectre. io
From thefe phenomena, which have been fo common Probable
in all countries and in all ages, what would mankind inferences
naturally infer ? Would they not infer, that there -
fomething in the nature of man that furvives death, and'‘eams,w c*
that there is a future date of exiftence beyond the
grave ? Are not ftill many fpecimens of this reafoning
preferved in the ancient poets ? and is it not thus that
Achilles f reafons after imagining that he faw the ghoft
of his friend Patroelus ?
’Tis true, ’tis certain, man, though dead, retains
Part of himfelf *, th’ immortal mind remains :
The form fubfifts without the body’s aid,
Aerial femblance, and an empty (hade.
lib. xxiii.
1. 103.
This
(a) Thefe images wrere called by the Greeks Qutotluv; and among the Romans they had various names,
as umbra, lemures, manes, Jarvce, and were fometimes called occurfacula noBium, bujlorum formidamina, fepulchro-
rum terriculamenta, anima err antes, which are all comprehended under the fpecies mortuorum.
* Lib. iii.
ii
Folly of al¬
lowing too
much to
tradition.
RES [766
Tins night my friend, fo late in battle loft,
Stood at my fide a penfive plaintive ghoft j
Ev’n now familiar as in life he came,
Alas ! how diff’rent, yet how like the fame. Pope.
Lucretius a ftudious obferver of nature, though
no friend to the foul’s immortality, acknowledges frank¬
ly that thefe phantoms often terrify the mind, haunt us
in our fieep, and meet us while awake. He confeffes,
too, that by fuch appearances mankind have been led
to believe the future exiftence of the foul} but, aware
of the confequence,
 Ne forte anitnas Acherunte reamur
Effugere. out umbras inter zuvos vohtare,
he endeavours to explain thefe curious phenomena on
fome of the odd and fantaftic principles of the Epicu¬
reans. In doing this, however, he pretends not to de¬
ny that thefe images appear to be real 5 but candidly
acknowledges that
    They ftrike and ftiake
The airy foul, as when we are awake,
With ftroke fo lively, that we think we view
The abfent dead, and think the image true.
Creech.
We here fee how the belief of the foul’s immortality
came to be general among mankind. But for this in¬
formation we are much more indebted to the poets, who
have given us faithful tranfcripts of nature, than to the
philofophers who have wiflied to entertain us with their
owm theories^ or to thofe laborious men of erudition,
who have dreaded as much to examine the fource of an
ancient report as the friends of Ulyffes to approach the
coaft ox Cimmerian darknefs. With them tradition is
the ultimate boundary of refearch : and as gorgons,
chimeras, and hydras, have come down to us by tradi¬
tion ; fo they, with great fagacity, fufpeft, that tradi¬
tion muft likewife be at the bottom of the foul’s immor¬
tality, and occalion the vifrons and phantoms of the
dead.
To tradition we have allowed all that it can juftiy
claim ; but wre cannot allow it to be the only fource of
this opinion : and we have felt the higheft indignation
upon hearing men of learning and genius affirm, from
a falfe zeal for the honour of revelation, that mankind,
without this inftru&ion, could never have acquired the
art of building huts to fcreen them from the cold, or
have learned the method of propagating their fpecies!
The reader muft not here fuppofe" that we allude to
Polydore Virgil (b). We have in our eye perfons now
alive, with whom w-e have converfed on the fubjedl, and
who (terrified at the length to which fome philo/ophers
have carried the do&rine of inftin&s, and others the rea-
foning powers of the mind) have contended, with the
] RES
utmoft earneftnefs, that we know nothing—not even the Ttefunec-
fundlions of our animal nature—but by tradition or bon.
written revelation. f
Having now feen the fource of the opinion concern- Opinion of
ing the future exiftence of the foul, and pointed out the philofo-
natural phenomena by which mankind wrere led to em- phers.
brace it, we come next to review7 the arguments by which
the philofophers attempted to confirm it.
Pythagoras believed, with the reft of his country, that
annihilation w7as never the end, and that nonentity wasras’s notion
never the beginning of any thing that is. His general oftxanfmi-
dodlrine upon this iubjeft was thortly expreffed in verySratlon'
few words, Omnia mutantur, nihil interit. He afterwards
learned from Egyptian priefts that the foul migrates in¬
to new bodies j and being, it feems, a perfon of a moft
extraordinary and aftonilhing memory, he1 found there
was fome truth in the ftory : for after mufing, he began
to remember that he was Euphorbus, the Ion of Pan-
theus, that was flain by Menelaus in the Trojan wrar j
and upon a jaunt to Peloponnefus, recolledled the fhield
which be had worn at the time of the fiege, in one of
the temples of Juno at Argos ! That none might quef-
tion the truth of his affertion, his folkrwers preiently re¬
moved all doubts by the famous argument, the ipse
DIXIT of Egyptian origin.
As Pythagoras taught that human fouls are frequent-piat0’s cioc-
ly thruft into brute ffiapes, and, as fome imagined, by trine of pre¬
way of puniftiment j it occurred to Plato, that all bodies,exiftence-
even the human, are a fort of prifons *, and that, in
confequence of this confinement, the foul was fubjedled
to the rage of defire, appetite, and paffion, and to all
the wretched miferies of a jail. To explain this my-
ftery, he fuppofed that defires and appetites belong to
a foul that is purely animal refiding in the body. But
he was perplexed with another difficulty ; for as he
thought highly of the goodnefs of Deity, he could not
imagine how he ffiould imprifon us without a crime.
He fuppofed, therefore, that prior to its union writh the
prefent body the foul had exifted in one of ether, which
it ftill retains j but that even in this etherial body it had
felt fomething of impure defire ; and happening to in¬
dulge the vicious appetite, had contrafted fome ftains of
pollution, for which it was confined in its prefent body
as a boufe of correction to do penance and improve its
morals.
To prove this ideal pre-exiftence of the foul, Plato Arid
availed himfelf of an opinion that was general in his Provm&
time, that coincided with the doftrines of Pythagoras,
and that w7as partly founded on a fort of reafoning and
obfervation. He thought that matter and intelligence
are coeternal (fee Platonism) ; that there are various
orders of fouls; that thofe of both the man and the
brute are parts or emanations (c) of the anima mundi,
or foul of the world j that all are ultimately parts or
emanations of Deity itfelf} and that all their faculties
(b) 1 his wrnter allots part of a chapter to fixow7, “ Quis primum inftituerit artem meretriciam,” as being in his
opinion, a traditionary praftice. See Lib. iii. cap. t 7. De Rerum Inventoribus.
(c) The Deity was conceived by the ancients fometimes as a folid, when inferior fouls were called cnrotrTrottrpuitlct,
1. e. fragments or parts broken off from him ; and fometimes a« a fluid, when they were confidered as enrc^goieu or
emanations. but from none of thefe hypothefes did they reafon confequentially. Their etireovrxrfictlcc were often
after death reunited to the Deity } and their ctTroe^eicti often remained feparate and diftinft for a long while, without
nownig back as they ought to have done, and mingling with the great ocean of fpirit#
3
RES [ 767 ] RES
Refurrec- are more or lefs reftn&ed and confined, according to
, 11011 thofe organjfed fydems with which they are connected.
v Know firit (fays one delivering his doctrines),
Know firft, that heav’n and earth’s compafted frame,
And flowing waters, and the ftarry flame,
And both the radiant lights, one common foul
Infpires, and feeds, and animates the -whole.
This active mind, infus’d through all the fpace,
Unites and mingles with the mighty mafs :
Hence men and beads the breath of life obtain,
And birds of air, and monfters of the main j
The ethereal vigour is in all the fame,
And every foul is fill’d with equal flame *,
As much as earthy limbs, and grofs allay "1
Of mortal members, fubjeft to decay, >
Blunt not the beams of heav’n and edge of day (d). J
Dry den.
Betides this hypothefis, that in fome meafure was
common to others, Plato had an argument peculiarly
his own. Happening to peep into the region of me-
taphyfics, he was fomewhat furprifed on obferving the
ideas which we derive from refledlion and confcioufnefs *,
and fuppofing that they could not have entered by the
fenfes, he naturally, though not very juftly, concluded,
that we muft have received them in fome ftate of prior
exiftence.
As, according to him, the foul was eternal, as well
as the matter which compofed the body, and as their
union was only temporary and accidental, he might
have been fatisfied that the death of the foul was not to
be the confequence of their leparation. But, fome how
or other, fatisfied he was not. He had recourfe to a
new argument. As the foul, he faid, was an aclive
principle, and a felf-moving, it did not depend for its
life on another ; and therefore would always continue
to exift, though the body were reduced to the general
mafs out of which it was formed. See Metaphysics,
r5 Part III. chap. iv.
The opi- Whether Plato had borrowed any of his dodlrines
nions of the from t]ie eaftern magi, we pretend not to fay. We on-
Gnofhcs. jy. obfej-yg a flriking fimilarity, in fome refpefts, between
his and theirs. In Plato’s philofophy, the fun, moon,
and liars, were animated beings, and a fort of divinities
that originally had fprung from the great fountain of Refurrec-
heat and light, and our earthly bodies a fort of dun-, ,
geons in which our miferable fouls are benighted and
debafed by defires, appetites, and pafiions. In the ma-
gian philofcphy, the Supreme Being was called Oromaf-
des ; was the god of light, or was light itfelf, and re-
prefented by Mithras, a fubordinate divinity, and the
fame with the fun. Another deity of very great power
was Arimanes, the god of darknefs, who prefided over
matter, and was the origin of all evil (fee Polytheism).
The ancient Gnoftics, who derived their tenets from
this fource, believed, with Pythagoras and Plato, in a
great number of fubordinate genii j and faid, that De-
miurgus, the god of matter and the foul or fpirit of this
world, had contrived the bodies of men and brutes \ and
in the former particularly, as in fo many prifons, had
confined a number of celeftial fpirits, that by expofing
them to the low defires of appetite and paffion, he might
feduce them from their allegiance to the God of light,
and render them more fubmiflive to himfelf. From
thefe prifons the Supreme Being was continually making
attempts to refeue them ; and in the mean time, waa
frequently fending divine meflengers to enlighten and
inflruft them, and to render them capable of returning
to the regions of light and happinefs, to which they had
belonged (e).
The Stoics attempted to Amplify this fyftem, which
appears anciently to have pervaded Egypt and the eaft,
and which would feem to be no more than varioufly
modified by Orpheus, Pythagoras, Plato, and others of
the more northerly and weftern nations. None of them
allowed a creation out of nothing ; and the draping and
modelling of matter into forms was varioufly explained,
according as they happened to be moil addifted to lu-
perftition, to morals, or to phyfics. Some aferibed thefe
operations to ancient Time, Chaos, and Darknefs, and
explained the future changes in nature by the genealo¬
gies of thefe deities j fome observing attraction and
repuliion, or at lead a fort of agreement and difeor-
dance among bodies, were inclined to aferibe them to
Friendihip and Hatred, or Love and Antipathy ; fome
obferving, that while one body rofe another defeended,
made Levity and Gravity primary agents j and fome
taking notice that living bodies fprung from corruption,
were
(d) The general doClrine, as delivered here in thefe verfes of Virgil, is the fame with that not only of Pytha¬
goras, but of the Stoics.
(e) Plato made the liars the native refidence of inferior fouls j and when thefe were thoroughly purified below,
returned them home again : and therefore, fays Virgil, alluding to his doClrine,
 — Some have taught
That bees have portions of ethereal thought,
Endu’d with particles of heav’nly fires ;
For God the whole created mafs infpires :
Thro’ heav’n and earth, and ocean’s depth, he throws
His influence round, and kindles as he goes.
Hence flocks, and herds, and men, and bealls, and fowls,
With breath are quicken’d, and attradl their fouls :
Hence take the forms his prefcience did ordain,
And into him at length refolve again.
No room is left for death, they mount the Iky,
And to their own congenial planets fly.
Dryden.
B E S
t ?68 ]
RES
Refurrec-
Of the Sto
ics.
"Of Ariilo-
Ue.
15.
Qf Cntlas
Riid others,
were difpofed to confer the fame powers on Moitlure and
Heat.
The phyfical hypothefes were what had mod charms
for the Stoics. From their fyftem immaterial beings
were openly excluded j all things were regulated by
phyfical laws or inexorable fate ; and all things origi¬
nated in the to 'Ey or the FzVy? One, which was probably
fuggefted by the M«v«? of Pythagoras. This To ‘£v ap¬
pears to have been a materia pnma devoid of all the
qualities of body. In their language it was an or
JirJ} principle, not fubjeft to change. When it was in-
veiled with the properties of body, it then became
a ZfietfcSior or an element; and then, fo far as refpefled
its qualities, efpecially its forms, it was fubjefl to chan¬
ges almoft perpetual. The gods themfelves and the fouls
of men were in this lyllem only modifications of mattei
(f). Man was compofed of their four elements, Fire,
Air, Water, and Earth*, and upon diffolution, every
part returned to the element from which it had come, as
the water of a veffel fwimming in the fea unites with the
ocean when the veffel is broken. This fydem, it is
plain, cannot poffibly admit o'f any feparate confciouf-
nefs of exiftence (g). The fame may be faid of the
fyftems of Democritus and Epicurus, and all thofe who
undertook to explain things upon phyfical principles (h).
The chief merit of the phyfical fyftems appears to be
this: Abfurd as they were, it would feem from the
whimfical and the almoft childilh reafoning of Lucretius,
that they had a tendency to lead mankind from extrava¬
gant hypothefes to fomething that was limilar to obler-
vation.
What Ariftotle thought of the feparate exiftence of
the foul after death is not very certain. The foul he
calls an Eyltte%eia ; and if the reader can divine the mean¬
ing of the word, he perhaps can divine the meaning of
the Stagyrite, and will then be a better diviner than we.
At other times he fays, that the foul is fomething di¬
vine ; that it refembles the element of the ftars^ that it
is fomething of a fiery nature } that it is the vicegerent
of God in the body ; and that the acutenefs of the fepfes,
the powers of the intelledl, with the various kinds of ap¬
petites and paflions, depend entirely on the qualities of
the blood (1).
Another opinion of very old date was that of the late
ingenious Mr Hunter. According to him, the living
principle refides in the blood. This opinion, which is
mentioned by Mofes, was adopted by Critias and others
of the ancients. Harvey likewife embraced it. But Mr
Hunter, who always wiftied to be thought an original,
inclines to ftand at the head of the opinion, and fup-
ports it by experiments fimilar to thofe of the famed
Taliacotius in mending nofes. Should any of our readers
wifti to extract the foul’s immortality from fuch an opi- Refugee-
nion, we muft refer them to the many refources of inge- , | tl0n-
nuity, fophiftry, and logic. zo
Among the Jew's, the belief of a future and feparate of the
exiftence for a long time was deemed no effential article Jews,
of their creed. Some thought that the foul was a fpark
in the moving of the heart; fome imagined that it was
the breath, and that upon the diffolution of the body
it naturally vanilhed into foft air. The Sadducees de¬
nied the exiftence of either angel or fpirit. Many be¬
lieved the doftrine of ghofts, and were accuftomed to
invoke them at the grave. It is hence that wTe hear
the prophets complaining that they were feeking
from the living God unto dead men. Some imagined
that there was a pre-exiftence of fouls j and, in the cafe
of a blind man, alked our Saviour, whether the man or
his parents had finned that he was born blind ? Others
inclined to a revolution of foul and body, and thought
that our Saviour was either Elias or one of the old
prophets returned; and a great many new-modelled
their opinion of the foul’s immortality according to cer¬
tain paffages in Scripture. The infpired mother of Sa¬
muel had faid, “ The Lord killeth and maketh alive 5
he bringeth down to the grave, and bringeth up.”
Ifaiah had exclaimed, “ Thy dead {hall live; together
with my dead body (hall they arife : Awake, and fiug,
ye that dwell in the dull ; for thy dew is as the dew of
herbs, and the earth ftiall call out the dead.'1 Daniel
had declared, that many of them that fleep in the dull of
the earth {hall awake to everlafting life, and fome to
ftiame and everlafting contempt. In the vifion of the
valley of dry bones, Ezekiel had feen that “ at the word
of the Lord” the bones came together, bone to his bone,
the finews and the fleftr came upon them, and the {kin
covered them above, and the breath came into the bo¬
dies, and they lived and flood upon their feet. And a
paffage of Job led them to fuppofe, that at fome di-
llant and future period a particular time, which was call¬
ed the lajl or the latter day, was appointed by heaven for
the general refurreftion of all thofe who are fieeping in
their graves. “ I know (fays Job)' my Redeemer liveth,
and that he {hall ftand at the latter day upon the earth j
and though after my fkin worms deftroy this body, yet
in my flelh {hall I fee God.”
Whether thefe paffages were fairly interpreted agree¬
ably to their true and original meaning, it is not here
our bufinefs to inquire. It is luff.cient for us to ob-
ferve, that from them many of the Jews inferred the
reality of a general refuneclion (k). In this perfua-
fion, Martha, fpeaking of her brother Lazarus, fays to
our Lord, “ I know that he {hall rife again in the re-
furredlion at the laft day.” This refurredion appears
(F) The of the Stoics appears to be the fame with the Li of the Chinefe.
(g) Yet without regarding the inconfiftency, many of the Stoics believed, that the foul continued feparate long
after death ; though all in general feemed to deny a future ftate of rewards and puniftiments.
(h) In his Pliyfical Cofmogony, Plato differed but little from the Stoics; but he had another fort of cofmogony,
in which all things appear to have fprung from, and to be almoft wholly cornpofed of metaphyfical entities, as
ideas of forms, numbers, and mathematical figures. Thefe kinds of notions were common both to him and Py¬
thagoras •, and were originally borrowed from Egypt, where calculation and geometry were half deified. See Pla¬
tonism.
(1) The immortal Harvey has colleded thefe different opinions of the Stagyrile in Exercit. 52. De' Generatwnc
Animalium. _ c y • r
(k) At prefer.t fome are for allowing only thofe of their own nation to {hare in the benefits of, this rdurrec-
4 -
r
K E S [ 769 ] K E S
kefurrec- to liave been a general opinion among tbe Pbarifees ;
tion. for although it was a notion of the feet of the Saddu-
* ' ' cees that there was no refurreetion, neither angel nor
fpirit, yet the Pharifees, we are told, confefled both.
And this affertion is plainly confirmed by St Paul him-
felf when his countrymen accufed him before Felix. “ I
confefs unto thee (lays this eminent apoftle), that after
the way which they call herefy fo worfiiip I the God
of my fathers, believing all things which are written in
the law and in the prophets, and having hope towrard
God, which they themfelves alfo allow, that there lhall
be a refurreftion of the dead, both of the juft and un-
21 juft*”
This refurreclion of the dead to judgment, though
n .ans. perhaps in the fame fenfe in which the old Phari¬
fees conceived it, is now generally and almoft univer-
fally (1.) maintained by Chriftians (m). Yet the Chri-
ftians dilfer confiderably with refpeft to the nature of the
human foul. Some imagine, that this fpirit is naturally
mortal, and that it is propagated along with the body
from the loins of the parent. In fupport of this opinion,
it has been obferved that a great number of infedfs and
plants transfer their lives to their pofterity, add die foon
after the adl of propagation j that after this ad! the
vital principle is in the moft vigorous of plants and
animals always found to be much exhaufted ; and that
Tertullian a father of the church, in attempting fome
experiments of the kind, became fubjed! to a momentary
blindnefs, and felt a portion of his foul going out of
him (n).
Thefe imagine that immortality wras only condition¬
ally promifed to man; that Adam forfeited this immor¬
tality by his difobedience} and that Chrift has reftored
us to the hopes of it again by his fufferings and death :
for as in Adam we have all died, fo in Chrift, they
fay, we lhall all be made alive j and that now the fling
'Vol. XVII. Part II.
is taken from death, and the vidfory over our fouls from R
the grave.
Others have conceived the human foul as naturally
immortal, and as fetting death and the grave at de¬
fiance. Adam, they fay, died only in a figure j and
only from the confequences of this figure, which means
fin, has our Lord faved us. In this fenfe Adam died
on the very day in which he had finned; or he died li¬
terally in 1000 years, which wfith the Lord are as one
day. To thefe arguments their opponents reply. What
then is the vidfory over death and the grave ? You mult
ftill have recourfe to a new figure, and betake yourfelves
to the fecond death ; though, after all, where is your
grave ? To this it is anfivered, that the foul of itfelf is
naturally immortal, and that it depends not either for
its exiftence or the exercife of its faculties upon the
body j that the properties of matter, as figure, magni¬
tude, and motion, can produce nothing that is like to
perception, memory, and confeioufnefs. This is true, re¬
join their opponents \ but befides thefe few properties of
matter, which arc only the objedls of that philofophy
which has lately and properly been termed mechanical,
the chemical philofophy has difeovered other properties
of matter; has found that matter is of various kinds;
that it very often does not ad! mechanically $ that it
acquires many new properties by combination ; and that
no man, till farther experiment and obfervation, ftiould
venture to aflert hovv far the foul is or is not dependent
on its prefent organifed fyftem. The others, proceeding
on their hypothefis, maintain that the foul, as being im¬
material, is not divifible ; and though the body of a frog
may live without the head for a whole day 5 though
the body of a tortoife may live without the head for a
■whole month ; though a human limb may for fome mi¬
nutes after amputation continue to perform a vital mo¬
tion, independent of a brain, a ftomach, or a heart:
5 E and
tion \ and fome are not even for allowing them, except they be men of piety and virtue. To render this re-
furredfion probable, the rabbins fay, with fome of the Mahometans, that there is a certain bone in the body
* See which refifts putrefadfion, .and ferves as a feed for the next body *. What that bone is, is of no great moment,
TiSee' as any bone,, we believe, in the Ikeleton will anfwer the purpofe equally well. With refpedf to the manner of
this refurredlion, the learned. Hody has quoted feveral opinions of the Jews, and, among others, that of the Chal¬
dee paraphraft of the Canticles, aflerting that the prophet Solomon had faid, “ When the dead (hall revive,
it ftiall come to pafs that the Mount, of Olives fhall be cleft, and all the dead of Ifrael (hall come out from thence;
and the juft too that died in captivity (hall come through the way of the caverns under the earth, and (hall
come forth out of the Mount of Olives.” He has likewife quoted Saunderfon’s Voyage to the Holy Land, in
which, we are told that many of the Jews, by their own account, are to rife up in the valley of Jehoftiaphat; and
that is the rolling or devolution of the caverns, thofe at a diftance muft ferape their way thither with their
nails.
(l) The fed! of the Quakers explain it figuratively.
\Hody. (m) The laft quoted author f (RefurreBion of the fame Body, afferted from the traditions of the Heathens,
the ancient Jews, and the primitive Church') has endeavoured to (how that this doctrine, in the fame fenfe as we
underftand it, has been afferted by tbe ancient Magi, and by the prefent heathen Gaurs of Perfia, the relics of the
ancient Magi; by fome of the ancient Arabians ; by fome of the Banians of India ; by the prefent inhabitants
of the ifland of Ceylon,, of Java, of Pegu, of Tranfiana j by fome amongft the Chinefe; by the Arderians in
Guinea ; and by the ancient Pruflians. The proofs which he brings, it muft be confeffed, are not however always
very fatisfadlory. It appears, even from his own account, that fome of thefe had derived their notions from cer¬
tain Chriftians, Mahometans, or Jews. But the reader may judge of the great accuracy of his ideas from his
bringing old Pythagoras and the Stoics, and even Democritus and Epicurus, in fupport of the fame or a fimihur
opinion.
(n) In illo ipfo voluptatis ultima; seftu quo genitale virus expellitur, nonne aliquid de anima quoque fentimus ex-
ire, utque adeo marcefcimus et devigdfeimus cum lucis detrimento.
RES
//
Refurrec- and though the parts of a plant, a polype, or a worm,
, t] ll* may furviye their feparation and become living wholes*,
* See Poly.y^ ^ou^’ obferve, is not to be compared with
/>«* and the vital principles of plants and animals, nor ought to
•produFtion. be divided on reafons fo ilender as thofe of analogy.
' Even granting, they fay, that the foul were not natu¬
rally immortal of itfelfj yet the juftice of God, which
is not remarkable for its equal distribution of rewards
and punidiments in the prefent world, is bound to make
fome amends in the next. And to this again their op¬
ponents anfvver, as to the equal diftribution of juftice
in a future world, of that we are affured on much bet¬
ter grounds than any of your’s : our Lord has declared
it in exprefs terms ; and whether the foul be immortal
or not, we can eafily believe what he faid is true, as we
know him whom we have trufted.
Xhefe, with Plato, fuppbfe, that the foul is here as in
prifon \ though how or at what time it fhould firft have
come into this dungeon they have not determined. They
have only agreed, that upon its enlargement all its
faculties are to receive an increafe of power ; and “ ha¬
ving already equipped it fo exquifttely with confcioufnefs,
activity, and perception in and of itfeP’, and put it into
lo complete a capacity for happinefs and mifery in a fe-
parate ftate,” their hypothefis does not require them to
admit tlie leaft occafion for a refurredlion j which ac¬
cordingly is laid to have been an article of Baxter’s
creed (o).
A third opinion, which extends likewife to every fpe-
cies of plant and animal, is, that all fouls were created at
once with bodies of ether ; that thefe bodies, occupying
only a very fmall fpace, were packed up in their iirft
progenitors, and there left to be afterwards evolved and
clothed with matter of a grofler kind by afts of gene¬
ration and confequent nutrition. "For the proof of this
theory we are referred to the fmall animals feen through
the microfcope, and likewife to thofe which are fuppo-
fed to efcape even microfcopic obfervation ; but, above
all, to the eggs of infedls, which, though fcarcely per¬
ceptible, yet contain in embryo a future caterpillar
and all its coats, and within thefe a future butterfly with
its legs and wings. Thefe philofophers can perhaps ac¬
count for the general taint of original fin in fome o' her
way than has hitherto been done. We have only to
add, that on their fcheme the refurreclion is not a mat¬
ter that feems to be indifferent.
The next thing that falls to be confidered is the place
of the dead. From a natural enough affociation of
near to the ideas, an opinion had very early prevailed, that the fpi-
rit continued near to the body \ and the offerings there¬
fore intended for the dead were by moft nations pre-
fented at the grave; and that on which the departed
fpirit is fuppofed to reft is always placed near the grave
in China.
From the dreams of the night and the natural ten-
22
Place cf
the dead
grave.
*3
In dark-
nefs.
o ] R E S
dency of the fancy to work and to fummon up fpeel res Refurrec-
when the world around us is involved in darknefs, it has ticn-
alfo been imagined, that thefe fpirits delight in the v ""
night and fliadow of death (p), or have been prohibited
from enjoying the exhilarating beams of day. And
hence we are told,
That in the difmal regions of the dead
Th’ infernal king once rais’d his horrid head ;
Leap’d from his throne, left Neptune’s arm ftiould lay
His dark dominions open to the day,
And pour in light.
The nations, therefore, who have fancied a general
receptacle for the dead, have thus been induced to place
it in the weft (Q_), where the night begins and the day
ends. That part of the world which, in the divifion of
his father’s dominions, fell to Pluto the infernal god,
and where, according to Laftantius, Satan holds the
empire of darknefs, the Friendly Iflanders have placed 24
to the weftward of a certain ifland which they call YV-In
jee ; fome tribes of American Indians, in a country be- '
yond the weftern mountains j and Homer, fomewhere
to the weftwaid of Greece at the boundaries of the
Where in a lonely land and gloomy cells
The dutky nation of Cimmeria dwells j
The fun ne’er views th’ uncomfortable feats
When radiant he advances nor retreats.
Unhappy race ! whom endlefs night invades,
Clouds the dull air, and wraps them round in ftiades.
Another opinion entertained by the Greeks and fome ^
other nations was, that the place of departed fpirits isevuth,
under the earth. This opinion is frequently mentioned
in Homer, in Virgil, and alluded to by the Jewifh pro¬
phets. As for the prophets, we know the circumftance
from which they borrowed it : it was borrowed from
thofe fubterraneous vaults where their chiefs were bu¬
ried, and which have been deferibed by modern travel¬
lers. In the ftdes of thefe caverns there is ranged a
great number of cells •, and in thefe cells the mighty lay
in a fort of ftate, with their weapons of war and their
fwords at their head. To thefe kinds of Egyptian ce¬
meteries Ezekiel alludes, when he fays, “ that they thail
not lie with the mighty that are fallen of the uncircum-
cifed, who are gone down to hell with their weapons of
war, and they have laid their fwords under their head.”
And Ifaiah, when thus fpeaking of the prince of Baby¬
lon, “ Thou (halt be brought down to hell, to the ftdes
of the pit. Plell from beneath is moved for thee, to
meet thee at thy coming j it ftirreth up the dead for
thee, even all the chief ones of the earth ; it hath raifed
up from their thrones all the kings of the nations. All
the kings of the nations, even all of them, lie in glory,
every one in his own houi'e.”
Many
(o) An Hiforical View of the Controverfy concerning an Intermediate State, and the Separate Exiflence of the
Soul.
(p) Some Turkiftr ghofts are an exception, who ufe lamps or candles in their tombs, when their friends choofe to
fupply them with thefe luxuries.
(Q_) 1 he zve/l and darlnefs are Anonymous in Homer. £2 <p<Ao;, ev yaes r ihu.-.') oirri ovV ott/i y)c4$. (^Odtjfly
“ O my friends ! which is the weft, or which is the eaft, the place of darknefs, or that of the morning, we can¬
not learn.” '
/
r. K s r 771 1 RES
Refunec- Many’of the ancient fathers of the church aflerted brute, that man might fuffer injuries fimilar to what he R. furrec-
uon' t only, that the dead are now in abdiiis receptacuiis, or in
26
certain hidden and concealed places.
In hidden Orpheus, Qrigen, and feme others of the fathers,
receptacles with the ancient Caledonian bard Offian, and the learn-
27 . ed Dodvvell among the moderns, imagined that the
In the an. {'oui_ vv]ien it left the body, went into the air, and re-
fided fomewhere between the furface of the earth and the
2S
In new bo¬
dies.
29
State of the
dead ac¬
cording to
fome rude
Rations.
3° .
According
to the E-
gyptians.
Thofe who believed in a tranfmigration caufed the
foul at death only to enter a new body, and kept the
departed always with the living. This creed has been
found in India, in Egypt, in Mexico, and in all thofe
countries where pidrture-writing has been much ufed.
In this fpecies of writing, the lame piffure is on fancied
analogy transferred by metaphor to lignify either a god
or a man, a brute or a plant 5 and in thofe countries
where it was praftifed, men had ufually their names
from animals, and were reprefented by their figure in
writing (r). From this lafl flage of the procefs, a
tranfmigration was eafily fuppofed : and hence we hear
of the gods of Egypt wandering about like fo many va¬
grants in brute fnapes, and of princes being tranflated
into liars, becaufe a liar was their emblem in hierogly¬
phic, or Hood for their name in figurative language.
And, in like manner, we fee, from the fpecimen of this
character which is Hill preferved on celeftial globes,
bow the heavens at firft came to be filled with bears,
fcorpions, and dragons, and with a variety of other ani¬
mals.
The opinions concerning the Hate of the dead are
ftill more numerous than thofe concerning the place
where they refide. Rude nations have generally thought
that the future Hate is fimilar to the prefent; that plants,
animals, and inanimate things there, have their lhades;
and that thefe contribute as much to the pleafures and
conveniencies of the dead as their realities do to the li¬
ving 5 that hulbands have their wives (s), lovers their
rniftreffes, warriors their battles, huntfmen their fport ;
and that all their paffions, amufements, and bufinefs,
are the fame as formerly. For this reafon, that the
dead may not appear unprovided in the next world, like
the ancient Gauls, fome tiabes of India, Amenca, and
Africa, bury with them in the fame grave their wives,
their arms, their favourite animals, and their necefiary
utenfils.
The ancient Egyptians, who believed in tranfmigra¬
tion, fuppofed that the foul was after death obliged to
animate every fpecies of bird and quadruped, of reptile
and infe£I, and was not to return to a human form till
after a period of 3500 years. Others have confined
their tranfmigrations to particular animals, as the foul
of man to the human form, and the foul of the brute to
the bodies of the fpecies to which it belonged. Some
have changed the brute into man, and man into the
31
had inflicted, and the brute retaliate what he had fuf- (
fered. Others have confined the human foul in plants
and in Hones ; and Beil of Antermony mentions an
Indian who fuppofed that his anceftors might be in
fillies.
The notions of Homer were probably thofe of many of^cc ding
his time. But thefe notions were difmal indeed. When to Homer,
his hero Ulyffes vilited the lhades, many of the ghofls
feemed to retain the mangled and ghaflly appearance
which they had at death ) and, what is worfe, feemed
to be all ftarving with hunger, innumerable multitudes,
with loud Ihrieks, flocking to the fleams of his llain vic¬
tim as to a moil lumptuous and delicious banquet.
For fcarcely had the purple torrent flow’d,
And all the caverns fmok’d with ftreaming blood,
When, lo ! appear’d along the dulky coalls
Thin airy flioals of vilionary ghofts ;
Fair penfive youths, and foft enamour’d maids,
And wither’d elders, pale and wrinkl’d lhades.
Ghallly with wounds, the forms of warriors flain,
Stalk’d with majeltic port, a martial train.
Thefe, and a thoufand more, fwarm’d o’er the ground,
And all the dire affembly Ihriek’d around.
Ulyffes faw, as ghofl: by ghoft arofe,
All wailing with unutterable woes.
Alone, apart, in difeontented mood,
A gloomy fliade, the fallen Ajax flood ;
For ever fad, with proud difdain he pin’d,
And the loft arms for ever flung his mind. ~
Upon UhjJJcs Joying to Achilles,
Alive, we hail’d thee with our guardian godi j
And, dead, thou rul’d a king in thefe abodes j
The Jhade reply'1 cl:
Talk not of ruling in this dol’rous gloom,
Nor think vain words (he cry'd) can cafe my doom j
Rather I choofe laborioully to bear
A weight of woes, and breathe the vital air,
A SLAVE TO SOME POOR HIND THAT TOILS FOR BREAD,
Than live a scepter’d monarch of the dead.
In this gloomy region no one is rewarded for his vir¬
tue, nor is punilhed for his crimes, unlefs committed,
like thofe of Sifyphus, Tantalus, and Ixion, againft the
gods. All indeed are claffed into groups, from a cer¬
tain analogy of age, fex, fate, and difpofition 5 but all
appear to be equally unhappy, having their whole heart
and affections concentrated in a world to which thev are
fated never to return.
The Elyfium of Homer is allotted only for the rela¬
tions and defeendants of the gods j and Menelaus goes
to this country of perpetual fpring (t), not as a perfon
5 E 2 of
(r) A military gentleman who refided at Penobfcot during the late American war, affured us that the Indians,
when defired to fubferibe a written agreement, drew always the pidture of the objeft or animal whofe name they
bore. But for fuller information on this fubjeft, fee Clavigero’s Hiftory of Mexico.
(s) The queftion which the Sadducees put to our Saviour about the wife of the feven brothers, is a proof that
the Pharifees thought there was a marriage and giving in marriage in the future Hate, and that it was fomewhat
fimilar to the prefent.
(t) Homer fends the ghofl: of Hercules to the {hades, while Hercules himfelf is quaffing mcciar with Hebe
in
RES
32
Becomes a
place of re¬
wards and
punifli-
ments.
33
Thele at
firft diftri-
buted ac¬
cording to
phyfical
diftinc-
tions;
* Claniige-
j-o’s Hiji, of
Mexico,
vol. vi.
p. 136-
34
and after¬
wards ac¬
cording to
moral di-
flinflions.
of fuperior merit, but becaufehehad married the daugh¬
ter of Jove.
Even long after a future date had become the fcene
of rewards and punithments, thefe for the moft part
were diftributed, not according to moral, but phylical
diidindtions. With the Greeks and Romans, the foul
was condemned to many calamities for a number of
years, if the body was not honoured with funeral rites.
Among the Scandinavians, a natural death was attend¬
ed with infamy, while a violent death, particularly in
battle, gave a title to fit in the halls' ol Odin, and to
quaff beer from the fkulls of enemies. Among the
Tlafcalans, it was only the great that were permitted
to animate birds and the nobler quadrupeds j the lower
ranks were transformed into weafels, into paultry
beetles, and fuch mean animals. Among the Mexicans,
thofe who were drowned, who died of a dropfy, tu¬
mors, or wounds, or fuch like difeafes, went along with
the children that had been facrificed to the god of wa¬
ter, and in a cool and delightful place were allowed to
indulge in delicious repafts and varieties of pleafures :
thofe who died of other difeafes, were fent to the north
or centre of the earth, and were under the dominion of
the gods of darknefs. “ The foldiers who died in
battle, or in captivity among their enemies, and the
women who died in labour, wrent to the houfe of the
fun, who w'as confidered as the prince of glory. In his
manfions they led a life of endlefs delight. Every day
the foldiers, on the firll appearance of his rays, hailed
his birth with rejoicings and with dancings, and the
mufic of inftruments and voices. At his meridian they
met with the wmmen, and in like feftivity accompanied
him to his letting. After four years of this glorious life,
they went to animate clouds, and birds of beautiful fea¬
thers and of fweet fong $ but always at liberty to rife
again, if they pleafed, to heaven, or defcend to the
earth, to warble their fongs, and to fuck flow’ers
Thefe fentiments of a future ftate, conceived in a fa-
vage and a rude period, could not long prevail among
an enlightened and civilized people. When the times
of rapine and violence therefore began to ceafe ; w7hen
focieties regulated by certain law's began to be eftablifh-
ed ; when martial prowefs wras lefs requifite, and the
qualities of the heart had begun to give an importance
to the char after, the future ftate was alfo modelled on
a different plan. In the iEneid of Virgil, an author
of a highly cultivated mind, and of polilhed manners,
it becomes a place of the moft impartial and unerring
juftice ; every one now receives a fentence luited to the
aftions of his paft life, and a god is made to prefide in
judgement j
Who hears and judges each committed crime,
Inquires into the manner, place and time.
[ 772 ] R E S
The confcious wretch muft all his afts reveal,
Loth to confefs, unable to conceal,
From the firft moment of his vital breath,
To the laft hour of unrepenting death.
35
Virgil’s
purgatory.
3<S
His hea¬
ven.
The fpirits of the dead no longer mingle together as
in the lefs enlightened period of Homer} the vicious
are difmifled to a place of torments, the virtuous fent to
regions of blifs : indifferent charafters are confined to a
limbus * j and thofe who are too virtuous for hell, but * Or para-
too much polluted with the ftains of vice to enter hea-
ven without preparation, are for fome time detained in a
purgatory.
For there are various penances enjoin’d,
And fome are hung to bleach upon the wind ;
Some plung’d in waters, others purg’d in fires,
Till all the dregs are drain’d, and ruft expires j
Till nothing’s left of their habitual ftains,
But the pure ether of the foul remains.
When thus purified, they become fitted to receive
the rewards of their paft virtues, and now enter into
thofe regions of happinefs and joy.
With ether veiled, and a purple fky,
The blifsful feats of happy fouls below,
Stars of their own, and their own funs they know j
Where patriots live, who, for their country’s good,
In fighting fields were prodigal of blood.
Px-iefts of unblemilh’d lives here make abode,
And poets worthy their infpiring god j
And fearching wits, of more mechanic parts,
Who grac’d their age with new-invented arts:
Thofe who to worth their bounty did extend j
And thofe who knew that bounty to commend.
Thefe good men are engaged in various amufements,
according to the tafte and genius of each. Orpheus is
ftill playing on his harp, and the warriors are ftill de¬
lighted with their chariots, their horfes, and their
arms.
The place of torment is at fome diftance.
A gaping gulf, which to the centre lies,
And twice as deep as earth is diftant from the Ikies j
From hence are heard the groans of ghofts, the pains
Of founding lafhes, and of dragging chains.
Here, thofe who brother’s better claim difown,
Expel their parents, and ufurp the throne j
Defraud their clients, and, to lucre fold,
Sit brooding on unprofitable gold.
Who dare not give, and even refufe to lend,
To their poor kindred, or a wanting friend.
Vaft is the throng of thefe } nor lefs the train
Of luftful youths for foul adult’ry {lain.
Hofts
37
His helL
in the Ikies. One foul of the hero is therefore repining with the ghofts of mortals in the regions below, while
the other is enjoying all the happinefs of the gods above. (See Odyffeij, book ii. near the end). Philofophers
fince have improved on this hint of the poet; and men have now got rational, animal, and vegetable fouls, t<*
which fometimes a fourth one is added, as properly belonging to matter in general. Homer infinuates, that
Menelaus was to be tranftated to Elyfium without tailing death. This Elyfium is the habitation of men, and
not of ghofts, and is defcribed as being fimilar to the feat of the gods. Compare Odyjf. iv. 1. 563. and Odyjf. vk
L 43. in. the Greek,
RES'
Hofts of deferters, who their honour fold,
And bafely broke their faith for bribes of gold :
All thefe within the dungeon’s depth remain,
Defpairing pardon, and expe&ing pain.
5S
His para
dife of
fools.
39
The ftate
in Scrip,
ture.
The fouls of babes, of unhappy lovers, and fotne
others, feem to be placed in a paradife of fools refiding
in a quarter diftincl from Elyfian Tartarus and Purga¬
tory.
It is curious to obferve, how much thefe ideas of a
future Hate differ from the vague and fimple conjectures
of rude nations ; and yet from their fimple and rude con¬
jectures, we can eafily trace the iucceffive changes in
the writings of Homer, Plato, and Virgil; and may ea¬
fily Ihow, that thofe laws which different nations have
prefcribed for their dead, have ahvays borne the ftrong-
eft analogy to their ftate of improvement, their fyftem
of opinions, and their moral attainments. Some na¬
tions, as thofe of India, have fancied a number of hea¬
vens and hells, correfponding to fome of their principal
(hades in virtue and vice ; and have filled each of thefe
places refpeftively with all the fcenes of happinefs and
mifery, wdiich friendftrip and hatred, admiration, con¬
tempt, or rancour, could fuggeft. But having already
obferved the progrefs of the human mind in forming the
grand and leading ideas of a future ftate, we mean not
to defcend to the modifications which may have occurred
to particular nations, feCIs, or individuals.
The belief of Chriftians refpefting futurity demands
of the dead our attention, as being founded on a diflerent principle,
as revealed namely^ on exprefs revelations from heaven. From
many exprefs declarations in Scripture, all Chriftians
feem to be agreed, that there is a heaven appointed for
the good and a hell for the wicked. In this heaven
the laints dwell in the prefence of God and the uninter¬
rupted fplendors of day. Thofe who have been wife
ftnne as the firmament, and thofe who have converted
many to righteoufnefs as the ftars. Their bodies are
glorious, immortal, incorruptible, not fubjeCI to difeafe,
The nature to pain, or to death. Their minds are ftrangers to for-
row, to crying, to difappointment •, all their defires are
prefently fatisfied ; while they are calling, they are an-
fwered ; while they are fpeaking, they are heard. Their
mental faculties are alfo enlarged j they no more fee
things obfcurely, and as through a cloud, but continual¬
ly beholding ne^v winders and beauties in creation, are
conftantly exclaiming, “ Holy, holy, holy ! is the Lord
of Hofts, worthy is he to receive glory, and honour, and
thankfgiving ; and to him be afcribed wifdom, and
power, and might; for great and marvellous are his
works, and the whole univerfe is filled with his glory.”
Their notions of hell differ confiderably. Some un-
derftanding the Scriptures literally, have plunged the
wicked into an abyfs without any bottom *, have made
this gulf darker than night ; have filled it with ranco-
rous and malignant fpirits, that are worfe than Juries ;
and have defcribed it as full of fulphur, burning for
ever. This frightful gulf has by fome been placed in
the bowels of the earth ; by fome in the fun ; by fome
in the moon ^ and by fome in a comet : but as the Scrip¬
tures have determined nothing on the fubjedl, all fuch
conjeftures are idle and groundlefs.
Others imagine, that the fire and fulphur are here to
be taken in a figurative fenfe. Thefe fuppofe the tor¬
ments of hell to be troubles of mind and remorfes of
of heaven.
41
Ofhel!.
773 1 R E 3 .
confidence j and fupport their opinion by obferving, that Refiirrec-
matter cannot adt upon fpirit) forgetting, perhaps, that, ,
at the refurredlion the fpirit is to be clothed with a bo¬
dy, and, at any rate, that it is not for man vainly to
prefcribe bounds to Omnipotence. 4*
What feems to have tortured the genius of divines Of the mid-
much more than heaven or hell, is a middle ftate. On
this fubjeft there being little revealed in Scripture, ^
many have thought it incumbent upon th«m to fupply nionS about
the defedf ; which they feem to have done in different it.
ways. From the Scriptures fpeaking frequently of the
dead as fieeping in their graves, thofe who imagine that
the powers of the mind are dependent on the body, fup¬
pofe that they deep till the refurreftion, when they are
to be awakened by the trump of God, reunited to their
bodies, have their faculties reftored, and their kntence
awarded.
This opinion they fupport by what St Peter fays in
the Adis, that David is not afcended into heaven 5 and
that this patriarch could not poftibly be fpeaking of
himfelf when he faid, “ Thou wilt not leave my foul in 43
hell, i. e. the place of the dead.” They obitive,
that the vidtory of Chrift over death and the grave
feems to imply, that our fouls are fubjedt to their power 3 ^ •
that accordingly the Scripture fpeaks frequently of the
foul’s drawing near to, of its being redeemed from, and
of its defeending into, the grave 3 that the Pialmift,
however, declares plainly, that when the breath ot man
goeth forth, he returneth to his earth, and that very
day his thoughts perifti. And fhould any one choole to
confult Ecclefiaftes, he wall find, that the living know
that they fhall die, but that the dead know not any
thing : that their love, and their hatred, and their en¬
vy, are perifhed 3 and that there is no work, nor de¬
vice, nor wifdom, nor knowledge, in the grave, whi¬
ther they are gone. _ _ 44
Thofe wlqo believe that the foul is not for the exerciie According-
of its faculties dependent on the body, are upon its fe- to others, a
paration at death obliged to difpofe of it fome other way. ^c°ofus
In eftabliftung their theory, they ufually begin with at- exiftence.
tempting to prove, from Scripture or tradition, both its
adlive and feparate exiftence 3 but with proofs from tra¬
dition w-e intend not to meddle. Their arguments from
Scripture being of more value, deferve our ferious confi-
deration 3 and are nearly as follow.
Abraham, they fay, Ifaac, and Jacob, are ftill living,
becaufe Jehovah is their God, and he, it is allowed, is
not the God of the dead, but of the living. But their
opponents reply, That this is the argument which our
Saviour brought from the writings of Mofes to prove a
future refurre&ion of the dead 3 and that any perfon
who looks into the context, will fee it was not meant of
a middle ftate. From the dead living unto God, our
Saviour infers nothing more than that they fliall live at
the refurre&ion 3 and that thefe gentlemen would do
well in future to make a diftinftion between limply liv¬
ing and living unto God : For though Abraham, Ifaac,
and Jacob, be living unto God, our Saviour has affured
us that Abraham is dead, and the prophets dead..
A fecond argument is that glimple which St Paul
had of paradife about 14 years before he had written
his Second Epiftle to the Corinthians. To this argu¬
ment their opponents reply, 1 hat as St Paul could not
tell whether, on that occafion, he was out of the body
or in the body, it is more than probable that the whola
W23>
* Shorter
Catechifm.
II E S f 77
was a vifion j and, at any rate, il is no proof of a fepa-
rate exiftence.
A third argument is, St Paul’s wlfliing to be abfent
from the body, and prefent with the Lord. But, lay
their opponents, St Paul delired not to be unclothed, but
to be clothed upon : and as fome of thofe who maintain
a feparate exiltence, bring Scripture to prove that the
body * continues united to Chrift till the refurredlion ;
in that cafe, St Paul, if he wifhed to be prefent with
the Lord, Ihould have rather remained with his body
than left it.
A fourth argument is, the appearance of Mofes and
Elias upon the mount of transfiguration. To which
their opponents reply, that thefe faints appeared in their
bodies ; that Elias was never diverted of his body ; and
that the account which we have of the burial of Mofes,
lias led fome of the ableft critics and foundeft divines to
conclude, that he was likewife tranflated to heaven with¬
out tailing death. At any rate, fay they, he might
have been raifed from the dead for the very purpofe of
being prefent at the transfiguration, as the bodies of
other faints certainly were, to bear teftimony to our
Lord’s refurrection and vidtory over the grave.
A fifth argument is, what our Saviour faid to the
thief, “ Verily I fay Unto thee, to-day thou rtialt be
with me in paradife.” The objeftion ufually made here
is, that the expreffion is evidently ambiguous, and that
the fenfe depends entirely on the pundluation ; for if the
point be placed after to-day, the meaning will be “ Ve¬
rily, even now, I tell thee, thou lhalt be with me in
paradife.” But the import of paradife in this place, fay
the opponents, is likewife doubtful. We learn from St
Peter’s explanation of the 16th Pfalm, that our Saviour’s
foul was not to be left in hell; and we know that on
the day of his crucifixion he went not to heaven : for
after he had rilen from the place of the dead, he forbade
one of the women to touch him, as he had net yet af-
cended to the bather. Hell, therefore, and paradife,
continue they, feem to be in this paffage the very fame
thing, the place of the dead ; and our Saviour’s inten¬
tion, they add, was not to go to heaven at that time,
but to fhow his vidfory over death and the grave, to
whofe power all mankind had become fubjedl by the dif-
obedience of their firft parents.
Without pretending to enter into the merits of this
difpute, the ingenious Burnet, in his Theory of the
refide in the Eartir, endeavours to prove, upon the authority of the
air till the ancient fathers, that paradife lies between the earth and
the moon ■, and the learned Dodwell, on the fame au¬
thority, has made it the common receptacle of fouls till
the refurredfion ; but has not told us whether or not
they are to be accountable for the adtions of this fepa¬
rate exirtence at the latter day, .or are only to be
^ jU!%ed according to the deeds that were done in their
46 bodies.
nf Rome ^otion °f a common receptacle has difpleafed
fuppofes aj many. The ftate of purgation, obfcurely hinted in I he
purgatory, dodfrines of Pythagoras, and openly avowed by Plato
and Virgil, has been adopted by the Romilh divines,
45
The toul is
by fome [
fuppofed to
reiurrec
■tion.
4 ] RES
who fupport their opinion on certain obfcure paflages of Refunec-
ScripLure, which are always of a yielding and a waxen i ^on-
nature, may eafiiy be twilled to any hypothefis, and
like general lovers efpoufe rather from interell than
merit.
It has difpleafed others, becaule they are anxious that ^ 47
the righteous rtiould have a fare-tarte of their joys, and pcfe^hat ^
the wicked of their torments, immediately after death, the foul af.
which they infer to be certainly the cafe from the pa-ter death
table of the rich man and Lazarus (u). But to this iteiUers a
is objedted, that the rich man is fuppofed to be in hell, .-.tjE and"
the place oi torments, and that this puniihment oughtpunifh-
not to take place on their own hypothefis till after thementsin a
fentence at the refurredtion. certain
Another argument ufed for the intermediate flate IsoeSree•
the vifion of St John in the Apocalypfe. In this vi-
fion the Evangelift faw under the altar the fouls of thofe
that wrere flam for the word of God and for the teftimo¬
ny which they held. Their opponents doubt whether
thefe vifible fouls were immaterial, as Si; John heard them
cry with a loud voice, and faw white robes given unto
every one of them. If they had bodies, that circum-
ftance might chance to prove a refurredlion immediately
after death, and fo fuperfede the general reliirredlion at
the laft day.
While liich conclufions as are here drawn from the
parable and vifion, fay the oppofers of an intermediate
confcious exiftence, imply that the dead are already
raifed, and are now receiving the refpedlive rewards of
their virtues and their crimes } thofe who maintain an
intermediate feparate exiftence, who fpeak of the body
as a prifon, and of the foul as receiving an increafe of
power when freed from the body, are certainly not more
than confiftent with themfelves, when they think that
this foul would derive an advantage from its after union
with either a new fyftem of matter or the old one, how¬
ever much altered. Baxter, they fay, who faw the in-
confirtency, was difpofed to reafon fomewhat like iE-
neas,
O, Eather ! can it be that fouls fublime
Return to vifit our terreftrial clime ?
Or that the gen’rous mind, releas’d at death.
Should covet lazy limbs and mortal breath ?
In no one inftance, they continue, have Chriftian.s
perhaps more apparently than in this argument wrefted
the fcriptures to their own hurt; by thus rafhly attempt¬
ing to accommodate the facred doctrines of religion to a
preconceived philofophical hypothefis, they have laid
themfelves open to the ridicule of delfts, and have been
obliged, for the fake of confiftency, either to deny or
to fneak flightingly of the refurre£Hon ; which is cer¬
tainly the fureft foundation of their hope, feeing St Paul
hath allured us, that if there be no refurretftion of the
dead, then they which are fallen afleep in Chrift are pe-
riftied, and thofe who furvive may eat and drink, and
aft as they pleafe, for to-morrow they die } and die, too,
never to live again.
Though this reproof may be rather fevere, we are
forry
(u) Whitby ftiows that this parable was conformable to the notions of the Jews at that time; and even the
Mahometans, who believe in the refurreftion of the dead, fuppofe likewife a flate of rewards and punilhments in
the grave.
2
R E 3 [ 775 1 RES
Refurrec- ferry to obferve that there feerns to have been forne-
tl0n' times too much reafon for it. A certain divine f, whofe
'jT)rhT'i'i' Piel7 vvas eminent, and whofe memory we refpeft, ha¬
ving written “ An E'Tay towards the proof of a fepa-
rate Slate of Souls between Death and the Refurrec-
tion, and the Commencement of the Rewards oi Vir¬
tue and Vice immediately after death,” has taken this
motto, “ Becaufe fentence againit an evil w'ork is not
executed fpeedily, therefore the heart of the fons of men
is fully fet in them to do evil.” “ The d odd line, he
fays, of the refurrection of the body and the confequent
Rates of heaven and of hell, is a guard and motive of
divine force, but it is renounced by the enemies of our
holy Chriftianity ; and fliould we give up the recom-
penfes of feparate fouls, while the deift denies the refur-
redtion of the body, I fear, between both we fliould fadly
enfeeble and expole the caufe of virtue, and leave it too
naked and defencelefs.”
This author, who wifhes much that the punifhment
of crimes fliould follow immediately after death, is of
opinion, that if heaven intended to check vice and im¬
piety in the world, it has adied unwifely, if it really has
deferred the punifhment of the wicked to fo late a pe¬
riod as the refurreciion. “ Tor fuch, he obferves, is the
weaknefs and folly of our natures, that men will not
be fo much influenced and alarmed by diftant prolpedls,
nor lo folicitous to prepare for an event which they
fuppofe to be fo very far off, as they would lor the fame
event, if it commences as foon as ever this mortal life
expires. The vicious man will indulge his fenfualities,
and lie down to deep in death with this comfort, I
fhail take my reft here for 100 or 1000 years, and per¬
haps in all that fpace my offences may be forgotten ; or
let the word; come that can come, I fhail have a long
fweet nap before my forrows begin : and thus the force
of divine terrors is greatly enervated by this delay of
punilhment.”
Thus far our author, who thinks that his hypothe-
fis, if not true, is at leaft expedient, and that from mo¬
tives of expediency it ought to be inculcated as a doc¬
trine of Scripture : but how far his reafons can be
herp juftified we mean not to determine ; we (hall leave
that to be fettled by others, reminding them only that
the diftance of future rewards and punifhments is not
greater on the fuppofition of the fleep of the foul than
on the contrary hypothefis. Every man wdio has but
dipt into the fcience of metaphyfles knows, and no man
ever knew better than he who is believed to have been
the author of the work before us, that time unperceived
paffes away as if in an inftant •, and that if the foul be in
a ftate void of confcioufnefs between death and the re-
furreclion, the man who has lain in his grave a thou-
fand years will appear to himfelf to have died in one
moment and been raffed in the next. We would like-
wife recommend to thole who may henceforth be incli¬
ned to inculcate any thing as a doctrine of feripture
merely on account of its fuppofed expediency, always Rtfunec-
to remember that God is above, that they are below, ,
that he is omnifeient, that they are of yeflerday and v
know little, that their -words therefore fhould be wary
and few, and that they Ihould always ipeak wdth re-
fpeft of whatever concerns the Sovereign of the univerfe,
or relates to his government either in the natural Or mo¬
ral world. For wilt thou, fays the Eligheft, difannul
my judgement? Wilt thou condemn me that thou may-
eft be righteous ? {hall he that contendeth with the Al¬
mighty inftruft him ? He that reproveth God let him
anfwer it.
If, in ftating thefe oppofite opinions, we may feem to
have favoured what ha» been called the fleep of the foul,
it is not from any conviction of its truth, for there are
particular texts of Scripture which appear to us to mili¬
tate again ft it. We are fatisfied, however, that it is a
very harmlefs opinion, neither injurious to the reft of the
articles of the Chriftian faith nor to virtuous praftice >
and that thofe who have poured forth torrents of obloquy
upon fuch as may have held it in fimpiicity and godly
fincerity, have either miftakeOthe dotlrine which they
condemned, or been pofleffed by a fpirit lefs mild than
that of the gofpel (x). 48
Whatever be the fate of the middle ftate, the refur-The refar-
reftion Hands on a different bafts. It is repeatedly af-
ferted in Scripture 5 and thofe grounds on which we be- afferte/ia
lieve it are authenticated fads, which the affe&ation, Scripture,
the ingenuity, and the hatred of fceptics, have number-
lefs times attempted in vain to difprove. ffhefe fads
we are now to conftder, referring our readers for the
charader of the witneffes, the authenticity of the gcfpel-
hiftory, and the poflibility of miracles, to the parts of
this work where thefe fubjeCts are treated (Bee Miracle,
Metaphysics, Part I. chap. vii. and Religion) ; or,
fhould more particular information be required, to the
writings of Ditton, Sherlock, and Weft.
Our Lord, after proving his divine miflion by the
miracles which he wrought, and by the completion of
ancient predictions in which he was deferibed, declared
that the doCtrine of a refurreCtion was one of thofe
truths which he came to announce. To fliow that fuch The p. ffibi-
an event was poffible, he reftored to life the daughter cG'ty of it
Jairus, a ruler of the fynagogne, a young man of Nain,
who was carried out on his bier to be buried, and his vj *lv-s ra;.
friend Lazarus, whofe body at the time was thought to hnsr feveral
have become the prey of corruption. Though the two perfons
firft of thefe miracles were wrought in the prefence of i™rr; ^
a number of witneffes, yet the laft, owing to particular d ’
circumftances, produced a much greater noife among
the Jew’s. It was performed on a perfon feemingly of
forne note, in the village of Bethany, not far from Je-
rufalem, and in the prefence of a great many perfons
who from the metropolis had come to condole with
Mary and Martha. No doubts were entertained of the
reality of Lazarus’s death. Our Lord was at a diftance
when
(x) Perhaps no man has been more culpable in this refpeCl than the celebrated Warburton, who feems at firft to
have himfelf denied an intermediate ftate of confcious exiftence. He afterwards imagined that inch a ftate is fup¬
pofed, though not exprefsly afferted, in Scripture and at laft he maintained it with all the zeal and warmth of a
profelyte. To prove the* fincerity of his converfion, he treated his adverfaries with fcurrilous nicknames, banter,
and abufe ; a fpeciCs of reafonlng which feldom fucceeds in recommending a bad caufe, and which never confers
credit on one that is good.
RES t 776 1 RES
^lien he expired, and his body had already been lying
for fome days in the grave. When he came forth at
the voice of our Lord, all were aftonilhed. Thofe from
Jerufalem, on returning home, are impatient to relate
what they had feen 5 thofe who heard of fo memorable
an event cannot conceal it $ the report reaches the ears
of the Pharifees and chief priells. They are foon made
acquainted with every circumltance j and dreading the
ifiue, they think it neceffary to call a council upon the
occalion, and concert the meafures that ought to be
purfued in a matter which was likely to be attended
with fo many and important confequences. In this
council, is feems to be agreed, that our Lord had per¬
formed, and was hill continuing to perform, many mi¬
racles : that this laft miracle, as being of an extraor¬
dinary kind, would make many converts j and that if
meafures were not fpeedily taken to prevent thefe un¬
common difplays of his power, all would believe on
him j the jealoufy of the Romans would be excited, the
rulers depofed, and the nation of the Jews deprived of
its few remaining privileges, Yet notwithllanding thefe
private concdhons made tin the council, the members
who dreaded to let their fentiments be known to the
people, affedt in public to treat our Saviour as an im-
pollor. But he who had already demonflrated the ab-
furdity of their opinions, who fuppofed that his miracles
were wrought by Beelzebub prince of the devils, is again
ready to confute the ridiculous affertion of thofe who
pretended to fay that they were a deception. His friend
Lazarus wras Hill living at the ditlance of only a few
miles, and many of the Jew's who had gone to fee him
were ready to attefl the truth of the report. If the ru¬
lers, apprehending the confequences of the truth, be a-
fraid to know it, and if they are unwilling to go to Be¬
thany, or to fend for Lazarus and thofe who were pre-
fent at his refurredlion, our Lord gives them a fair op¬
portunity of detefting his fraud, if there was any fuch to
be found in him. To preferve their pow'er, and remove
the jealous fufpicion of the Romans, it had been already
determined in council to put him to death j and our Lord
foretels that the third day after his death he lhall rife
from the grave. Here no place was referved for decep¬
tion. The fe£l of the Pharifees and the chief priefts are
openly warned and put upon their guard ; and very for¬
tunately for the caufe of Chriftianity, this lingular pre-
diftion w'as not heard with fcorn, or indeed, ifwuth fcorn,
it w’as only affe&ed. We know from the fentiments ex-
preffed in the council, that our Lord was fecretly dread¬
ed by the rulers j and that his predictions, in their pri¬
vate opinion, w'ere not to be flighted. The means ac¬
cordingly which they employed to prevent, even in the
very appearance, the completion of his prophecy, were
admirably calculated to remove the fcruples of the moll
wary and fceptical inquirers, if their objeCt was only to
fearch after truth. At the next feftival of the paflbver,
when the fcheme of Caiaphas was put in execution, and
when it was deemed expedient by the council that he
fliould die, to fave the nation from the jealoufy of the
Romans ; as a proof of their Heady loyalty to Rome he
was apprehended, was tried as an enemy to her govern¬
ment, was at laR condemned upon falfe evidence, and
fufpended on a crofs until they were fully fatisfied of his
death. Even after his death, the fpear of a foldier was
thruH into his fide : and the w'ater that gullied out with
the blood is a proof to thofe who are acquainted with the
I
HruCture and economy of living bodies, that he muA have Refurfgc-
been fome time dead. jj011-
After he w'as taken down from the crofs, a feal uras " c ^
put on the door of the fepulchre in which he was laid, And above
as the belt check againH lecret fraud j and a guard of all by His
foldiers was Hationed around it, as the belt fecurityown re^ur"
againH open violence. In fpite, however, of all theie re<^l0u*
precautions, the prediclion was accompliflied $ the an¬
gel of God, defcending from heaven with a counte¬
nance like lightning, and w’ith raiment white as fnow
the w'atch lhake, and become as dead men j the earth
quakes ; the Hone is rolled from the mouth of the le-
pulchre 5 the angel fits on it, and our Lord comes
forth.
It w'as in vain for the Jew's to allege that his difciples
came in the night, and Hole him aw'ay, w'hile the watch
w'ere afleep. One muH fmile at thefe puerile affertions.
How came the difciples to know that the watch were
afleep ; or wdiat excufe had the watch for Heeping, and
incurring a punifhment which they knew to be capital in
the Roman law ? and how came they, in the name of
wonder, to be brought as an evidence for thofe tranfac-
tions that happened at the time w'hen they were afleep ?
Whatever credit may be given by modern infidels to
this ill-framed flory, it is paft difpute that it had none,
among the Jewiih rulers at the time that it was current.
Not long after our Saviour’s refurreftion^ the apoftles
w-ere called before the council, and threatened w ith death
for teaching in the name of Jefus. Their boldnefs upon,
that occafion was fo provoking to the rulers, that the
threat would have been inftantly put in execution, had not
Gamaliel, a dodlor of the law of high reputation, put
them in mind of other impoftors who had perifhed in their
attempts to miflead the people j and concluded a very
fenfible fpeech with thefe remarkable w'ords : “ And
now, I fay unto you, refrain from thofe men, and let
them alone; for if this counfel, or this work, be of men,
it will come to nought j but if it be of God, ye cannot
overthrow' it, left haply ye be found even to fight againH
God.” This advice the council folkwed. But is it
poffible that Gamaliel could have given it, or the coun¬
cil paid the leaft regard to it, had the ftory of the dif¬
ciples Healing the body been then credited ? Surely fome
among them w'ould have obferved, that a work or coun¬
fel, founded on impofture and fraud, could not befnppc-
fed to be of God, and they would unqueftionably have
flain the apoftles.
The ftory of Healing the body is indeed one of the
moft fenfelefs fiftions that ever was invented in fupport
of a bad caufe. Our Lord was on the earth 40 days after
he arofe. He appeared frequently to his diiciples. He
ate and drank in their prefence ; and when fome of them
doubted, he bade them handlfe him and fee that he was
not a fpeftre, {bowed the mark of the fpear in his fide,
and the prints of the nails in his feet and hands. Beftdes
thus appearing to his difciples, he was feen by more than
500 brethren at one time •, all of whom, as well as his
difciples, muft neceflarily have knowm him previous to
his fuffering, and could therefore atteft that he was the
perfon who was once dead, but was then alive. Yet for
ftrangers in general, who had not feen him previous to
his death, and could not therefore identify his perfon af¬
ter he arofe, our Lord referved many other proofs that
were equally convincing. Before his afcenfion, he bade
his difciples wTait till they received power, by the Holy
Ghoft
REG
5"
Minute ob¬
jections and
trifling ca¬
vils.
52
Importance
of the doc¬
trine of a
refurrec-/
lion.
53
Of the or¬
der in
which the
dead are to
be raifed.
Ghoft defceftding upon them: That then they fhould be
witneffes with him, both in Jerufalem, and in all Judea,
and in Samaria, and unto the uttermoft ends of the e*rth ;
in order that the people of all thefe nations, obferving
the miracles wrought in his name, might themfelvcfs be¬
come ocular witnefles that thofe who preached his refur-
redtion were warranted to do fo by his authority •, and
that this authority, on which fo numerous miracles at¬
tended, muft be divine.
We intend not here to examine the minute objedlions
and cavils that have been advanced refpedling the truth
of this important fadt. The kinds, however, we fhall
mention in general. Some have doubted of our J^ord’s
refurredtion, as being an event which is not confirmed
by general -experience, becaufe they imagine that what
happens once Ihould happen again, and even repeatedly,
in order to be ttue. Some, taking their own to be pre¬
ferable fchemes, have objedted to the w’ay in which it
happened, and to the manner in which it is narrated.-—
Some have imagined, that poflibly the gofpel hiftory
may be falfe j that poffibly the difciples were very ignor¬
ant, and might be deceived j that poffibly, too, they
ivere deep politicians, and a fet of impoftors ; and that
poffibly the writings which detedled their falfehoods may
have been deftroyed. It is difficult to rea&n, and worfe
to convince, againft this evidence of poffibilities : but
we flatter ourfelves, that to the candid reader it will ap¬
pear fufficiently overturned in our article Miracle ;
where it is ffiown that neither clowns nor politicians
could have adled the part that was adfed by the apoftles,
had not the refurreftion been an undoubted fftdh
Some of the obje£Iors to it have alfo maintained, that
poffibly there is nothing material without us, that there
is nothing mental within us, and that poffibly the whole
world is ideas. This mode of arguing we pretend not to
explain ; it is thought by fome to proceed entirely from
a perverfenefs of mind or difpofition, while in books of
medicine it is always confidered as a fymptom of difeafe,
and the patient recommended to be treated in the hofpi-
tal, and not in the academy.
_ By his raifing others, and particularly by riling bim-
felf, from the dead, our Saviour demonftrated that a re-
furreftion from the dead is poffible. And on that au¬
thority, which by his miracles he proved to be divine,
he declared to his followers, that there is to be a gene¬
ral refurreftion both of the juft and of the unjuft, in-
ftru&ing his difciples to propagate this dodtrine through
all nations; St Paul confeffing, that if there be no re-
furredHon of the dead, preaching is vain, and our faith
is vain.
As to the order of fucceffion in which the dead are to
be raifed, the Scriptures are almofl: filent. St Paul fays,
that every man is to rife in his own order, and that the
dead in Chrift: are to rife firil : and St John oblerved in
his vifion, that the fouls of them which were beheaded
for the witnefs of Jefus, and for the word of God, and
which had not worlhipped the beaft, neither his image,
VOL. XVII. Part II.
[ 777 1
RES
neither had received his mark upon their foreheads, or Refurrec-
in their hands, lived and reigned with Chrifl: a thoufand
years ; but the reft: of the dead lived not again until the sj vnJ
thoufand years (y) were finilhed. ’ ^
A queltion that has much oftener agitated the minds With whit
of men is, with what fort of bodies are the dead to be bodies they
raifed ? St Paul has anfwered, with incorruptible andlna!'u^e’
immortal bodies (z). And to filence the difputatious
caviller of his day, he illuftrated his do&rine by the
growth of grain. “ Thou fool (faid he), that which thou
foweft, thou foweft not that body that lhall be, but bare
grain, it may chance of wheat or of fome other grain.”
To us it appears very furpriflng, that any one who reads
this paflage with the {lighted attention,' Ihould perplex
himfelf, or difturb the church with idle attempts to
prove the identity of the bodies with which we lhall die
and rife again at the lad day. The apoltle exprefsly af¬
firms, that “ fleffi and blood cannot inherit the kingdom
of God; that we lhall all be changed, in a moment, in
the twinkling of an eye, at the lad trump j that there
are celedial bodies and bodies terredrial ; and that the
glory of the celedial is one, and the glory of the terref-
trial another.”
That this implies a total change of qualities, will ad¬
mit of no difpute j but dill it has been confidered as an
article of the Chridian faith, that we are to rife with the
fame bodies in refpeift of fubdailce. What is meant by
the identity of fubdance, with qualities wholly different,
it is not very eafy to conceive. Perhaps the meaning
may be, that our incorruptible bodies lhall con fid of the
fame material particles with our mortal bodies, though
thefe particles will be differently arranged to produce
the different qualities. But as the particles of our pre-
fent bodies are condantly changing, and as difterent par- -
tides compofe the body at different times, a quedioh has
been put, With what fet of particles ffiall wc rife ? Here
a lingul'ar variety of opinions have been hdd. Some* * Leibnitz.
contend, that we ffiall rife with the original damina of
our bodies derived from our parents j fome are for rilino-
with jhat fet of particles which they had at birth ; fome
with the fet which they are to have at death; and fome
with the particles which remain after maceration in wa-
terf ; though, God knows, that if this maceration be f Hody.
continued long, thefe may arife with few or no particles
at all. Another query has given much alarm. What
if any of thefe particles Ihould enter a vegetable, compofe
its^ fruit, and be eaten by a man, woman, or a child ?
Will not a difpute, fimilar to that apprehended by the
Sadducees about the wife of the feven brothers, neceffarily
follow, whofe particles are they to be at the refurreftion >
Againd this confufion, they trud that the goodnefs and
wdidorn of heaven will take all the proper and neceffary
meafures; and they even venture to point out a way in
which that may be done. A foot deep of earth, they
obferve, in two or three of the counties of England, fup-
pofing each perfon to weigh on an average about feven
dones and a few pounds, would amply fupply with ma- *
5 ^ teriai
(y) Thefe thoufand years formed the happy fnillenium fo -often mentioned in the ancient fathers j and the learned
Burnet, in his Theory of the Earth, has endeavoured to prove, that a fimilar notion prevailed amono- the Jews
See Millenium.
(z) Our Saviour rofe with the fame body, both as to fubdance and qualities; becaufe it was neceffary that h»
perfon ftiould be known and identified after his re for reft fon*
RES [ 778 j RET
Refuirec- teriai bodies 600,000,000 of fouls for no lefs a fpace than
tion. 20,000 years ^ ^ and therefore there feeins to be no ne*
"TT" ceiWfor the vamPIns up of tlieir old materials to lodge
<’/yV Refur- and accommodate new fouls.
reclion of But, unluckily here, the queftion is not about the
the fume pofiibility of keeping the particles of different bodies
body affert- peparate 'ana aiftincl. The queftion is rather, What have
,d' the Scriptures determined on the fubjeft ? Now the
Scriptures fay, that the fpirit returns unto God who
gave it. And ihould it be aiked, in what place does he
referve it till the refurrection ? the Scriptures reply, in
the place of the dead j becauie the loul deicends into
the pit, is redeemed from the grave j and the fting of
death, the laft enemy that is to be deilroyed, fhall be
tajcen away when the trumpet of God fhall found : at
which time the dead that fteep in their graves (hall
awrake, fhall hear the voice, and {hall come forth.
There is not here fo much as a word concerning the
body j and therefore it was afked with what bodies
are the dead to be raifed ? To which it was anfwered,
the vile body is to be changed. The body which is, is
not the body which fhall be ^ for the incorruptible muff
put on incorruption, and that which is mortal, put on
immortality.
This curious difcovery of the fentiments of Scripture
we owe to a layman, the celebrated Locke j who, in
one of his controverfies with the bifhop ofWorcefter,
came to underhand what he knew not before, namely,
that nowhere have the Scriptures fpoken of the refur-
reftion of the fame bodyr in the fenfe in which it is ufu-
ally conceived. The refurreflion of the fame perfon is
indeed promifed ; and how that promife may be fulfilled,
notwithftanding the conftant change of the particles of
the body, has been fhown in another place. See Me¬
taphysics, Part III. Chap. iii.
The advocates, therefore, for the refurre&ion of the
mortal body, have again been obliged to betake them-
felves to the fhifts of reafoning. It is proper, fay they,
that the fame bodies which have been accomplices in
our vices and virtues, ftiould alfo fhare in our rewards
and puniihments. Now, granting they will, fhall one
fet of particles be bound for the crimes, or be entitled
to receive the rewards, of the animal fyftem, from its firft
commencement to its diiTolution ? or ihall every particle
rife up fucceflively, and receive its dividend of rewards
and punithmenls for the vices and virtues that belonged
to the fyftem during the time that they were in union
with I he fentient principle ? and is the hand that fell in
defending a father to be (as is fuppofed in fome of the
eaftern countries) rewarded in heaven ; while the other
that ftruck him when the fon became vicious, is difmiffed
into torments ?
Finding this hypothefis fupported by neither Scrip¬
ture nor reafon, they next appeal to the ancient fathers.
And they, it is confeffed, are for the refurre&ion of the
very fame flefh. But this notion is direttly contrary to
the Scriptures, which have faid, that flefh and blood are
52 not to inherit the kingdom of God.
State after But whatever be the bodies with which the dead are
the •-fur- jjg raifed at the general refurreftion, all mankind muft
rcftion. appear in judgment, and receive fentence according to
the deeds done in the body, without regard, fo far as we
know, to their aftions and conduft in the middle ftate.
After this fentence, the righteous are to enter into ee-
iefUal and eternal joys, and the wicked to fuffer the pu-
nifhments of hell. Thefe punifhments fome have fup- Refuneo
pofed to be everlafting j others think, that after fome tlon
temporary punifhment, the fouls of the w icked are to be
annihilated j and others imagine, that after doing pur- < - '
gatorial penance for a while in hell, they are to be again
received into favour 5 inclining to explain the denuncia¬
tions of the Almighty as a child would do the threaten-
ings of his mother, or a lover the affefted eludings of
his miftrefs.
RESUSCITATION, the fame with refurredlion and
revivification. See the preceding article and Reanima¬
tion.
The term refufcilation, however, is more particularly
ufed by chemifts for the reproducing a mixed body from
its afhes; an art to which many have pretended, as to
reproduce plants, &c. from their allies.
RETAIL, in Commerce, is the felling of goods in
fmall parcels, in oppofition to wholefale. See Com¬
merce.
RETAINER, a fervant who does not continually
dwell in the houfe of his mafter, but only attends upon
fpecial occafions.
RETAINING fee, the firft fee given to a ferjeant or
counfellor at lawq in order to make him fure, and pre¬
vent his pleading on the contrary fide.
RETALIATION, among civilians, the aft of re¬
turning like for like.
RETARDATION, in Phi/Jics, the aft of diminifh-
ing the velocity of a moving body. See Gunnery, Me¬
chanics, Pneumatics, and Projectiles.
RETE mirabile, in Anatomy, a fmall plexus or net¬
work of veifels in the brain, furrounding the pituitary
gland.
RETENTION is defined by Mr Locke to be, a fa¬
culty of the mind, whereby it keeps or retains thofe fim-
pie ideas it has once received, by fenfation or refieftion.
See Metaphysics, Part I. Chap. ii.
Retention is alfo ufed, in medicine, &c. for the ftate
of contraftion in the folids or vafcular parts of the body,
•which makes them hold faft their proper contents. In
this fenfe, retention is oppofed to evacuation and excre¬
tion.
RETICULA, or Reticule, in AJlronomy, a con¬
trivance for meafuring very nicely the quantity of eclip-
fes, &c. This inftrument, wdiich wTas introduced by
the Academy of Sciences at Paris, is a little frame
compofed of 13 fine filken threads, parallel to, and at
equal diftances from each other, placed in the focus of
objeft glaffes of telefcopes j that is, in the place where
the image of the luminary is painted in its full extent.
The diameter of the fun or moon is of confequence thus
feen divided into 12 equal parts or digits •, fo that, in
order to afeertain the quantity of the eclipfe, there is
nothing more to do than to number the parts that are
dark, or that are luminous.
As a fquare Reticule is only proper for the diameter
of the luminary, not for the circumference of it, it is
fometimes made circular, by drawing fix concentric,
equidiftant circles, which perfeftly reprefents the phafes
of the eclipfe.
But it is obvious that whether the Reticule be fquare
or circular, it ftiould be perfeftly equal to the diameter
or circumference of the fun or ftar, fuch as it appears in
the focus of the glafs j otherwife the divifion cannot
be juft. Another imperfeftion in the Reticule is, that
its
R E . T
[ 779 3
RET
Reticulum.
Reticula its magnitude is determined by that oi the image in the
focus, and of courfe it will only fit one particular mag*
But a remedy for thefe inconveniences has been found
out by M. de la Hire, who contrived that the fame Re¬
ticule may ferve for all telefcopes, and all magnitudes
of the luminary in the fame eclipfe. I wo objeft glaffes
applied againft each other, having a common focus, and
l.hefe forming an image of a certain magnitude, this
image will increafein proportion as the diftance between
the two glades is increafed, as far as to a certain limit.
If therefore a Reticule be taken of fuch a magnitude, as
juft to comprehend the greateft diameter the fun or moon
can ever have in the common focus of two objeft glailes
applied to each other, it is only neceffary to remove
them from each other, as the ftar comes to have a lels
diameter, to have the image ftill exactly comprehended
in the fame Reticule.
As the fifteen threads are apt to deviate from the pa-
rallelifm, &c. by the different temperature of the air,
anocher improvement is, to make the Reticule ot a thin
looking glafs, by drawing lines or circles upon it with
the fine point of a diamond. _
RETICULAR body (corpus retlculare), in Anato¬
my, a very fine membrane, perforated, in the manner oi
a net, with a multitude of foramina. It is placed im¬
mediately under the cuticle and when that R feparated
from the cutis, whether by art or accident, this adheres
firmly to it, and is fcarce poflible to be parted from
it, feeming ' rather to be its inner fuperficies than a
diftindt fubftance. In regard to this, we are to ob-
ferve, firft, the places in which it is found, being all
thofe in which the fenfe of feeling is moft acute, as in
the palms of the hands, the extremities of the fingers,
and on the foies of the feet. The tongue, however, is
the part where it is moft accurately to be obferved : it
is more eafily diftinguifliable there than anywhere elle,
and its nature and ftru&ure are moft evidently leen
there. ... • i
Its colour in the Europeans is wmte } but m the ne-
oroes and other black nations it is black •, in the tawny
ft is yellowifh : the {kin itfelf in both is white *, and the
blacknefs and yellownefs depend altogether on the colour
of this membrane.
The ufes of the corpus reticulare are to preierve the
ftrudture of the other parts of the integuments, and
keep.them in their determinate form and Situation. Its
apertures give paffage to the hairs and fweat through
the papilla; and excretory dufts of the {kin : it retains
thefe in a certain and determinate order, that they can¬
not be removed out of their places, and has fome
{hare in preferving the foftnefs of the papillae, which
renders them fit for the fenfe of feeling. See Anato¬
my, N° 83. ' ,
Reticulum, is a Latin word, figmfying a little or
catling net. It was applied by the Romans to a parti¬
cular mode of conftrufting their buildings. In the city
of Salino (fee Salino) are ftill to be feen remains of
fome walls, evidently of Roman origin from the reticu¬
lum. This ftrufture confifts of fmall pieces or baked
earth cut lozengewife, and difpofed with great regularity
on the angles, fo as to exhibit to the eye the appearance
of cut diamonds } and was called reticular, from its re-
femblance to fiftiing-nets. The Romans always con¬
cealed it under a regular coating of other matter ; and
Mr H'ouel informs us, that this was the only fpecimen
of it which he faw in all his travels through Sicily,
Malta, and Lipari. It appears to be the remains of
fome baths, which have been built for the convenience
of fea-bathing. r ^ ,
RETIMO, the ancient Rhitymma of Stephen the
geographer, and called by Ptolemy Rhitymna, is a fine
city, lying at one end of a rich and fertile plain, on the
north coaft of the ifland of Candia. It is but a fmall
place, containing fcarce 6000 inhabitants ; but it is a bi-
ihop’s fee, and the harbour is defended by a citadel,
where a baftiaw refides. It was taken by the Turks
in 1647, and has been in their hands ever fince. It is
about 45 miles from Candia. E. Long. 24. 45. N. Lat.
35. 22. ...
The citadel, which ftands on a rock jutting out into
the fea, would be fufficient for the defence of the city,
were it not fituated at the foot of an high hill, from
which it might be cannonaded with great advantage.
The harbour is now almoft filled with land, and is no
longer acceftible to {hipping •, nor do the 1 urks in any
meafure oppofe the ravages of time, but behold with a
carelefs eye the moft valuable works in a nate of rum.
The French had formerly a vice-conful at Retimo, to
which (hips ufed to repair for cargoes of oil; but they
have been long unable to get into the harbour : to re¬
pair which, however, and to revive the commerce of
Retimo, would be a moft ufeful attempt. The plains
around the city abound in a variety of produftions.
Great quantities of oil, cotton, laffron, and wax, are
produced here and they would be produced m fo
greater quantities if the inhabitants could export that*
commodities. The gardens of Retimo bear the bell
fruits in the bland; excellent pomegranates, almonds,
piftachio nuts, and oranges. The.apricot-tree, bearing
the michmich, the juice of which is fo delicious, and its
flavour fo exquifite, is found here. It is a kind o,
early peach, but fmaller and more juicy than thole ot
France.
RETINA, in Anatomy, the expanfion of the optic
nerves over the bottom of the eye, where the fenfe ot
Retinta
vifion is firft received. See Anatomy, N° 142. and
Optics (Index) at Eye and Vijion.
RETINUE, the attendants or followers of a prince
or perfon of quality, chiefly in a journe\.
RETIRADE, in fortification, a kind of retrench¬
ment made in the body of a baftion, or other work,
which is to be difputed, inch by inch, alter the defences __
are difmantled. It ufually confifts of two faces, winch
make a re-entering angle. When a breach is made in
a baftion, the enemy may alfo make a retirade or new ^
fortification behind it.
RETIREMENT, means a private way of life or a
fecret habitation. “ Few (fays an elegant writer) arep/- Kim
able to bear folitude; and though retirement is the of-
tenfible objeft.of the greater part, yet, when they are
enabled by fuccefs to retire, they feel themfelves un¬
happy. Peculiar powers and elegance of mind are ne¬
ceffary to enable us to draw all our refources from our-
felves. In a remote and folitary village the mind muft
be internally a&ive in a great degree, or b will be mi-
ferable for want of employment. But. in great and
populous cities, even while it is paffive, it will be con-
flantly amufed. It is impoflible to walk the. ftieets
without finding the attention powerfully folicited on
5 F 2 every
Ret
Retire¬
ment,
Retort.
every fide. No exertion is neceffary. Obje£b pour
themfelves into the fenfes, and it would be difficult to
prevent their admittance. But, in retirement, there
mult be a fpirit of philofophy and a ftore of learning,
or elfe the fancied feenes of blifs will vanifh like the co¬
lours of the rainbow. Poor Cowley might be laid to be
melancholy mad. He languifhed for folitude, and wifh-
ed to hide himfelf in the wilds of America. But, alas !
he was not able to fupport the folilude of a country vil¬
lage within a fewr miles of the metropolis!
“ With a virtuous and cheerful family, with a few
faithful and good-humoured friends, with a well-felefl-
ed collection ot elegant books, and with a competency,
one may enjoy comforts even in the deferted village,
which the city, with all its diverfions, cannot fupply.”
KEIORj , in Chemifinj, an oblong or globular vef-
fel of glafs or porcelain, with its neck, bent, proper for
diftillation.
^ In the fifth volume of the TranfaCtions of the Lon¬
don Society for the Encouragement of Arts, p. 96. we
find a paper containing a method for preventing done
retorts from breaking j or flopping them when'crack-
ed, during any chemical operation, without lofing any
of the contained fubjeft. “ I have always found it ne-
ceffary (fays the writer) to ufe a previous coating for
filling up the interftices of the earth or done, which is
made by diffolving trvo ounces of borax in a pint of
boiling water, and adding to the folution as much fia-
ked lime as will make it into a thin pade j this, with a
common painter’s brufh, may be fpread over feveral re¬
torts, which when dry are then ready for the proper
preferving coating. The intention of this fird coating
is, that the fubilances thus fpread over, readily vitrify¬
ing in the file, prevent any of the diddling matters from
pervading the retort, but do in nowife prevent it from
cracking.
“ Whenever I want to ufe any of the above coated
retorts ;. after I have charged them with the fubilance
to be^ diddled, I prepare a thin pade, made with com¬
mon linfeed oil and daked lime well mixed, and perfefl-
ly pladic, that it may be eafily fpread : with this let
the letorts be covered all over except that part of the
neck which is to be inferted into the receiver } this is
readily done with a painter’s brulh : the coating will
be fufficiently dry in a day or two, and they will then
be fit for ufe. With this coating I have for feveral
years worked my done retorts, without any danger of
their breaking, and have frequently ufed the fame re¬
tort four or five times j obferving particularly to coat
it over with the lafl: mentioned compofition every time
it is charged with fredi materials: Before I made ufe
of this expedient, it was an even chance, in conducing
operations in done and earthen retorts, whether they
did not crack every time j by which means great lots
has been fudained. If at any time during the opera¬
tion the retorts Ihould crack, fpread feme of the oil
compofition thick on the part, and fprinkle fome pow-,
er ol llaked lime on it, and it immediately dops the
tdlure, and prevents any of the didilling matter from
pervading • even that fubtile penetrating fubdance the
loud pholphorus will not penetrate through it. It may
be applied without any danger, even when the retort is
red hot j and when it is made a little differ, is more
proper for luting veffels than any other I ever have
tried; becayfe if properly mixed it will never crack
[ 780 ]
RET
nor will it indurate fo as to endanger the breaking the Retra&s
necks of the veffels when taken off.” ||
RETRACTS, among horfemen, pricks in a horfe’s. Rcturn-
feet, arifing from the fault of the farrier in driving nails ‘
that are weak, or in driving them ill-pointed, or other-
wife amifs.
RE I HEAT, in a military fenfe. An army or body
of men are faid to retreat wThen they turn their backs
upon the enemy, or are retiring from the ground they
occupied : hence every march in withdrawing from the
enemy is called a retreat.
I hat v/hich is done in fight of an adlive enemy, who
puriues with a fuperior force, is the mod important part
of the fubjeft ; and is, with reafon, looked upon as the
glory of the profedion. It is a manoeuvre the mod de¬
licate, and the prepared to difplay the prudence, genius,
couiage, and addrefs, of an officer w;ho commands:
the hidorians of all ages tedify it j and hidorians have
never been fo lavidi of eulogiums as on the fubjeft of
the brilliant retreats of our heroes. If it is important,
it is no lefs didicult to regulate, on account of the va¬
riety of circumdances, each of which demands different
principles, and an almod endlefs detail. Hence a good
retreat is edeemed, by experienced officers, the mader-
piece of a generaf. He fhould therefore be well ac¬
quainted with the fituation of the country through
which he intends to make it, and careful that nothing is
omitted to make it fafe and honourable. See War.
Retreat, is alfo a beat of the drum, at the firing
of the evening gun ; at w'hich the drum-major, writh all
the drums of the battalion, except fuch as are upon du¬
ty, beats from the camp-colours on the right to thofe
on the left, on the parade of encampment: the drums
of all the guards beat alfo; the trumpets at the fame
time founding at the head of their refpeaive troops.
This is to warn the foldiers to forbear firing, and the
centinels to challenge, till the break of day that the
reveille is beat. The retreat is likewife called/EW t.hc
watch.
RETRENCHMENT literally fignifies fomethin"
cut od or taken from a thing ; in W'hich ftnfe it is the
fame with iubtraftion, diminution, &c.
Retrenchment, in the art of w7ar, any kind of
work raifed to cover a pod, and fortify it againd the
enemy, fuch as fafeines loaded with earth, gambions,
barrels of earth, fand-bags, and generally all things that
can cover the men and bop the enemy. See Fortifi¬
cation and War.
RETRIBUTION, a handfome prefent, gratuity, or
acknowledgement, given indead of a formal falary or
hire, to perfons employed in affairs that do not fo imme¬
diately fall under edimation, nor within the ordinary
commerce in money.
REIROMINGENTS, in Natural Hi/lory, a clafs
or divifion of animals, whofe charaCleridic is, that they
dale or make vyater backwards, both male and fe¬
male.
RETURN (returna or retorna'), in Law, is ufed in
divers fenfes. 1. Return of writs by dieriffs and bailiffs
is a certificate made by them to the court, of what they
have done in relation to the execution of the writ di-
refted to them. This is wrote on the back of the writ
by the officer, who thus fends the writ back to the
court from whence it iffued, in order that it may be
filed. 2. Return of a commiffion, is a certificate or an-
fiver
Return,
Retufari.
Coxe's Tra¬
vels into
Jlvlfia.
RET [ 7
fwer Tent to the court from whence the commiffion iflues,
concerning what has been done by the commiffioners.
3. Returns, or days in bank, are certain days in each
term, appointed for the return of writs, &c. Thus Hil¬
lary term has four returns, viz. in the kingVbench, on
the day next after the oftave, or eighth day after Hil¬
lary day : on the day next after the fifteenth day from
St Hillary ; on the day after purification ; and on the
next after the o&ave of the purification. In the com¬
mon pleas, in eight days of St Hillary : from the day
of St Hillary, in fifteen days : on the day after the pu¬
rification : in eight days of the purification. Eafter
term has five returns, viz. in the kingVbench, on the
day next after the fifteenth day from Eailer : on the day
next after the three weeks from Eailer : on the day
next after one month from Eafter : on the day next af¬
ter five weeks from Eafter : and on the day next after
the day following afcenfion-day. In the common pleas,
in fifteen days from the feaft of Eafter : in three weeks
from the feaft of Eafter : in one month from Eafter
day : in five weeks from Eafter day : on the day after
the afcenfion-day. Trinity term has four returns, viz,
on the day following the fecond day after Trinity : on
the day following the eighth day after Trinity : on the
day next after the fifteenth day from Trinity : on the
day next after three weeks from Trinity. In the com¬
mon pleas, on the day after Trinity : in eight days of
Trinity : in fifteen days from Trinity : in three weeks
from Trinity. Michaelmas term has fix returns, viz.
on the day next after three weeks from St Michael : on
the day next after one month of St Michael : on the
day following the fecond day after All-fouls: on the
day next after the fecond day after St Martin : on the
day following the oftave of St Martin : on the day next
after fifteen days of St Martin. In the common pleas,
in three weeks from St Michael: in one month from
St Michael: on the day after All-fouls : on the day af¬
ter St Martin : on the oftave of St Martin : in fifteen
days from St Martin. It is to be obferved, that, as in
the king’s-bench, all returns are to be made on fome
particular day of the week in each term, care muft be
taken not to make the writs out of that court returnable
on a non-judicial day ; fuch as Sunday, and All-faints,
in Michaelmas term, the purification in Hillary, the af-
cenfion in Eafter, and Midfummer-day, except it fhould
fall on the firft day of Trinity term.
Returns, in a military fenfe, are of various forts,
but all tending to explain the ftate of the army, regi¬
ment, or company ; namely, how many capable of do¬
ing duty, on duty, fick in quarters, barracks, infirmary,
or hofpital; prifoners, abfent with or without leave j
total effeftive j wanting to complete the eftablilhment,
See.
RETUSARI, an ifland in Ruflia, is a long flip of
land, or rather fand, through the middle of which runs
a ridge of granite. It is 20 miles from Peterfburg by
water, four from the ftiore of Ingria, and nine from the
coaft of Carelia. It is about 10 miles in circumference,
and was overfpread with firs and pines when Peter firft
conquered it from the Swedes. It contains at prefent
about 30,000 inhabitants, including the failors and gar-
rifon, the former of whom amount to about 12,000,
the latter to 1500 men. The ifland affords a fmall
quantity of pafture, produces vegetables, and a few
81 ] REV
fruits, fuch as apples, currants, goofeberries, and ftraw-
berries, which thrive in this northern climate.
RETZ, Cardinal de. See Gondi.
RETZIA, a genus of plants belonging to the pent-
andria clafs, and to the 29th natural order, Campana-
cere. See Botany Index.
RETULINGEN, a handfome, free, and imperial
town of Germany, in the circle of Suabia, and duchy
of Wirtemberg \ feated in a plain on the river Efchez,
near the Neckar, adorned with handfome public build¬
ings, and has a well frequented college. E. Long. 9.
10. N. Lat. 48. 31.
REVE, Reeve, or Greve, the bailiff of a franchife,
or manor, thus called, efpecially in the weft of England.
Hence Ihire-reeve, ftieriff, port-greve, &c.
REVEILLE, a beat of drum about break of day,
to give notice that it is time for the foldiers to arife, and
that the fentries are to forbear challenging.
REVEL, a port town of Livonia, fituated at the
fouth entrance of the gulf of Finland, partly in a plain
and partly on a mountain 5 133 miles fouth-weft of Pe¬
terfburg, and 85 fouth ea ft of Abo. It is a place of
great trade, and holds two fairs yearly, which are vi-
fited by merchants from all countries, but particularly
by thofe of England and Holland. It is a ftrong and
a rich place, with a capital harbour. It is furrounded
with high walls and deep ditches, and defended by a
caftle and ftout baftions. It was confirmed to the
Swedes at the peace of Oliva, conquered by Peter the
Great in 1710, and ceded to Ruflia in 1721. The
conqueft of it was again attempted by the Swedes in
1790. The duke of Sudermania, with the Swedilh
fleet, attempted to carry the harbour 5 but after an ob-
ftinate engagement with the Ruflian fleet, he was obli¬
ged to give it up ) but it was but for a very fhort
while. He retired about 10 leagues from the harbour,
to'repair the damage his fleet had fuftained, and to pre¬
pare for a fecond attack before any relief could be af¬
forded to the Ruflian fleet. As foon as he had refitted,
he failed for the harbour, at a league diftant from
which the Ruflian fleet was difeovered, ready to difpute
with the Swedes the entrance. Upon a council being
held by the duke, it was refolved to attack the RuL
fians 5 and the fignals being given, the fleet bore down
for the attack, which was maintained for near fix hours
with the utmoft fury : at length the Swedes broke the
Ruflian line, which threw them into much confufion ;
when the Swedes, taking the advantage of the general
confufion into which the Ruffians were thrown, follow¬
ed them with their whole force into the harbour, where
the conflift and carnage were dreadful on both fides,
though the Swedes certainly had the worft of it j but at
the fame time their {kill and bravery are indifputable.
This valuable place was again confirmed to Ruflia by
the peace. The government of Revel or Efthonia is
one of the divifions of the Ruflian empire, containing
five diftrifts. 1. Revel, on the Baltic fea. 2. Baltic-
port, about 40 verfts weft ward from Revel. 3. Habfal,
or Hapfal, a maritime town. 4. Weiffenftein, on the
rivulet Saida, about 80 verfts from Revel. 5. Wefen-
berg, about 100 verfts from Revel, at about an equal
diftance from that town and Narva.
REVELATION, the aft of revealing, or making
a thing public that was before unknown j it is alfo ufed
for-:
REV r 782 1 REV
for the difcoveries made by God to his pTophets, and by
them to the world j and more particularly for the books
of the Old and New Teftament. See Bible, Chris¬
tianity, Miracle, Religion, and Theology.
The principal tefts of the truth of any revelation, are
the tendency of its praftical do&rines ; its confiftency
with itfelf, and with the known attributes of God ; and
fome fatisfa&ory evidence that it cannot have been de¬
rived from a human fource.
Before any man can receive a written book as a reve¬
lation from God, he mud be convinced that God exifts,
and that he is pofTeffed of almighty pow-er, infinite wif-
dom, and perfedl juftice. Now fliould a book teaching
abfurd or immoral doftrines (as many chapters of the
Koran do, and as all the traditionary fyftems of Pagan-
ifm did), pretend to be revealed by a God of w ildom
and judice, we may fafely rejedl its pretenfions without
farther examination than what is neceffary to fatisfy us
that we have not roifunderdood its doftrine. Should a
book claiming this high origin, enjoin in one part of it,
and forbid in another, the fame thing to be done under
the fame circumdances, we may rejedt it with contempt
and indignation ; becaufe a being of infinite wdfdom can
never a6t capricioufly or abfurdly. Still, however, as
it is impoflible for us to know how far the powers of
men may reach in the invedigation or difcovery of ufe-
ful truth, fome farther evidence is neceifary to prove a
doftrine of divine origin, than its mere confidency with
itfelf, and with the principles of morality ; and this evi¬
dence can be nothing but the power of working miracles
exhibited by him by-whom it was originally revealed.
In every revelation confirmed by this evidence, many
doftrines are to be looked for which human reafon can¬
not fully comprehend j and thefe are to be believed on
the tedimony of God, and differed to produce their prac¬
tical confequences. At this kind of belief the fiiallow
infidel may fmile contemptuoufiy 5 but it has place in
arts and fciences as vrell as in religion. Whoever avails
himfelf of the demondrations of Newton, Bernoulli, and
others, refpetting the refidance of fluids, and applies
their conclufions to the art of fliip-building, is as impli¬
cit a believer, if he underdand not the principles of
fluxions, as any Chridian ; and yet no man will fay that
his faith is not produclive of important practical confe¬
quences. He believes, however, in man, while the
Chridian believes in God ; and therefore he cannot pre¬
tend that his faith reds on a furer foundation.
Mr Locke, in laying dowm the difliinff provinces of
4,'eafon and faith, obferves, 1. That the fame truths may
be difcovered by revelation which are difcoverable to us
by. reafon. 2. Ihat no revelation can be admitted
againd the clear evidence of reafon. 3. That there are
many things of which we have but imperfect notions, or
none at all ; and others, of whofe pad, prefent, or future
cxiflence, by the natural ufe of our faculties we cannot
have the lead knowledge : and thefe, being beyond the
difcovery of our faculties, and above reafon, when re¬
vealed, become the proper objedl of our faith. He
i.hen adds, that our reafon is not injured or didurbed,
but aflided and improved, by new difcoveries of truth
coming from the fountain of knowledge. Whatever
God has revealed is certainly true ; but whether it be a
divine revelation or not, reafon mud judge, which can
never permit the mind to rejeff a greater evidence to
embrace what is lefs evident. There can be no evi-
3
dence that any traditional revelation is of divine origi¬
nal, in the words we receive it, and the fenfe we under-
dand it, fo clear and fo certain as that of the principles
of reafon : and, therefore, nothing that is con'rarv to
the clear and felf-evident didlates of reafon, has a right
to be urged or affented to as a matter of faith, wherein
reafon has nothing to do.
Revelation of St John. See Apocalypse.
REVELS, entertainments of dancing, mafking, act¬
ing comedies, farces, &c. anciently very frequent in the
inns of court and in noblemen’s houfes, but now much
difufed. '1 he officer who has the direftion of the revels
at court is called the MASTER of the Revels.
REVENGE, means the return of injury for injury,
and differs materially from that fudden refentment which
rifes in the mind immediately on being injured which,
fo far from being culpable when redrained within due
bounds, is abfolutely neceffary for felf-prefervation. Re¬
venge, on the contrary, is a cool and deliberate wicked-
nefs, and is often executed years after the offence was
given ; and the defire of it is generally the effedl of lit-
tlenefs, weaknefs, and vice; while, to do right, and to
differ wrong, is an argument of a great foul, that fcorns
to doop to fuggeded revenges.
Revenge is but a frailty incident
To craz’d and fickly minds ; the poor content
Of little fouls, unable to furmount
An injury, too weak to bear affront. Dryden.
Revenge is generally the concomitant of favage
minds, of minds implacable, and capable of the mod
horrid barbarities; unable to fet any limits to their dif-
pleafure, they can confine their anger within no bounds
of reafon.
Cruel revenge, which dill we find
H he weaked frailty of a feeble mind.
Degenerous paffion, and for man too bale,
It feats its empire in the favage race.
Juvenal.
The inditution of law prevents the execution of pri¬
vate revenge, and the growth of civilization fliows its
impropriety. Though in modern times a fpecies of re¬
venge is fan&ioned by what is called the law of honour,
which evades the law of the land indeed, but which is
equally mean and difgraceful as the other kinds, and is
of confequences equally baneful. See Anger, Duel¬
ling, and Resentment.
REVENUE, the annual income a perfon receives
from the rent of his lands, houfes, interefl of money in
the docks, &c.
Royal REVENUE, that which the Britifli conflitution
hath veded in the royal perfon, in order to fupport his
dignity and maintain his power; being a portion
which each fubjeff contributes of his property, in order
to fecure the remainder. This revenue is either ordi¬
nary or extraordinary.
I. The king’s ordinary revenue is fuch as has either
fubfided time out of mind in the crown ; or elfe has
been granted by parliament, by way of purchafe or ex¬
change for fuch of the king’s inherent hereditary reve¬
nues as -were found inconvenient to the fubjeiff In fay¬
ing that it has fubfided time out of mind in the crown, -
we do not mean that the king is at prefent in the aftual
poffeffiomof the whole of his revenue. Much (nay the
greafeA
REV
Revenue, greateft part) of it is at this day in the hands of fub-
je&s 5 to whom it has been granted out from time to
time by the kings of England : which has rendered the
crown in fome meafure dependent on the people for its
Blackji. ordinary fupport and fubliitence. So that we muft be
Comment, obliged t,0 recount, as part of the royal revenue, what
lords of manors and other fubjefts frequently look upon
to be their own abfolute rights $ becauie they and their
anceftors are and have been veiled in them for ages,
though in reality originally derived from the grants of
our ancient princes.
1. The firft of the king’s ordinary revenues, which
may be taken notice of, is of an ecclefialtical kind (as
ore alfo the th^ee fucceedmg ones), viz. the cuitody of
the temporalities of bifhops. See Temporalities.
2. The king is entitled to a CORODY, as the law calls
it, out of every bifliopric j that is, to lend one of his
chaplains to be maintained by the bilhop, or to have a
penlion allowed him till the bilhop promotes him to a
benefice. This is alfo in the nature of an acknowledge¬
ment to the king, as founder of the fee, fince he had
formerly the fame corody or penfion from every abbey
or priory of royal foundation. It is fuppofed to be now
fallen into total difufe } though Sir Matthew Hale fays,
that it is due of common right, and that no prelcription
■will difeharge it.
3. The king alfo is entitled to all the tithes arifing in
extraparochial places: though perhaps it may be doubted
how far this article, as well as the laft, can be properly
reckoned a part of the king’s own royal revenue 5 lince
a corody fupports only his chaplains, and thefe extrapa¬
rochial tithes are held under an implied trull that the
king will diftribute them for the good of the clergy in
general.
4. The next branch conlilfs in the firfbfruits and
tenths of all fpiritual preferments in the kingdom. See
Tenths.
5. The next branch of the king’s ordinary revenue
(which, as well as the fubfequent branches, is of a lay
or temporal nature) conlills in the rents and profits of
the demefne lands of the crown. Thefe demefne lands,
terra; dominicales regis, being either the (hare referved
to the crown at the original dillribution of landed pro¬
perty, or fuch as came to it afterwards by forfeitures or
other means, were anciently very large and extenfive;
comprifing divers manors, honours, and lordlhips; the
tenants of which had very peculiar privileges, when we
fpeak of the tenure in ancient demefne. At prefent they
are contracted within a very narrow compafs, having
been almolt entirely granted away to private fubjefts.
This has occafioned the parliament frequently to inter-
pofe } and particularly after King William III. had
greatly impoveriflred the crown, an aft paired, whereby
all future grants or leafes from the crown for any longer
term than 31 years or three lives, are declared to be void 5
except with regard to houfes, which may be granted for
30 years. And no reverfionary leafe can be made, fo
as to exceed, together with the eftate in being, the fame
term of three lives or 31 years ; that is, when there is a
fubfifling leafe, of which there are 20 years Hill to Come
the king cannot grant a future intereft, to commence
after the expiration of the former, for any longer term
than 11 years. The tenant mull alfo be made liable to
be punithed for committing walte j and the ufual rent
muft be referved, or, where there has ufually been no
REV
rent, one-third of the clear yearly value. The misfor- Rev
tune is, that this aft was made too late, after almoll
every valuable polTeflion of the crown had been granted
away for ever, or elfe upon very long leafes; but may
be of benefit to poilerity, when thole leafes come to ex¬
pire.
6. Hither might have been referred the advantages
which were ufed to arile to the king from the profits of
his military tenures, to which moll lands in the kingdom
were fubjeft, till the llatute 12 Car. II. c. 24. which in
great meafure abolilhed them all. Hither alfo might
have been referred the profitable prerogative of purvey¬
ance and pre-emption : which was a right enjoyed by the
crown of buying up provifions and other necefiaries, by
the intervention of the king’s purveyors, for the ufe of
his royal houfehold, at an apprailed valuation, inspreference
to all others, and even without confent of the owner:
and alfo of forcibly imprelTmg the carriages and horfes of
the fubjeft, to do the king’s bufinefs on the public roads,
in the conveyance of timber, baggage, and the like,
how-ever inconvenient to the proprietor, upon paying
him a fettled price. A prerogative which prevailed
pretty generally throughout Europe during the fcarcity
of gold and filver, and the high valuation of money con-
fequential thereupon. In thofe early times, the king’s
houfehold (as well as thofe of inferior lords) w7ere fup-
ported by fpecific renders of corn, and other viftuals,
from the tenants of the refpeftive demefnes $ and there
was alfo a continual market kept at the palace-gate to
furnilh viands for the royal ufe. And this anfwered
all purpofes, in thofe ages of fimplicity, fo long as the
king’s court continued in any certain place. But when
it removed from one part of the kingdom to another (as
wTas formerly very frequently done), it w-as found necef-
fary to fend purveyors beforehand, to get together a fuf-
ficient quantity of provifions and other necefl’aries for the
houfehold : and, left the unufual demand ftiould raife them
to an exorbitant price, the powers beforementioned were
veiled in thefe purveyors 5 who in procefs of time very
greatly abufed their authority, and became a great op-
preflion to the fubjeft, though of little advantage to the
crown 5 ready money in open market (when the royal
refidence w7as more permanent, and fpecie began to be
plenty) being found upon experience to be the bell pro-
veditor of any. Wherefore, by degrees, the powders of
purveyance have declined, in foreign countries as well
as our own : and particularly were abolilhed in Sweden
by Guftavus Adolphus, towards the beginning of the
laft century. And, with us in England, having fal¬
len into difufe during the fufpenfion of monarchy,.
King Charles, at his reftoration, confented, by the
fame ftatute, to refign entirely thofe branches of his
revenue and power : and the parliament, in part of re-.,
compenfe, fettled on him, his heirs, and fucceflbrs, for
ever, the hereditary excife of 13d. per barrel on all beer
and ale fold in the kingdom, and a proportionable fum
for certain other liquors. So that this hereditary excife
now forms the fixth branch of his majefty’s ordinary re¬
venue.
'y. A feventh branch might alfo be computed to have
arilen from wine-licences ; or the rents payable to the
crown by fuch perfons as are licenfed to fell wine by re¬
tail throughout Britain, except in a few privileged
places. Thefe were firll fettled on the crown by the
ftatute 12 Car. II. c. 25. and, together with the here-
[ 783 1
Revenue.
REV ' T 7^4
dxtary excife, made up the equivalent in value for the
lofs fuftained by the prerogative in the abolition of the
military tenures, and the right of pre-emption and pur¬
veyance : but this revenue was aboliflied by the Hatute
30 Geo. II. c. 19. and an annual fum of upwards of
7000I. per annum, ifluing out of the new ftamp duties
impofed on wine-liccnces, was fettled on the crown in
its head.
8. An eighth branch of the king’s ordinary revenue is
tifually reckoned to confift in the profits arifing from his
forefts. See Forest. Thefe confift principally in the
amercements or fines levied for offences againfl the foreft-
laws. But as few, if any, courts of this kind for levying
amercements have been held fince 1632, 8 Char. I. and
as, from the accounts given of the proceedings in that
court by our hiftories and law-books, nobody would wifh
to fee them again revived, it is needlefsto purfue this in¬
quiry any farther
9. The profits arifing from the king’s ordinary courts
of juftice make a ninth branch of his revenue. And
thefe confift not only in fines impofed upon offenders,
forfeitures of recognizances, and amercements levied
upon defaulters $ but alfo in certain fees due to the
crown in a variety of legal matters, as, for fetting the
great feal to charters, original writs, and other forenfic
proceedings, and for permitting fines to be levied of
lands in order to bar entails, or otherwife to infure
their title. . As none of thele can be done without the
immediate intervention of the king, by himfelf or his
officers, the law allows him certain perquifites and pro¬
fits, as a recompenfe for the ti'ouble he undertakes for
the public. "1 hefe, in procefs of time, have been al-
moft all granted out to private perfons, or elfe appro¬
priated to certain particular ufes : fo that, though our
law proceedings are ftill loaded with their payment,
T’ery little of them is now returned into the king’s
exchequer 5 for a part of whole royal maintenance
they were originally intended. All future grants of
them, however, by the ftatute 1 Ann. flat. 2. c. 7. are
to endure for no longer time than the prince’s life who
grants them.
^10. A tenth branch of the king’s ordinary revenue
laid to be grounded on the confideration of his guard¬
ing and protecting the feas from pirates and robbers,
is the right to royaljijh, which are whale and fturgeon :
and thele, when either thrown afhore, or caught near
the coafts, are the property of the king, 011 account of
their fupeiior excellence. Indeed, our anceftors feem
to have entertained a very high notion of the importance
of this right; it being the prerogative of the kings of
Denmark and the dukes of Normandy; and from one
Oi. thefe it was probably derived to our princes.
xi. Another maritime revenue, and founded partly
upon the fame reafon, is that of shipwrecks. See
Wreck.
12. A twelfth branch of the royal revenue, the right
fo mines, has its original from the king’s prerogative
of coinage, in order to fupply him with materials; and
ineiefore thofe mines which are properly royal, and to
which the king is entitled when found, are only thofe of
filver and gold. See Mike.
13. To the fame original may in part be referred the
revenue of treafure-trove. See TREASURE-Trove.
14. Waifs. See Waif.
15. Eftrays. See Estray.
4
] REV
Befides the particular reafons, given in the different
articles, why the king fhould have the feveral revenues 1
of royal fifh, fhipwrecks, treafure-trove, waifs, and eftrays,
there is alfo one general reafon which holds for them
all 5 and that is, becaufe they are bona vacantia, or
goods in which no one elfe can claim a property. And,
therefore, by the law of nature, they belonged to the
firft occupant or finder j and lo continued under the im¬
perial law. But in fettling the modern conftitutions of
moft of the governments in Europe, it was thought pro¬
per (to prevent that ftrife and contention which the
mere title of occupancy is apt to create and continue,
and to provide for the fupport of public authority in a
manner the leaft burdenfome to individuals) that thefe
rights fhould be annexed to the fupremtf power by the
pofitive laws of the ftate. And fo it came to pafs, thatr
as Bratton expreffes it, “ haec, quae nullius in bonis funt,
“ et olim fuerunt inventoris de jure naturali, jam effici-
“ untur principis de jure gentium.”
16. The next branch of the king’s ordinary revenue
confifts in forfeitures of lands and goods for offences >
bona coiififcata, as they are called by the civilians, be¬
caufe they belonged to the Jifcus or imperial treafury ;
or, as our lawyers term them, foris fatta, that is, fuch
whereof the property is gone away or departed from the
owner. The true reafon and only fubftantial ground
of any forfeiture for crimes, confift in this 5 that all pro¬
perty is derived from fociety, being one of thofe civil
rights which are conferred upon individuals, in exchange
for that degree of natural freedom which every man
muft facrifice when he enters into focial communities.
If, therefore, a member of any national community vio¬
lates the fundamental contratt of his affociation, by
tranfgrefling the municipal law, he forfeits his right to
fuch privileges as he claims by that contratt; and the
ftate may very juftly refume that portion of property,
or any part of it, which the laws have before afligned
Hence, in every offence of an atrocious kind, the
Revenue.
laws of England have exatted a total confifcation of the
moveables or perfonal eftate •, and, in many cafes, a per¬
petual, in others only a temporary, lofs of the offender’s
immoveables or landed property ; and have veiled them
both in the king, who is the perfon fuppofed to be of¬
fended, being the one vifible magiftrate in whom the
majefty of the public refides. See Forfeiture and
Deodand.
47. Another branch of the king’s ordinary revenue
arifes from efeheats of lands, which happen upon the
defett of heirs to fucceed to the inheritance ; whereupon
they in general revert to and veil in the king, who is
efteemed, in the eye of the law, the original proprietor
of all lands in the kingdom.
18. The laft branch of the king’s ordinary revenue,
confifts in the cuftody of idiots, from whence we ftiall
be naturally led to confider alfo the cuftody of lunatics.
See Idiot and Lunatic.
This may fuffice for a lliort view of the king’s ott/z-
nary revenue, or the proper patrimony of the crown ;
which was very large formerly, and capable of being
increrfed to a magnitude truly formidable : for theie
are very few eftates in the kingdom that have not, at
fome period or other fince the Norman conqueft, been
veiled in the hands of the king, by forfeiture, efeheat,
or otherwife. But, fortunately for the liberty of the
fubjett, this hereditary landed revenue, by a feries of
improvident
REV [ '
Rrvenue improvident management, is funk almofl. to nothing •,
and the cafual profits, arifing from the other branches
of the cenfus regaiis, are like wile almoft all of them
alienated from the crown. In order to fupply the de¬
ficiencies of which, we are now obliged to have recourfe
to new methods of railing money, unknown to our early
anceftors ; which methods confiitute,
II. The king’s extraordinary revenue. For, the pub¬
lic patrimony being got into the hands of private iub-
iedls, it is but realunable that private contributions
thould fupply the public fervice. Which, though it
may perhaps fall harder upon fome individuals, whole
anceftors have had no (hare in the general plunder,
than upon others, yet, taking the nation throughout, it
amounts to nearly the fame \ provided the gain by the
extraordinary fhould appear t@ be no greater than the
lofs by the ordinary revenue. And perhaps, if every
gentleman in the kingdom was to be ftripped of fuch of
his lands as were formerly the property of the crown 5
was to be again fubjedt to the inconveniences of pur-
vevance and pre-emption, the oppreffion of foreft-laws,
and the flavery of feodal-tenures •, and was to refign in¬
to the king’s hands all his royal franchifes of waits,
wrecks, etlrays, treafure-trove, mines, deodands, forfei¬
tures, and the like ; he would find himfelf a greater
lofer than by paying his quota to fuch taxes as are ne-
ceflary to the fupport of government. The thing, there¬
fore, to be wiihed and aimed at in a land of liberty, is
by no means the total abolition of taxes, which would
draw after it very pernicious confequences, and the very
fupppfition of which is the height of political abfurdity.
For as the true idea of government and magiftracy will
be found to confift in this, that fome few men are de¬
puted by many others to prefide over public affairs, fo
that individuals may the better be enabled to attend
their private concerns; it is neceffary that thofe indivi¬
duals (liould be bound to contribute a portion of their
private gains, in order to fupport that government, and
reward that magiftracy, which protefts them in the. en-
iovment of their refpe&ive properties. But the things
to be aimed at are wifdom and moderation, not only in
granting, but alfo in the method of raifing, the neceffary
fupplies by contriving to do both in fuch a manner as
may be moft conducive to the national welfare, and at
the fame time moft confiftent with economy and the li¬
berty of the fubjeft •, who, when properly taxed, contri¬
butes only, as was before obferved, fome part of his pro¬
perty in order to enjoy the reft.
Thefe extraordinary grants are ufually called by the
fynonymous names of a ids, JubJidies, and fupphes y and
are granted by the commons of Great Britain, in par¬
liament affembled. See Parliament and Tax.
The clear nett produce of the feveral branches of
the revenue, after all charges of colledling and ma¬
nagement paid, amounted in the yeai 1706 to about
I 5,397,0001. fterling, while the expenditure was found
to be about 14,477,000!. How thefe immenfe films are
appropriated, is next to be confidered. . And this is, firft
and principally, to the payment of the intereft of the na¬
tional debt. See NATIONAL Debt and Funds.
The refpe&ive produces of the feveral taxes were ori¬
ginally feparate and diftinft funds ; being fecurities^ for
the firms advanced on each feveral tax, and for them
only. But at laft it became neceffary, in order to avoid
confufion, as they multiplied yearly, to reduce the num-
Vol. XVII. Part II.
85 ] ll E V
ber of thefe feparate funds, by uniting and blending Revenue,
them together ; luperadding the faith of parliament for L“"‘"V •
the general fecurity of the whole. So that there are
now only three capital funds of any account, the aggre-,
gate fund, and the general fund, fo called from iuch
union and addition •, and the South-fea fund, being the
produce of the taxes appropriated to pay the intereft of
fuch part of the national debt as was advanced by that
company and its annuitants. Whereby the feparate
funds, which were thus united, are become mutual fe-
curities for each other ; and the whole produce of them,
thus aggregated, liable to pay fuch intereft or annuities
as were formerly charged upon each diftrndl fund : the
faith of the legiftature being moreover engaged to fup¬
ply any cafual deficiencies.
The cuftoms, excifes, and other taxes, which are to
fupport thefe funds, depending on contingencies, upon
exports, imports, and confumptions, mutt neceffarily
be of a very uncertain amount 5 but they have always
been confiderably more than w’as fufficient to anfwcr the
charge upon them. The furpluffes, therefore, of the
three great national funds, the aggregate, general, and
South-fea funds, over and above the intereft and an¬
nuities charged upon them, are directed by ftatule
3 Geo. I. c. 7. to be carried together, and to attend
the difpofition of parliament ; and are ufually denomi¬
nated \hc finking fund, becaufe originally deftined to fink
and lower the national debt. To this have been fince
added many other entire duties, granted in fubfequent
years ; and the annual intereft of the fums borrowed on
their relpeftive credits is charged on, and payable out
of, the produce of the finking fund. However, the nett
furpluffes and favings, after all deduflions paid, amount
annually to a very confiderable fum. For as the in¬
tereft on the national debt has been at feveral times re¬
duced (by the confent of the proprietors, who had their
option either to lower their intereft or be paid their
principal), the favings from the appropriated revenues
muft needs be extremely large.
But, before any part of the aggregate fund (the fur¬
pluffes whereof are one of the chief ingredients that
form the finking fund) can be applied to diminifli the
principal of the public debt, it Hands mortgaged by
parliament to raife an annual fum for the maintenance
of the king’s houfehold and the civil lift. For this pur-
pofe, in the late reigns, the produce of certain branches
of the excife and cuftoms, the poft-office, the duty on
wine-licences, the revenues of the remaining crown-
lands, the profits arifing from courts of juftice, (which
articles include all the hereditary revenues of the crown),
and alfo a clear annuity of 1 20,0001. in money, were
fettled on the king for life, for the fupport of his ma-
jefty’s houfehold, and the honour and dignity of the
crown. And, as the amount of thefe feveral branches
was uncertain, (though in the laft reign they were com¬
puted to have fometimes raifed almoft a million), if they
did not rife annually to 800,0001. the parliament en¬
gaged to make up the deficiency. But his prefent ma-
jefty having, foon after his acceftion, fpontaneoufly fig-
nified his confent that his own hereditary revenues might
be fo difpofed of as might beft conduce to the utility
and fatisfaftion of the public, and having gracioufly ac¬
cepted a limited fum, the faid hereditary and other re¬
venues are now carried into, and made a part of, the ag¬
gregate fund } and the aggregate fund is charged with
5 the
Revenue.
REV [ ?86 ] REV
the payment 01 the whole annuity to the crown. The
limited annuity accepted by his prelent majeity was at firft
8oo,oool. but it has been fince augmented to 900,000!.
The expences themfelves, being put under the lame care
and management as the other branches of the public
patrimony, produce more, and are better collected than
heretofore ; and the public is a gainer of upwards of
ioo,oool. per annum by this dilinterefled bounty of his
ma jelly.
The finking fund, though long talked of as the lall
refource of the nation, proved very inadequate to the
purpofe for which it was eltablilhed. Minifters found
pretences for diverting it into other channels ; and the
diminution of the national debt proceeded floyvly during
the intervals of peace, whilft each fucceeding war in-
creafed it with great tapidity. To remedy this evil,
and reitore the public credit, to which the late war had
given a confiderable (hock, Mr Pitt conceived a plan for
diminilhing the debt by a fund, which fhould be render¬
ed unalienable to any other purpofe. In the leffion 1786,
he moved that the annual furplus of the revenue above
the expenditure Ihould be railed, by additional taxes,
from 900,000k to one million ilerling, and that certain
commillioners Ihould be veiled wbth the full power of
difpoling of this fum in the purchafe of dock (fee Funds),
for the public, in their own names. Thefe commiflioners
Ihould receive the annual million by quarterly payments
of 250,000k to be iffued out of the exchequer before
any other money, except the intereft of the national
debt itfelf; by thefe provifions, the fund wmuld be fe-
cured, and no deficiencies in the national revenues could
affecl it, but fuch mud be feparately provided for by
parliament.
The accumulated compound intered on a million
yearly, together with the annuities that would fall into
that fund, would, he faid, in 28 years amount to fuch a
fum as would leave a furplus of four millions annually,
to be applied, if neceflary, to the exigencies of the date.
In appointing the'commiflioners, he ftiould, he faid, en¬
deavour to choofe perfons of fuch weight and charatter
as correfponded with the importance of the commiflion
they were to execute. The fpeaker of the houfe of
commons, the chancellor of the exchequer, the mafler
of the rolls, the governor and deputy governor of the
bank of England, and the accountant-general of the
high court of chancery, were perfons who, from their
feveral fituations, he fliould think highly proper to be
of the number.
To the principle of this bill no objeftion was made,
though feveral fpecious but ill-founded ones were urged
againfl the fufficiency of the mode which the chancellor
of the exchequer had adopted for the accomplifliment
of fo great and fo defirable an end. He had made it
a claufe in his bill, that the accumulating million Ihould
never be applied but to the purchafe of flock. To this
claufe Mr Fox objefted, and moved that the commif-
fioners therein named flrould be impowered to accept fo
much of any future loan as they ihould have cafh be-
longing to the public to pay for. This, he faid, would
relieve that diflrefs the country would otherwife be un¬
der, when, on account of a war, it might be neceffary
to raife a new loan : whenever that Aiould be the cafe,
his opinion wras, that the minifler fhould not only raife
taxes fufHciently produdlive to pay the intereft of the
loan, but alfo fufficient to make good to tne finking Revenue-
fund whatfoever had been taken from it. II .
If, therefore, for inflance, at any future period a loan , evcl *
of fix millions was propofed, and there was at that time v
one million in the hands of the commiflioners, in fuch
cafe they fliould take a million of the loan, and the bo¬
nus or douceur thereupon fliould be received by them
for the public. Thus government would only have five
millions to borrow of fix j and from fuch a mode of pro¬
ceeding, he laid, it was evident great benefit would arife
to the public.
This claufe was received by Mr Pitt with the ftrong-
efl marks of approbation, as was likewife another, mov¬
ed by Mr Pulteney, enabling the commiflioners named
in the bill to continue purchafing flock for the public
when it is above par, unlefs otherwife diredted by par¬
liament. With thefe additional claufes the bill was read
a third time on the 15 th of May, and carried up to the
Lords, where it alfo paffed without meeting with any
material oppofition, and afterwards received the royal
affent.
The operation of this bill furpafled perhaps the mi-
nifler’s moft fanguine expedfation. The fund was ably
managed, and judicioufly applied 5 and in 1793 the
commiflioners had extinguilhed fome millions of the
public debt. The war, however, in which the nation
was that year involved, and which continued for eight
years after that period, made it neceffary to borrow ad¬
ditional firms, fo large, that many years of peace muft
elapfe before the operation of the fund can contribute
feniibly to the relief of the people.
The clear produce of the taxes raifed on the people
of this country was, in the year 1792, very near
17,000,000k j and in the year ending 5th Jan. 1806, it
amounted to the enormous fum of 48,890,896k
Revenue, in hunting, a fleflry lump formed chiefly
by a clufter of w-hitilh worms on the head of the deer,
fuppofed to occafion the calling of their horns by gnawT-
ing them at the root.
REVERBERATION, in Physics, the adl of a body
repelling or refledting another after its impinging there¬
on.
Reverberation, in Chemiftry, denotes a kind of
circulation of the flame by means of a reverberatory
furnace.
REVERBERATORY, or Reverberating Fur¬
nace. See Furnace.
REVEREND, a title of refpedt given to eccle-
fiaftics.—The religious abroad are called reverend fa¬
thers, and abbeffes, prioreffes, &c. reverend mothers. In
England, bifhops are right reverend, and archbilhops
mof reverend. In France, before the Revolution, their
biihops, archbifliops, and abbots, -were all alike tnojl re¬
verend. In Scotland, the clergy individually are reve¬
rend, a fynod is very reverend, and the general affembly
is venerable.
REVERIE, the fame with delirium, raving, or
diftradlion. It is ufed alfo for any ridiculous, extra¬
vagant imagination, adlion, or propofition, a chimera, or
vifion. But the moft ordinary ufe of the word among
Englifh writers, is for a deep diforderly mufing or me¬
ditation.
REVERSAL of Judgement, in Lava. A judge¬
ment may be falflfied, reverfed, or voided, in the firft
place.
REV
[ 7S7 1
R E V
Reverfal. place, Without a writ of error, for matters foreign to or
^ v 1 dehor* the record, that is, not apparent upon the face ot
it • fo that they cannot be affigned for error in the iu-
perior court, which can only judge from what appears
in the record itfelf; and therefore, if the whole record
be not certified, or not truly certified, by the inferior
court, the party injured thereby (in both civil and cri¬
minal cafes) may allege a diminution of the record, and
caufe it to be reftified. Thus, if any judgement what¬
ever be given by perfons who had no good comminjon
to proceed againft the perfon condemned, it is void ;
and may be falfified by (hewing the fpecial matter, with¬
out writ of error. As, where a commiflion iffues to A
and B, and twelve others, or any two of them, of which
A or B (hall be one, to take and try indiftments ; and
any of the other twelve proceed without the mterpofi-
tion or prefence of either A or B : in this cafe all pro¬
ceedings, trials, conviftions, and judgements, are void
for want of a proper authority in the commiflioners, and
may be falfified upon bare infpeaion, without the trouble
of a writ of error ; it being a high mifdemeanour m the
judges fo proceeding, and little (if any thing) (hort of
murder in them all, in cafe the perfon fo attainted be
executed and fuffer death. So likewife if a man pur-
chafes land of another 5. and afterwards the vender is,
either by outlawry, or his own confeflion, convicted and
attainted of treafon or felony previous to the fale or alie¬
nation •, whereby fuch land becomes liable to forfeiture
or efcheat: now, upon any trial, the purchafer is at li¬
berty, without bringing any writ of error, to falfify not
only the time of the felony or treafon.fuppofed, but the
very point of the felony or treafon itfelf j and is not
concluded by the confeflion or the outlawry of the ven¬
der though the vender himfelf is concluded, and not
fuffered now to deny the faft, which he has by confef¬
lion or flight acknowledged. But if fuch attain¬
der of the vender was by verdift, on the oath of his
peers, the alienee cannot be received to falfify or
contradift the faB of the crime committed ) though
he is at liberty to prove a miftake in time, or that
the offence was committed after the alienation, and not
before.
mon right, and ex dehito jujlhiae. But writs of errot to
reverfe attainders in capital cafes are only allowed ex Reverfion.
gratia; and not without exprefs warrant under ^'e   ^——
king’s fign-manual, or at lead by the confent of the
attorney-general. Thefe therefore can rarely be brought
by the party himfelf, efpecially where he is attainted >^r
an offence againft the date : but they may be brought
by his heir or executor after his death, in more favour¬
able times} which may be fame confolation to his f a¬
mily. But the eafier and more effeftual way is, _
Laftly, to reverfe the attainder by aft of parliament*
This may be and hath been frequently done upon mo¬
tives of compaflion, or perhaps the zeal of the times, a -
ter a hidden revolution in the government, without ex¬
amining too clofely into the truth or validity of the er¬
rors afligned. And fometimes, though the crime be
univerfally acknowledged and confeffed, yet the merits
of the criminal’s family (hall after his death obtain a re-
ftitution in blood, honours, and eftate, or fome or one
of them, by aft of parliament j which (fo far as it ex¬
tends) has all the effeft of reverfmg the attainder, with¬
out calling any refleftions upon the juftice of the pre¬
ceding fentence. See Attainder.
The effeft of falfifying or reverfing an outlawry is,
that the party (hall be in the fame plight as if he had
appeared upon the capias : and, if it be before plea
pleaded, he (hall be put to plead to the mdiftment j it,
after conviftion, he fhall receive the fentence of the law j
for all the other proceedings, except only the procefs of
outlawry for his non-appearance, remain good and et-
feftual as before. But when judgement, pronounced
upon conviftion, is falfified or reverfed, all former pro¬
ceedings are abfolutely fet afide, and the party ftands
as if he had never been at all accufed ; reftored m his
credit, his capacity, his blood, and his eftates : with
regard to which laft, though they be granted away by
the crown, yet the owner may enter upon the grantee,
with as little ceremony as he might enter upon a dinei-
for —But he (till remains liable to another profecution
for the fame offence : for, the firft being erroneous, he
never was in jeopardy thereby. , 1 r
REVERSE of a medal, coin, &c. denotes the. ie-
Secondly, a judgement may be reverfed, ty writ of cond or back fide, in oppofition to the head or principal
error which lies from all inferior criminal junfdiftions figure. - — - *
to the court of king’s-bench, and from the king’s-bench
to the houfe of peers j and may be brought for notori¬
ous miftakes in the judgement or other parts of the
record : as where a man is found guilty of perjury,
and receives the judgement of felony,.or for other lefs
palpable errors *, fuch as any irregularity, omiflion, or
want of form in the procefs of outlawry, or proclama¬
tions ; the want of a proper addition, to the defendant’s
name, according to the ftatute of additions j for not pio-
perly naming the Iherift' or other officer of the court,
nr not duly defcribing where, his county-court was held :
for laying an offence, committed in the time of the late
king, to be done againft the peace of the prefent j and
for many other fimilar caufes, which (though allowed
out of tendernefs to life and liberty) are not much to
the credit or advancement of the national juftice.—
Thefe writs of error, to reverfe judgements in cafe of
mifdemeanours, are not to be allowed of courfe, but on
fufficient probable caufe ffiown to the attorney general;
and then they are underftood to be grantable of eom-
REVERSION, in Scots Law. See Law, N° clxix.
I —2 • •
Reversion, in the law of England, has two fignifi-
cations •, the one of which is an eftate left, which con¬
tinues during a particular eftate in being ; and the.other
is the returning of the land, &c. after the particular
eftate is ended 5 and it is further faid to be an intereft m
lands, when the poffeffion of it fails, or where the eftate
which was for a time parted with, returns to the grant-
ers, or their heirs. But, according to the ufual defini¬
tion of a reverfion, it is the refidue of an eftate left m
the granter, after a particular eftate granted away ceafes,
continuing in the granter of fuch an eftate.
The difference between a remainder and a reverfion
confifts in this, that the remainder may belong to any
man except the granter *, whereas the reverfion returns
to him who conveyed the lands, &c.
In order to render the doftnne of reverfions eafy, we
(hall give the following table 5 which (hows the pre.ent
value of one pound, to be received at the end of any
G 2 number
REV [
Reverfion.^ number of years not exceeding 40 } difcouniing at the
rate of 5, 4, and 3 per cent, compound intereft.
Value at
5 Per ct.
•9524
.9070
.8638
.8227
•7835
Value at
4perct
.9615
•9245
.8898
.8548
.8219
.7462
•7io7
.6768
.6446
10 6139
16
•5847
•5568
■5303
•5051
.4810
■4581
•4363
A15 5
•3957
•3769
•3589
.3418
•3255
■3100
•2953
•-79°3
•7599
•73°7
.7026
.6756
.6496
.6246
.6006
•5775
•5553
Value at
3 per ct
.9709
.9426
9r5I
.8885
.8626
•8375
.8131
.7894
.7664
.7441
•5339
■5I34
.4936
.4746
4564
4388
4219
4°57
39°i
3757
.2812
.2678
•255I
.4229
.2314
.2204
•2099
.1999
.1903
.1813
.1726
.1644
.1566
•I49T
.1420
.3607
.3468
•3335
.3206
■3003
.2965
.2851
.2741
.2636
■2534
■2437
•2343
•2253
.2166
.2083
•7224
•7OI4
.6809
.6611
.6419
.6232
.6050
•5874
•5703
•5537
•5375
•5219
•5o67
.4919
.4776
•4637
•4502
•43 71
■4243
.4120
.4000
.3883
•3773
.3660
•3554
•345°
•3350
.3252
.3066
The ufe of the preceding table.—To find the prefent
value of any fum to be received at the end of a given
term of years, difcounting at the rate of 3, 4, or 3 per
cent, compound intereft. Find by the above table the
prefent value of il. to be received at the end of the
given term ; which multiply by the number of pounds
propofed, (cutting off four figures from the produft on
account of the decimals), then the refult will be the va¬
lue fought: For example, the prefent value of 10,cool.
88 ] II E V
to be received 10 years hence, and the rate of intereft fU’werfion,
5 per cent, is equal to .6139 X 10,000 — 6139.0000!. Rtvlv‘h!-a-
or 6139I. Again, the prelent value of 10,cool, due, t'1!‘ ^
in ten years, the rate of intereft being 3 per cent, is
.7441X10,000=7441.
REVERSION of Series, in Algebra, a kind of reverfed
opernrion of an infinite feries. bee Skries.
REVETEMENT, in Fortification, a ftrong wall
built on the outfide of the rampart and parapet to fup-
port the earth, and prevent its rolling into the ditch.
REVIVIFICATION, in Chemi/lry, a term general¬
ly applied to the diftillation of quickfilver from cinna¬
bar.
Revivification, in Physiology, the recalling of ani¬
mals apparently dead, to life. There are many kinds of
infedts which may be revivified, after all the powers of
animation have been fuipended for a confiderable time.
Common flies, fmall beetles, fpiders, moths, bugs, &c.
after being drowned in fpirit of nine, and continuing
apparently dead for upwards of 15 minutes, have been
reftored to life merely by being thrown among wood-
aihes llightly warm.
While Dr Franklin was in France, he received a
quantity of Madeira wine from America, which had
been bottled in Virginia. Fie fyund a few dead flies in
feme of the bottles, which he expofed to the fun in the
month of July ; and in lefs than three hours thefe feem-
ingly dead animals recovered life which had been 1<>
long fufpended. At firft they appeared as if ccnvuHed j
they then raifed themfelves on their legs, wafhed their
eyes with their fore feet, dreffed their wings with thofq
behind, and in a ihort time began to fly about.
But the moft remarkable in dance of revivification we
have heard of, is the following. In the warmer parts
of France there is an infeft very pernicious to the rye,
apparently beginning its operations at the root of the
plant, and gradually proceeding towards the ear. If
the plant be thoroughly dried while the infecl is in the
root or ftem, the animal is irrecoverably killed ; but af¬
ter it has reached the grain, the cafe is very different.
There have been inftances of thefe infefts being brought
to life in 15 minutes, by a little warm water, after the
grains, in which they were lodged, had been kept dry
for 30 years.
What is the metaphyfleian to think of thefe pheno¬
mena, or what conclufion is he to draw from them ic-
fpedfing the mind ? If he be a fober man he will draw
no conclufion, for this reafon, that he knows nothing of
the fentient principle of infers, or of any animal but
man. He is confcious that it is the fame individual be¬
ing which in himfelf, thinks, and wills, and feels ; he
knows that part of his thought is not in one place, and
part of it in another •, and therefore he concludes that
this thinking being is not matter, while experience
teaches him that it quits the material fyftem, when that
becomes unfit to difeharge its funftions, and cannot be
recalled. Experience teaches him, on the other hand,
that the fentient principle of thefe infedts does not quit
the fyftem when unfit for its fundlions ; and hence he
ought to infer, that the minds of men and of infebts are
very different, and that the bond which unites the ma¬
terial and immaterial parts of an infecl, is certainly dif¬
ferent from that which unites the mind and body of man.
This is the only inference which can be fairly drawn
from
gipr
REV [ 789 ] RE Y
Review, from Onefe phenomena j and he who makes them the
Revolution. })afls Qf materialit'm, mult have his judgement warped
v““—; jjy fume pallion or prejudice.
Commission of lUiVIEW, is a commiflion fome-
times granted, in extraordinaiy cafes, to revife the
fentence of the court of delegates, when it is appre¬
hended they have been led into a material error. This
commiflion the king may grant, although the ftatutes
24 and 25 Hen. VIII. declare the fentence ot the de¬
legates definitive : becauie the pope, as lupretne head by
the canon law, ufed to grant fuch commiffion of review j
and fuch authority as the pope heretofore exerted is
now annexed to the crown by ifatutes 26 Hen. VIII.
c. 1. and 1 Eliz. c. 1. But it is not matter of right,
which the fubjedt may demand ex dcbito jujlitiie; but
merely a matter of favour, and which therefore is of¬
ten denied.
Review, is the drawing out all or part of the army
in line of battle, to be viewed by the king, or a general,
that they may know the condition of the troops.
At all reviews, the officers ffiould be properly arm¬
ed, ready in their exercife, falute well, in good time,
and with a good air ; their uniform genteel, &c. The
men ffiould be clean and well drefi'ed ; their accoutre¬
ments well put on y very well fized in their ranks ; the
ferjeants expert in their duty, drummers perfect in their
beatings, and the lifers play correct. The manual ex¬
ercife mult be performed in good time, and with life •,
and the men carry their arms well} march, wheel, and
form with exadtnefs. All manoeuvres mult be perform¬
ed with the utmoil regularity, both in quick and ilowr
time. The firings are generally 36 rounds ; viz. by
companies j by grand divifions } by fub-divifions j ob¬
liquely, advancing, retreating ; by files j in the fquare }
ftreet firings, advancing and retreating } and laltly, a
volley. The intention of a review is, to knoiv the
condition of the troops, fee that they are complete and
perform their exercife and evolutions well.
Review is alfo applied to literary journals, which
give a periodical view of the Rate of literature as
the Monthly Review, the Critical Review, the Britiffi
Critic, &c. The number of works of this defcription in
Britain has increafed greatly of late years, and feme of
them have a very extenfive circulation.
RE-UNION island, an ifland in the South fea, dif-
covered by the French on the 16th December 1773 5
lying, according to M. de Pages, in latitude 48° 21",
and longitude 66° 47", the variation of the needle being
30° always towards north-weft, dhe road and harbour
are extremely good, and the latter from 16 to 8 fathoms
deep at the very ffiore. The coaft on each fide is lof¬
ty, but green, with an abrupt defeent, and fwarms with
a fpecies of bufiards. The penguins and fea-lions,
which fwarmed on the fands, were nowife alarmed at
the approach of thofe who landed j from whence M.
de Pages concluded that the country was wholly unin¬
habited. The foil produces a kind of grafs,, about five
inches long, with a broad black leaf, and feemingly of
a rich quality—but there was no veftige of a tree or
human habitation. See Travels round the Worlds by M.
de Pages, vol. iii. chaps. 8. and 9.
REVOLUTION, in politics, fignifies a change in
the conflitution of a ftate; and is a word of different
import from revolt, with which it is fometimes confound¬
ed. When a people withdraw their obedience from
their governors for any particular reafon, without over- Revolution
turning the government, or waging an offenftve war
againft it, they are in a ftate oi revolt ; when they over- .
turn the government and form a new one for themfelves,
they effedt a revolution.
That which is termed the revolution in Britain is the
change which, in 1688, took place in confequence of
the forced abdication of King James II. when the Pro-
teftant fucceffion was eftablilhed, and the conftitution
reftored to its primitive purity. Of this important
tranfadtion, which confirmed the rights and liberties of
Britons, we have endeavoured to give an impartial ac¬
count under another article (fee Britain, N° 281, &.c.).
Of the rife and progrefs of the American revolution,
which is (till frefh in the memory of fome of our readers,
a large detail is given under the article America. By
the revolution which took place in Poland about the end
of the 18th century, that kingdom was difmembered and
feized by Auftria, Pruflia and Ruffia. For an account of
this revolution, fee Poland and for the hiftory and pro¬
grefs of the French revolution, the moft extraordinary of
all, whether confidered with regard to the events which
accompanied, or the confequences which followed it, fee
France.
Revolution, in Geometry, the motion of rotation
of a line about a fixed point or centre, or of any figure
about a fixed axis, or upon any line or furface. Thus,
the revolution of a given line about a fixed centre, ge¬
nerates a circle ; and that of a right-angled triangle a-
bout one fide, as an axis, generates a cone ; and that of
a femicircle, about its diameter, generates a fphere or
globe, &c.
Revolution, in AJlronomy, is the period of a ftar,
planet, or comet, &.c. or its courfe from any point of
its orbit, till it return to the fame again.
REVULSION, in Medicine, turning a flux of hu¬
mours from one part to another by bleeding, cupping,
friflion, finapifms, blifters, fomentations, bathings, iffuesj
fetons, ftrong purging of the bowels, &c.
REYN, Jan DE, an eminent hiftory and portrait
painter, born at Dunkirk in 1610. He had the good
fortune to be a difciple of Vandyke, was the firft per¬
former in his fchool, and was fo attached to his ma¬
iler that he followed him to London, where it is
thought he continued as long as he lived. In thefe
kingdoms he is moftly known by the name of Lang
Jan. He died in 1678 : and it is imagined that the
fcarcity of his works is occafioned by fo many of them
being imputed to Vandyke ; a circumftance which, if
true, is beyond any thing that could be faid in his praife.
REYNEAU, Chearls-Rene, commonly known by
the name of Father Reyneau, a celebrated mathematician
of France, was born in the year 1656, at Briffac in the
province of Anjou. When 20 years of age, he connect¬
ed himfelf with the Gratorians, a fort of religious order,
the members of which lived in community without bind¬
ing themfelves to the obfervance of any vows, and turn¬
ed their chief attention to the inftru&ion of youth. He
afterwards taught philofophy at Pezenos, and next at
Toulon, which requiring fome degree of geometrical
knowledge, he became extremely lend of that fcience,
and cultivated and improved it to a great extent. He
was, in confequence of his knowledge, invited to fill
the mathematical chair at Angers in 1683, and he was
alfo eleCled a member of the academy, in 1694.
He,
R E Y t 790 ] R E Y
Reyneau, He undertook to reduce into a body, for the benefit
Reynolds. 0f pUp;jS) chief theories which were fcattered
through the works of Newton, Des Cartes, Leibnitz,
Bernoulli, the Leipfic Afts, the Memoirs of the Paris
Academy, and feveral other works, to which he gave
the name of Analyfe Demorttree, or Analyfis Demon-
ftrated, which was publilhed in 1708, in 2 vols. 4to.
He gave to this work the name of Analyfis Demon-
ftrated, becaufe he therein demonftrates various methods
which had not been demonftrated by their authors, or
at lead: not with fufficient accuracy and perfpicuity.
This work of Reyneau was very much applauded, and it
became a general maxim in France, that to follow him
was the belt, if not the only way, to make any extraordi¬
nary progrefs in the ftudy of mathematics.
Such was his ambition to be ufeful, that in 1714 he
publifhed his Science du Calcnl des Grandeurs, intended
for the benefit of fuch as were wholly unacquainted with
the fcience of geometry. Of this work a very able
judge was pleafed to obferve, that “ though feveral
books had already appeared upon the fame fubjeft, fuch
a treatife as that before him was fiill wanting, as in it
every thing was handled in a manner fufficiently exten-
five, and at the fame time with all pofixble exaftnefs
and perfpicuity.” Although many branches of the ma¬
thematics had been well difeufled prior to his time, no
good elements were to be met with, even of praftical
geometry.
When the Royal Academy of Sciences at Paris gave
admiflion to other learned and eminent men, Father Rey¬
neau was received into the number. The works already
mentioned are all he ever publilhed, or perhaps ever
’Compofed, with the exception of a little piece upon
logic j and materials for a fecond volume of his Science
du Calcul were left behind him in manufeript. Towards
the clofe of life he was too much afflidfed with ficknefs
to give much application to ftudy j and he died in 1728,
at 72 years of age. His many virtues and extenfive eru¬
dition made this event much regretted by all who had
the pleafure of being acquainted with him. It was re¬
garded as an honour and a happinefs by the firft men in
France, to number him among their friends, fuch as the
chancellor of the kingdom and Malbranche, of the lat¬
ter of whom Reyneau was a faithful and zealous dif-
ciple.
REYNOLDS, Sir Joshua, the celebrated painter,
was, on July the 16th 1723, born at Plympton, a fmall
town in Devonlhire. His father was minifter of the pa-
rilh, and alfo mafter of the grammar-fehool j and being
a man of learning and philanthropy, he was beloved
and refpedled by all to ■whom he w'as known.—Such a
man, it will naturally be fuppofed, was afliduous in the
cultivation of the minds of his children, among whom
his fon Jofliua {hone confpicuous, by difplaying at a very
early period a fuperiority of genius, and the rudiments
of a corredl tafte. Unlike other boys, who generally
content themfelves with giving a literal explanation of
their author, regardlefs of his beauties or his faults,
young Reynolds attended to both thefe, difplaying a
happy knowledge of what he read, and entering with
ardour into the fpirit of his author. He difeovered like-
wife talents for compofition, and a natural propenfity to
drawing, in which his friends and intimates thought him
qualified to excel. Emulation was a diftinguifhing
feature in his mind, which his father perceived with
the delight natural to a parent; and defigning him for
the church, in which he hoped that his talents might
raife him to eminence, he fent him to one of the univer-
fities.
Soon after this period he grew pafiionately fond of
painting ; and, by the perufal of Richardfon’s theory
of that art, was determined to make it his profeflion
through life. At his own earneft requeft, therefore, he
was removed to London 3 and about the year 1742 be¬
came a pupil to Mr Hudfon, who, though not himfelf
an eminent painter, was preceptor to feverals who af¬
terwards excelled in the art. One of the firft advices
which he gave to Mr Reynolds was to copy carefully
Guercino’s drawings. This was done with fuch {kill,
that many of the copies are faid to be norv preferved in
the cabinets of the curious as the originals of that very
great mafter.
About the year 1749, Mr Reynolds went to Italy
under the aufpices, and in the company, of the late
Lord (then Commodore) Keppel, who wras appointed
to the command of the Britifli fquadron in the Medi¬
terranean. In this garden of the world, this magic
feat of the arts, he failed not to vifit the fchools of the
great mafters, to ftudy the produftions of different
ages, and to contemplate rvith unwearied attention the
various beauties which are charafteriftic of each. His
labour here, as has been obferved of another painter,
was “ the labour of love, not the tafk of the hireling 3”
and how much he profited by it is known to all Eu¬
rope.
Having remained about two years in Italy, and ftu-
died the language as well as the arts of the country
with great fuccefs, he returned to England, improved
by travel and refined by education. On the road to
London from the port where he landed, he accidentally
found in the inn where he lodged Johnfon’s life of Sa¬
vage 3 and was fo taken with the charms of compofi¬
tion, and the mafterly delineation of chara&er difplay-
ed in that performance, that, having begun to read
it while leaning with his arm on the chimney-piece, he
continued ii\ that attitude infenfible of pain till he was
hardly able to raife his hand to his head. The admira¬
tion of the work naturally led him to feek the acquain¬
tance of its author, who continued one of his fincereft
admirers and warmeft friends, till 1784, when they
were feparated by the ftroke of death.
The firft thing that diftinguiftied him after his return
to his native country, was a full length portrait of
Commodore Keppel 3 which in the polite circles was
fpoken of in terms of the higheft encomium, and tef-
tified to what a degree of eminence he had arrived in
his profeflion. This was followed by a portrait of
Lord Edgecumbe, and a few others, which at once
introduced him to the firft bufinefs in portrait painting ;
and that branch of the art he cultivated with fuch fuc¬
cefs as will for ever eftablilh his fame with all deferip-
tions of refined fociety. Having painted fome of the
firft-rate beauties of the age, the polite rvorld flocked
to fee the graces and the charms of his pencil; and he
foon became the moft fafliionable painter, not only in
England, but in all Europe. He has indeed preferved
the refemblance of fo many illuftrious characters, that we
feel the lefs regret for his having left behind him fo few
hiftorical
Reynolds.
*
I
11 E
Reynolds, hiilorical paintings; though
v Way lhov;s (a) him to have been qualified to excel in
both departments. The only landfcape, perhaps, which
he ever painted, except thole beautiiul and chalte ones
which compofe the back grounds ot many of his por¬
traits, is “ A View on the Thames from Richmond,”
which in 1784 was exhibited by the Society for Pro¬
moting Painting and Defign in Liverpool.
In 1764 Ml Reynolds had the merit of being the
fir ft promoter of that club, which, having long exiited
without a name, became at lali diftinguilhed by the ap¬
pellation of the Literary Club. Upon the foundation
of the Royal Academy of Painting, Sculpture, and Ar-
chite&ure, he was appointed prelident j and his ac¬
knowledged excellence in his profeffion made the ap¬
pointment acceptable to all the lovers of art. To add
to the dignity of this new inftitution, his majefty con¬
ferred on the prefident the honour of knighthood^ and
Sir Joihua delivered his firft difcourfe at the opening of
the Academy on January 2. 1769* The merit of that
difcourfe has been univerfally admitted among painters j
but it contains fome directions refpeCting the proper
mode of profecuting their ftudies, to which every itu-
dent of every art wrould do well t© pay attention. “ I
would chiefly recommend (fays he), that an implicit
obedience to the rules of art, as eftablilhed by the prac¬
tice of the great mailers, Ihould be exacted from the
young Undents. That thofe models, which have paffed
through the approbation of ages, ftiould be confidered
by them as perfeCt and infallible guides > as fubje&s for
their imitation, not their criticifm. I am confident,
that this is the only efficacious method of making a
progrefs in the arts *, and that he who fets out with
doubting, will find life finiflied before he becomes mafter
of the rudiments. For it may be laid down as a ma¬
xim, that he who begins by prefuming on his own fenfe,
has ended his ftudies as foon as he has commenced them.
Every opportunity, therefore ftiould be taken to dif-
countenance that falfe and vulgar opinion, that rules
are the fetters of genius. They are fetters only to men
of no genius j as that armour which, upon the itrong,
Y [ 79i 1 R E Y
what he has done in that becomes an ornament and a defence, upon the weak and Rcy .o.d^
• ^ i j j fVw* Knnv whirh *
milhapen turns into a load, and cripples the body which
it was made to protect.”
Each fucceeding year, on the diftribution of the
prizes, Sir Joihua delivered to the ftudents a dilcourie
of equal merit with this : and perhaps we do not ha¬
zard too much when w’e fay, that, from the whole col¬
lected, the lover of belles lettres and the fine arts will
acquire julter notions of wiiat is meant by tafte in ge¬
neral, and better rules for acquiring a correCt tatie,
than irom multitudes of thofe volumes which have been
profefledly written on the lubjeCt.
In the autumn of 17^5 wen*- Bruihd3? where
he expended about 1000I. on the purchafe ol paint¬
ings, which, having been taken from the different mo-
naileries and religious houfes in Flanders and Germany,
were then expofed to fale by the command of the em¬
peror Jofeph ! Gainfborough and he had engaged to
paint each other’s portrait •, and the canvas for both be¬
ing aCtually ftretched, Sir Jothua gave one lilting to
his diftinguilhed rival j but, to the regret or every ad¬
mirer of the art, the unexpected death of the latter pre¬
vented all further progrefs.
In 1790 he was anxioufly defirous to procure the va¬
cant profeffbrihip of perfpeCtive in the academy for Mr
Bononi, an Italian architect but that artift not having
been yet eleCted, an aflociate wras of courfe no acade¬
mician, and it became neceffary to raife him to thofe
fituations, in order to qualify him for being a profeflor.
Mr Gilpin being his competitor for the affociatelhip,
the numbers on the ballot proved equal, when the pre¬
fident by his calling vote decided the eleCtion in favour
of his friend, wdio was thereby advanced lo far towards
the profeffbrihip. Soon after this, an academic leat be¬
ing vacant, Sir Joihua exerted all his influence to ob¬
tain it for Mr Bononi j but finding himfelf outvoted by
a majority of twro to one, he quitted the chair with
great difiatisfaCtion, and next day fent to the fecretary
of the academy a formal refignation of the office, w-hich
for twrenty-one years he had filled with honour to him¬
felf and his country. His indignation, however, fubfi-
dincr.
f a) As the lovers of painting may wilh to have a catalogue of this great mailer’s hiftoncal pieces, we fubjom
the following from the European Magazine, which we have good reafon to believe accurate, as the editors of
that mifcellany grudge neither trouble nor expence to procure authentic information. Sir Jofhua’s principal hi-
ftorical pieces, then, are the following: Hope nurfing Love j Venus chaftifing Cupid for having learned to call
accounts ; Count Ugolino in the dungeon j the calling of Samuel j Ariadne j a Captain of banditti; Beggar
Boy a Lady in the character of St Agnes-, Thais j Dionyfius the Areopagite ; an infant jupiter; Maftev
Crewe in the charader of Henry VIII. ; the death of Dido-, a Child afleep-, Cupid fleeping ; Covent Garden
Cupid; Cupid in the Clouds j Cupids painting j Boy laughing ; Mafter Herbert in the charafter of Bacchus;
Hebe- Mifs Meyer in the charader of Hebe ; Madona, ahead; the Black-guard Mercury ; a little boy (Sa¬
muel)’praying-, an old Man reading; Love loofing the zone of Beauty ; the Children m the Wood ; Cleo-
oatra diffoW the Pearl; Garrick in the charaaer of Kitely ; Garrick between Tragedy and Comedy ; Mrs-
Abingdon in 'the charaaer of Comedy; a Child furrounded by Guardian Angels ; Mifs Beauclercm the cha¬
raaer of Spenfer’s Una; Refignation; the Duchefs of Manchefter in the charaaer of Diana ; Lady Blake m
'the charaaer of Juno; Mrs Sheridan in the charaaer of St Cecilia; Edwin, from Beattie s Minftrel; the Na¬
tivity, Four Cardinal Virtues, and Faith, Hope, and Chanty, for the window of New College Chapel, Ox¬
ford ; the Studious Boy; a Bacchante ; a daughter of Lord W. Gordon as an Angel; the Ho iy Family ; the
Cottagers, from Thomfon ; the Veftal ; the Careful Shepherded; a Gypfeyte ling Fortunes ; the infant Her,
cules ftrangling the Serpent ; the Moufe trap girl ; Venus; Cornelia and her Children ; the Bud , Melancho y ,
Mrs Siddons in Tragedy; Head of Lear; Mrs Talmafti in the charaaer of Miranda with Profpero and
ban;. Robin Goodfeilow ; Death of Cardinal Beaufort; Macbeth, with the Caldron of the Witches,
n E Y [7!
Jing, lie fuffered himfelf to be prevailed upon to return
to the chair, which within a year and a half he was
again delirous to quit for a better reafon.
Finding a diieaie of languor, occafioned by an en¬
largement of the liver, to which he had for fame time
been fubjedf, increafe upon him, and daily, expe&ing the
total lols oi fight, he wrote a letter to the academy, in¬
timating his intention to refign the office of piefident on
account of bodily infirmities, which difabled him from
executing the duties of it to his own fatisfaftion. The
academicians received this intelligence with the refpe61-
iul concern due to the talents and virtues of their pre-
fident} and either then did enter, or defigned to enter,
into a refolution, honourable to all parties, namely, that
a deputation from the whole body of the academy ffiould
wait upon him, and inform him of their wiffi, that the
authority and privileges of the office of prefident might
be his during his life 5 declaring their willingnefs to per¬
mit the performance of any of its duties which might
be irkfome to him by a deputy.
From this period Sir Joffiua never painted more.
The laft effort of his pencil was the portrait of the Ho¬
nourable Charles James Fox, which was executed in his
befi: ftyle, ahd (hows that his fancy, his imagination, and
his other great powders in the art which he profeffed, re¬
mained unabated to the end of his life. When the laft
touches were given to this pifture,
“ The hand of Reynolds fell, to rife no more.”
On Thurfday February the 23d 1792, the world was
deprived of this amiable man and excellent artift, at the
age of 68 years 5 a man than whom no one, according
to Johnfon, had paffed through life with more obferva-
tion of men and manners. The following charadler of
him is faid to be the produdlion of Mr Burke :
“ His illnefs w'as long, but borne with a mild and
cheerful fortitude, without the leaft mixture of anv
thing irritable or querulous, agreeably to the placid and
even tenor of his whole life. He had from the begin¬
ning of his malady a diftinct view of his diffolution,
which he contemplated with that entire compofure
.which nothing but the innocence, integrity, and ufeful-
nels of his life, and an unaffedled fubmiffion to the will
©f Providence, could beftow. In this fituation he had
every confolation from family tendernefs, which his ten-
dernefs to his family had always merited.
“ Sir Joflma Reynolds was, on very many accounts,
one of the moft memorable men of his time : He was
the firft Engliffiman who added tire praife of the ele¬
gant arts to the other glories of his country. In tafte,
in grace, in facility, in happy invention, and in the
richnefs and harmony of colouring, he wTas equal to the
great mafters of the renowned ages. In portrait he
went beyond them ; for he communicated to that de-
icription of the art in wffiich Engliffi artifts are the
moft engaged, a variety, a fancy, and a dignity, deri¬
ved from the higher branches, which even thofe who
2 ] R H A
profeffed them in a fuperior manner did not always pre-
ferve when they delineated individual nature. His por¬
traits remind the fpeclalor of the invention of hiftory
and the amenity ot landfcape. In painting portraits he
appears not to be raifed upon that platform, but to de-
fcend to it from a higher fphere. Fils paintings iilu-
ftrate his leffons, and his leffons leem to be derived from
bis paintings.
“ Fie pofleffed the theory as perfeftly as the practice
of his art. To be fuch a painter, he was a profound and
penetrating philofopher.
“ In full happinefs of foreign and domeftic fame, ad¬
mired by the expert in art, and by the learned in fci-
ence, courted by the great, careffed by fovertign powers,
and celebrated by diftinguiffied poets, Ids native humili¬
ty, modefty, and candour, never forfook him, even on
furprife or provocation 5 nor was the leaft degree of ar¬
rogance or affumption vifible to the moft fcrutinizing
eye in any part of his conduft or difcourfe.
“ His talents of every kind—powerful from nature,
and not meanly cultivated in letters—his fecial virtues
in all the relations and all the habitudes of life, rendered
him the centre of a very great and unparalleled variety
of agreeable focieties, which will be diffipated by his
death. He had too much merit not to excite fome jea-
loufy, too much innocence to provoke any enmity. The
lofs of no man of his time can be felt with more fincere,
general, and unmixed forrow.”
REZAN, or Rezanskoi, an ancient town of Ruffia,
and capital of a duchy of the fame name, with an arch-
biffiop’s fee. It was formerly conliderable for its extent
and riches ; but it was almoft ruined by the Tartars in
1568. The country is populous, and was formerly go¬
verned by its owyn princes. E. Long. 42. 37. N. Lat.
54- 54-
RHABDOLOGY, or Rabdology, in arithmetic,
a name given by Napier to a method of performing
fome of the more difficult operations of numbers by
means of fquare little rods. Upon thefe are inferibed
the fimple numbers ^ then by fhifting them according to
certain rules, thofe operations are performed by fimply
adding or fubtrafting the numbers as they Hand upon
the rods.
RHADAMANTHUS, a fevere judge, and king of
Lydia ; the poets make him one of the three judges of
hell.
RHAGADES, in Medicine, denotes chaps or clefts
in any part of the body. If feated in the anus, and
recent, the patient muft fit ftill, and fit over the fleam
of warm water. The epulotic cerate may alfo be ap¬
plied. If the lips of thefe fiffures are callous, they
muft be cut or otherwife treated as to become new ulce¬
rations.
RHAMA, or Rama, an incarnate deity of the firft
rank, in Indian mythology. Sir William Jones believes
he was the Dionyfos (a) of the Greeks, whom they na¬
med Bromius, without knowing why; and Eugenes,
when
Reynolds
ll
Rhama.
(A) I he learned prefident, whbfe death will be lamented by every fcholar, by the orientalift and the divine
especially, imagines, that this would fully appear from comparing together the Dionysiaca of Nonnus and the
Re. may an of Valmic, the firft poet of the Hindoos. He adds, that, in his opinion, Rhama was the fon of Cufih,
and that he might have eftablifhed the firft regular government in that part of Afia, in which hh exploits are faid
to have been performed.
2
Pv H A l m 1 R H A
Rhama. when they reprefented him horned, as well as Lyaios and
' v '1 ' Eleutherios the deliverer, and Tryambos or Dythyram-
Afiatic Re- los the triumphant. “ Mofl of thofe titles (fays Sir
Jcarches, William) were adopted by the Homans, by whom h@
j, j ii, &c. was ca^e<i BrUtna, Tauriformis, Liber, and Triurnphus ;
and both nations had records or traditionary accounts of
his giving laws to men and deciding their contefts, of
his improving navigation and commerce, and, what may
appear yet more obfervable, of his conquering India and
other countries with an army of fatyrs, commanded by
no lefs a perfonage than Pan ; whom Lillius Gyraldus,
on what authority I know not, afferts to have redded in
Iberia ‘ when he had returned, fays the learned mytholo-
.gift, from the Indian war, in which he accompanied
Bacchus.’ It were fuperfluous in a mere effay to run
any length in the parallel between this European god
•and the fovereign of Ayodhya, whom the Hindoos be¬
lieve to have been an appearance on earth of the prefer-
ving power ; to have been a conqueror of the higheft
renown, and the deliverer of nations from tyrants, as
well as of his confort Sita from the giant Ravan king of
Lanca 5 and to have commanded in chief a numerous
and intrepid race of thofe large monkeys, which our na-
turaliils, or fome of them, have denominated Indian fa¬
tyrs : his general, the prince of fatyrs, was named Ha-
numat, or “ with high cheek bones j” and, wuth work¬
men of fuch agility, he foon raifed a bridge of rocks
/ over the fea, part of which, fay the Hindoos, yet re¬
mains ; and it is probably the feries of rocks to which the
Muflulmans or the Portuguefe have given the fooliih name
of Adam's (it Ihould be called Ratoa's} bridge. Might
not this army of fatyrs have been only a race of moun¬
taineers, whom Rama, if fuch a monarch ever exifted,
had civilized ? However that may be, the large breed
of Indian apes is at this moment held in high veneration
by the Hindoos, and fed with devotion by the Brah¬
mans, who feem in two or three places on the banks of
the Ganges to have a regular endowment for the fupport
of them : they live in tribes of three or four hundred,
are wonderfully gentle (I fpeak as an eye-witnefs), and
appear to have fome kind of order and fubordinatibn ift
their little fylvan polity.” The feftival of Rhama is held
on the 9th day of the new moon of Chaitra, on which
the war of Lanca is dramatically reprefented, conclu¬
ding with an exhibition of the fire-ordeal, by which the
victor’s wife Sita gave proof of her connubial fidelity.
Among the Hindoos there is a variety of very fine
dramas of great antiquity on the ilory of Rhama.
There are three Rhamas mentioned in the Indian
mythology, who, together with Crilhna, the darling
god of the Indian wmmen, are defcribed as youths of
perfeft beauty. The third Rhama is Gridina’s elder
brother, and is confidered as the eighth Avatar (a), in-
vefted with an emanation of his divine radiance. Like
all the Avatars, Rhama is painted with gemmed Ethi-
VOL. XVII. Part II.
opian or Parthian coronets j with rays encircling his Rfama
head, jewels in his ears, two necklaces, one ftraight and Ji .
one pendant on his bofom, with dropping gems } gar- ■ '
lands of well-difpofed many-coloured dowers, or collars
of pearls, hanging down below his waiil j loofe man¬
tles of golden tiflue or dyed filk, embroidered on the
hems with flowers elegantly thrown over one flioulder,
and folded like ribbands acrofs the bread ; with brace¬
lets, two on one arm and on each wrid : all the Avatars
are naked to the waills, and uniformly wuth dark azure
flelh, in allufion probably to the tint of that primordial
fluid on which Narayan moved in the beginning of time j
but their fkirts are bright yellow, the colour of the cu¬
rious pericarpium in the centre of the water-lily.
RHAMNUS, the Buckthorn, a genus of plants
belonging to the pentandria clafs 5 and in the natural
method ranking under the 43d order Dumofce. See Bo¬
tany and Materia Medica Index.
The paliurus, or thorn of Chrift, a deciduous flrrub or
tree, belongs to this genus, and is a native of Palefline,
Spain, Portugal, and Italy. It grows to nearly the
height of 14 feet, and is armed with fliarp thorns, two
of which are at each joint, one of which is about half
an inch long, draight, and upright ; the other is fcarcely
half that length, and bent backward *, and between them
is the bud for next year’s flioot. June is the time of
flowering, and the flowers are fucceeded by a fmall fruit,
furrounded by a membrane, “ This plant (fays Han-
bury) is undoubtedly the fort of wrhich the crown of
thorns for our blefled Saviour was compofed. The
branches are very pliant, and the fpines of it are at
every joint firong and fliarp. It growrs naturally about
Jerufalem, as well as in many parts of judsea; and there
is no doubt that the barbarous Jews would make choice
of it for their cruel purpofe. But wfliat farther confirms
the truth of thefe thorns being then ufed, are the an¬
cient pidtures of our blefled Saviour’s crucifixion. The
thoms on the crown of his head exadlly anfw7er to thofe
of this tree 5 and there is great reafon to fupppofe thefe
were taken from the earlied paintings of the Lord of
Life : and even now our modern painters copy from
them, and reprefent the crown as compofed of thefe
thorns. Thefe plants, therefore, fliould principally have
a ftiare in thofe parts of the plantation that are more
peculiarly defigned for religious retirement j for they
will prove excellent monitors, and conduce to due re-
fledtion on and gratitude to ‘ Him wTho hath loved us,
and has waflied us from our fins,’ &c.
RHAMPHASTOS, a genus of birds belonging to
the order of Piece. See Ornithology Lidex.
RHAPIS, a genus of plants belonging to the hexan-
dria clafs 5 and in the natural method ranking under
the fird order Palmce. See Botany Index.
RHAPSODI, Rhapsodists, in Antiquity, perfons
who made a bufinefs of finging pieces of Homer’s
5 H poems.
(a) Avatar means the defeent of the deity in his capacity of preferver. The three fird of thefe defeents relate
to fome dupendous convulfion of our globe from the fountains of the deep, and the fourth exhibits the miraculous
punifliment of pride and impiety, appearing to refer to the deluge. Three of the others were ordained for the over¬
throw of tyrants or giants. Of thefe Avatars we have mentioned in the text, that Rhama is the eighth ; Buddha,
who appears to have been a reformer of the dodtrines contained in Vedas, is the ninth : the tenth Avatar, we are
told, is yet to come, and is expected to appear mounted (like the crowned conqueror in the Apocalypfe) on a
white horfe, with a feimetar blazing like a comet, to mow down all incorrigible and impenitent offenders rvho fliall
then be on the earth.
Pv H E [ 79+ ] R H E
aharfodi poems. It has been laid, that the Rhapfodi were
, , clothed hired when they lung the Iliad, and in blue
'■AS i v/hen they lung the Odyffey. They performed on the
theatres, and 1'ometimes {hove for prizes in conteffs of
poetry, hinging, &c. After the two antagonilfs had
finhhed their parts, the two pieces or papers they were
written in were Icon joined together again : whence the
' name, vi-z. from ^xTrra fuo, and canticum : but there
feem, to have been other Rhapfodi of more antiquity
than thefe people, who compofed heroic poems or
longs in praife of heroes and great men, and lung their
own compofi lions from town to town for a livelihood j
of which profeffion Homer himfelf is laid to have been.
See Bard.
RHAPSODOMANCY, an ancient kind of divina¬
tion performed by pitching on a paflage of a poet at
hazard, and reckoning on it as a prediction of what ivas
io come to pafs. There were various ways of praCli-
iing this rhapfodomancy. Sometimes they wrote feve¬
rs! papers cr fentences of a poet on fo many pieces of
wood, paper, or the like, (hook them together in an
Urn, and drew out one which was accounted the lot :
fometimes they call dice on a table whereon verfes were
written, and that whereon the die lodged contained the
prediction. A third manner was by opening a book,
and pitching on fame verfe at firlt fight. This method
they particularly called the fortes PrceneJUnce; and af¬
terwards, according to the poet, made ufe of fortes Ho-
tnericce, fortes Virgiliame, &c. See SoRTES.
RHAPSODY, in Antiquity, a difeourfe in verfe fung
or rehearfed by a rhapfodift. Others will have rhapfody
to fignify a collection of verfes, efpecially thofe of PIo-
mer, which having been a long time difperfed in pieces
and fragments, were at length by Pififtratus’s order di-
gefted into bocks called rhapfodies, from fuo, and
canticum. Hence, among moderns, rhapfody is alfo
ufed for an adlemblage of paffages, thoughts, and autho¬
rities, raked together from divers authors, to compofe
lorr e new piece.
RHE, or Ree, a little ifiand in the bay of Bifcay,
near the coalt of Aunis in France. It was taken during
the war with France which ended in 1763, in the expe¬
dition commanded by Hawke and Mordaunt.
RHEA Americana. The American oftrich of au¬
thors has been frequently mentioned, but till of late
years very imperfectly known. See Ornithology
Index.
RHEEDIA, a genus of plants belonging to the poly-
nadria clafs, and in the natural method ranking with thofe
of which the order is doubtful. See Botany Index.
RHEGIUM, in Ancient Gcographi/, fo very ancient
a city as to be fuppofed to take its name from the violent
burfting of the coaft of Italy from Sicily, thought to
have been formerly conjoined (Mela, Virgil). A city
of the Bruttii, a colony of Chalcidians from Euboea :
a itrong barrier oppefed to Sicily (Strabo) •, mentioned
by Luke; furnamed Julium (Ptolemy), from a frefh
fupply of inhabitants fent hither by Auguftus, after
driving Sextus Pompeius out of Sicily (Strabo) \ and
thus was in part a colony, retaining Hill the right of a
municipium (Infcription). The city is now called Reg¬
gio, in the Farther Calabria.
RHEIMS, a city of France, in the department of
Marne, and capital of Rhemois. It is one of the moll
ancient, celebrated, and largeft places in the kingdom,
had an archbifhop’s fee? whole archbilhop was a duke and
peer of France. It is about four miles in circumference, Rheircs
and contains ieveral fine fquares, well-built houfes, and H
magnificent churches. It had a mint, an univerlity,, R“cuiri',
and five abbeys, the nioft famous of which is that of St 'r***
Remy. There are alfo feveral triumphal arches and
other monuments of the Romans. It is feated on the
river Vefie, on a plain furrounded by hills, which pro¬
duce excellent wine. E Long. 4. 8. N. Lat. 49. 14.
RHENISPI WINE, that produced on the hills about
Rheims. This wine is much ufed in medicine as a
folvent of iron, for which it is well calculated on ac¬
count of its acidity. Dr Percival obferves, that it is
the belt folvent of Peruvian bark \ in which, how¬
ever, he thinks its acidity has no fhare, becaufe an ad¬
dition of vinegar to water does not augment its folvent
power.
RHETORES, amongd the Athenians, were ten
in number, elefted by lot to plead public caufes in the
fenate-houfe or affembly. For every caufe in which
they were retained, they received a drachm out of the
public money. They were fometimes called
and their fee to No man was admitted to
this office before he was 40 years of age, though others
fay 30. Valour in war, piety to their parents, pru¬
dence in their affairs, frugality, and temperance, were
neceffary qualifications for this office, and every candi¬
date underwent an examination concerning thefe vir¬
tues, previous to the eledlion. The orators at Rome
were not unlike the Athenian rhetores. See Orator.
RHETOR IANS, a feft of heretics in Egypt, fo
denominated from Rhetorius their leader. The diflin-
guiihing tenets of this herefiarch, as reprefented by Phi-
laftrius, was, that he approved of all the herefies before
him, and taught that they were all in the right.
RHETORIC, the art of fpeaking copioully on any
fubjeft, with all the advantages of beauty and force.
See Oratory.
RHEUM, a thin ferous humour, occafionally oozing
out of the glands about the mouth and throat.
RHEUM, Rhubarb; a genus of plants of the enneandria
clafs, and in the natural method ranking under the 12th
order, Ho/oracece. See Botany and Materia Me-
DICA Index. Here, after enumerating the fpecies, we
{hall introduce what has been faid on the cultivation of
this valuable plant. There are five fpecies, viz. 1. The
rhaponticum, or common rhubarb, has a large, thick,
fiefiiy, branching, deeply-ftriking root, yellowifh with¬
in ; crowned by very large, roundiffi, heart-ffiaped
fmooth leaves, on thick, flightly-furrowed foot-ftalks 5
and an upright ftrong Hem, two or three feet high,
adorned with leaves fingly, and terminated by thick
clofe fpikes of white flowers. It grows in Thrace and
Scythia, but has been long in the Englifh gardens. Its
root affords a gentle purge. It is, however, of inferior
quality to foroe of the following forts; but the plant be¬
ing allringent, its young ftalks in fpring; being cut and
peeled, are ufed for tarts. 2. The palmatum, palma-
ted-leaved true Chinefe rhubarb, hath a thick fleffiy root,
yellow within ; crowned with very large palmated leaves,
being deeply divided into acuminated fegments, ex¬
panded like an open hand; upright ftems, five or fix
feet high or more, terminated by large fpikes of flowers.
This is now proved to be the true foreign rhubarb, the
purgative quality of which is well known. 3. The
compaftum, or Tartarian rhubarb, hath a large, fleffiy,
branched root? yellow within) crowned by very large,
hCart-lhaped
R H E
[ 79S 1
II H E
Rheum, hearl-iliaped fomewhat lobated, fliarply indented, fmooth
leaves, and an upright large Item, five or fix leet high,
garnithed with leaves fingly, and branching above j ha¬
ving all the branches lerminated by nodding panicles of
white flowers. This has been iuppofed to be the true
rhubarb •, which, however, though of fuperior quality to
fome forts, is accounted inferior to the rheum pahnatum.
4. The undulatum, undulated, or waved-leaved Chinefe
rhubarb, hath a thick, branchy, deep-ftriking root, yel¬
low within •, crowned with large, oblong, undulate,
fomewhat hairy leaves, having equal foot-flalks, and
an upright Arm Item, four feet high j garniflied with
leaves Angle, and terminated by long loole ipikes of
white flowers. 5. The Arabian ribes, or currant rhu¬
barb of Mount Libanus, has a thick flefliy root, very
broad leaves, full of granulated protuberances, and with
equal foot-ftalks, and upright firm ftems, three or four
feet high, terminated by fpikes of flowers, fucceeded
by berry-like feeds, being furrounded by a purple pulp.
All thefe plants are perennial in root, and the leaves
and (talks are annual. The roots being thick, flelhy, ge¬
nerally divided, flrike deep into the ground ; of a brown-
ifli colour without and yellow within : the leaves rife
in the fpring, generally come up in a large head folded
together, gradually expanding themfelves, having thick
foot-flalks, •, and grow from one to two feet high, or
more in length and breadth, fpreading all round: amidft
them rife the flower-items, which are garniflied at each
joint by one leaf, and are of ftrong and expeditious
growth, attaining their full height in June, when they
flower; and are fucceeded by large triangular feeds, ri¬
pening in Auguft. Some plants of each fort merit cul¬
ture in gardens for variety ■, they will effect a Angulari¬
ty with their luxuriant foliage, fpikes, and flowers; and
as medical plants, they demand culture both for private
and public ufe.
They are generally propagated by feeds Town in au¬
tumn foon after they are ripe, or early in the fpring, in
any open bed of light deep earth ; remarking, thofe in¬
tended for medical ufe fliould generally be (owed where
they are to remain, that the roots, being not difturbed
by removal, may grow large. Scatter the leeds thinly,
either by broad-caft all over the furface, and raked
well in; or in (hallow drills a foot and half diftance,
covering them near an inch deep, ihe plants will rife
in the fpring, but not flower till the fecond or third
year; when they, however,' are come up two or three
inches high, thin them to eight or ten inches, and clear
out all weeds; though thofe defigned always to (land
jhould afterwards be hoed out to a foot and a half or
two feet diftance : obferving, if any are required for the
pleafure ground, &c. for variety, they (hould be tranf-
planted where they are to remain in autumn, when
their leaves decay, or early in fpring, before they (hoot:
the others remaining where fowed, muft have the ground
kept clean between them; and in autumn, when the
leaves and ftalks decay, cut them down, and (lightly dig
the ground between the rows of plants, repeating the
fame work every year. The roots remaining, they in-
creafe in fize annually : and in the fecond or third year
many of them will (hoot up ftalks, flower, and perfeft
feeds; and in three or four years the roots will be ar¬
rived to a large fize; though older roots arc generally
preferable for medical ufe.
In Mr Bell’s Travels we have an account of fome
curious particulars relating to the culture of rhubarb.
He tells us, that the beii. rhubarb grows in that part
of Eaitern Tartary called Monga/ia, which now ferves
as a boundary between Ruflia and China. Ihe mar¬
mots contribute greatly to the culture of the rhubarb.
Wherever you iee 10 or 20 plants growing, you are
fine of finding feveral burrows under the (hades of theif
broad-fpreading leaves. Perhaps they may lometimes
eat the leaves and roots oi this plant; however, it is
probable the manure they leave about the roots contri¬
butes not a little to its increafe ; and their cafting up
the earth, makes it (hoot out young buds and mul¬
tiply. This plant does not run, and fpread itfelf,
like" docks and others of the fame fpicies ; but grows
in tufts, at uncertain diftances, as if the feeds had
been dropped with defign. It appears that the Mon-
gals never accounted it worth cultivating ; but that
the world is obliged to the marmots for the quanti¬
ties fcattered, at random, in many parts of this coun¬
try : for whatever part of the ripe feed happens to be
blown among the thick grafs, can very feldom reach
the ground, but muft there wither and die ; whereas,
(hould it fall among the loofe earth thrown up by the
marmots, it immediately takes root, and produces a new
plant.
After digging and gathering the rhubarb, the Mon-
gals cut the large roots into (mall pieces, in order to
make them dry more readily. In the middle of every
piece they fcoop a hole, through which a cord is drawn,
in order to fufpend them in any convenient place. They
hang them, for the mod part, about their, tents, and
fometirnes on the horns of their (heep. This is a moft
pernicious cuftom, as it deftroys fome of the bed part
of the root; for all about the hole is rotten and ufelefs,
whereas, were people rightly informed how to dig and
dry this plant, there would not be one pound of refufe
in an hundred ; which would fave a great deal of trouble
and expence, that much diminilh the profits on this com¬
modity. At prelent, the dealers in this article think
thefe improvements not worthy of their attention, as
their gains are more confiderable on this than on any
other branch of trade. Perhaps the government may
hereafter think it proper to make fome regulations with
regard to this matter.
Two forts of rhubarb are met with in the drops.
The firfl: is imported from Turkey and Ruflia, in round-
i(h pieces freed from the bark, with a hole through the
middle of each ; they are externally of a yellowiih co¬
lour, and on cutting appear variegated with lively red-
diflr (freaks. The other, which is lefs efteemed, comes
immediately from the Eaft Indies in longiflr pieces,
harder, heavier, and more compaft than the foregoing.
The fir ft fort, unlefs kept very dry, is apt to grow
mouldy and worm-eaten ; the fecond is lefs fubjedt to
tlrefe inconveniences. Some of the more induftrious ar-
tifts are faid to fill up the worm holes with certain mix¬
tures, and to colour the outfide of the damaged pieces
with powder of the finer forts of rhubarb, and fometimes
with cheaper materials : this is often fo nicely done, as
cffeftually to impofe upon the buyer, unlefs he very care¬
fully examines each piece.
The Turkey rhubarb is, among us, univerfally pre¬
ferred to the Eaft India fort, though this laft is for
fome purpofes at lead equal to the other; it is mani-
feftly more ailringent, but has fomewhat lefs of an
; H 2 aromatic
Rheum.
R H E [ 70<5 J R H E
Rheum, aromatic flavour. Tin&ures drawn from both with
reftified fpirit have nearly the fame tafte : on diftilling
off the menftruum, the extraft left from the tindlure
of tire Eafl India rhubarb proved confiderably the
flrongeft.
Rhubarb has been cultivated in Britain with con-
fiderable fuccefs, and for medical purpofes is found
to equal that of foreign growth, as is proved by the
Tranlaftions of the London Society for encouraging
Arts, Manufadflures, and Commerce, who have reward¬
ed feveral perfons both for cultivating and curing it.
In the Tranfaflions for 1792, the gold medal was ad¬
judged to Sir William Fordyce, lor railing from feed
in the year 1791 upwards of 300 plants of the true
rhubarb, or rheum palmatum of the London Pharma¬
copoeia 1788, which in the fecond and third weeks of
October were tranfplanted into a deep loam, at four
feet diftance from each other, according to rules laid
down by the fociety. In 1793 it was adjudged to Mr
Thomas Jones, from whofe papers we derive the follow¬
ing information.
After giving an accurate account of his experiments
and obfervations, he concludes, that the feafon for low¬
ing is the fpring about March or April, or in autumn
about Auguft and September; that thofe plants which
are raifed in the fpring Ihould be tranfplanted in autumn,
and vice verfa ; that they cannot have too much room j
that room and time are effentially neceffary to their be-
ing large, of a good appearance, and perhaps to the in-
creafe of their purgative qualities j that to effeft thefe
purpofes, the foil mult be light, loamy,, and rich, but
not too much fo, lefl the roots Ihould be too fibrous 5
that their fituation can fcarcely be too dry, as more
evils are to be expefted from a fupe^abundancy of moi-
ilure than any adlual want of it: and laftly, we may
conclude, that in particular the injuries which they are
lubjeft to are principally during their infancy, and to
be imputed to infedts and inattention to the planting
reafon ; afterwards, from too great an expofure to froll:
but that none can be dreaded from heat •, and that in
general they are hardy and eafy of cultivation, when ar¬
rived beyond a certain term.
The method of curing rhubarb, as propofed by Dr
Tirruogel of Stockholm, is as follows ; “ No roots Ihould
be taken up till they have been planted ten years: they
fhould be taken out of the ground either in winter, be¬
fore the froft let in, or in the beginning of fpring, and
immediately cut into pieces, and carefully barked ; let
them be fpfead upon a table for three or four days, and
be frequently turned, that the juices may thicken or
condenie within the roots. After that procefs, make
3- hole in each piece, and put a thread through it •, by
which let them hang feparately, either within doors,
or in fome fiieltered fhady (bed. Some perfons dry
them in 3 different way •, they inclofe the roots in clay,
and make a hole in the clay, about the thicknefs of a
goofe-quill, and in this manner hang up each piece to
dry feparately, that the moiflure may not evaporate,
nor the ftrength of the root be weakened. But the
methods which the Tartars follow is a bad one : they
dig the roots out of the deferts where they grow, bark
them, and immediately firing them, and hang them
round the necks of their camels, that they may dry as
they travel; but this greatly leffens the medical virtue
pf the root.”
Mr Thomas Halley of Pontefradl in Yorkfhire, to Rheum,
whom the London Society voted the filver medal in
1793, informs us, that his father tried various experi¬
ments for curing rhubarb, as wafhing, brufhing, bark¬
ing, and peeling, and he dried them in the fun, «n a
kiln, in a ftove, or in a warm kitchen. But of the fuc¬
cefs of all or either of thefe methods we have no ac¬
count, owing to the death of Mr Halley’s father. He
lent, howrever, to them five different fpecimens, which
the Society acknowledges to be fuperior to any rhubarb
hitherto cured in England, and produced to them. The
roots fent, Mr Halley fays, were planted about the
year 1781 in a light fandyilh foil, but were much ne¬
glected. They were taken up in the fpring of 1792,
and being thoroughly divefted of the adhering earth,.
wTere placed for fome weeks on the floor of a cool ware-
houfe : the fibres were then taken off, cat up, and dried
on the flue of a greenhoufe j but, from mifmanagement,
were entirely fpoiled. The prime roots w-ere fevered in
fmall pieces, peeled clean, and thoroughly cleared of
every particle of unfoundnefs. Part was feparately laid
in fieves, and the remainder perforated, ftrung, and fuf-
pended in feftoons from the cieling of a warm kitchen.
The manner of drefltng confifts in paring off the exter¬
nal coat wuth a lharp knife, as thin and clean as poffible,
and then finifhing it off by a bit of filh Ikin, with its
owm powder j which powder may be procured from the
chips and fmall pieces, either by grinding or pounding
it in a large mortar.
In the year 1794 the Society adjudged the gold me¬
dal to Mr William Hayward of Hanbury, Oxfordflrire,
for propagating rhubarb by offsets taken from the
crowns of large plants, inftead of feeds, for the purpofe
of bringing it to perfeCHon in a flrorter time, which ful¬
ly anfwered his expectations. Mr Hayward wTas a can¬
didate in the year 1789 for the gold medal; but having,
mifunderflood their rules, he was not entitled to it,
though with great propriety they voted to him the filver
medal 5 in confequence of w’hieh he fent them his me¬
thod of culture and cure. His method of cultivating
Turkey rhubarb from feed is thus explained to the So¬
ciety : “ I have ufually fown the feed about the begin¬
ning of February, on a bed of good foil (if rather fandy
the better), expofed to an eafl: or weft afpeCt, in prefe¬
rence to the fouth j obferving a full fun to be prejudi¬
cial to the vegetation of the feeds, and to the plants
whilft young. The feeds are heft fewn moderately thick
(broadcaft), treading them regularly in, as is ufual with
parfnips and other light feeds, and then raking the
ground fmooth. I have fometimes, wrhen the feafon has
been wet, made a bed for fowing the rhubarb feeds up¬
on, about two feet thick, with newr dung from the liable,
covering it near one foot thick with good foil. The in¬
tent of this bed is not for the fake of warmth, but fole-
ly to, prevent the rifing of earth-worms, wEich, in a
moift feafon., will frequently deftroy the young crop.
If the feed is good, the plants often rife too thick ; if
lo, when they have attained ftx leaves they Ihould be
taken carefully up (wdiere too clofe), leaving the Hand¬
ing crop eight or ten inches apart: thofe taken up may
be plante’d- at the fame diftance, in a frelh f]>ot of ground,
in order to furnilh other plantations. When the plants
in general are grown to the fize that cabbage plants are
ufually fet out for a Handing crop, they are bell planted^
where they arc to remain, in. beds four feet wide, one;
EttW
4
H H E [ 797 ] R H I
Rheum, row along the middle of the bed, leaving two yards di-
ftance betwixt the plants, allow'ing an alley between
the beds about a foot wide, for conveniency of weed¬
ing the plants. In the autumn, when the decayed
leaves are removed, if the fhovelings of the alleys are
thrown over the crowns of the plants, it will be found
of fervice.
His mode of cultivating the fame plant by offsets is
thus given : “ On taking up fome plants the laft fpring,
I flipped off feveral offsets from the heads of large
plants : thefe I fet with a dibble about a foot apart, in
order, if I found them thrive, to remove them into other
beds. On examining them in the autumn, I was fur-
prifed to fee the progrefs they had made, and pleafed
to be able to furnifh my beds with 43 plants in the moil
thriving ftate. Though this was my firft experiment of
its kind, I do not mean to arrogate the difcovery to
myfelf, having known it recently tried by others, but
without being informed of their fuccefs. I have reafon
to think this valuable drug will, by this method, be
brought much fooner to perfection than from feed.”
His method of curing rhubarb is thus defcribed :
“ The plants may be taken up either early in the fpring,
or in autumn, when the leaves are decayed, in dry wea¬
ther if poflible, when the roots are to be cleared from
dirt (without waffling) : let them be cut into pieces,
and with a (harp knife freed from the outer coat, and
expofed to the fun and air for a few days, to render the
outfide a little dry. In order to accelerate the curing
of the largeft pieces, a hole may be fcooped out with a
penknife: thefe and the fmaller parts are then to be
itrung on packthread, and hung up in a warm room (I
have always had the conveniency of fuch a one over a
baker’s oven), where it is to remain till perfeffly dry.
Each piece may be rendered more lightly by a common
file, fixing it in a fmall vice during that operation : af¬
terwards rub over it a very fine powder, which the fmall
roots furnilh in beautiful perfeftion, for this and every
other purpofe where rhubarb is required.”
In the year 1794, too, the Society adjudged the gold
medal to Mr Ball for his method of curing the true rhu¬
barb, which is as follows : “ I take the roots up when
I find the ftalks withering or dying away, clean them
from the earth with a dry brufti, cut them in fmall pieces
of four or five inches in breadth, and aboui two m
depth, taking away all the bark, and make a hole^ in
the middle, and firing them on packthread, keeping
every piece apart and every morning, if the weather is
clear and fine, I place them in the open part of the gar¬
den, on ftages, ereffed by fixing fmall ports about fix
feet’bigb in the ground, and fix feet afunder, into which
I fix horizontal pegs, about a foot apart, beginning at
the top ; and the 'rhubarb being ftringed crofswife on
fmall poles, I place them on thefe pegs ; fo that if it
fhould rain, I could eafily remove each pole with the
fufpended pieces, into any covered place. I never luf-
fer them to be out at night, as the damps at this feafon
would be apt to mould them ; and if at any time I per¬
ceive the leaft mark of mould, I rub it oft wiih a dry
cloth. In fome of the pieces of rhubarb which I have
cured this year, I have made holes about half an inch
diameter in the middle, for the free paffage of air, and Rheum
have found that every one of thefe pieces dried better RjJne
than the others where no fuch holes were made ; and > '‘n. ~
have likewife hung feveral firings in the kitchen, and
never expofed them in the open air, and found them to
dry exceedingly well, and much better than thofe in
the open air. Some years fince I dried a quantity of
rhubarb on a malt-kiln, keeping up the thermometer to
80 degrees, which anfwered well, but I think rather
dried too quick : the roots which I have cured tiffs
year are a part of the plantation of lySp* an(i f°r
which the Society was fo kind as to give me a me¬
dal (a).”
RHEXIA, a genus of plants belonging to the oc-
tandria clafs 5 and in the natural method ranking with
thofe of the 17 th order, Calycanthemce. See Botany
Index.
R.HINANTHUS, a genus of plants belonging^ to
the didynamia clafs; and in the natural method ranking
under the 40th order, Psrfonatce. See Botany Index.
RHINE, a large river of Germany, famous both in
ancient and modern hiftory. It rifes among the Alpes
Lepontise, or Grifons; and firft traverfing the Lacus
Acronius, divides the Rhoeti and Vindelici from the
Helvetii, and then the Germans from the Gauls and
Belgce 5 and running from fouth to north for the great-
eft part of its way, and at length bending its courfe
weft, it empties itfelf at feveral mouths (Caefar) 5 at
three mouths into the German ocean, (Pliny) 5 viz. the
weftern, or Helius j the northern, or bleuvusj and the
middle between both thefe, which retains the original
name, Rhenus ; and in this Ptolemy agrees.—Mela and
Tacitus mention two channels, and as many mouths,
the right and left *, the former running by Germany,
and the latter by Gallia Belgica : and thus alfo Aftnius
Pollio, and Virgil; the cut or trench of Drufus not be¬
ing made in their time, whereby the middle channel
was much drained and reduced, and therefore overlook¬
ed by Tacitus and Mela ; and which Pliny calls the
Scanty. To account for Csefar’s feveral mouths, is a
matter of no fmall difficulty with the commentators j
and they do it no otherwife than by admitting that the
Rhine naturally formed fmall drains or rivulets from it¬
felf; the cut of Drufus being long pofterior to him ; in
whole time Afinius Pollio, quoted by Strabo, who
agrees with him therein, affirmed that there were but
two mouths, finding fault with thole who made them
more : and he mart mean the larger mouths, which
emitted larger ftreams. The Romans, efpccially.the
poets, ufed the term Rhenus for Germany, (Martial).
—At prefent, the river, after entering the Netherlands
at Schenkinhaus, is divided into feveral channels, the
two largeft of which obtain the names of the Lech and
the Waal, which running through the United Pro¬
vinces, falls into the German ocean below Rotte.r-
dam.
Lower Circle of the RHINE, confifts of the palatinate
of the Rhine, and the three ecclefiaftical elefforates, viz.
thofe of Cologne, Mentz, and Triers.
Upper Circle of the RHINE, confifted of the landgra-
viates of Alface and Heffe, comprehending the Wete-
raw
(A) The Society alfo adjudged to Mr Ball the medal in 1790, for cultivating rhubarb.
R H I [ 798 j R H I
Tp hir.-eberg raw j but now only Hefle can be accounted a part of
II Germany, Alface being long ago united to France.
, niliegau-, RHINEBERG, a town of Germany, in the circle
of the Lower Rhine, and diocefe of Cologne. It was
in the pcfleffion of the French, but reitored to the
archbifhop of Cologne by the treaty of Utrecht. It
is feated on the Rhine, in E. Long. 6. 39. N. Lat.
Reijkach's
Travels
through
Germany,
hi. 226.
Sl-3°-
RHINECK, a town of Germany, in the archbilhop-
ric of Cologne, feated on the Rhine, E. Long. 7. 53.
N. Lat. 50. 27.—There is another town of the lame
name in Svvifferland, capital of Rhinthal, feated on the
Rhine, near the lake of Conftance, with a good caftle.
E. Long.'9. 53. N. Lat. 47. 38.
RHINFELD, a fmall but itrong town of Germany,
in the circle of Suabia, and the belt of the four forelt-
towns belonging to the houfe of Auftria. It has been
often taken and retaken in the German wars ; and is
feated on the Rhine, over which there is a handlbme
bridge. E. Long. 7. 53. N. Lat. 47. 40.
RHINEGAU, a beautiful dillridt of the eledlorate
of Mentz, is fituated on the Rhine, about three miles
from the city of Mentz, and is fo populous that it looks
like one entire town intermixed with gardens and vine¬
yards. The Rhine here grows aftonithingly wide, and
forms a kind of fea, near a mile broad, in which are fe-
veral well wooded little i(lands. The Rhinegau forms
an amphitheatre, the beauties of which are beyond all
defcription. At Walluf, the very high hills come near¬
ly down to the river fide •, from thence they recede
again into the country, forming a kind of half circle,
the other end of w hich is 15 miles on at Rudertieim, on
the banks of the Rhine. The banks of the river, the
hills which form the circles, and the (lopes of the great
mountains, are thick fovvn with villages and hamlets.
The w'hite appearance of the buildings, and the fine
blue fiated roofs of the houfes playing amid ft the various
green of the landfcape, have an admirable effedf. In
the fpace of every mile, as you fail down the river, you
meet with a village which in any other place would pals
for a town. Many of the villages contain from 300 to
400 families j and there are 36 of them in a fpace of
15 miles long and fix miles broad, which is the width
of this beautiful amphitheatre. The declivities of all
the hills and mountains are planted thick with vineyards
and fruit trees, and the thick w7ooded tops of the hills
caft a gloomy horror over the otherwife cheerful land¬
fcape. Every now and then a rowT of rugged hills run
direftly down to the (hore, and domineer maieftically
over the leffer hills under them. On one of thefe great
mountains, juft about the middle of the Rhinegau, you
meet Jo/umnis-Berg, a village which, produces feme of
the bed Rhenifti. Before this village is a pretty little
rifing, and near the banks of the river there is a very
fine old caftle, w'hich gives unfpeakable majefty to the
W'hole landfcape. Indeed, in every village, you meet
with fome or other large building, which contributes
very much to the decoration of the w'hole. This coun¬
try is indebted for its riches to this femicircular hill,
which prote&s it from the cold winds of the eaft and
north, at the fame lime that it leaves room enough for
the fun to exercife his benign intluences. The groves
and higher (lopes of the hills make excellent paftures,
and produce large quantities of dung, which, in a coun¬
try of this fort, is of ineftimable value.
3
The bank of the Rhine, oppofite to the Rhinegau, is Rhtmsgan.
exceedingly barren, and heightens the beauty of they—
prolpedt on the other (ide by the contrail it exhibits j
on this fide, you ha.dly meet above thiee or four villa¬
ges, and thele are lar diilant from each other. The
great interval between them is occupied by heaths and
meadows, only here and there a thick bu(h affords fome
(hade, and a few corn fields among the villages enliven
the gloomy landfcape. The back ground of this coun¬
try is the moff pidturefque part of it. It is formed by
a narrow' gullet of mountains, which diminilh in perfpec-
tive between Rudeftieim and Bingen. Perpendicular
mountains and rocks hang over the Rhine in this place,
and leem to make it the dominion of eternal night. At
a diftance, the Rhine feems to come out of this land¬
fcape through a hole under ground ; and it appears to
run tediouffy, in order to enjoy its courfe through a
pleafant country the longer. Amidft the darknefs
W'hich covers this back ground, the celebrated Moufe
towers feems to fwim upon the river. In a word, there
is not any thing in this whole tratt that does not contri¬
bute fomething to the beauty and magnificence of the
whole 5 or, if I may be permitted the exprefiion, to
make the paradile more welcome. As jou fail along
the Rhine, between Mentz and Bingen, the banks of
the river form an oval amphitheatre, which makes one
of the richeff and mod pidlurelque landfcapes to be feen
in Europe. The inhabitants of thele regions are fome
of them extremely rich, and fome extremely poor. The
happy middle (late is not for countries the chief produdl
of which is wine j for, beffdes that the cultivation of
the vineyard is infinitely more troublefome and expenfive
than agriculture, it is fubjedled to revolutions, which in
an inllant reduce the holder of land to the condition of
a day-labourer, it is a great misfortune for this coun¬
try, that, though rtftrained by law, the nobility are,
through connivance of the eledlor, allowed to purchafe
as much land as they pleafe. The pea fan t generally be¬
gins by running in debt for his vineyard j fo that if it
does not turn out well, he is reduced to day-labour, and
the rich man extends his pofieflions to the great detri¬
ment of the country. There are feveral peafants here, who
having incomes of 30,000, 50,000, or 100,000 guilders
a-year, have laid afide the peafant, and aflumed the wine-
merchant j but, fplendid as their filuatien is, it does
not compenfate, in the eyes of the humane man, for the
fight of fo many poor people with which the villages
fw’nrm. In order to render a country of this kind
profperous, the (late (hould appropriate a fund to the
purpofe cf maintaining the peafant in bad years, and
giving him the affiftance which his neceffities, and his
want of ready money, may from time to time make
convenient.
The inhabitants of the Rhinegau are a handfome and
uncommonly ftrong race of men. You fee at the very
firft afpeft that their wine gives them merry hearts and
found bodies. They have a great deal of natural wit,
and a vivacity and jocofenefs, which diftinguifties them
very much from their neighbours. T ou need only com¬
pare them with fome of thefe, to be convinced that the
drinker of wine excels the drinker of beer and water,
both in body and mind, and that the inhabitant of the
fouth is much flouter than he who lives in the north j
for though the wine-drinker may not have quite as
much flefli as he who drinks only beer, he has better
blood,
R H I [ 799 ] R H I
Uhinegau blood, and can bear much more work. Tacitus had
H already obferved this, in his treatife De ?noribus Germa-
u^te c'. norum. “ The large and corpulent bodies of the Ger¬
mans (fays he) have a great appearance, but are not
made to lad.” At that time almoft all the Germans
drank only water } but the mere drinking of wine has
eflfedted a revolution in feveral parts of Germany, w’hich
makes the prefent inhabitants of thefe countries very
different from thofe defcribed by Tacitus. Black and
brown hair is much commoner here than the white,
which made the Germans fo famous in old Rome. “ It
will be eafily imagined (fays Baron Reifbeck), that the
monks fare particularly well in fo rich a country. We
made a vifit to the prelate of Erbach. Thefe lordly
monks, for fo in every refpeft they are, have an excel¬
lent hunt, rooms magnificently furnilhed, billiard ta¬
bles, half a dozen beautiful tinging women, and a ftu-
pendous wine cellar, the well ranged batteries of which
made me fhudder. A monk, who favv my aftonilhment
at the number of the calks, affured me, that, without
the benign influence wdrich llorved from them, it would
be totally impoffible for the cloilter to fubfift in fo damp
a fituation.”
RHINFELD, a cadle of Germany, in the circle of
the Lower Rhine, in a county of the fame name. It is
L I
looked upon as one of the moft important places feated Rhinfeld
on the Rhine, as well in regard to its ftrength as fitua- . II
tion- It is near St Goar, and built on a craggy rock, ^■hizobalus.
This fortrefs commands the whole breadth of the Rhine,
and thofe who pafs are always obliged to pay a conlider-
able toll. In the time of W’ar it is of great importance
to be mailers of this place. It was taken by the French
in 1794. E. Long. 7. 43. N. Lat. 50. 3.
RH1NLAND, a name given to a part of South
Holland, which lies on both fides of the Rhine, and of
which Leyden is the capital town.
RHINOCEROS, a genus of quadrupeds belonging
to the order of belluae. See Mammalia Index.
RHtNOCEROS-Bird. See JBuCEROS, ORNITHOLOGY
Index*
RHITYMNA. See Retimo.
RHIZOBALUS, a genus of plants, belonging to the
polyandria clafs j and in the natural method ranking
under the 23d order, Trihilatcc. Of this there is only
one fpecies, viz. Pekiu. The nuts are fold in the Ihops
as American nuts j they are flat, tuberculated, and kid¬
ney-lliaped, containing a kernel of the fame fhape, which
is fwcet and agreeable. Clulius gives a good figure of
the nut, and Aublet has one of the whole plant.
j .YIX X X
r
- " .F Z.'F.O
END OF THE SEVENTEENTH VOLUME.
I
-h.
i ■ I
DIRECTIONS for placing the PLATES of Vol. XVII.
Part I.
Plate CCCCXXXIV. to face page 88
CCCCXXXV. - - - - 144
CCCCXXXVI. - - • - 170
CCCCXXXVN. - - - 208
CCCCXXXVIII. ... 272
CCCCXXXIX. - - - 348
CCCCXL. - - - - 376
Part II.
CCCCXLI. CCCCXLII. - - 422
CCCCXLIII.—CCCCXLVII. - - 436
CCCCXLVIII. - - - - 460
CCCCXLIX CCCCLI. - - 520
CCCCLII.—CCCCLVII. - - 568
CCCCLVIII. - - - , 580
CCCCLIX. CCCCLX. - - 638
CCCCLXI 7&>
v
I
I
