“t
"H'fT ""I'-
%-
%
SB 1
Encyclopaedia B
ritannica.
ASS
Association, the a£i of aflociating, or confii-
tuting a fociety, or partnerfliip, in order to carry
on fome fcheme or affair with more advantage. The
word is Latin, ajjbciatio; and compounded of ad, to,
and focio, to join.
Association of Ideas, is where two or more ideas
conffantly and immediately follow or fucceed one ano¬
ther in the mind, fo that one lhall almoft infallibly pro¬
duce the other, whether there be any natural relation
between them or not. See Metaphysics.
Where there is a real affinity or connexion in ideas,
it is the excellency of the mind, to be able to colled!,
compare, and range them in order, in its inquiries: but
where there is none, nor any caufe to be affigned for
their accompanying each other, but what is owing to
mere accident or habit: this unnatural affociation be¬
comes a greater imperfedlion, and is, generally fpeaking,
a main caufe of error, or wrong deductions in reafoning,
Thus the idea of goblins and fprights, it has been
obferved, has really no more affinity with darknefs than
with light ; and yet let a fooliffi maid inculcate thefe
ideas often on the mind of a child, and raife them there
together, it is poffible he ffiall never be able to feparate
them again fo long as he lives, but darknefs {hall ever
bring with it thofe frightful ideas. With regard to
this inftance, however, it muft at the fame time be ob¬
ferved, that the connedlion alluded to appears far from
being either unnatural or abfurd. See the article Ap¬
parition.
Such wrong combinations of ideas, Mr Locke fhows,
are a great caufe of the irreconcileable oppofition be¬
tween the different fedls of philofophy and religion : for
we cannot imagine, that all who hold tenets different
from, and fometimes even contradidlory to, one ano¬
ther, ffiould wilfully and knowingly impofe upon them-
lelves, and refufe truth offered by plain reafon : but
fome loofe and independent ideas are, by education,
cuftom, and the conftant din of their party, fo coupled
in their minds, that they always appear there together:
thefe they can no more feparate in their thoughts,
tnan if they were but one idea, and they operate as if
they were fo. This gives fenfe to jargon, demonftra-
tion to abfurdities, confiftency to nonfenfe, and is the
foundation of the greateft, and almoft of all the errors
m tire world.
Affociation forms a principal part of Dr Hartley’s
■mecuanical theory of the mind. He diftinguiffies it
into fynchronous and fucceffive: and afcribes our fimple
Vol. III. Part. I.
ASS
and complex ideas to the influence of this principle Affociation.
or habit. Particular fenfations refult from previous'"““'V"—-’
vibrations conveyed through the nerves to the medul¬
lary fubftance of the brain 5 and thefe are fo intimate¬
ly affociated together, that any one of them, when im-
preffed alone, {hall be able to excite in the mind the
ideas oi all the reft. Thus we derive the ideas of natural
bodies from the affociation of the feveral fenfible qua¬
lities with the names that exprefs them, and with each
other. The fight of part of a large building fuggefts
the idea of the reft inftantaneoufly, by a fynchronous
affociation of the parts 5 and the found of the words,
which begin a familiar fentence, brings to remembrance
the remaining parts, in order, by fucceflive affociation.
Dr Hartley maintains, that fimple ideas run into com¬
plex ones by affociation ; and apprehends, that by
purfuing and perfe&ing this doatine, we may fome
time or other be enabled to analyze thofe complex ideas,
that are commonly called the ideas df reflexion, or irtel-
leBual ideas, into their feveral component parts, i. e.
into the fimple ideas of fenfation of which they confift 5
and that this doatine may be of confiderable ufe in the
art of logic, and in explaining the various phenomena
of the human mind.
Association of Parliament. In the reign of King
William III. the parliament entered into a folemn af¬
fociation to defend his Majefty’s perfon and government
again!! all plots and confpiracies j and all perfons bear¬
ing offices civil or military, w'ere enjoined to fubfcribe
the affociation to ftand by King William, on pain of
forfeitures and penalties, &c. by flat. 7 and 8 W. III.
c. 27.
Association, African. This is an inftitution which
was formed in the year 1788, for the purpofe of pro¬
moting difcoveries in the interior parts of Africa. Out
of the number of the members, of wffiich this fociety
confifts, five are ele&ed for the management of its funds
and correfpondence, and for the appointment of perfons
to whom the miffions are affigned. Mr Ledyard was
the firft who was fent out, for accompliffiing the objecf
of the fociety. He undertook the adventurous talk,
of traverfing from call to weft, the wfldeft part of the
African continent, in the latitude which was afcribed
to the Niger ; and with this view he arrived at Cairo
in Auguft 1788.. But before his proje£!ed journey-
commenced, he died, and the hopes that were enter¬
tained of this enterprifing and perfevering traveller
were difappointed. Mr Lucas was next chofen by the
A committee.
ASS [ :
Aflociation committee. In Oftober 1788, he embarked for Tri-
Aflbnant P°^ ’ an^ ^ie was inftrufted to proceed overthe defert
of Zaara to Fezzan, to colledd all -the information that
could be obtained, refpefling the interior of the Afri¬
can continent, and to tranfmit it by way of Tripoli.
He was then to return by way of Gambia, or the coaft of
Guinea. But his peregrinations terminated at Mefurata.
The difficulties and dangers which prefented themielves
deterred him from proceeding farther. He tranfmitted
to the fociety only the refult of his conferences with
the traders to Fezzan, with whom he was travelling ;
meafured back his road to Tripoli, and foon after re¬
turned to England.
The fociety Hill perfevered in its object, and in the
year 1790, appointed Major Houghton, with inftruc-
tions to fail for the mouth of the Gambia, and to tra-
verfe the country from weft to eaft. He arrived on
the coaft in November the fame year, immediately
commenced his journey, afcended the river Gambia to
Medina, 900 miles diftant from its mouth, and thence
proceeded to Bambouk, and to the adjoining kingdom
of KaxTon, where, in September the year following, he
unfortunately terminated his travels with his life, near
to the town of Jarra.
Mr Park was engaged by the fociety in the fame
lervice in 1795, and purfiiing the route of Major
Houghton, more fuccefsfully explored the banks of the
Niger, to Sego and to Silla, the firft of that great line
ot populous cities which divide the fouthern from the
northern deferts of Africa. The information which
Mr Park colledled, during his adventurous journey,
was communicated to the fociety in 1798.
1 he laft of the labours of the fociety, was the ap¬
pointment of Mr Horneman, who had offered himfelf
to the committee in 1796. Having purfued for fome
time the requiiite ftudies to qualify himfelf for the un¬
dertaking, he departed from London in July 1797, and
having remained fqme time at Cairo, where he was re¬
ceived under the protection of Bonaparte, then com-
inanding the French army in Egypt, he commenced
his journey weft ward with the caravan, in September
1798. In November following, he arrived at Mour-
zouk in Fezzan, from which his laft defpatches to the
fociety were tranfmitted by way of Tripoli. And from
the fuccefsful progrefs which lie had made, he enter¬
tained great hopes of being able to penetrate farther
to the fouthward and weftward, than any former traveller
had been able to accomplilh. The difeoveries which
have been communicated to the world, from the la¬
bours ot thefe travellers, under the patronage of the
fociety, are fully detailed in the account which we have
given of Africa.
ASSOILZIE, in Law, to abfolve or free.
ASSONANCE, in Rhetoric and Poetry, a term
ufed where the words of a phrafe or a verfe have the
fame found or termination, and yet make no proper
rhyme. Thele are ulually accounted vicious in Englilh ;
tnough the Romans fometimes ufed them with elegan¬
cy ; as, Militem compara vit, exercitum ordinavit, aciem
iujlravit.
ASSONANT rhymes, is a term particularly ap¬
plied to a kind of verfes common among the Spaniards,
where a refemblance of found ferves inftead of a natu¬
ral rhyme. Thus, ligerq, cubierta, tierra, mija, may
anfwer each other in a kiud of ajjbnant rhyme, hav-
] ASS
ing each an e in the penult fyliable, and an a in the Afiuan,
laft. Aflumpfit.
ASSUAN. See Syene. ' —y--—/
ASSUMPSIT, in the Law of England, a voluntary
or verbal promife, whereby a perfon affumes, or takes
upon him to perform or pay any thing to another.
A promife is in the nature of a verbal convenant, and
vpnts nothing but the folemnity of writing and fealing
to make it abfolutely the fame. If therefore it be to
do any explicit aft, it is an exprefs contract, as much
as any covenant ; and the breach of it is an equal in¬
jury. The remedy indeed is not exaftly the fame :
fince, inftead of an atftion of covenant, there only lies
an action upon the cafe, for what is called an affump-
ft or undertaking of the defendant \ the failure of per¬
forming which is the wrong or injury done to the
plaintiff, the damages whereof a jury are to eftimate
and iettle. As, if a builder promifes, undertakes,
or affumes to Caius, that he will build and cover his
houfe within a time limited, and fails to do it j Caius
has an acfion on the cafe againft the builder for this
breach of his exprefs promife, undertaking, or af-
fumpfit $ and ftiall recover a pecuniary fatisfadlion for
the injury fuftained by fuch delay. So alfo in the
cafe of a debt by ftmple contraft, if the debtor pro¬
mifes to pay it and does not, this breach of promife
entitles the creditor to his action on the cafe, inftead
of being driven to an action of debt. Thus likewife a -
promiffory note, or note of hand not under feal, to
pay money at a day certain, is an exprefs affumplit ;
and the payee at common law, or by cuftom and a£t
of parliament the indorfee, may recover the value of
the note in damage, if it remains unpaid. Some
agreements indeed, though never fo exprefsly made, are
deemed of fo important a nature, that they ought not
to reft in verbal promife only, which cannot be proved
but by the memory (which fometimes will induce the
perjury) of witneffes. To prevent which, the ftatute
of frauds and perjuries, 29 Car. II. c. 3. enatffs, that
in the five following cafes no verbal promife ftiall be
fufficient to ground an adion upon, but at the leaft
fome note or memorandum of it ftiall be made in
'writing, and figned by the party to be charged there-
rvith : 1. Where an executor or adminiftrator promifes
to anfwer damages out of his .own eftate. 2. Where
a man undertakes to anfwer for the debt, default, or
mifearriage, of another. 3. Where any agreement is
made upon confideration of marriage. 4. Where any
contrad or fale is made of lands, tenements, or heredi¬
taments, or any intereft therein. 5. And laftly, where
there is any agreement that is not to be performed with¬
in a year from the making hereof. In all thefe cafes
a mere verbal affumpfit is void.
From thefe exprefs contrads the tranfition is eafy to
thofe that are only implied by law. Which are fuch as
reafon and juftice didate, and which therefore the law
prefames that every man has contraded to perform j
and, upon this prefumption, makes him anfwerable to
fuch perfons as fuffer by his non-performance.
Thus, 1. If I employ a perfon to tranfad any buft-
nefs for me, or perform any work, the law implies that
I undertook, or affumed, to pay him fo much as his
labour deferved ; and if I negled to make him amends,
he has a remedy for his injury by bringing his adion
on the cafe upon this implied affumpfit; wherein he is
much
A s S [
Affumpfit. at liberty to fuggeft that I promifed to pay him fo
mUch as he reafonably deferved, and then to aver that
his trouble was really worth fuch a particular fum,
which the defendant has omitted to pay. But this
valuation of his trouble is fubmitted to the determina¬
tion of a jury j who will affefs fuch a fum in damages
as they think he really merited. This is called an af-
fumpjit on a quantum meruit.
2. There is alfo an implied affumpfit on a quantum
valebat, which is very fimilar to the former j being only
where one takes up goods or wares of a tradefman,
without exprefsly agreeing for the price. There the
law concludes, that both parties did intentionally agree
that the real value of the goods fhould be paid ; and an
adlion on the cafe may be brought accordingly, if the
vendee refuies to pay that value.
3. A third fpecies of implied affumpfit is when one
has had and received money belonging to another with¬
out any valuable confideration given on the receiver’s
part ; for the law conffrues this to be money had and
received for the ufe of the owner only j and implies
that the perfon fo receiving, promifed and undertook
to account for it to the true proprietor. And, if he un-
juftly detains it, an adlion on the cafe lies againft him
for the breach of fuch implied promife and undertaking ;
and he will be made to repair the owner in damages,
equivalent to what he has detained in fuch violation of
his promife. This is a very extenfive and beneficial
remedy, applicable to almoft every cafe where the de¬
fendant has received money which ex cequo et bono he
ought to refund. It lies for money paid by midake,
or on a confideration which happens to fail, or through
impofition, extortion, or oppreflion, or where undue ad¬
vantage is taken of the plaintiff’s fituation.
4. Where a perfon has laid out and expended his
own money for the ufe of another at his requeft, the
law implies a promife of repayment, and an a£tion will
lie on this afi’umpfit.
5. Likewife, fifthly, upon a dated account between
two merchants, or other perfons, the lawT implies that
he againd whom the balance appears has engaged to
pay to the other; though there be not any a£lual
promife. And from this implication it is frequent for
udions on the cafe to be brought, declaring that the
plaintiff and defendant had fettled their accounts toge¬
ther, infimul computajfent (which gives name to this
fpecies of affumpfit) ; and that the defendant engaged
to pay the plaintiff the balance, but has fince negled-
ed to do it. But if no account has been made up,
then the legal remedy is by bringing a writ of account
de computo; commanding the defendant to render a jud
account to the plaintiff', or dmw the court good caufe
to the contrary. In this adion, if the plaintiff fuc-
ceeds, there are two judgments j the fird is, that the
defendant do account {<quod computet') before auditors
appointed by the court j and when fuch account is fi-
nilhed, then the fecond judgment is, that he do pay
the plaintiff' fo much as he is found in arrear.
6. The lad clafs of contra&s, implied by reafon and
eondrudion of law, arifes upon this fuppofition, that
every one who undertakes any office, employment,
trull, or duty, contrads with thofe who employ or in-
truil him, to perform it with integrity, diligence, and
ikill : and if by his want of either of thofe qualities any
injury accrues to individuals, they have therefore their
3 ]
ASS
Affump-
tive.
remedy in damages by a fpecial adion pn tbe cafe. A Affumpfit
few indances will fully illudrate tbis matter. If an
officer of the public is guilty of negled of duty, or a
palpable breach of it, of non-feafance, or of mis-feafance j'
as, if the ffieriff does not execute a writ fent to him,
or if he wilfully makes a falfe return thereof j in both
thele cafes the party aggrieved (hall have an adion on
the cafe for damages to be affeffed by a jury. If a
fheriff or gaoler fuffers a prifoner who is taken upon
mefne procefs (that is, during the pendency of a fuit)
to efcape, he is liable to an adion on the cafe. But if,
after judgment, a gaoler or a dieriff permits a debtor
to efcape, who is charged in execution for a certain ’
fum j the debt immediately becomes his own, and he
is compellable by adion of debt, being for a fum li¬
quidated and afcertained, to fatisfy the creditor in his
whole demand. An advocate or attorney that betray
the caufe of their client, or, being retained, negle6t
to appear at the trial, by which the caufe mifcarries,
are liable to an adion on the cafe, for a reparation to
their injured client. There is all’o in law always an
implied contrad with a common innkeeper, to fecure
his gueft’s goods in his inn j with a common carrier or
barge-mafter, to be anfwerable for the goods he car¬
ries 5 with a common farrier, that he ihoes a horfe well,
without laming him 5 with a common taylor, or other
workman, that he performs his bufinefs in a workman¬
like manner : in which if they fail, an adion on the
cafe lies to recover damages for fuch breach of their
general undertaking. Allb, if an innkeeper, or other
vidualler, hangs out a fign and opens his houfe for tra¬
vellers, it is an implied engagement to entertain all
perfons who travel that way ; and upon this univerfal
affumpfit an adion on the cafe will lie againft him for
damages, if he without good reafon refufes to admit a
traveller. In contrads likewife for Tales, if the feller
doth upon the fale warrant it to be good, the law an¬
nexes a tacit contrad to this warranty, that if it be
not fo, he lhall make compenfation to the buyer: elfe
it is an injury to good faith, for which an adion on the
cafe will lie to recover damages.
ASSUMPTION, a feftival in the Romifh church,
in honour of the miraculous afcent of the Virgin Ma¬
ry into heaven : the Greek church, who alfo obferve
this feftival, celebrate it on the 15th of Auguft with
great ceremony.
Assumption, in Logic, is the minor or fecond pro-
polition in a categorical i’yllogifm.
Assumption is alfo ufed for a confequence drawn
from the propofition whereof an argument is compofed.
Assumption, an ifland in North America, in the
gulf of St Lawrence, at the mouth of the great river
of the fame name. It is covered with trees. W. Long.
60. 40. N. Lat, 49. 30.
Assumption, a large and handfome town of Pro¬
per Paraguay, on the river of the fame name in South
America. It is a bilhop’s fee, is well peopled, and
feated in a country fruitful in corn and fruits, whofe
trees are always green. There is likewife a quantity
of pafture, and the air is temperate and falutary. \\\
Long. 60. 40. S. Lat. 34. 10.
ASSUMPFIVE arms, in Heraldry, are fuch as a
perfon has a right to aflume, with the approbation of
his fovereign, and of the heralds : thus, if a' perfon
who has no right by blood, and has no coat of arms,
A 2 frail
A S s [
A3urance fliall captivate ui any lawful war any gentleman, no-
Aflyria. ^^ema.ni or prince, lie is, in that cafe, entitled to bear
t 1 - tile Ihield of that prifoner, and enjoy it to him and his
heirs for ever.
ASSURANCE, or Insurance, in Co?nmerce. See
Insurance.
ASSUROR, a merchant, or other perfon, who
makes out a policy of affurance, and thereby infures a
Ihip, houfe, or the like.
ASS US, °r As sos, in Ancient Geography, a town of
Troas (though by others fuppofed to be of Myfia), and
the fame with Apollonia (Pliny) ; but different from
the Apollonia on the river Rhyndacus. Ptolemy places
it on the fea-coaft, but Strabo more inland ; if he does
not mean the head of an inland bay, as appears from
.Diodorus Siculus. It was the country of Cleanthes
the ftoic philofopher, who fucceeded Zeno. St Luke
and others of St Paul’s companions, in his voyage
(Acts xx. 13. 14.), went by fea from Troas to Affos :
, but St Paul went by land thither, and meeting them
at Affos, they all went together to Mytelene. It is Hill
called AJfos. E. Long. 27. 30. N. 38. 30.
ASSYRIA, an ancient kingdom of Afia, concern-
v nig the extent, commencement, and-duration of which,
hiltorians differ greatly in their accounts. Several an¬
cient writers, in particular Ctefias and Diodorus Sicu¬
lus, have affirmed, that the Affyrian monarchy, un¬
der Ninus and Semiramis, comprehended the greater
part,of the known world. Had this been the cafe, it
is not likely that Homer and Herodotus would have
omitted a faft io remarkable. I he facred records in¬
timate, that none of the ancient ftates or kingdoms
were of confiderable extent 5 for neither Chederlaomer,
nor any of the neighbouring princes, were tributary or
fubject to Affyria j and we find nothing of the greatnefs
or power of this kingdom in the hirtory of the judges
and fucceeding kings of Ifrael, though the latter king¬
dom was oppreiled and enflaved by many different pow¬
ers in that period. It is highly probable, therefore,
that Affyria was originally of fmall extent. Accord¬
ing to Ptolemy, it -was bounded on the north by Ar¬
menia Major ; on the well by the Tigris \ on the fouth
by Sufiana ; and on the eaft by Media.
It is probable, that the origin and revolutions of the
Affix rian monarchy were as follows.— I he founder of
it was Affiur, the fecond fon of Shem, who went out
ot Shinar, either by the appointment of Nimrod, or
to elude the fury of a tyrant ; conducted a large body
r • ’ of adventurers into Affyria, and laid the foundation of
ChrotoLL ^Ineveh (Gen. x. 11.) Thefe events happened not
oJ' long after Nimrod had eftabliffied the Chaldsean mo¬
narchy, and fixed his refidence at Babylon. The Per-
fian hiftorians fuppofe that the kings of Perfia of the
firff dynafty were the fame with the kings of Affyria,
or whom Zohah, or Nimrod, was the founder of Babel.
(Herbelot Orient. Bibl. v. Bagdad'). It does not, how¬
ever, appear that Nimrod reigned in Affyria. The
kingdoms of Babylon and Affyria were originally di-
itindt and feparate (Micah, v. 6.) ; and in this ftate
they remained until Ninus conquered Babylon and
made it tributary to the Affyrian empire. Ninus the
fucceffor of Affier (Gen. x. 11. Diod. Sic. lib. 1.),
leized on Chaldaea, after the death of Nimrod, and
united the kingdoms of Affyria and Babylon. This
great prince is faid to have fubduecf Afia, Perfia, Media,
4 ] ASS
-E'gyPL If he did fo, the effedds of his conqueffs Affyria,
were of no duration ; for in the days of Abraham, we -v—
do not find that any of the neighbouring kingdoms
were fubjea to Affyria. He was fucceeded by Se¬
miramis ; a princefs of an heroic mind • bold, enter-
prifing, fortunate 5 but of whom many fabulous things
have been recorded. It appears, however, that there
were two princeffes of the fame name, who fiouriflied at
very different periods. One of them was the confort of
Ninus ; and the other lived five generations before Ni-
tocris queen of Nebuchadnezzar (Eufeb. Chron. p. 58.
Herod, lib. i. c. 184). This fa6t has not been attend¬
ed to by many waiters.
Whether there was an uninterrupted feries of kings
from Ninus to Sardanapalus, or not, is ftill a quellion.
Some, fufpicion has arifen, that the lift which Ctefias
has given of the Affyrian kings is not genuine ; for
many names in it are of Perfian, Egyptian, and Gre¬
cian extraction.
Nothing memorable has been recorded concerning the
fucceffors of Ninus and Semiramis. Of that effemi¬
nate race of princes it is barely faid, that they afcend-
ed the throne, lived in indolence, and died in their pa¬
lace at Nineveh. Diodorus (lib. ii.) relates, that, in the
reign of Teutames, the Affyrians, folicited by Priam
their vaffal, fent to the Trojans a fupply of 20,000
foot and 200 chariots, under the command of Mem-
non, fon of Tithonus prefident of Perfia : But the truth
of his relation is rendered doubtful by the accounts of
other waiters.
. Sardanapalus wms the laft of the ancient Affyrian
kings. Contemning his indolent and voluptuous courfe
of life, Arbaces, governor of Media, withdrew his al¬
legiance, and rofe up in rebellion againft him. He was
encouraged in this revolt by the advice and affiftance
of Belefis, a Chaldean prieft, who engaged the Baby¬
lonians to fellow^ the example of the Medes. Thefe
powerful provinces, aided by the Perfians and other al¬
lies, who defpifed the effeminacy, or dreaded the ty¬
ranny of their Affyrian lords, attacked the empire on
all fides. Their moft vigorous efforts w'ere, in the be¬
ginning, unfuccefsful. Firm and determined, however,
in their oppofition, they at length prevailed, defeated
the Affyrian army, befieged Sardanapalus in his capi¬
tal, which they demolifhed, and became mailers of the
empire, B. C. 821.
After the death of Sardanapalus, the Affyrian empire
was divided into three kingdoms, viz. the Median, Af¬
fyrian, and Babylonian. Arbaces retained the fupreme
powTer and authority, and fixed his refidence at Ecba-
tana in Media. He nominated governors in Affyria
and Babylon, who were honoured with the title of
kings, w'hile they remained fubjeft and tributary to the
Median monarchs. Belefis received the government
of Babylon as the reward of his fervices •, and Phul
was intrufted with that of Affyria. The Affyrian go¬
vernor gradually enlarged the boundaries of his king¬
dom, and was fucceeded by Tiglath-pilefer, Salmana-
far, and Sennacherib, who afferted and maintained
their independency. After the death of Affar-haddon,
the brother and fucceffor of Sennacherib, the kingdom
of Affyria wras fplit, and annexed to the kingdoms of
Media and Babylon. Several tributary princes after¬
wards reigned in Nineveh ; but no particular account
of them is found in the annals of ancient nations. We
hear
[ 5 ]
AST
Diomed places tlie charaaeriftic of this figure, or fpe-
cies of irony, in that it is not grofs and rullic, but in¬
Aftell.
AST
Affythment hear no more of the kings of Aflyria, but of thoie of
I! Babylon. Cyaxares king of Media afiifted Nebu-
, A^^m- i chadnezzar king of Babylon, in the fiege of Nineveh,
which they took and deftroyed, B. C. 606. 1 he
Chaldean or Babylonifh kingdom was transferred to
the PAedes, after the reign of Nabonadius, ion of Bvil-
merodach, and grandfon of Nebuchadnezzar. He is
ftyled Belihazzar in the facred records, and was con¬
quered by Cyrus, B. C. 538.
ASSYTHMENT. See Assithment.
ASTA, an inland town of Liguria, a colony (Pto¬
lemy) on the river Tanarus : Now sljli. E. Long.
8. 15. N. Lat. 44. 40.
Jsta Regia, a town of Babtica, (Pliny); fituated
at the mouth of the Baetis which was choaked up with
mud, to the north of Cadiz : 16 miles diflant from the
port of Cadiz, (Antonine). Its ruins fiiow its former
greatnefs. Its name is Phsenician, denoting -a frith or
arm of the fea, on which it Hood. It is faid to be the
fame with Xera ; which fee.
ASTABAT, a town of Armenia, in Afia, fituated
near the river Aras, 12 miles fouth of Naklhivan. The
land about it is excellent, and produces very good
wine. There is a root peculiar to this country, called
ronas; which runs in the ground like liquorice, and
ferves for dyeing red. It is very much ufed all over
the Indies, and in it they have a great trade. E. Long.
46. 30. N. Lat. 39. o.
ASTANDA, in Antiquity, a royal courier or mef-
fenger, the fame with angarus.—King Darius of
Perfia is laid by Plutarch, in his book on the fortune
of Alexander, to have formerly been an afanda,
ASTAROTH, or Ashtaroth, in Antiquity, a
goddefs of the Sidonians.— The word is Syriac, and
fignifies [beep, efpecially when their udders are turgid
with milk. From the fecundity of thefe animals, which
in Syria continue to breed a long time, they formed
the notion of a deity, whom they called AJlaroth, or
AJlarte. See As tart e.
Astaroth, in Ancient Geography, the royal refi-
dence of Og king of Balkan ; whether the fame with
Aftaroth Carnaim, is matter of doubt : if one and the
fame, it followrs from Eufebius’s account, that it lay in
Balkan, and to the eall of Jordan, becaufe in the con¬
fines of Arabia. %
ASTARTE, in Pagan Mythology, (the lingular of
Aftaroth), a Phamician goddefs, called in Scripture
the queen of heaven, and the goddefs of the Sidonians.
-—Solomon, in compliment to one of his queens, eredt-
ed an altar to her. In the reign of Ahab, Jezebel cau-
fed her worlhip to be performed with much pomp and
ceremony : fire had 400 priefts ; the women were em¬
ployed in weaving hangings or tabernacles for her;
and Jeremiah obferves, that “ the children gathered
the wood, the fathers kindled the fire, and the women
kneaded the dough, to make cakes for the queen of
heaven.”
Astarte, in Ancient Geography, a city on the other
fide Jordan ; one of the names of Rabbath Ammon, in
Arabia Petraea, (Stephanus).
ASTEISM, in Rhetoric, a genteel irony, or hand-
fome way of deriding another. Such, e. gr. is that of
Virgil :
dhti Bavium non odit, amet tua carmina, Ma vi, fa'c.
genious and polite.
ASTELL, Mary, an Englilh lady who was an
eminent writer, was born at Newmaftle upon I yne in
the year 1668. Her father, who was a merchant,
committed the education of his daughter to her uncle,
who was a clergyman. Convinced of the general in¬
jury done to young ladies at that period by the defi¬
ciency of their education, he taught her the Latin and
French languages, and inftruaed her in the principles
of logic, mathematics, and natural philofophy. Ha¬
ving fpent 20 years of her life in Newxaftle, Ihe re¬
tired to London, where fhe continued the purfuit of
her ftudies; and, deeply affefted with the general ig¬
norance of her fex, ihe employed the firft fruits of her
pen to roufe them to a proper emulation, in a -work,
“ A ferious Propofal to the Ladies, wherein a Method
is offered for the Improvement of their Minds,” print¬
ed in izmo. at London 1697' The chief objedf or
that book was to eredt a feminary for female educa¬
tion. A certain lady, fuppofed to be the queen, form¬
ed the defign of devoting 10,cool, to this honourable
purpofe; but Biftiop Burnet having fuggefted, that it
would have too much the appearance of a nunnery, the
defign did not take effedl.
Difappointed in the article of marriage with an emi¬
nent clergyman, fhe next wrote a book entitled “ Re¬
flections on Marriage,” which wras publifhed in I 700*
This lady wras a zealous advocate for the religious
fyftem commonly called orthodox ; and in politics, de¬
fended the doCtrine of nonrefiftance. About this time
file publifhed fome controverfial pieces, among which
are the following : “ Moderation truely ftated;” “ A
Fair Way with the Diffenters ;” An Impartial En¬
quiry into the caufes of the Rebellion ;” and “ A Vin¬
dication of the Royal Martyrs;” all printed 10410
in 1704. Her moft firiifhed performance was, “ The
Chriftian Religion as profelled by a Daughter of the
Church of England,” publifhed in i7°5> a large
oCtavo volume. Dr Waterland fpeaks of this book in
very favourable terms ; and fuch was the intrepidity of
this lady, that fhe has attacked both Locke and I illot-
fon in the controverfial part. In the evening of her
life Mrs.Aftell was attacked with the fevere difeafe of
a cancer in her breaft ; the amputation of which fhe
bore with Angular fortitude. At the advanced age of
63 ihe died in the year 1731.
Mrs Aftell appears to have been a woman of uncom¬
mon talents as a writer and fcholar ; rigid in her prin¬
ciples, and aufters in‘her manners. Since a new era
of female education has commenced, fuch an author
as Mrs Aftell would have attraCled little notice ; but
at a period of fociety when few women could read, and
fcarcely any could write, it was highly honourable for
£ female to fuggeft hints, however imperfedt, for the
improvement of female education. It may farther be
remarked, that it deferves to be mentioned, that about
a century ago a lady informed the public by her pen,
that “ women, who ought to be retired, are for this
reafon defigned for fpeculation,” and that “ great im¬
provements might be made in the fciences, were not
women enviouily excluded from this their proper bufi-
nefs. Deeming her time more valuable than to be
wafted by trifling vifttors, and abhorring the pradtice
After
, II
Afteria.
AST [ ,
of teaching fervants to lie, Hie would humouroufly ac-
colt iuch vifitors by faying, “ Mrs Altell is not at
j home.” (Gen. Biog.}
, ASTER, starwort. See Botany Index.
Aster, or Stella Marina, in Zoology. See Aste-
: r I As, Helminthology Index.
ASTERABAD, a province in the north-eaft part
of Perfia, having Tabriftan on the eaft, part of the
Cafpian fea and part of Jorjan on the north, Korafan
on the weft, and Koumas on the fouth. It is a moun¬
tainous country, except near the banks of the rivers
that almoft furround it, where it is pleafant and fruit¬
ful, producing grapes of a prodigious fize. In other
parts the foil is fandy and barren. Afterabad is the
chief town, which gives name to a gulf in the Perfian
fea, at the bottom of which it Rands. E. Lonp. ci.
35. N. Lat. 36. 50. ^
ASTER I A, in Zoology, a name by which fame
authors have called the falco palumbarius, or gojhawk.
See Falco, Ornithology Index.
Asteria is alfo the name of a gem, ufually called
the cat's eye, or oculus cati. It is a very fingular and
very beautiful Rone, and fomewhat approaches to the
nature of the opal, in having a bright included colour,
which Jeems to be lodged deep in the body of the Rone,
•and drifts about, as it is moved, in various dire&ions $
but it differs from the opal in all other particulars,
efpecially in its want of the great variety of colours feen
in that gem, and in its fuperior hardnefs. It is ufually
found between the fize of a pea and the breadth of a
fxxpence ; is almoR always of a femicircular form, broad
and flat at the bottom, and rounded and convex at the
top; and is naturally fmooth and poliflied. It has on-
ly two colours, a pale brown and a white ; the brown
feeming the ground, and the white playing about in
it, as the fire colour in the opal. It is confiderably
hard, and will take a fine polifh, but is ufually worn
with its native drape and fmoothnefs. It is found in
the Eafl and WeR Indies, and in Europe. The ifland
of Borneo affords fome very fine ones, but they are
ufually fmall ; they are very common in the fands of
rivers in New Spain : and in Bohemia they are not un-
frequeirtly found immerfed in the fame maffes of jafper
with the opal.
Asteria is alfo the name of an extraneous foflil,
called in Engliflj xb.cjlar-jlone. The foflils are fmall,
flrort, angular, or fulcated columns, between one and
two inches long, and feldom above a third of an inch
in diameter ; corapofed of feveral regular joints; when
feparated, each refembks a radiated flar. They are,
not without reafon, fuppofed to be a part of fome fea-
fiih petrified, probably the afterias or fea-Rar. The afte¬
ria is alfo called ajrites, ajlroites, and ajlerifcus. They
may be reduced to two kinds: thofe whole whole bo¬
dies make the form of a Rar ; and thofe which in the
whole are irregular, but are adorned as it w^ere with
conRdlations in the parts. Dr Lifler, for diRin&ion’s
lake, only gives the name ajleria to the former-fort,
diRinguiflring the latter by the appellation of ajlroi¬
tes; other naturaliRs generally ufe the two indifcrimi-
nately. I he aReria Ipoken of by the ancients, appears
to be of this latter kind. Ehe quality of moving in
vinegar, as if animated, is fcarce perceivable in the '
aRroites, but is fignal in the afleria. The former muR
be broken in fmall pieces before it will move; but the
Aftracan.
> ] AST
latter w ill move, not only in a whole joint, but in two Aftemi
or three knit together, 7 he curious frequently meet
with thefe Rones in many parts of England : at Cley-
don in Oxfordfhire they are found rather larger than
common, but of a fofter fubflance ; for, on being left a
fmall fpace of time in a Rrong acid, they may eafily be
feparated at the joints in fmall plates.
ASTERIAS, star-fish, or sea-star. See Hel¬
minthology Index.
Asterias, the ancient name of the bittern. See
Ardea, Ornithology Index.
ASTERISK, a mark in form of a Rar (*), placed
oyer a wmrd or fentence, to refer the reader to the mar¬
gin, or elfewhere, for a quotation, explanation, or the
like.
ASTER I US, or Asturius, a Roman conful, in
449. We have under his name, “ A Conference on
the Old and New TeRament,” in Latin verfe : in
which each flrophe contains, in the firfl verfe, an hi-
Rorical fatt in the Old .TeRament; and in the fecond,
an application of that fa& to fome point in the New.
ASTERN, a fea-phrafe, ufed to fignify any thing
at fome diRance behind the flop ; being the oppofite
of Ahead, which fignifies the fpace before her. See
Ahead,
AS 1 EROPODIUM, a kind of extraneous foflil
of the fame fubflance with the afteriae or ftar-flones, to
wdflch they ferve as a bafe. See Asteria and Star-
stone.
ASTHMA. See Medicine Index.
ASTI, a city of Montferrat in Italy, feated on the
Tanaro, and capital of the county of the fame name.
It is a bithop’s fee, and well fortified with ftrong wTaIls
and deep ditches; and is divided into the city, borough,
citadel, and caflle. There ate a great many churches
and convents, as wTell as other hand fome buildings; and
its territory is well watered, abounding with groves,
pleafant hills, and fpacious fields. It was taken by the
French in 1745, and retaken by the king of Sardinia
in 1746. E. Long. 8. 15. N. Lat. 54. 50.
AST IGI, in Ancient Geography, a colony, and con-
ventus juridicus, of Bastica, furnamed Augujia Firma,
fituated on the Singulus, which falls into the Btetis ;
called alfo Colonia AJligitana- (Pliny) : Now Ecya,
midway between Seville and Cordova. W. Long. 50,
N. Lat, 37, 20.
ASTOMI, in Anthropology, a people feigned with¬
out mouths. Pliny fpeaks of a nation of Afiomi in
India who lived only by the imell or effluvia of bodies
taken in by the nofe.
ASTORGA, a very ancient city of Spain, in the
kingdom oi Leon, with a bilhop’s fee, is feated on the
river Tuerta, and wrell fortified both by art and nature.
It Rands in a mofl agreeable plain, about 150 miles
north-weft of Madrid. There are excellent trouts in
the river. W. Long. 6. 20. N. Lat. 42. 20.
ASTRACAN, a province of Ruflia, and the moft
eaRerly part of Europe ; bounded on the north by Bul¬
garia and Balkiria ; on the louth by the Cafpian fea;
on the weft, by the Volga, which divides it from the
Nagayan Tartars and Don Coffacks ; and on the eaft,
by the great ridge of mountains which part it from
Great Tartary. The province extends from the 46th
to the y2d degree of latitude. The lummer is long,
and intenfely hot: the winter continues about three
months
AST [
Aftracan. months fo ievere, that the Volga is frozen hard enough
"'v “ ' to bear loaded Hedges. The foil is rich and fertile j
but the Tartars who inhabit it are ftrangers to agricul¬
ture. On the weftern and fouthern lides of the Volga
are heaths of a prodigious extent, fandy, defert, and
uncultivated ; thefe, however, produce vaft quantities
of fine tranfparent fait in pits, where the fun bakes and
incrullates it to the thicknefs of an inch on the fair face
of the water. There are pits in the neighbourhood of
Aftracan which yield this excellent fait in fuch abun¬
dance, that any perfon may carry it oft', paying at the
rate of one farthing a pooft, which is equal to forty
pounds. The metropolis, Aftracan, is fituated with¬
in the boundaries of Afia, on an illand called Do/goi,
about 6q Englifti miles above the place where the Vol¬
ga difembogues itfelf into the Cafpian fea. The city
derives its name from Hadgee Tarken, a Tartar, by
whom it was founded. It was conquered by Iwan Ba-
filowitz, recovered by the Tartars in the year 1668,
and retaken by the czar, who employed for this pur-
pofe a great number of flat-bottomed veflels, in which
he tranfported his forces down the Volga from Cafan.
The city of Aitracan is about two miles and a half
in circumference, furrounded by a brick wall, wflrich
is now in a ruinous condition : but, if we comprehend
the fuburbs, the circuit wall be near five miles. The
number of inhabitants amounts to 70,000, including
Armenians and Tartars, as well as a few Perfians and
Indians. The garrifon confifts of fix regiments of the
bell Ruffian troops, who, when this place was alarm¬
ed from the fide of Perfia, had in the adjacent plain
erefled a great number of fmall batteries, to fcour the
fields, and obflruft the approach of the enemy. The
houles of Aftracan are built of wood, and generally
mean and inconvenient. The higher parts of the city
command a profpecl of the Volga, which is here about
three miles in breadth, and exhibits a noble appear¬
ance. The marfliy lands on the banks of it render the
place very fickly in the fummer : the earth, being im¬
pregnated with fait, is extremely fertile, and produces
abundance of fruit, the immoderate ufe of which is at¬
tended with epidemical diftempers. Sicknefs is like-
wife the confequence of thofe annual changes in the
atmofphere produced by the floods in fpring and au¬
tumn. All round the city of Aftracan, at the diftance
of two miles, are feen a great number of gardens, or¬
chards, and vineyards, producing all forts of herbs
and roots. The grapes are counted fo delicious, that
they are prelerved in fand, and tranfported to court by
land-carriage at a prodigious expence : yet the wine of
Aftracan is very indifferent. The fummer being ge¬
nerally dry, the inhabitants water their gardens by
means of large wheels worked by wind or horfes,
which raife the water to the higheft part of the gar¬
den, from whence it runs in trenches to refrefh the
roots of every Angle tree and plant. The neighbour¬
ing country produces hares and partridges, plenty of
quails in fummer, with wild and water-fowl of all forts
in abundance.
About ten miles below Aftracan is a fmall ifland
called Boftnaife, on which are built large ftorehoufes
for the fait, which is made about twelve miles to
the eaftward, and, being brought thither in boats, is
conveyed up the Volga, in order to fupply the coun¬
try as far as Mofcow and Twere. The quantity of
r ] AST
fait annually dug for thefe purpofes amounts to fome Aftracan,.
millions of pounds, the exclufive property of which is v—J
claimed by the crown, and yields a confiderable reve¬
nue ; for the foldiers and bulk of the people live almoft
entirely on bread and fait. The neighbourhood of
thefe falt-works is of great advantage to the fifheries,
which extend from hence to the Cafpian fea, and reach
to the fouth-eaft as far as Yack, and even too miles
above Zaritzen. The principal fiih here caught are
fturgeon and belluga. Thefe, being faked, are put on
board of veffels, and fent away in the fpring, for the
ufe ol the whole empire, even as far as Peterfhurg :
but as fi(h may be kept freflr as long as it is frozen,
the winter is no fooner fet in, than they tranfport
great quantities of it by land through all the provinces
of Ruflia. Of the roes of the fifli called belluga, which
are white, tranfparent, and of an agreeable flavour,
the fifliers here prepare the caviare, which is in fo much
efteem all over Europe. Thefe fiiheries were firft efta-
blilhed by one Tikon Demedoff, a carrier, who fettled
in this place about 60 years ago, his whole wealth
confifting of two horfes. By dint of ft;ill and indu-
ftry, he foon grew the richeft merchant in this coun¬
try : but his fuccefs became fo alluring to the crown,
that of late years it hath engroffed fome of the fiiheries
as well as the falt-works.
From the latter end of July to the beginning of Oc¬
tober, the country about Aftracan is frequently infeft-
ed with myriads of locufts, which darken the air in their
progreffion from the north to the fouthward 5 and,
wherever they fall, confume the whole verdure of the
earth. Thefe infers can even live for fome time un¬
der water ; for when the wind blows acrofs the Volga,
vaft numbers of them fall in clufters, and are rolled
aihore ; and their wings are no fooner dry, than they
rife and take flight again.
^ Heretofore the inhabitants of Aftracan traded to
Khuva and Bokhara 3 but at prefent thefe branches are
loft, and their commerce is limited to Perfia and the
dominions of Ruflia. Even the trade to Perfia is much
diminiihed by the troubles of that country 3 neverthe-
lefs, the commerce of Aftracan is ftill confiderable.
Some years ago, the city maintained about 40 veffels,
from ico to 200 tons burden, for the Cafpian traffic.
Some of thefe belong to the government, and are com¬
manded by a commodore, under the dire&ion of the
admiralty, ff his office is generally w7ell flocked wfith
naval ftores, which are fold occafionally to the mer¬
chants. I he trading (hips convey provifions to the
frontier towns of Terkie and Kiflar, fituated on the
Cafpian fea ; and tranfport merchandife to feveral
paits of leifia. I he merchants of Aftracan export
to Perfia, chiefly on account of the Armenians, red
leather, linens, woollen cloths, and other European ma-
nufa&ures. In return, they import the commodities
of Perfia, particularly thofe manufa&ured at Cafan 3
fuch as filk fafhes intermixed with gold, for the ufe
of the Poles ; wrought filks and fluffs mixed with cot¬
ton 3 rice, cotton, rhubarb, and a fmall quantity of
other drugs 5 but the chief commodity is raw filk. The
government has engroffed the article of rhubarb, the
greater part of which is brought into Ruflia by the
Tartars ot Yakutfki, bordering on the eaflern Tartars
belonging to China.^ They travel through Siberia to
Saniura, tuence. to Cafan, and laftly to IVlofcow., The
revenue
AST [
Aitrasa revenue of Aftracanis computed at 150,000 rubles, or
, H ^ 33,oool. arifing chiefly from fait and fith. The
fla“ city is ruled by a governor, under the check of a
-y——J chancery. He is neverthelefs arbitrary enough, and
exercifes oppreflion with impunity. The officers of
the admiralty and curtom-houfe having very fmall fa-'
larfles, are open to corruption, and extremely rapaci¬
ous. At chriflening feafts, which are attended with
great intemperance, the guefts drink a kind of cherry-
brandy out of large goblets •, and every perfon invited
throws a prefent of money into the bed of the mother,
who fits up with great formality to be fainted by the
company.
The Indians have a Pagan temple at Aftracan, in
which they pay their adoration, and make offerings of
fruit to a very ugly deformed idol. The priefts of this
pagod ufe incenfe, beads, cups, and proftrations. The
Tartars, on the contrary, hold idol-worfhip in the ut-
moft abomination.
ASTR./EA, in Aftronomy, a name which fome give
to the fign Virgo, by others called Erigone, and fome-
times Ifts. The poets feign that juftice quitted hea¬
ven to refide on earth, in the golden age; but, grow¬
ing weary of the iniquities of mankind, ffie left the
earth, and returned to heaven, where fire commenced
a conflellation of liars, and from her orb Hill looks
down on the ways of men.
ASTRAGAL, in ArchheBure, a little round mould-
ing, which in the orders furrounds the top of the ffiaft
or body of the column. It is alfo called the talon and
tondino ; it is ufed at the bottoms as well as tops of co¬
lumns, and on other occafions : it properly reprefents
a ring, on whatever part of a column it is placed ; and
the original idea of it was that of a circle of iron put
round the trunk of a tree, ufed to fupport an edifice, to
prevent its fplitting. The aflragal is often cut into
beads and berries, and is ufed in the ornamented en¬
tablatures to feparate the feveral faces of the archi¬
trave.
Astragal, in Gunnery, a round moulding encom-
paffing a cannon, about half a foot from its mouth.
ASTRAGALOMANCY, a fpecies of divination
performed by throwing fmall pieces, with marks cor-
refponding to the letters of the alphabet; the acciden¬
tal difpofition of which formed the anfiver required.
This kind of divination was pradlifed in a temple of
Hercules, in Achaia. The word is derived from
esfgasyseAo;, and ftotiTiiot, divination.
ASTRAGALUS, Milk-vetch, or Liquorice-
-vetch. See Botany Index.
Astragalus. See Anatomy Index.
ASTRANTIA, Masterwort. See Botany
Index.
ASTRICTION, in Law. See Thirlage.
Astriction, among Phyjicians, denotes the ope¬
ration of aftringent medicines.
ASTRINGENTS, in the Materia Medica, fub-
flances diftinguilhed by a rough auftere tafte, and chan¬
ging folutions of iron, efpecially thofe made in the vi¬
triolic acid, into a dark purple or black colour ; fuch
are galls, tormentil root, biftort root, balauftines, ter¬
ra japonica, acacia, &c. See Materia Medica A-
dex.
ASTROGNOSIA, the fcience of the fixed flars,
3 1 AST
or the knowledge of their names, conftellations, mag- Aftroites
nitudes, &c. ||
AS1ROITES, or star-stone, in Natural Hi/lo-
ry. See Asteria and Star-Stone.
ASTROLABE, the name for a llereographic proT
jeftion of the fphere, either upon the plane of the equa¬
tor, the eye being fuppofed to be in the pole of the
world 5 or upon the plane of the meridian, when the
eye is fuppofed in the point of the interfe&ion of the
equinodlial and horizon.
* Astrolabe is alfo the name of an inftrument for¬
merly ufed for taking the altitude of the fun or liars
a t fea.
Astrolabe, among the Ancients, was the fame as
our armillary fphere.
ASTROLOGY, a conjedlural fcience, which teach¬
es to judge of the effedls and influences of the liars,
and to foretel future events by the fituation and diffe¬
rent afpedls of the heavenly bodies.
This fcience has been divided into two branches, na¬
tural •awA judiciary. To the former belongs the pre-
didling of natural effefts ; as, the changes of weather,
winds, Iforms, hurricanes, thunder, floods, earthquakes,
&c. This art properly belongs to natural philofophy ;
and is only to be deduced a pojlenon, from phenomena
and obfervations. Judiciary or judicial altrology, is
that which pretends to foretel moral events ; i. e. fuch
as have a dependency on the free will and agency of
man j as if they were directed by the liars. This art,
which owed its origin to the pradlices of knavery on
credulity, is now univerfally exploded by the intelli¬
gent part of mankind.
The profeffors of this kind of allrology maintain,
“ That the heavens are one great volume ok book,
wherein God has written the hiltory of the world ; and
in which every man may read his own fortune, and the
tranfaftions of his time. The art, fay they, had its rife
from the fame hands as allronomy itfelf: while the
ancient Affyrians, whofe ferene unclouded Iky favoured
their celellial obfervations, were intent on tracing the
paths and periods of the heavenly bodies, they difco-
vered a conllant fettled relation or analogy between
them and things below ; and hence were ,led to con¬
clude thefe to be the Parcae, the Deftinies, fo much
talked of, which prefide at our births, and difpofe of
our future fate.
“ The laws therefore of this relation being afcer-
tained by a feries of obfervations, and the (hare each
planet has therein ; by knowing the precife time of any
perfon’s nativity, they were enabled, from their know¬
ledge in aftronomy, to eredl a fcheme or horofcope of
the fituation of the planets at this point of time ; and,
hence, by confidering their degrees of power and in¬
fluence, and how each was either ftrengthened or tem¬
pered by fome other, to compute what muff be the re-
fult thereof.”
Thus the aftrologers.—But the chief province now
remaining to the modern profeflbrs, is the making of
calendars or almanacks.
Judicial aftrology is commonly faid to have been
invented in Chaldea, and thence tranfmitted to the
Egyptians, Greeks, and Romans 5 though fome will
have it of Egyptian origin, and afcribe the invention to
Cham. But it is to the Arabs that we owe it. At Rome
the
ASTRONOMY.
Part I.
Aftrology. the people were fo infatuated wdth it, that the aftrolo-
■y——' gers, or, as they were then called, the mathematicians,
maintained their ground in fpite of all the edifts of
the emperors to expel them out of the city. See Ge-
nethliaci.
Add, that the Bramins, who introduced and prafli-
fed this art among the Indians, have hereby made them-
felves the arbiters of good and evil hours, which gives
them great authority : they are confulted as oracles j
and they have taken care never to fell their anfwers
but at good rates.
The fame fuperftition has prevailed in more modern
ages and nations. The French hiftorians remark, that
in the time of Queen Catharine de Medicis, aftrology
was in fo much vogue, that the moft inconftderable
thing was not to be done without confulting the ftars.
And in the reigns of King Henry III. and IV. of
France, the prediftions of aftrologers were the com¬
mon theme of the court converfation. This predomi- Aftronium
nant humour in that court was well rallied by Barclay, ^ftro||om-
in his Argenis, lib. ii. on occafion of an aftrologer, who ‘caj sedtor,
had undertaken to inftrudl King Henry in the event of u—y——j
a w7ar then threatened by the faction of the Guifes.
ASTRONIUM. See Botany/Wkv.
ASTRONOMICAL, fomething relating to A-
STRONOMY.
Astronomical Calendar, an inftrument engraved on
copperplates, printed on paper, and palled on a board,
with a brafs Aider carrying a hair : it ftiows by infpec-
tion the fun’s meridian altitude, right afcenfion, decli¬
nation, rifing, fetting, amplitude, &,c. to a greater de¬
gree of exaftnefs than the common globes.
Astronomical Sector, a very ufeful mathematical
inftrument, made by the late ingenious Mr Graham 5
a defcription of which is given in the courfe of the
following article.
ASTRONOMY.
STRONOMY is that fcience which treats of the
motions of the heavenly bodies, and explains the
laws by which thefe motions are regulated.
It is the moft fublime and the moft perfeft of all the
fciences. No fubjedl has been longer ftudied, or has
made greater progrefs. There is a vaft interval be¬
tween the rude obfervations of the earlier aftronomers
and the precifion and general views wdiich direft our
prefent obfervers. To afcertain the apparent motions
of the heavenly bodies w^as a difficult talk, and requi¬
red the united obfervations of ages. To unravel thefe
intricate mazes, and detect and demonftrate the real
motions, demanded the moft patient perfeverance,
judgment, and dexterity. To afcertain the laws of
thefe motions, and to refolve the whole of them in¬
to one general fa6I, required the exertions of a fagaci-
ty fcarcely to be expelled in human nature. Yet all
this has been accompliffied j and even the moft minute
movement of the heavenly bodies has been ffiewn to
depend upon the fame general law wdth all the reft,
and even to be a confequence of that law. Aftrono-
my, therefore, is highly interefting, were it only be-
caufe it exhibits the fineft inftance of the length that
the reafoning faculties can go. It is the triumph of
philofophy and of human nature. But this is not all.
It has conferred upon mankind the greateft benefits,
and may truly be confidered as the grand improver and
condudftor of navigation.
The following treatife will be divided into four parts.
In the JirJi part, wre ffiall give a Iketch of the hiftory
of aftronomy $ in the fecond, we lhall treat of the ap¬
parent motions of the heavenly bodies 5 in the third, of
their real motions; and in the fourth, of gravitation,
or of that general fa£I to which all their motions may
be referred, and from which they proceed.
Part I. HISTORY OF ASTRONOMY.
Hiftory. The antiquity of this fcience may be gathered from
V-. -'y—-i< what was fpoken by the Deity at the time of creating
the eeleftial luminaries, “ Let them be for ftgns and
leafons,” &c. whence it is thought probable that the
human race never exifted without fome knowledge of
aftronomy among them. Indeed, befides the motives
of mere curiofity, wffiich of themfelves may be fuppofed
to have excited people to a contemplation of the glo¬
rious eeleftial canopy, as far as that was poffible, it is
eaftly to be feen that fome parts of the fcience anfwer
fuch effential purpofes to mankind, that they could not
T poffibly be dilpenfed with.
Aftronomy By fome of the Jewifh rabbins, Adam, in his ftate
■^uppoied to 0f innocence, is fuppofed to have been endowed with a
ftooiTb^ knowledge of the nature, influence, and ufes of the
Adam and heavenly bodies ; and Jofephus aferibes to Seth and his
■the Antedi-pofterity an extenfive knowledge of aftronomy. But
luvians. whatever mav be in this, the long lives of the Antedi-
Vol. III. Part I.
luvians certainly afforded fuch an excellent opportunity Hiftorv
for obferving the eeleftial bodies, that we cannot buty—L
fuppofe the fcience of aftronomy to have been confide-
rably advanced before the Hood. Jofephus fays, that
longevity wras beftowred upon them for the very purpofe
of improving the fciences of geometry and aftronomy.
The latter could not be learned in lefs than 600 years:
“ for that period (fays he) is the grand year.','> By
which it is fuppofed he meant the period wherein the
fun and moon came again into the fame fituation as
they were in the beginning thereof, wdth regard to the
nodes, apogee of the moon, &c. “ This period (fays
Caffini), whereof wre find no intimation in any monu¬
ment of any other nation, is the fineft period that ever
was invented : for it brings out the folar year more
exaftly than that of Hipparchus and Ptolemy ; and
the lunar month within about one fecond of what is
determined by modern aftronomers. If the Antedilu-
B vians
10 ASTRO
Hiflory. vians ftacl fucli a period of 600 years, they muft have
v known the motions of the fun and moon more exafHy
than their defcendants knewr them fome aa;es after the
a flood.”
Aftronomi. On the building of the tower of Babel, Noah is fup-
ledo^ofthe P0^ to ^ave ret’re^ with his children born after the
ChinefL ^ hooti»t0 the north-eaftern part of Afia, w'here his de¬
fcendants peopled the vafl empire of China. “ This
(fays Dr Long) may perhaps account for the Chinefe
having fo early cultivated the fludy of aitronomy j
their being fo well fettled in an admirable police, and
continuing fo many hundred years as they did in the
worfhip of the true God.” The vanity of that people
indeed has prompted them to pretend a knowledge of
aftronomy almoft as early as tin? flood itfelf. Some of
the Jefuit miflionaries have found traditional accounts
among the Chinefe, of their having been taught this
icience by their firft emperor Fo-hi,fuppofed to be Noah j
and Kempfer informs us, that this perfonage difcovered
the motions of the heavens, divided time into years
and months, and invented the twelve figns into which
they divide the zodiac, which they diftinguilh by the
following names. 1. The moufe. 2. The ox or cow.
3 3. The tiger. 4. The hare. 5. The dragon. 6. The
rr^nes for ferPent- 7* The horfe. 8. The ftieep. 9. The monkey,
the figns of I0' The ,cock .°f hen* 11 • Th? dog j and, 1 2. The
the zodiac. k)oar# T ^ey divide the heavens into 28 conftellations,
four of which are afligned to each of the feven planets j
fo that the year always begins with the fame planet;
and their conftellations anfwer to the 28 manfions of
the moon ufed by the Arabian aftronomers. Thefe
copftellations, in the Chinefe books of aftronomy, are
not marked by the figures of animals, as was in ufe
among the Greeks, and from them derived to the
other European nations, but by conne&ing the ftars
by ftraight lines : and Dr Long informs us, that in a
Chinefe book in thin 410, ftiowji him by Lord Pem¬
broke, the ftars were reprefented by fmall circles joined
by lines j fo that the Great Bear would be marked thus,
 ^
To the emperor Hong-ti, the grandfon of Noah,
they attribute the difcovery of the pole-ftar, the inven¬
tion of the mariner’s compafs, of a period of 60 years,
and fome kind of fphere. This extraordinary antiqui-
ty, however, is with good reafon fufpefted, as is like-
wile their knowledge in the calculation of eclipfes j of
which Du Halde allures us, that 36 are recorded by
Confucius himfelf, who lived 551 years before Chrift •
and P. Trigault, wTho w^ent to China in 1619, and read
more than 100 volumes of their annals, fays, “ It is
certain that the Chinefe began to make aftronomical
obfervations foon after the flood ; that they have ob-
ifrved a great number of eclipfes, in which they have
noted down the hour, day, month, and year, when they
iappened, ^but neither the duration nor the quantity ;
*.nd that thefe eclipfes have been made ufe of for re¬
gulating their chronology.”
“ But out of this abundance (fays Dr Long), it is
much to be regretted/that fo very few of their obfer¬
vations have been particularized 3 for befide what has
been mentioned above, w’e meet with no very ancient
cbfervations of the Chinefe, except a winter folltice in
N O M Y. Patti.
the year 1111, and a fummer folftice in the year 882, be- Hiftory.
fore Chrift. Martini indeed fpeaks of a fummer fol-
ftice 2342 years before that period. But M. Caflini,
who calculated h, found that there muft have been an
error in tne Chinefe computation of 500 years at leaft,
error of equal magnitude appears to have been
committed in the conjundlion of the five planets, which
it is pretended they obfejved between the years 2513
and 2435 before Chrift. In Ihort, fome have fuppo'-
fed, that none of thefe are real obfervations, but the
refult of bungling calculations ; and it has been hinted,
but furely on too flight a foundation, that even thofe
good fathers themfelves wxre greatly to be fufpedted.
But let us come to things which are not conteftcd.
“ P. Gaubil informs us, that at leaft 120 years before
Chrift, the Chinefe had determined by obfervation the
number and extent of their conftellations as they now
Hand 3 the fituation of the fixed ftars wuth refpedt
to the equino&ial and folftitial points 3 and the ob¬
liquity of the ecliptic. He farther fays, he cannot tell
by what means it is that they foretel eclipfes: but this
is certain, that the theory by which they do predift
them was fettled about the fame time 3 and that they
were acquainted with the true length of the folar year,
the method of obferving meridian altitudes of the fun
by the flradowr of a gnomon, and of learning from
thence his declination and the height of the pole, long-
before. We learn, moreover, from the fame mifliona-
ry, that there are yet remaining among them fome
treatifes of aftronomy, which were ■written about 200
years before Chrift 3 from which it appears, that the
Chinefe had known the daily motion of the fun and
moon, and the times of the revolutions of the planets,
many years before that period.
“ We are informed by Du Halde, that, in the pro¬
vince of Honan, and city Teng-foang, which is nearly
in the middle of China, there is a tower, on the top of
which it is faid that Tcheou-cong, the moft fkilful aftro-
nomer that ever China produced, made his obfervations.
He lived 1200 years before Ptolemy, or more than
1000 years before Chrift, and palled whole nights in
oblerving the celeftial bodies and arranging them into
conftellations. He ufed a very large brafs table placed
perfeftly horizontal, on which was fixed a long upright
plate of the fame metal, both of which were divided
into degrees, &c. By thefe he marked the meridian al¬
titudes 3 and from thence derived the times of the fol-
ftices, w'hich were their principal epocha.”
Dr Long reprefents the ftate of aftronomy in China
as at prefent very low 3 occafioned, he fays, prin¬
cipally by the barbarous decree of one of their em¬
perors *, to have all the books in the empire burnt, *see
excepting fuch as related to agriculture and medicine.
We are informed, however, by the Abbe Grofier, in
his defcription of China, that aftronomy is cultivated
in Pekin in the fame manner as in moft of the capital
cities of Europe. A particular tribunal is eftablilhed
there, the jurifdidion of which extends to every thing
relating to the obfervation of celeftial phenomena.
Its members are, an infpeftor 3 two prefidents, one of
them a Tartar and the other a Chinefe 3 and a certain
number of mandarins wftio perform the duty of allef-
fors 3 but for near a century and a half the place of
the Chinefe prefident has been filled by an European.
Since that time particular attention has been paid to
the
Part I. ASTRO
Hiftory. tKe Jnftruftion of the aftronomical pupils j and the pre-
lidents have always confidercd it as their duty to make
them acquainted with the fyftem and method of cal¬
culation made ufe of in Europe, Thus two-thirds of
the aftronomical pupils, maintained at the emperor’s
expence, in all about 200, have a tolerable notion of
the ftate of the heavens, and underltand calculation fo
well as to be able to compofe ephemerides'of fufficient
exa&nefs. The miflionaries have never been the au¬
thors of any of thefe ephemerides : their employment
is to revife the labours of the Chinefe mathematicians,
verify their calculations, and correct any errors into
which they have fallen. The Portuguefe raiffion ftill
continues to furnilh aftronomers for the academy, as it
did at the fir ft.
The aftronomical tribunal is fubordinate to that of
ceremonies. When an eclipfe is to be obferved, in¬
formation muft be given to the emperor of the day and
hour, the part of the heavens where it will be, &c. and
this intelligence muft be communicated fome months
before it happen ; the eclipfe muft alfo be calculated
for the longitude and latitude of the capital city of
every province of the empire. Thefe obfervations, as
well as the diagram which reprefents the eclipfe, are
preferved by the tribunal of ceremonies, and another
called the calao, by whom it is tranfmitted to the dif¬
ferent provinces and cities of the empire. Some days
before the eclipfe, the tribunal of ceremonies caufes to
be fixed up in a public place, in large characters, the
hour and minute when the eclipfe will commence, the
quarter of the heavens in which it will be vifible, with
the other particulars relating to it. The mandarins are
fumraoned to appear in ftate at the tribunal of aftrono-
my, and to wait there for the moment in which the
phenomenon will take place. Each of them carries in
his hand a iheet of paper, containing a figure of the
eclipfe and every circumftance attending it. As foon
as the obfervation begins to take place, they throw
themfelves on their knees, and knock their heads againft
the earth, and a horrid noife of drums and cymbals im¬
mediately commences throughout the whole city : a
ceremony proceeding from an ancient fuperftitious no¬
tion, that by fuch a noife they prevented the luminary
from being devoured by the celeftial dragon; and
^though this notion is now exploded in China, as
well as everywhere elfe, fuch is the attachment of the
people to ancient cuftoms, that the ceremonial is ftill
preferved. While the mandarins thus, remain proftra-
ted in the court, others, ftationed on the obfervatory,
examine, with all the attention poffible, the beginning
middle, and end of the eclipfe, comparing what they
obferve with the figure and calculations given. They
then write down their obfervations, affix their feal to
them, and tranfmit them to the emperor; who, on his
part, has been no lefs affiduous to obferve the eclipfe
with accuracy. A ceremonial of this kind is obferved
throughout the whple empire.
The Japanefe, Siamefe, and inhabitants of the Mo¬
gul’s empire, have alfo, from time immemorial, been
acquainted with aftronomyj and the celebrated obferva¬
tory at Benares, is a monument both of the inge-
4 unity of the people and of their Ikill in this fcience.
Irdian JVlr Bailly has been at great pains to inveftigate the
aftronomy. pr0grefs Qf ^he Indians in aftronomical knowledge,
and gives a fplendid account of their proficiency in the
N O M Y. *1
fcience, as well as of the antiquity of their obferva- Hiftory.
tions. He has examined and compared four different l,”~v
aftronomical tables of the Indian philoiophers. I. Oi
the Siamefe, explained by M. Caflini in 1689. 2. I hofe
brought from India by M. le Gentil of the Academy
of Sciences, 3. and 4. Two other manufeript tables
found among the papers of the late M. de Lille. All
of thefe tables have different epochs, and differ in
form, being alfo conftrufted in different ways ; yet
they all evidently belong to the fame aftronomical fy¬
ftem : the motions attributed to the fun and the moon
are the fame, and the different epochs are fo well con-
nedled by the mean motions, as to demonftrate that
they had only one, whence the others were derived by
calculation. The meridians are all referred to that of
Benares above-mentioned. The fundamental epoch of
the Indian aftronomy is a conjunftion of the ftm and
moon, which took place at no lefs a diftance of time
than 3102 years before the Chriftian era. Mr Bailly
informs us, that, according to our moft accurate aftro¬
nomical tables, a conjunftion of the fun and moon ac¬
tually did happen at that time. But though the bra-
mins pretend to have afeertained the places of the two
luminaries at that time, it is impoftible for us at this
time to judge of the truth of their affertions, by rea-
fon of the unequal motion of the moon j which, as
Ihall afterwards be more particularly taken notice of,
now performs its revolution in a Ihorter time than for¬
merly.
Our author informs us, that the Indians at prefent cal¬
culate eclipfes by the mean motions of the fun and moon
obferved 5000 years ago; and with regard to the folar
motion, their accuracy far exceeds that of the belt Gre¬
cian aftronomers. The lunar motions they had alfo
fettled, by computing the fpace through which that lu¬
minary had paffed in 1,600,984 days, or fomewhat
more than 4383 years. They alfo make ufe of the
cycle of 19 years attributed by the Greeks to Meton ;
and their theory of the planets is much better than
that of Ptolemy, as they do not fuppofe the earth to be
the centre of the celeftial motions, and they believe that
Mercury and Venus turn round the fun. Mr Bailly
alfo informs us, that their aftronomy agrees with the
moft modern difeoveries of the decreale of the obli¬
quity of the ecliptic, the acceleration of the motion of
the equino&ial points, with many other particulars too
tedious to enumerate in this place. 5
It appears alfo, that even the Americans were not Aftronomy
unacquainted with aftronomy, though they made ufe
only of the folar, and not of the lunar motions, in their “L 1
divifion of time. 1'he Mexicans have had a ftrartge
predileftion for the number 13. Their fhorteft pe¬
riods confifted of 13 days; their cycle of 13 months,
each containing 20 days; and their century of four
periods of 13 years each. This exceflive veneration
for the number 13, according to Siguenza, arofe from
its being fuppofed the number of their greater gods.
What is very furprifing, though afferted as a faCt by
Ahb6 Clavigero, is that having difeovered the excefs of
a few hours in the folar above the civil year, they
made ufe of intercalary days, to bring them to an equa¬
lity : but with this difference in regard to the method
eftablilhed by Julius Casfar in the Roman calendar,
that they did not interpofe a day every four years, but
13 days (making ufe here even of this favourite num-
B 2 ber)
12 - ' AS T R O
Hiftory. her) every 52 years, which produces the fame regula-
tion of time.
Of the Among thofe nations who firft began to make any
Chaldeans figure in ancient hiftory, we find the Chaldeans and
and Egyp- Egyptians moft remarkable for their agronomical
tians. knowledge. Both of them pretended to an extravagant
antiquity, and difputed the honour of having been the
firft cultivators of the fcience. The Chaldeans boaft-
ed of their temple of Belus 5 and of Zoroafter, whom
they placed 5000 years before the deftrudlion of Troy:
' the Egyptians boafted of their colleges of priefts, wdiere
aftronomy wTas taught; and of the monument of Ofy-
mandyas, in which w’e are told was a golden circle 365
cubits in circumference and one cubit thick. The up¬
per face was divided into 365 equal parts, anfvvering
to the days of the year j and on every divifion were
written the name of the day, and the heliacal rifing of
the feveral ftars for that day, with the prognoftications
from their rifing, principally, as Long conjeftures,
for the weather.
The Chaldeans certainly began to make obferva-
tions very foon after the confufion of languages j lor
when Alexander the Great took Babylon, Callifthenes,
by his order, inquired after the aftronomical obferva-
tions recorded in that city, and obtained them for
1903 years back. Nothing, however, now7 remains
of the Chaldean aftronomy, excepting fome periods of
years which they had formed for the more ready com¬
putation of the heavenly bodies. But though they
muft have laboured under great difadvantages, for
want of proper inftruments, in thofe early ages, Ge-
mina, as quoted by Petarius in his Uranologion, in¬
forms us, that they had determined, with tolerable
exaffnefs, the lengtlr both of a fynodical and periodi¬
cal month. They had alfo difcovered, that the mo¬
tion of the moon wfas not uniform, and even attempt¬
ed to aftign thofe parts of her orbit in which it vras
quicker or flower. Ptolemy alfo allures us, that they
were not unacquainted with the motion of the moon’s
nodes, and that of her apogee, fuppofing that the for¬
mer made a complete revolution in 6585-f days, or
* 18 years 15 days and 8 hours j wTich period, con¬
taining 223 complete lunations, is called the Chal¬
dean Saros. The fame author alfo gives us, from
Hipparchus, feveral obfervations of lunar eclipfes
which had been made at Babylon about 720 years be¬
fore Chrift ; but though he might very probably meet
with many of a more ancient date, it was impoffible
to mention them particularly, on account of the im-
perfe£t ftate of the Chaldean chronology, which com¬
menced only with the era of Nabonaffar, 747 years be¬
fore Chrift.; Ariftotle likewife informs us, that they
had many obfervations of the occultations of fixed
ftars and planets by the moon ; and from hence, by a
very natural and eafy inference, they wTere led to con¬
clude that the eclipfes of the fun were occafioned alfo
by the moon, efpecially as they conftantly happened
when the latter wras in the fame part of the heavens
with the fun. They had alfo a confiderable ftiare in
arranging the ftars into conftellations. Nor had the
comets, by which aftronomers in all ages have been fo
much perplexed, efcaped their obfervation : for both
I)iodorus Siculus and Appollinus Myndius, in Seneca,
inform us, that many of the Chaldeans held thefe to
be lafting bodies, which have ftated revolutions as
N O M Y. Part I.
well as the planets, but in orbits vaftly more extenfivej Hiftory.
on w'hich account they are only feen by us while near L"—"v J
the earth, but difappear again when they go into the
higher regions. Others of them were of opinion, that
the comets were only meteors raifed very high in the
air, which blaze for a while, and difappear when the
matter of which they confift is confumed or difperfed.
Dialling was alfo known among them long before the
Greeks -were acquainted with any fuch thing.
It is evident, indeed, that the countries both of
Chaldea and Egypt were exceedingly proper for aftro-
nomical obfervations, on account of the general puri¬
ty and ferenity of the air. The tower or temple of
Belus, which was of an extraordinary height, with
flairs winding round it up to the top, is fuppofed
to have been an aftronomical obfervatory; and the
lofty pyramids of Egypt, whatever they were ori¬
ginally defigned for, might poffibly anfwer the fame
purpofe. Indeed thefe very ancient monuments fhow
the Ikill of this people in praftical aftronomy, a,s
they are all fituated with their four fronts exaftly
facing the cardinal points. Herodotus aferibes the
Egyptian knowledge in aftronomy to Sefoftris, whom
Sir Ifaac Newton makes contemporary with Solo¬
mon : but if this was the cafe, he could not be the
inftrudlor of the Egyptians in aftronomical mat¬
ters, fince we find that Mofes, who lived 500 years be¬
fore Solomon, was Ikilled in all the wifdom of the
Egyptians, in which we are undoubtedly to include
aftronomy.
From the teftimony of fome ancient authors, we learn
that they believed the earth to be fpherical, that they
knew the moon wras eclipfed by falling into its Ihadowq
and that they made their obfervations with the great-
eft exadlnefs. They even pretended to foretel the ap¬
pearance of comets, as well as earthquakes and inun¬
dations ; which extraordinary knowledge is likewife
aferibed to the Chaldeans. They attempted to mea-
fure the magnitude of the earth and the fun; but the me¬
thods they took to find out the latter were very erro¬
neous. It does not indeed appear with certainty that
they had any knowledge of the true fyftem of the uni-
verfe; and by the time of the emperor Auguftus, their
aftronomical knowledge was entirely loft.
From Chaldea the fcience of aftronomy moft probably of the Phe-
pafled into Phenicia •, though fome are of opinion thatnicians.
the Phenicians derived their knowledge of this fcience
from the Egyptians. They feem, however, to have
been the firft who applied aftronomy to the purpofes
of navigation j by which they became mafters of the
fea, and of almoft all the commerce in the world. They
became adventurous in their voyages, fleering their
ftiips by one of the ftars of the Little Bear j which being
near the immoveable point of the heavens called the
Po/e, is the moft proper guide in navigation. Other
nations made their obfervations by the Great Bear 5
which being too diftant from the pole could not guide
them in long voyages j and for this reafon they never
durft venture far from the coafts. 8
The firft origin of aftronomical knowledge among Aftronomy
the Greeks is unknown. Sir Ifaac Newton fuppofes of the
that moft of the conftellations w'ere invented about Greeks,
the time of the Argonautic expedition : but Dr Long
is of opinion that many of them muft have been of a
much older date; and that the ftiepherds, who tvere
certainly
Part I.
Hiftory.
9
Improved
by Thales.
10
By Anaxi
mander,
See.
A S T R O
certainly the firft obfervers, gave names to them ac¬
cording" to their fancy j from whence the poets invent¬
ed many of their fables. Several of the conftellations
are mentioned by Hefiod and Homer, the two moil
ancient writers among the Greeks, who lived about
873 years before Chrift j Hehod defiring the farmer
to regulate the time of fowing and harveft by the ri¬
ling and fetting of the Pleiades ; and Homer mform-
ina us, that obfervations from the Pleiades, Orion, and
Areturus, rvere ufed in navigation. I heir aftronomi-
cal knowledge, however, was greatly improved by
Thales the Mtlefian, who travelled into Egypt, and
brought from thence the firft principles or the icience.
He is laid to have determined the height of the pyra¬
mids by meafuring their fhadows at the time the fun
was 45 degrees high, and when of confequence tne
lengths of the lhadows of obje&s are equal to then-
perpendicular heights. But his reputation was rafted
to the higheft pitch among his countrymen, by the
prediaion of an eclipfe, which happened juft at the
time that the armies of Alyattes king of Lydia, and
Cyaxares the Mede, were about to engage 5 and being
regarded as an evil omen by both parties, inclined them
to peace. To him Callimachus attributes the form¬
ing of the conftellation of the Little Bear ; the know¬
ledge of which he certainly introduced into Greece.
He alfo taught the true length of the year j determined
the cofmical fetting of the Pleiades in his time to have
been 25 days after the autumnal equinox } divided the
earth into five zones by means of the polar circles and
tropics j taught the obliquity of the ecliptic 5 and (bow¬
ed that the equinoftial is cut by the meridians at right
angles, all of which 'nterfea each other at the poles.
He is alfo faid to have obferved the exaft time of the
folftices, and from thence to have deduced the true
length of the folar year ; to have obferved eclipfes of
the"fun and moon ; and to have taught that the moon
had no light but what die borrowed from the fun.
x^ecording to Stanley, he alfo determined the diameter
of the fun"1 to be one-ygOth part of his annual orbit.
“ But (fays Dr Long) thefe things Ihould be received
with caution. There are fome reafons which might
be afiigned for fuppofmg that the knowledge, of Thales
in thefe matters was much more circumfcribed : and
indeed it is not unreafonable to fuppofe, that that ve¬
neration for the ancients which leads authors to write
profefiedly on the hiftory of ancient times, may have
induced them to aferibe full as much knowledge to
them who lived in them as was really their due.
The fuccelfbrs of Thales, Anaximander, Anaxime¬
nes, and Anaxagoras, contributed confiderably to the
advancement of aftronomy. Fhe firft is laid to have
invented or introduced the gnomon .into Greece 5 to
have obferved the obliquity of the ecliptic y ano taught
that the earth was fpherical, and the centre of the
univerfe, and that the fun was not lefs than it. He
is alfo faid to have made the firft globe, and to have
fet up a fun-dial at Lacedemon, which is the firft we
hear of among the Greeks } though fome are of opi¬
nion that thefe pieces of knowledge were brought from
Babylon by Pherycides, a cotemporary of Anaximan¬
der. Anaxagoras alfo predifted an eclipfe w’hich Hap¬
pened in the fifth year of the Peloponnefian wTar.; and
taught that the moon wms habitable, confifting of hills,
vallevs, and waters, like the earth. His cotemporary
N O M Y. 13
Pythagoras, however, greatly improved not only aftro- Biitory. *
nomy and mathematics, but every other branch of phi- ^
lofophy. He taught that the univerfe was compofed Doarines
of four elements, and that it had the fun in the centre jofPytha-
that the earth was round, and, had antipodes ; and that goras.
the moon reflebted the rays of the fun 5 that the flats
were worlds, containing earth, air, and ether ; that the
moon was inhabited like the earth 5 and that the comets
were a kind of wandering liars, difappearing in the
fuperior parts of their orbits, and becoming vifible on¬
ly in the lower parts of them. The w-hite colour of
the milky-way he aferibed to the brightnefs of a great
number of fmall ftars ; and he fuppofed the diftances
of the moon and planets from the earth to be in cer¬
tain harmonic proportions to one another. He is faid
alfo to have exhibited the oblique courfe of the fun in
the ecliptic and the tropical circles, by means of an
artificial fphere 3 and he firft taught that the planet
Venus is both the evening and morning ftar. This
philofopher is faid to have been taken prifoner by
Cambyfes,- and thus to have become acquainted with*
all the myfteries of the Perfian magi 5 after which he
fettled at Crotona in Italy, and founded the Italian left.
About 440 years before the Chriftian era, Philolaus,
a celebrated Pythagorean, afferted the annual motion
of the earth round the fun ; and foon after Hicetas, a
Syracufan, taught its diurnal motion on its own axis.
About this time alfo flouriftied Meton and Eudlemon
at Athens, who took an exadl obfervation of the fum-
mer folftice 432 years before Chrift $ which is the old-
eft obfervation of the kind we have, excepting what is
delivered by the Chinefe. Meton is faid to have com-
pofed a cycle of 19 years, wrhich ftill bears bis name ,
and he marked the rifings and fettings of the ftars,
and what feafons they pointed out : in all w-hich be
was aflifted by his companion Euflemon. The fcience,
however, wras obfeured by Plato and Ariftotle, who
embraced the fyftem afterwards called the Ptolemaic,
which places the earth in the centre of the univerfe.
Eudoxus the Cnidian was a cotemporary with xL-
riftotle, though confiderably older, and is greatly ce¬
lebrated on account of bis Ikill in aftronomy. He was
the firft who introduced geometry into the fcience, and
he is fuppofed to be the inventor of many propofitions
attributed to Euclid. Having travelled into Egypt
in the earlier part of bis life, and obtained a recom¬
mendation from Agefilaus to Nedtanebus king of E-
gypt, he, by his means, got accefs to the priefts, who
had the knowledge of aftronomy entirely among them,'
after which he taught in Afia and Italy. Seneca tells
us that he brought the knowledge of the planetary mo¬
tions from Egypt into Greece ; and Archimedes, that
he believed the diameter of the fun to be nine times
that of the moon. He was alfb well acquainted with
the method of drawing a fun-dial upon a plane 5 from
whence it may be inferred that he underftood the doc¬
trine of the proje61ion of the fphere : yet, notwith-
ftanding what has been faid concerning the obferva¬
tions of Eudoxus, it is not certain that his fphere was
not taken from one much more ancient, aferibed to
Chiron the Centaur. The reafon given for this fuppo-
fition is, that had the places of the ftars been taken
from bis own obfervations, the conftellations mull have
been half a fign farther advanced than they are faid to
be in his writings.
Soon
14
12
State of
aftronomy
in Egypt
after the
death of
Alexander.
ASTRO
Hiftory. Soon after Eudoxus, Calippus flourifhed, wliofe fy-
ftem of the celeftial fpliere is mentioned by Ariftotle j
but he is better known from a period of 76 years, con¬
taining four correfted metonic periods, and which had
its beginning at the fummer folftice in the year 330
before Chrift. But about this time, or rather earlier,
the Greeks having begun to plant colonies in Italy,
G-aul, and Egypt, thefe became acquainted with the
Pythagorean fyftem, and the notions of the ancient
Druids concerning aftronomy. Julius Ctefar informs
us, that the latter were {killed in this fcience j and
that the Gauls in general were able failors, which at
that time they could not be without a competent
knowledge of aftronomy : and it is related of Pythoas,
who lived at Marfeilles in the time of Alexander the
Great, that he obferved the altitude of the fun at the
fummer folftice by means of a gnomon. He is alfo
laid to have travelled as far as Thule to fettle the cli¬
mates.
After the death of Alexander the Great, fciences
flouriftied in Egypt more than in any other part of the
world ; and a famous fchool wras fet up at Alexandria
under the aufpices of Ptolemy Philadelphus, a prince
inftrufted in all kinds of learning, and the patron of
all thofe who cultivated them ; and this fchool conti¬
nued to be the feminary of all kinds of literature, till
the invafion of the Saracens in 650. Timocharis and
Aryftillus, who firft cultivated the aftronomical fcience
in this fchool, began to put it on a new footing $ being
much more careful in their obfervations, and exaft in
noting down the times when they were made, than
their predeceftbrs. Ptolemy affures us, that Hippar¬
chus made ufe of their obfervations, by means of
which he difeovered that the ftars had a motion in
longitude of about one degree in an hundred years j
and he cites many of their obfervations, the oldeft of
which is before the ereftion of this fchool, in the year
29?, when the moon juft touched the northern ftar
in the forehead of the Scorpion ; and the laft of them
wras in the 13th year of Philadelphus, when Venus
hid the former ftar of the four in the left wing of
Virgo.
From this time the fcience of aftronomy continued
greatly to advance. Ariftarchus, who lived about 270
years before Chrift, ftrenuoufly afterted the Pythago¬
rean fyftem, and gave a method of determining the di-
ftance of the fun by the moon’s dichotomy. Eratof-
thenes, born at Cyrene in 271 B. C. determined the
meafure of a great circle of the earth by means of a
gnomon. His reputation was fo great, that he was
Invited from Athens to Alexandria by Ptolemy Euer-
getes, and made by him keeper of the royal library at
that place. At his inftigation the fame prince fet up
thofe armillas or fpheres, wdiich Hipparchus and Pto¬
lemy the aftronomer afterwards employed fo fuccefsful-
ly in obferving the heavens. He alfo found the diftance
between the tropics to be eleven fuch parts as the
whole meridian contains eighty-three. About the fame
time Berofus, a native of Chaldea, flouriihed at A-
thens. He is by fome faid to have brought many ob¬
fervations from Babylon, which are aferibed to the
Greeks j while others contend, that the latter otve
*3 little or nothing of their aftronomical knowledge to
Difcoveries Babylonians. The celebrated Archimedes, w-ho
medes.hl" next t0 Sir Ifaac Newton holds the firft place among
N 0 M Y. Part I*
mathematicians, was nothing inferior as an aftronomer Kiitory.
to what he was as a geometrician. He determined
the diftance of the moon from the earth, of Mercury
from the moon, of Venus from Mercury, of the fun
from Venus, ot Mars from the fun, of Jupiter from
Mars, and of Saturn from Jupiter ; as likewife the di¬
ftance of the fixed ftars from the orbit of Saturn. That
he made aftronomical obfervations, is not to be doubt¬
ed ; and it appears from an epigram of the poet Clau-
dian, that he invented a kind of planetarium, or orre¬
ry, to reprefent the phenomena and motions of the hea¬
venly bodies. ' >
Hipparchus was the firft who applied himfelf to theofHippar-
ftudy of every part of aftronomy, his predeceflbrs ha- chus.
ving chiefly confidered the motions and magnitudes of
the fun and moon. Ptolemy alfo informs us, that he
firft difeovered the orbits of the planets to be eccen¬
tric, and on this hypothefis w'rote a book againft Eu¬
doxus and Calippus. He gives many of his obferva¬
tions ; and fays, that by comparing one of his with
another made by Ariftarchus 145 years before, he
was enabled to determine the length of the year with
great precifion. Hipparchus alfo firft found out the
anticipation of the moon’s nodes, the eccentricity of
her orbit, and that {he moved flower in her apogee
than in her perigee. He collefted the accounts of
fuch ancient eclipfes as had been obferved by the Chal¬
deans and Egyptians. He formed hypothefes con¬
cerning the celeftial motions, and conftruefed tables of
thofe of the fun and moon, and would have done the
fame with thofe of the other planets if he could have
found ancient obfervations fufficient for the purpofe j
but, thefe being wanting, he wfcs obliged to content
himfelf with collefting fit obfervations for that pur- '
pofe, and endeavouring to form theories of the five
planets. By comparing his own obfenations on the
Spica Virginis with thofe of Timochares at Alexandria
made too years before, he difeovered that the fixed
ftars changed their places, and had a flow motion of
their own from weft to eaft. He correfted the Calip-
pic period, and pointed out fome errors in the method
laid down by Eratofthenes for meafuring the circum¬
ference of the earth. By means of geometry, which
wras nowT greatly improved, he was enabled to attempt
the calculation of the fun’s diftance in a more correft
manner than any of his predeceffors •, but unhappily it
required fo much accuracy in obfervation as was found j.
impra&icable. His greateft work, however, was his Makes the
catalogue of the fixed ftars, which he was induced to^cata-
attempt by the appearance of a new ftar. The cat a- ^
logue is preferved by Ptolemy, and contains the longi¬
tudes and latitudes of 1022 ftars, with their apparent
magnitudes. He wrote alfo concerning the intervals
between eclipfes both folar and lunar, and is faid to
have calculated all that were to happen for no lefs than
600 years from his time.
Little progrefs wras made in aftronomy from the time Syftem of
of Hipparchus to that of Ptolemy, who flouriihed in Ptolemy,
the firft century. The principles on which his fyftem
is built are indeed erroneous ; but his work will al¬
ways be valuable on account of the number of ancient
obfervations it contains. It was firft tranflated out of
the Greek into Arabic in the year 827, and into La¬
tin from the Arabic in 12 30. The Greek original
was unknown in Eitrope till the beginning of the 15th
century,
part t. ASTRO
Hiftovy. century, when it was brought from Conftantinople,
•—-v—then taken by the Turks, by George a monk of Tra-
pezond, who tranflated it into Latin. Various edi¬
tions were afterwards publiihed •, but little or no im¬
provement was made by the Greeks in this fcience.
Aftronomy During the long period from the year 800 to the
of the Ara-beginning of the 14th century, the weftern parts of
bians. Europe were immerfed in deep ignorance and barbari¬
ty. However, feveral learned men arofe among the
Arabians. The caliph A1 Manfur was the hrft who
introduced a tafte for the iciences in his empire. His
grandfon A1 Mamun, who afcended the throne in 814,
was a great encourager of the fciences, and devoted
much of his own time to the ftudy of them. He made
many afironomical obfervations himfelf, and determin¬
ed the obliquity of the ecliptic to be 230 3 5'. He em¬
ployed many able mechanics in conftrutling proper
inftruments, which he made ufe of for his oblervations j
and under his aufpices a degree of the earth was mea-
fured a fecond time in the plain of Singar, on the bor¬
der of the Red fea. From this time aftronomy was
ftudioufly cultivated by the Arabians *, and Elements
of Aftronomy were written by Alferganus, who was
partly cotemporary with the caliph A1 Mamun. But
the moft celebrated of ail their aftronomers is Alba-
tegnius, w'ho lived about the year of Chrift 880. Fie
greatly reformed aftronomy, by comparing his own
obfervations with thofe of Ptolemy. Thus he calcu¬
lated the motion of the fun’s apogee from Ptolemy’s
time to his own ; determined the preceflion of h e
equinoxes to be one degree in 70 years ; and fixed the
fun’s greateft declination at 23.35'. Finding that the
tables of Ptolemy required much corredlion, he com-
pofed new ones of his own fitted to the meridian of A-
racfta, which were long held in eftimation by the Ara¬
bians. After his time, though feveral eminent aftro¬
nomers appeared among the Saracens, none made any
very valuable obfervations for feveral centuries, ex¬
cepting Ebn Younis aftronomer to .the caliph of E-
gypt ; who obferved three eclipfes with fuch care, that
by means of them we are enabled to determine the
quantity of the moon’s acceleration fince that time.
Other eminent Saracen aftronomers were, Arzachel
a Moor of Spain, who obferved the obliquity of the
ecliptic, and conftru&ed tables of fines, or half chords
of double arcs, dividing the diameter into 300 parts ;
and Alhazen, his cotemporary, who firft Ihowed the
importance of the theory of refraftions in aftronomy j
writing alfo upon the twilight, the height of the clouds,
and the phenomenon of the horizontal moon.
Ulug Beg, a grandfon of the famous Tartar prince
Timur Beg, or Tamerlane, was a great proficient in
praflical aftronomy. He is faid to have had very large
inftruments for making his obfervations ; particularly
a quadrant as high as the church of Sanfta Sophia at
Conftantinople, which is 180 Roman feet. He com-
pofed aftronomical tables from his own obfervations for
the meridian of Samarcand his capital, to exaft as to
differ very little from thofe afterwards conftrufted by
Tycho Brahe •, but his principal work is his cata¬
logue of the fixed ftars, made from his own obferva¬
tions in the year of Chrift 1437. The accuracy of
his obfervations may be gathered from his determin¬
ing the height of the pole at Samarcand to be 39*
37' 23".
N O M Y. lS
Befides thefe improvements, we are indebted to the . Hiftory. ^
Arabians for the prefent form of -trigonometry. Ma-
nelatls, indeed, an- eminent Greek aftronomer v, no
flourilhed about the year 9^5 publiihed three books
of Spherics, in which he treated of the geometry ne-
ceffary to aftronomy, and rvhich {how great fkill in t le
fcience's ; but his methods were very laborious, evea
after they had been improved and rendered more fim-
ple by Ptolemy : but Geber the Arabian, inftead of
the ancient method, propofed three or four theorems,
which are the foundation of our modern trigonometry.
The Arabians alfo made the practice ftill more fimple,
by ufing fines inftead of the chords of double arcs.
The arithmetical charadters they had from the In¬
dians. -l8i e
During the greateft part of this time, almoft all Eu-™valot
rope continued ignorant not only of aftronomy but of Eur0peo
every other fcience. rIhe emperor Frederick II. firft
began to encourage learning in 1230 ^ reftoring fome
univerfities, and founding a new one in ^ ienna. He
alfo caufed the works of Ariftotle, and the Almagefb
or Aftronomical Treatife of Ptslemy, to be tranflated
into Latin 5 and from the tranflation of this book we
may date the revival of aftronomy in Europe. Two
years after its publication, John de Sacro Bofco, or of
Halifax, an Englifhman, wrote his four books De
Sphcera, which he compiled from Ptolemy Albateg-
nius, Alferganus, and other Arabian aftronomers:
this work was fo much celebrated, that for 300 years
it was preferred in the fchools to every other and has
been thought worthy of feveral commentaries, parti¬
cularly by Clavius in 1531. In 1240, Alphonfoking
of Caftile caufed the tables of Ptolemy to be correft-
ed : for which purpofe he aflembled many perfons {kil¬
led in aftronomy, Chriftians, Jews, and Moors 5 by
whom the tables called Alphonfine were compoied, at
the expence of 40,000, or according to others 400,000
ducats. About the fame time Roger Bacon, an Eng-
lifh monk, publifhed many things relative to aftrono¬
my •, particularly of the places of the fixed ftars, folar
rays, and lunar afpefts. Vitellio, a Polander, wrote
a treatife on Optics about 1270, in which he fhowed
the ufe of refractions in aftronomy. ip
From this time to that of Purbach, who,was born
in 1423, few or no improvements were made in aftro-
nomy. He wrote a commentary on Ptolemy’s Al-
macreft, feme treatifes on Arithmetic and Dialling,
with tables for various climates. He not only ufed
fpheres and globes, but conftruCled them himfelf 5 and
formed new"tables of the fixed ftars, reduced to the
middle of that age. He compofed alfio new tables of
fines for every ten minutes, which Regiomontanus af¬
terwards extended to every Angle minute, making the
wdrole fine 60, with 6 ciphers annexed. He likewife
corrected the tables of the planets, making new equa¬
tions to them, becaufe the Alphonfine tables were very
faulty in this refpeCt. In his folar tables he placed the
fun’s apogee in the beginning of Cancer*, but retained
the obliquity of the ecliptic 230 33V, to which it had
been reduced by the lateft obfervations. He made
new tables for computing eclipfes, of which he obfer¬
ved fome, and had juft publifhed a theory of the pla¬
nets, when he died in J461. 20
John Muller of Monteregio (Koningftierg), a townOfRegio-
of Franconia, from whence he was called Regiomonta- montuiiw.
nus)
21
Of Werner,
A S T R
nas, was the fcholar and fucceflbr of Purbach. He
completed the epitome of Ptolemy’s Almageft which
I uibach had begun ; and after the death of the latter,
went to Rome, where he made many aflronomical ob-
fervations. Having returned to Nuremberg in 1471,
he was entertained by a wealthy citizen named Ber¬
nard IValther, who having a great love for aftronomy,
caufed feveral inftruments to be made under the direc¬
tion^ of Regiomontanus, for obferving the altitude of
the xun and liars, and other celeltial phenomena. A-
mong thefe was an armillary aftrolabe, like that which
had been ufed by Hipparchus and Ptolemy at Alexan¬
dria, and with which many obfervations were made.
He alio made ephemerides for 30 years to come, fhow-
mg the lunations, eclipfes, &c. He wrote the Theo-
iy or tile Planets and Comets, and a Treatife of Tri-
angles yet in repute for feveral extraordinary cafes.
He is faid to have been the firll who introduced the
ufe of tangents into trigonometry ; and to have pub-
hlhed in print (the art ot printing having been lately
invented) the works of many of the molt celebrated
ancient altronomers. After his death, which happen¬
ed at Rome, Walther made a diligent fearch for all his
inltruments and papers which could be found; and
continued his obfervations with the inftruments he had
till his death. The obfervations of both were collect¬
ed by order of the fenate of Nuremberg, and publifhed
there by John Schoner in 1544; afterwards by Snel-
hus at the end of the Obfervations made by the Land¬
grave of Hefle in 1618; and laftly, in 1666, with
thofe of Tycho Brahe. Walther, however, as we
are told by Snellius, found fault with his armilla, not
being able to give any obfervation with certainty to
lefs than ten minutes. He made ufe of a good clock,
which alfo was a late invention in thofe days.
John Werner, a clergyman, fucceeded Walther as
aftronomer at Nuremberg ; having applied himfelf with
great aftiduity to the ftudy of that fcience from his in¬
fancy. He obferved the motion of the comet in 1500 ;
and puolilhed feveral traCls, in which he handled ma¬
ny capital points of geometry, aftronomy, and geo-
graphy, in a mafterly manner. He publilhed a tranf-
lation of Ptolemy’s Geography, with a commentary,
which is ftill extant. In this he firft: propofed the me¬
thod of finding the longitude at fea by obferving the
moon’s diftance from the fixed ftars ; which is now fo
fuccefsfully put in praaice; He alfo publiftied many
other treatifes on mathematics and geography ; but the
moil remarkable of all his treatifes, are thole concern¬
ing the motion of the eighth fphere or of the fixed
ftars, and a Ihort theory of the fame. In this he ftiow-
ed, by comparing his own obfervations of the ftars Re-
gulus, Spica Virginis, and the bright ftar in the fouth-
ern fcale of the Balance, made in 1514, with the pla¬
ces afligned to the fame ftars. by Ptolemy, Alphonfus,
and others, that the motion of the fixed ftars, now
called the preceflion of the equinoctial points, is one de¬
gree ten minutes in 100 years, and not one degree on¬
ly, as former aftronomers had made it. He made the
obliquity of the ecliptic 230 28', and the firft ftar of
Aries 26° diftant from the equinoftial point. He alfo
conftruCled a planetarium reprefenting the celeftial mo¬
tions according to the Ptolemaic hypothefis, and made
a great numbei of meteorological obfervations with a
t’iew towards the prediction of the weather. The ob¬
o N O M Y.
liquity of the ecliptic was fettled by Dominic Maria,
the friend of Copernicus, at 230 29', which is ftill
held to be juft.
1 he celebrated Nicholaus Copernicus next makes hispythago-
appearance, and is undoubtedly the great reformer ofrean lyflem
the aftronomical fcience. He was originally bred to reftored by
the practice of medicine, and had obtained the degree Coi)eraicus'
of dodtor in that faculty : but having conceived a great
regard for the mathematical friences, efpecially aftro¬
nomy, he travelled into Italy, where he for fome time
was taught by Dominic Maria, or rather aflifted him
in his aftronomical operations. On his return to
his own country, being made one of the canons of
the church, he applied himfelf with the utmoft aflidui-
ty to the contemplation of the heavens, and to the ftu¬
dy of the celeftial motions. He foon perceived the de¬
ficiency of all the hypothefes by which it had been at¬
tempted to account for thefe motions ; and for this rea-
fon he fet himfelf to ftudy the wrorks of the ancients,
wdth all of w’hom he alio was diflatisfied excepting Py¬
thagoras ; who, as has been already related, placed
the fun in the centre, and fuppofed all the planets,
wdth the earth itfelf, to revolve round him. He in¬
forms us, that he began to entertain thefe notions about
the year 1507 ; but not being fatisfied with ftating the
general nature of his hypothefis, he became defirous of
determining the feveral periodical revolutions of the
planets, and thence of conftrudling tables of their mo¬
tions which might be more agreeable to truth than
thofe of Ptolemy and Alphonfus. The obfervations
he was enabled to make, however, muft have been ex¬
tremely inaccurate ; as he tells us, that if with the in¬
ftruments he made ufe of he fliould be able to come
within ten minutes of the truth, he would rejoice no
lefs than Pythagoras did when he difcovered the pro¬
portion of the hypothenufe to the other two fides of a
right-angled triangle. His work was completed in the
year r53° ; but he could not be prevailed upon to
publilh it till towards the end of his life, partly through
diffidence, and partly through fear of the offence
which might be taken at the fingularity of the doc¬
trines fet forth in it. At laft, overcome by the im¬
portunities of his friends, he fuffered it to be publifhed
at their expence, and under the infpedlion of Schoner
and Ofiander, with a dedication to Pope Paul III. and
a preface, in which it was attempted to palliate as
much as poftible the extraordinary innovations it con¬
tained. During the time of its publication, the au¬
thor himfelf was attacked by a bloody flux, fucceeded
by a pally; fo that he received a copy only a few'
hours before his death, which happened on the 23d of
May 1543.
After the death of Copernicus, the aftronomical
fcience was greatly improved by Schoner, Nonius, Ap-
pian, and Gemma Frifius. Schoner furvived Coper¬
nicus only four years ; however, he greatly improved
the methods of making celeftial obfervations, reformed
and explained the calendar, and publifhed a treatife of
cofmography. Nonius had applied himfelf very early
to the ftudy of aftronomy and navigation ; but finding
the inftruments at that time in ufe exceflively inaccu¬
rate, he applied himfelf to the invention of others
which fhould be lefs liable to inconvenience. Thus he
invented the aftronomical quadrant, in which he divid¬
ed the degrees into minutes by a number of concentric
circles.
Part I.
ASTRONOMY.
Kiftory
*3
^Several il-
luftrious
perfons ap¬
ply to the
itudy of a-
itronemy.
24
T)bferva-
tions of
Tycho
Brahe.
circles. Tfee firft of thefe was divided into 90 equal
J parts, the fecond into 89, the third into 88, and fo
on, as low as 46 j and thus, as the index of the qua¬
drant would always fall upon one or other of the divi-
fions, or very near it, the minutes might be known
by computation. He publifhed many treatifes on ma¬
thematical fubjefls, particularly one which detected
the errors of Orontius, who had imagined that he
could fquare the circle, double the cube, See. by find¬
ing two mean proportionals betwixt two right lines.
Appian’s chief work was entitled The Ccvfarean Ajh-o-
nomy ; and was publifhed at Ingoldftadt in 1540, de¬
dicated to the emperor Charles V. and his brother
Ferdinand. In this he fhowed how to refolve aflrono-
mical problems by means of inilruments, without either
calculations or tables ; to obferve the places of the
ftars and planets by the aftrolabe; and to foretel
eclipfes and deferibe the figures of them : the whole
illuftrated by proper diagrams. In his fecond book
he clefcrxbes the method of dividing an aftronomical
quadrant, and of ufing it properly. His treatife con¬
cludes with the obfervation of five cemets. Gemma
Frifius wrote a commentary on a work of Appian en¬
titled his Cofmography, with many obfervations of eclip¬
fes. He invented aifo the aftronomical ring, and fe-
yeral other inftruments, which, though they could not
boaft of much exa&nefs fuperior to others, were yet of
confiderable utility in taking obfervations at fea ; and
he is alfo memorable for being the firft who propofed a
time-keeper for determining the longitude at fea. 
George Joachim Rheticus was a fcholar of Copernicus,
to attend whole lectures he gave up his profeflbrfhip of
mathematics at Wittemberg. h or the improvement of
aftronomical calculations, he began to conftrufl a table
of fines, tangents, and fecants, for every minute and
ten feconds of the quadrant. In this work he firft
fhowed the ufe of fecants in trigonometry, and greatly
enlarged the ufe of tangents, firft invented by Regio¬
montanus ; but he affigned for the radius a much
larger number of places than had been done before,
for the greater exaanefs of calculation. This great
tvork he did not live to accomplifh; but it w’as com¬
pleted by his difciple Valentine Otho, and publifhed at
Heidelberg in 1594.
. During this century, the lift of aftronomers was dig¬
nified by fome very illuftrious names. About the
year 1561, William IV. landgrave of Hefle Caffel, ap¬
plied himfelf to the ftudy of aftronomy. With the af-
fiftance of Rothman and Burgius, the former an aftro-
nomer, the latter an excellent mathematical inftrument
maker, he erefled an obfervatory on the top of his pa¬
lace at Cafiel, and furnifhed it with fuch inftruments
as were then in ufe, made in the beft manner the artifts
of that age could execute. With thefe he made a great
numbei of obfervations, which were by Hevelius pre¬
ferred to thofe of Tycho Brahe, and which were pu-
Idiftied by Snellius in 16x8. From thefe obfervations
he determined the longitudes and latitudes of 400
ftars, vftiich he inferted in a catalogue where their
places are re&ified to the beginning of the year 1 1^9^.
, Tycho Brahe began his obfervations about the fame
tune with the landgrave of Hefle, already mentioned.
He obferved the great conjunflion of Saturn and Ju¬
piter in 1563 ; and finding the inftruments he could
procure very inaccurate, he made a quadrant capable
\ol. III. Part. I,
25
of fhowing Angle minutes, and likewife a fextant four
cubit’s radius. In 1571, he difeovered a newr ftar in
the chair of Caffiopeia ; which induced him, like Hip¬
parchus, to make a catalogue of the ftars. This con¬
tained the places of 777 ftars, re&ified to the year 1600;
but inftead of the moon, which was ufed by the ancients
to conneft the places of the fun and ftars, Tycho fub-
ftituted Venus, as having little or no parallax, and yet
being like the moon vifible both day and night. By
the recommendation of the landgrave of Heffe, he
obtained from the king of Denmark the ifland of Hu-
enna, oppofite to Copenhagen, where an obfervatory
wras built. The firft ftone of this building, afterwards
called Uraniburg, w^as laid in the year 1576. It was Account of
of a fquare form, one fide of it being about 60 feet in Uraniburg,
length $ and on the eaft and weft fides w^ere two round llis °bferva-
towers of 32 feet diameter each. The inftrumentstory-
were larger and more folid than had ever been feen be¬
fore by any aftronomer. They confifted of quad rants,
fextants, circles, femicircles, armilke both equatorial and
zodiacal, parallacftic rulers, rings, aftrolabes, globes,
clocks, and iun-dials. Thefe inftruments were fo di¬
vided as to fhow fingle minutes; and in fome the arch
might be read off to 10 feconds. Moft of the divifions
W'ere diagonal : but he had one quadrant divided ac¬
cording to the method invented by Nonius j that is, by
47 concentric circles. The whole expence is faid to
have amounted to 200,000 crowns. The method of
dividing by diagonals, which Tycho greatly admired,
was the invention of Mr Richard Chanceler, an En-
ghftiman : Tycho, however, {hows, that it is hot accu¬
rately true when ftraight lines are employed, and the
circles at equal diftances from each other"; but that it
may be corredled by making circular diagonals, which
if continued would pafs through the centre.
Tycho employed his time at Uraniburg to the beft:
advantage ; but falling into diferedit on the death of
the king, he was obliged to remove to Holftein and at
laft found means to get himfelf introduced to the em¬
peror, with wThom he continued to his death. He is
well known to have been the inventor of a fvftpm
of aftronomy, which bears his name : and which he
vainly endeavoured to eftablifti on the ruins of that
of Copernicus: but the fimplicity and evident confo-
nancy to the phenomena of nature, difplayed in all
parts of the Copernican fyftem, foon got the better of
the unnatural and complicated fyftem of Tycho. His
works, however, which are very numerous, difeover him
to have been a man of vaft abilities. After his death
the caftle of Uraniburg quickly fell to decay, and m-
tieed feems to have been purpofely pulled down; for
in 1652, when Mr Huet went to Sweden, it was almoft
level with the ground, and few traces of the walls could
be difeerned. None of the neighbouring inhabitants
had ever heard of the name of Tycho or Uranibum
excepting one old man, whom Mr Huet found out
with great difficulty, and who had been a fervant in
the family ! All the difcoverles of Purback, Regiomon¬
tanus, and Tycho, were colleaed and publiffied in the
year 1611, by Eongomontanus, who had been Tycho’s
favourite fcholar. J
While Tycho refided at Prague tvith the emperor, DifcoCte
he invited thither John Kepler, afterwards fo famous °f Kepler,
lor his difcovenes. Under the tuition of fo great
an aftronomer, the latter quickly made an amazing
^ progrefs.
iS ASTRO
; Hiftofy, ^ progrefs. He found that his predeceflbrs had erred
v in luppofing the orbits of the planets to be circular,
and their motions uniform : on the contrary, he per¬
ceived, from his own obfervations, that they were el¬
liptical, and their motions unequal, having the fun in
one of the foci of their orbits ; but that, however they
varied in abfolute velocity, a line drawn from the cen¬
tre of the fun to the planet, and revolving with it,
tvould always defcribe equal areas in equal times. He
difcovered, in the year 1618, that the fquares of the
periodical times are as the cubes of the diftances of the
planets; two laws which have been of the greatel! im¬
portance to the advancement of aftronomy. He feems
to have had fome notion of the extenfive power of the
principle of gravity : for he tells us, that gravity is a
mutual power betwixt two bodies j that the moon and
earth tend towards each other, and would meet in a
point nearer the earth than the moon in the proportion
of the fuperior magnitude of the former, were they not
hindered by their proje&ile motions. He adds alfo,
that the tides arife from the gravitation of the waters
towards the moon : however, he did not adhere fleadily
to thefe principles, but afterwards fubflituted others
as the caufes of the planetary motions.
Cotemporary with Kepler were Mr Edward Wright,
and Napier, baron of Merchifton. To the former we
owe feveral very gciod meridional obfervations of the
fun’s altitude, made with a quadrant of fix feet radius,
in the years 1594., 1595, and 1596 ; from which he
greatly improved the theory of the fun’s motion, and
computed more exa£t tables of his declination than
had been done by any perfon before. He publifhed
alfo, in 1599, an excellent treatife, entitled, “ Cer¬
tain Errors in Navigation difcovered and dete&ed.”
To the latter we are indebted for the knowledge of
logarithms ; a difcovery, as was juftly obferved by Dr
Halley, one of the molt ufeful ever made in the art of
numbering. John Bayer, a German, who lived about
the fame time, will ever be memorable for his work,
entitled, Uranometria, which is a very complete ce-
leltial atlas, or a collection of all the conftellations vifi-
ble in Europe. To this he added a nomenclature, in
which the Itars in each conftellation are marked with
the letters of the Greek alphabet *, and thus every liar
in the heavens may be referred to with the utmeft pre-
cifion and exaftnefs. About the fame time alfo, aftro¬
nomy rvas cultivated by many other perfons j abroad,
by Maginus, Mercator, Maurolycus, Homelius, Schul-
tet, Stevin, &c. ; and by Thomas and Leonard Digges,
John Dee, and Robert Flood, in England : but none
^ of them made any confiderable improvement.
Invention The beginning of the 1 7th century was diftinguifh-
t»f tele- ed not only by the difcovery of logarithms, but by
fcopes, and that of telefcopes 5 a fort of inftruments by which
^koveriM a^ron°my was brought to a degree of perfeclion utter-
' ly inconceivable by thofe who knew nothing of them.
The qaeftion concerning the inventor is difeuffed under
the article Optics •, but whoever was entitled to this
merit, it is certain that Galileo was the firft who
brought them to Inch perfefiion as to make any con-
fiderabk difeoveries in the celeftial regions. With in¬
ftruments of his own making, Galileo difcovered the
inequalities in the moon’s furface, the fatellites of Ju¬
piter, and the ring of' Saturn •, though this laft was
unknown to him after he had feen it, and the view he
N O M Y. Parti.
got made him conclude that the planet had a threefold Hiftory.
body,, or that it was of an oblong fhape like an olive. -
He difcovered fpots on the fun, by means of which he
found out the revolution of that luminary on his axis j
and he difcovered alfo that the milky wray and nebuke
were full of fmall ftars. It was not, however, till
fome time after thefe difeoveries w’ere made, that Ga¬
lileo and others thought of applying the obfervations
on Jupiter’s fatellites to the purpofe of finding the lon¬
gitude of places on the furface of the earth ; and even
after this wras thought of, aftronomers found it fo dif¬
ficult to conftrudt tables of their motions, that it was
not till after many obfervations had been made in
diftant places of the world, that Caflini was able to
determine what politions of the fatellites were moll
proper for finding out the longitude. At laft he per¬
ceived that the entrance of the firft: fatellite into the
lhadow' of Jupiter, and the exit of it from the fame,
wTere the moft proper for this purpofe : that next to
thefe the conjunctions of the fatellites with Jupiter, or
with one another, may be made ufe of; efpecially when
any two of them, moving in contrary directions, meet
with each other : and laftly, that obfervations on the
fiiadowrs of the fatellites, which may be feen on the
dilk of Jupiter, are ufeful, as alfo the fpots which are
feen upon his face, and are carried along it with great¬
er velocity than has hitherto been difcovered in any of
the other heavenly bodies.
While aftronomers were thus bufy in making new Logarith-
difeoveries, the mathematicians in different countriesmic tables
were no lefs earneftly employed in conftruCling loga-ccnHwfeT.
rithmic tables to facilitate their calculations. Benja¬
min Urfinus, an excellent mathematician of Branden¬
burg, calculated much larger tables of logarithms than
bad been done by their noble inventor, and publilhed
them in 1625. They were improved by Henry Briggs,
Savilian profeffor of Oxford ; who by making unity the
logarithm of ten, thus rendered them much more con¬
venient for the purpofes of calculation. Logarithmic
tables of fines and tangents were alfo compofed by Mr
Briggs and Adrian Vlacq at Goude, fo that the bufi-
nefs of calculation was now rendered nearly as eafy as
poflible.
^ 0
In 1633, Mr Horrox, a young aftronomer of very Tranlit of
extraordinary talents, difeovered that Venus would pafs Venus firll
over the difk of the fun on the 24th of November°^erve^
1639. This event he announced only to one friend, ‘VIr *Iorrox*
a Mr Crabtree j and tbefe two were the only perfons
in the world who obferved this tranfit the firft time it
had ever been viewed by human eyes. Mr Horrox
made many ufeful obfervations at the time ; and bad
even formed a newr theory of the moon, fo ingenious
as to attract the notice of Sir Ifaac Newton •, but the
hopes of aftronomers from the abilities of this exceL
lent young man were blafted by his death in the begin¬
ning of January 1640.
About the year 1638 many learned men began toFoundatiojii
alfemble at Paris in order to bold conferences on dif- oGhe Aca-
ferent fcientific fubjefls, which ivas the firft foundation cierriy0^,:‘"
of the Royal Academy of Sciences in that capital. a"
This praftice was introduced in France by Merfennus, Royal So-
and foon after at London by Oldenburg 5 which laidcktyat .
the foundation of the Royal Society there. About ^on^oiu
this time alfo the celebrated aftronomer Hevelius flou-
riihed at Dantzic, building an obfervatory in his own
houfe.
Parti. ASTRONOMY.
Hiftory. lioufe, and furmfhing It with excellent Inftruments of
his own con<lru£tion ; particularly oftants and fextants
of brafs of three and four feet radius, as well as te-
lefcopes, with which he conftantly obferved the fpots
and phafes of the moon, and from which obfervations
he afterwards compiled his excellent and beautiful work
entitled Selenograpbia. This noble building', together
with all the books and inflruments it contained, w7as
confumed by fire on the 26th of September 1679 J
but the memory, as well as the form and conftrudlion
of the inftruments, is preferved in a curious ■work of
the ingenious inventor, entitled Machina Caie/lis;
though alraoft the wholte impreftion of this book wras in¬
volved in the fame fate with the inftruments it defcribes.
The damage fuftained on this occafion was eftimated at
30,000 crowns.
The celebrated Englifh mechanic Dr Hooke, who
was cotemporary with Hevelius, had in the mean time
invented inftruments with telefcopic fights, which he
preferred to thofe ufed by Hevelius fo much, that a
difpute commenced, which procured Hevelius a vifit
from Dr Halley. The latter had at that time taken
a voyage to St Helena, at the cVfre of the Royal So¬
ciety, in order to obferve and form a catalogue of the
ftars in the fouthern hemifphere. The refult of his
obftsjrvations with Hevelius’s inftruments wras, that
three feveral obfervations on the Spica Virginis and Re-
gulus differed only a few feconds from each other.
They were the invention of Tycho Brahe, and are
defcribed under the article Optics. At this vifit Hal-
- ley and Hevelius obferved an occultation of Jupiter by
the moon, and determined the diameter of the latter
to be 30', 33".
In 1671 the royal obfervatovy in Paris was finifti-
ed, and the ufe of it afligned to Mr Caffini, after it
had been furnilhed with inftruments at a very great
expence : and the obfervatory at Greenwich being
likewlfe built five years after, Mr Flamftead was ap¬
pointed aftronomer-royal. The obfervations in both
thefe places, however, have been fo numerous, that
^ it is in vain to attempt any account of them.
Improve- Before the middle of the 17th century the conftruc-
tncnts in tion of telefcopes had been greatly improved, particu-
telefcopes. larly by Fontana and Huygens. The latter conftrudi¬
ed one of 123 feet, which is 11511 preferved in the mu-
feum of the Royal Society at London. With this
he obferved the moon and planets for a long time,
and difcovered that Saturn was encompaffed wuth a
ring. The French, however, ftill outdid the Englifti
artifts 5 and by means of telefcopes of 200 and 300 feet
focus, Mr Caftini was enabled to fee all the five fa-
■tellites of Saturn, his belts, and the fhadows of Ju¬
piter’s fatellites palling over his body. In 1666 Mr
Azout applied a micrometer to telefcopes for the pur-
pofe of meafuring the diameters of the planets, and
Imall diftances in the heavens ; however, an inftrument
of this kind had been before invented by Mr Gafcoigne,
though it was but little knowm abroad.
Notwithftanding all thefe difcoveries by means of
telefcopes, it was evident that they Hill continued in
fl. very imperfedl ftate, and their imperfedlions at the
time appeared to be without remedy. One defeat
was the enormous length requifite to admit of any very
confiderable magnifying power ; and another was the
ihcorreflnefs ol the image arifing from the aberration of
the rays, as wras then fuppofed, by the fpherical figure Hiftcr
of the glafs. To obviate thefe inconveniences, IVIer- ^
fennus is faid to have firft propofed, in a letter to
Defcartes, the ufe of reflectors inftead of lenfes in
the conftruClion of telefcope.s j but this he did in fuch
an obfeure manner, that the latter laboured to perfuade
him of the fallehood of the principle on which his
fcheme was founded. In 1663, however, James Gre¬
gory of Aberdeen (bowed how fuch a telefcope might
be conftru&ed. He (bowed alfo, that, in order to
form a perfect image of an objedt in this manner, the
figure of the fpeculum ought to be parabolic ; but Sir
lihac Newton, who applied himfelf to the framing of
telefcopes of the reflecting kind, found it impracticable
to grind them of the defired figure. Laying afide the
idea of reflecting telefcopes, therefore, he applied him¬
felf to the execution of a fcheme formed by Defcartes,
viz. that of grinding lenfes of the figure of one of the
conic feCtions. In profecuting this plan, he difcover¬
ed, that the greateft errors td w hich telefcopes were
fubjeCt arofe from the different refrangibility of the
rays of light, for which he could not then find any re¬
medy. He therefore returned to the fcheme he had
juft abandoned j and, in the year 1672, prefented to
the Royal Society two refleCtors which were conltruc-
ted with fpherical fpeculums, as he could not procure
any other. The inconveniences arifing from the dif¬
ferent refrangibility of the rays of light, have (ince beea
in the fulled manner corrected by Mr Dollond, the ex¬
cellency of W’hofe achromatic telefcopes is too well
knowm to need any encomium.
About the beginning of the prefent century, the
practical part of aftronomy feemed to languifh for w-ant
of proper inftruments. Roemer, indeed, had invented
fome new ones, and Dr Hooke had turned his atten¬
tion towards this fubjeCt in a very particular manner ;
but either through want of (kill in the artifts, or fome
other unfortunate circumftance, it happened that no¬
thing effectual was done. But at the very time when
this was the cafe w’ith practical aftronomy, the fipecu-
lative part was carried in a manner to its utmoit
pitch by the labours of the immortal Newton, whofe
Principia gave an entire new face to the fcience. It
was not, however, for many years reliftied by the
foreign philofophers, though almoft immediately adopt¬
ed at home, and has continued ever lince to fpread its
reputation farther and farther, fo that now it is in a
manner eftabliflied all over the world. “ But (fays
Dr Long) that, after Newton’s fyftem had for fo long
a time been negleCted, it ftiould all at once be uni-
verfally received and approved of, is not to be attri¬
buted to chance, or the caprice of fafhion, as fome who
are ignorant of it are apt to think, and from thence
to expeCt that fome other fyftem will hereafter take its
place, and bury it in oblivion. The fyftem of Newf-
ton, like that of Copernicus, is fo agreeable to the
phenomena of nature, and fo well put together, that
it trwjl laft as long as truth and reafon endure, al¬
though time may perhaps bring the word attraction in¬
to difufe ; and though it may no longer be thought
inherent in matter, yet the lawrs of gravitation, as they
are now called, and on which this lyllem is founded,
will never be forgotten.”
It was alfo in Britain that the firft improvements in
aftronomical inftruments took place. The celebrated
G .z mechanic
3*
Agronomi¬
cal muni¬
ments firit
A S T R O
mechanic anti watchmaker, Giaham, carried the accu¬
racy of his inllruments to a degree which furprifed every
one. He alfo greatly improved the principles of watch-
work, and made clocks to go with much greater regu-
  larity than before. The old eight feet mural arch’at
improved in Greenwich was alfo conllrudled by him ; as was a
England, fmall equatorial feftor for making obfervations out of
the meridian ; but he is chiefly remarkable for con¬
triving the zenith fedor of 24 feet radius, and after¬
wards one of i2i feet, by which Dr Bradley difcover-
ed the aberration of the fixed liars. The reflecling
telefcope which had been invented by Gregory, and
executed by Newton, was greatly improved by Mr Had¬
ley, and a very complete and powerful inllrument of
that kind was prefente'd to the Royal Society in 1719.
The fame gentleman has alfo immortalized his memory
by the invention of the reflefting quadrant, which he
prefented to the Society in 1731, which is now in uni-
veifal ufe at fea j and without which all improvements
of the lunar theory would have been ufelefs for deter¬
mining the longitude, through the want of an inllru¬
ment proper to make the obfervations with. It how¬
ever appears, that an inllrument, exaftly fimilar to this
in its principles, had been invented by Sir Ifaac New¬
ton, and a defcription of it, together with a drawdng,
given by the inventor to Dr Halley, when he was pre¬
paring for his voyage to difcover the variation of the
needle in 1701. About the middle of this century,
the conftrudling and dividing of large allronomical in¬
llruments was carried to a great degree of perfedion
by Mr John Bird 5 refleding telefcopes were equally
improved by Mr Short, who firll executed the divided
objed-glafs micrometer. This had indeed been thought
of by M. Louville, and feveral other perfons long be-
iore } and a delcription of one nearly agreeing with
that of Mr Short had been publilhed in the Philofo-
phical Tranfadions for 1753 ; but had it not been for
the great fkill of Mr Short in figuring and centering
glaffes of this kind, it is very probable the fcheme
might never have been executed. About this time
alfo Mr Dollond brought refrading telefcopes to fuch
perfedion, that they became fuperior to refledors of
equal length *, though all of them are now excelled by
thofe of Mr Herfchel, whofe telefcopic difcoveries have
been far more numerous and furprifing than thofe of
any other altronomer.
We fliall clofe this hillory with a Ihort account of the
labours of the principal allronomersfince the building the
kit e'en* r°?al obrervatories at Paris and Greenwich, and the ap¬
pointment of Mr Flamftead to the office of allronomer
royal. This gentleman not only made obfervations on the
fun, moon, planets, and comets which appeared in his
time, but on the fixed liars alfo, of which he gave a cata¬
logue of 3000 j many of them lo fmall that they cannot
be difeerned without the help of a telefcope : he alfo
publilhed new folar tables, and a theory of the moon ac¬
cording to Horrox. He publilhed a very curious trad
on the dodrine of the fphere, in which he Ihowed how
to conlliud ecliples of the fun and moon, as well as
occultations of the fixed liars by the moon, geometri¬
cally 5 and it was upon his obfervations that Halley’s
tables and New7ton’s theory of the moon were con-
llruded. Mr Caffini alfo diltinguilhed himfelf very
confiderably. He ereded the gnomon, and drew the
famous meridian line in the church of Petronia at Bolog-
N O M Y.
Part J4
Hiftory.
33
Improve¬
ments
tury.
na. He enjoyed his office more than 40 years, making
many obfervations on the fun, moon, planets, and co¬
mets, and greatly amended the elements of their mo¬
tions } though the relult of his labours was much in-
fenor to Mr Flamllead’s. The office w'as continued in
his faitiily,? and his grandfon itiil enjoys it. Roemer, a
celebrated Danifli allronomer, firll dilcovered the pro-
greffive motion of light by obferving the eclipfes of Ju¬
piter, and read a differtation upon it before the Royal
Academy of Sciences at Paris in the year 1675. He
was alfo the firll who made ufe of a meridional tele¬
fcope.
Mr Flamftead was fucceeded in ^ipbyDr Halley,
“ the greateft aftronomer (fays M. de la Landej
without contradidion in England and, adds Dr
Long, “ I believe he might have faid in the whole
world.” He had been lent, at the age of 21, by
King Charles II. to the illand of St Helena, in order
to make a catalogue of the fouthern liars, which was
Publilhed in 1679. ln I7°5> he publiffied his
fa Aljr°nomix Cometicce, in which, after immenle cal¬
culation, he ventured to predid the return of one in
I75^ or 11S9' He alfo publilhed many learned dif-
fertations in the Philofophical Tranfadions concerning
the ufe that might be made of the next tranlit of Ve¬
nus in determining the diftance of the fun from the
earth. He was the firft who difeovered the accelera¬
tion of the moon, and gave a very ingenious method
of finding her parallax by three obferved phafes of a
folar eclipfe. He compofed tables of the lun, moon,
and all the planets ; and, in the nine years in which he
was at Greenwich, made near 1500 obfervations of the
moon ; all which he compared with the tables, and
noted the differences; and thefe, he thought, would
return in about 18 years. He recommended the
method of determining the longitude by means of
the moon’s diftance from the fun and certain fixed
liars.. He was convinced of its fuperior excellence ;
and is has fince been adopted by all the moll emi¬
nent aftronomers in Europe. It is at prefent the only
fure guide to the mariner ; and the great perfe&ion
to which it is now brought is much owing to the in-
dullry and exertions of Dr Malkelyne, the prefent
aftronomer-royal, to whom we are indebted for the pub¬
lication of the Nautical Almanack, the Requifite Ta¬
bles, and other works of the utmoll fervice to pra&ical
altronomy.
In the mean time an attempt was made in France to Truifigure
meafure a degree of the earth, which occafioned a very of the earth
warm dxfpute concerning the figure of it. Caffini difeovered.
from Picart’s meafure, concluded that the earth was
an oblong fpheroid 3 but Newton, from a confidera-
tion of the laws of gravity and the diurnal motion of
the earth, had determined the figure of it to be an ob¬
late fpheroid, and flatted at the poles. To determine
this point, Louis XV. refolved to have two degrees
of the meridian meafured 3 one under, or very near the
equator ; and the other as near the pole as poffible.
For this purpofe the Royal Academy of Sciences fent
M. Maupertuis, Clairault, Camus, and Le Monier, to
Lapland. They were accompanied by the Abbe Ou-
thier, a correfpondent of the fame academy. They
were joined by M. Celfius profeffor of anatomy at Up-
fal 5 and having fet out from France in the fpring of
the year 1736, returned to it in 1737, after having
Part I.
Hiftory.
1
35
Improve¬
ments by
the French
aftrono-
mers.
ASTRONOMY.
fully accompllllied their erratic!. On the fouthern ex¬
pedition were defpatched M. Godin, Condamine, and
Bouguer, to whom the king of Spain joined Don
George Juan and Don Anthony de Ulloa, two very
ingenious gentlemen and officers of the marine. They
left Europe in 1735 j and after enduring innumerable
hardthips and difficulties in the execution of their com-
miffion, returned to Europe at different times, and by
different ways, in the years 1744, I745> anc^ I74^-
The refult of this arduous’talk was a confirmation of
Newton’s inveftigation. Picart’s meafure was revifed
by Gaffini and De la Caille •, and, after his errors were
corre&ed, it was found to agree very well with the
other two. On this occafion too it was difcovered, that
the attra&ion of the great mountains of Peru had an
effeft on the plumb-line of one of their largeft inftru-
ments, drawing it feven or eight feconds from the true
perpendicular.
Dr Halley, dying in 1742, wras fucceeded by Dr
Bradley, who, though inferior as a mathematician,
greatly exceeded him as a praftical aftronomer. He
wras the firft who made obfervations cvith an accuracy
fufficient to deleft the leffer inequalities in the motions
of the planets and fixed itars. Thus he difcovered the
aberration of light, the nutation of the earth’s axis, and
wras able to make the lunar tables much more perfect
than they had ever been. He alfo obferved the places,
and computed the elements of the comets which ap¬
peared in the years 1723, 1736, 1743, and I757* Ke
made newr and molt accurate tables of the motions of
Jupiter’s fatellites, from his own obfervations and
thofe of Dr Pound ; and from a multitude of obferva¬
tions of the fun, moon, and ttars, was enabled to give
the molt accurate table of mean refraftions yet extant,
as well as the belt methods of computing the variations
of thofe refraftions arifing from the different Hates of
the air as indicated by the thermometer and barome¬
ter. In 1750, having procured a very large tranfit
inltrument made by Mr Bird, and a new mural qua¬
drant of brafs eight feet radius, he began to make ob¬
fervations with redoubled indultry *, fo that betwuxt
this time and his death, which happened in 1762, he
made obfervations for fettling the places of all the liars
in the Britilh catalogue, together with near 1500 pla¬
ces of the moon, much the greater part of wffiich he
compared wuth the tables of Mr Mayer.
In the mean time the French allronomers w7ere affi-
duous in their endeavours to promote the fcience of
aftronomy. The theory of the moon, which had been
given in a general way by Sir Ifaac Newton, began to
be particularly confidered by Meffrs Clairault, D’Alem¬
bert, Euler, Mayer, Simpfon, and Walmlly •, though
Clairault, Euler, and Mayer, dillinguilhed themfelves
beyond any of the reft, and Mr Euler has been particu¬
larly happy in the arrangement of his tables for the eafe
and expedition of computation. He was excelled in
exaftnefs, however, by Mayer, who publilhed his ta¬
bles in the Gottingen Afts for 1753. tkefe the
errors in longitude never exceeded two minutes; and
having yet farther improved them, he fent a copy to
the lords of the Britiffi admiralty in 1755 ", and it
wras this copy which Dr Bradley compared with his ob¬
fervations, as already mentioned. His laft correftions
of them wrere afterwards fent over by bis widow ; for
which Ihe and her children received a reward of 3000I.
Accurate tables for Jupiter’s fatellites were alfo com- Hiftery.
pofed by Mr Wargentin a moll excellent Swedifh aftro-
nomer, and publilhed in the Upfal Afts in 1741; which
have fince been correfted by the author in fuch a man¬
ner as to render them greatly fuperior to any ever pub¬
lilhed before.
Amongft the many French allronomers who contri-Qf ^
buted to the advancement of the fcience, we are parti- Cailie.
cularly indebted to M. de la Caille, for a moll excel¬
lent fet of folar tables, in which he has made allowan¬
ces for the attraftions of Jupiter, Venus, and the moon.
In 1750 he went to the Cape of Good Hope, in order to
make obfervations in concert with the moll celebrated
aftronomers in Europe, for determining the parallax of
the moon, as well as of the planet Mars, and from
thence that of the fun ; from whence it appeared that
the parallax of the fun could not greatly exceed to fe¬
conds. Here he re-examined and adjufted the places
of the fouthern liars with great accuracy, and mea-
fured a degree of the meridian at that place. In Italy
the fcience was cultivated with the greateft affiduity by
Signior Bianchini, Father Bofcovich, Frifi, Manfredi,
Zanotti, and many others 5 in Sweden by Wargen¬
tin already mentioned, Blingenftern, Mallet, and Plan-
man ; and in Germany, by Euler elder and younger,
Mayer, Lambert, Grifchow, &c. In the year 1760
all the learned focieties in Europe began to prepare for
obferving the tranfit of Venus over the fun, foretold by
Dr Halley upwards of 80 years before it happened,
fhowing, at the fame time, the important ufe which
might be made of it. Unfortunately, however, for
the caufe of fcience, many of the aftronomers fent out
to obferve this phenomenon were prevented by una¬
voidable accidents from reaching the places of their
deftination, and others were difappointed by the bad-
nefs of the weather. It happened alfo, that the cir-
cumftances of the phenomenon were much lefs favour¬
able for the purpofe of determining the fun’s parallax
than had been expefted by Dr Halley, owing to the
faults of the tables be made ufe of: fo that, notwith-
^ Handing all the labours of aftronomers at that time,
they were not able to determine the matter : and even
after their obfervations in 1769, when the circumftan-
ces of the tranfit were more favourable, the parallax of
the fun remained Hill uncertain.
Dr Bradley was fucceeded in his office of aftrono-
mer-royal by Mr Blifs Savilian profeffor of allronomy
at Oxford7, who, being in a very declining ftate of health
at the time of his acceffion to the office, did not enjoy
it long. He was fucceeded by the learned Nevil
Mafkelyne, D. D. the prefent aftronomer-royal, whofe
name will be rendered immortal by his affiduity and
fuccefs in bringing the lunar method of determining
the longitude at the fea into general praftice.
Such was the general ftate of aftronomy, when Dr
Herfchel’s great difcovery of augmenting the power of
telefcopes, beyond the moft fanguine hopes of aftrono¬
mers, opened at once a fcene altogether unlooked for.
By this indefatigable obferver we are made acquainted
with a new primary planet attended by fix feconda-
ries belonging to our folar fyftem; fo that the latter
now appears to have double the bounds formerly affign-
ed to it; this new planet being at leaft twice the di-
ftance of Saturn from the fun. In the ftill farther di-
ftant celeftial regions, among the fixed ftars, his obfer¬
vations
Apparent
Motions of
theHeaven-
ly Bodies.
* Ex per.
and Olferv.
rol. vi.
Stef.
ASTRO
rations are e^nally furpriling 5 of which we fhall only
lay with Dr Prieftley*, “Mr HerfchePs late dil'co-
veries in and beyond the bounds of the folar fyflem,
the great views that he has given of the arrangement
of the liars, their revolutions, and thofe of the im-
meitfe fyftems into which they are formed, are pecu-
N 0 M T. Part I
liarly calculated to infpire an ardent defire of feeing fo Apparent
great a feene a little more unfolded. Such difeoveries ^'uonerf
as thefe give us a higher idea of the value of our be-
ing, by railing our ideas of the fyflem of which w e ,y ^ ‘ b
are a part; and with this an earneft willi for the con¬
tinuance of it.”
Part H. OF THE APPARENT MOTIONS OF THE HEAVENLY BODIES.
When we call our eyes up towards the]heaVens, we
perceive a vail hollow hemilphexe at an unknown di-
ilance, oi which our eye feems to conllitute the centre.
The earth llretches at our feet like an immenfe plain,
and at a certain dillance appears to meet and to bound
^ the heavenly hemifphere. Now the circle all around,
Appear- where the earth and the heavens feem to meet and touch
Jmce of the each other, is called tire horizon. We can fcarcely aVoid
heavens. fuppolmg, that befrdes the hemifphere which we per¬
ceive, there is another, exadlly fimilar, concealed from
our view by the earth, and that the earth, therefore,
is fomehovv or other fufpended in the middle of this
heavenly fphere, with all its inhabitants. A little obfer-
tfations turns this fufpicion into certainty. For in a clear
evening the heavenly hemifphere is feen lludded with
liars, and its appearance is changing every inftant.
New liars are continually riling in the call, while others
in the mean time are fetting in the w'eft. Thofe liars,
that, towards the beginning of the evening, were juft
feen above the eallern horizon, late at night are feen
in the middle of the Harry hemifphere, and may be
traced moving gradually w’eftw'ard, till at lall they fink
altogether under the horizon. If we look to the north,
we loon perceive, that many liars in that quarter never
fet at all, but move round and round, deferibing a com¬
plete circle in 24 hours. Thefe liars deferibe their
circles round a fixed point in the heavens j and the
circles are the Imaller, the nearer the liar is to the fix¬
ed point. This fixed point is called the north pole.
There mult be a fimilar fixed point in the fouthern he¬
mifphere, called the fonth pole. Thus the heavenly
fphere appears to turn round two fixed points, called
the poles, once every 24 hours. The imaginary line
which joins the points is called the axis of the wrorld.
In order to have precife notions of the motions of
the heavenly bodies, it is neceflary to be able to affign
precifely the place in wdiich they are. This is done
by means of feveral imaginary lines, or rather circles,
fuppofed deferibed upon the furface of the fphere ; and
thefe circles, as is ufual with mathematicians, are di¬
vided into 360 equal parts called degrees. Every
degree is divided into 60 minutes; every minute into
Co feconds, and fo on. That great circle of the fphere,
which is perpendicular to the axis of the world, and
of courfe 90° diftant from either pole, is called the
tquator. The fmaller circles, which the ftars deferibe
in confequence of their diurnal motions, are called
parallels, becaufe they are obviouily parallel to the
equator.
The equator divides the heavenly fphere into two
equal parts, the north and the fouth 5 but to be able to
aftign the pofition of the ftars, it is neceffary to have a-
nother circle, palling through the poles, and cutting
the equator perpendicularly. This circle, is called a
2
meridian. It is fuppofed, not only to pafs through thq*
poles, but to pafs alio through the point dircdlly over
the head of the obferver, and the point of the fpherd
exaflly oppofite to that. The firft of thefe points is
called the zenith, the fecond is called the nadir.
The meridian divides the circles deferibed by the
ftars into two equal parts ; and when they reach it they
are either at their greateft height above the horizon,
or they are at their leaft height. T he fituation of the
pole is eafily determined j for it is precilely half way
between the greateft and leaft height of thofe ftars
which never fet. When we advance towards the north
vee perceive that the north pole does not remain Ha¬
tionary, but rifes towards the zenith, nearly in propor¬
tion to the fpace we pafs over. On the other hand it
finks juft as much when we travel towards the fouth.
Hence vee learn that the furface of the earth is not
plane, as one would at firft fuppofe, but curved.
All the heavenly bodies appear to deferibe a com¬
plete circle round the earth evei-y 24 hours. But be-
fides thefe motions which are common to them all,
there are feveral of them which poffefs motions pecu¬
liar to themfelves. The fun, the moft brilliant of all
the heavenly bodies, is obvioufiy much farther to the
fouth during winter than during fummer. He does
not, therefore, keep the fame ftation in the heavens, nor
deferibe the fame circle every day. The moon not
only changes her form, diminifhes, and increafes 5 but
if we obferve the ftars, near which flie is fituated one
evening, the next evening we fhall find her confider-
ably to the eaftward of them 5 and every day fhe re¬
moves to a flill greater diftance, till in a month, fhe
makes a complete tour of the heavens, and approaches
them from the weft. There are eight other flars, be-
fides, which are continually changing their place •, fome-
times we obferve them moving to the weftward, fome-
times to the eailward, and fometimes they appear fla¬
tionary for a confiderable time. Thefe flars are called
planets. There are other bodies which appear only
occafionally, move for feme time with immenfe celerity,
and afterwards vanifh. Thefe bodies are called comets.
But the greater number of the heavenly bodies always
retain nearly the fame relative diflance from each o-
ther, and are therefore called fixedJlars. It will be
neceffary for us to confider the nature and apparent ^
motions of all thefe bodies. We fhall, therefore, di-Arranj^f.
vide this firft part of our treatife, into the following menu
heads:
1. Of the Sun. 4. Of the Comets.
2. Of the Moon. 5. Of the Fixed Stars.
3. Of the Planets. 6. Of the figure of the Earth,
Thefe topics (hall be the fubje&s of the following
chapters.
Our-
I5 art IT.
A S T R
Apparent
Motions °f Chap. I.
theHeaven-
■/ -1 » The fun, as the moft confpicuous and moft import¬
ant of all the heavenly bodies, would naturally claim
the firft place in the attention of aftronomers. Ac¬
cordingly its motions were firft ftudied, and they have
had conilderable influence on all the other branches of
the fcience. We ihall fubdivide this part of our -fub-
jeft into three parts. Jn the firft, we (hall give an ac¬
count of the apparent motions of the fun j in the fe-
cond, we {hall treat of the divifion of time, which is
regulated by thefe apparent motions ; and in the third,
we ftiall confider the figure and ftruflure of the fun,
as far as they have been determined by aftronomers.
Thefe fhall.be the fubjedts of the following fedtions.
Annual
motion of
tire fun.
40
Method of
drawing a
meridian
fine.
Sect. I. Apparent Motions of the Sun.
That the fun has a peculiar motion of its own, in¬
dependent of the diurnal motion common to all the
heavenly bodies, and in a direction contrary to that
motion, is eafily afcertained, by obferving with care
the changes which take place in the ftarry hemifphere
during a complete year. If we note the time at which
any particular ftar rifes, wre {hall find that it rifes fonie-
what fooner every fucceflive day, till at laft we lofe it
altogether in the weft. But if we note it after the
interval of a year, we fhall find it rifmg precife-
ly at the fame hour as at firft. Thofe ftars which are
fituated nearly in the track of the fun, and which fet
foon after him, in a few evenings lofe themfelves alto¬
gether in his rays, and afterwards make their appear¬
ance in the eaft before funrife. The fun then moves
towards them in a direftion contrary to his diurnal
motion. It was by obfervations of this kind that
the ancients afcertained his orbit. But at prefent this
is done with greater precifion, by obferving every day
the height of the fun when it reaches the meridian,
and the interval of time which elapfes between his
pafling the meridian and that of the ftars. The firft
of thefe obfervations gives us the fun’s daily motion
north-ward or fouthward, in the direclion of the meri¬
dian ; and the fecond gives us his motion eaftward in
the dire&ion of the parallels 5 and by combining the
two together, we obvioufly obtain his orbit: But it
will be neceffary to be fomewhat more particular.
Tbefe obfervations cannot be made without drawing
a meridian line, or aline, which, if produced, would
pafs through both the poles of the earth, and the fpot
where the obferver is placed. It is obvious, that fuch
a line is in the fame plane with the meridian as the
the heavenly hemifphere. A meridian line may be
found thus : On an horizontal plane defcribe three or
four concentric circles, as E, G, H, fig. 1. Plate LIX.
and in the common centre fix perpendicularly a wire
CB, having a well-defined point. When the fun Ihines
in the morning, obferve w'here the fliadow of the top
of the wire, as CD, touches-one of the circles j and
in the afternoon mark where the extremity of the flia¬
dow C F juft touches the fame circle : then through the
centre C draw the line CE, bifedting the arc DF, and
CE will be a meridian, as required. If the fame be
done with as many of the circles as the ftiining of the
fun will admit of, and the mean of all the bife&ing
lines CE be chofeu as a meridian, there will be no
O N O M r. 23
doubt of its accuracy, particularly if the obfervations Apparent
be made about midfummer, which is the beft time,
After a meridian line is thus found, another parallel to iy Bodies
it may be readily drawn at any convenient diftance : •—-N . »
the method is this : Plang a thread and plummet ex-
adfly over the fouth end of the known meridian line,
and let another thread and plummet be hung over the
fouth end of the plane upon which a meridian is to be
drawm •, then let a perfon obferve when the ftiadow of
the thread falls on the given meridian, and immedi¬
ately give a fignal to another perfon, who muft at that
moment mark twTo points on the ftiadow of the fecond
thread, through which two points the new meridian
muft be defcribed. 41
The height of the fun from the horizon, when it Altitude of
pafles the meridian, or the arch of the meridian between ^ lun'
the fun and the horizon, is called the fun's altitude.
The ancients afcertained the fun’s altitude in the fol¬
lowing manner : They erefted an upright pillar at the
fouth end of a meridian line, and when the fliadow of
it exadtly coincided with that line, they accurately
meafured the fhadow’s length, and then, knowing the
height of the pillar, they found, by an eafy operation
in plane trigonometry, the altitude of the fun’s upper
limb : whence, after allowing for the apparent femi-
diameter, the altitude of the fun’s centre wjas known.
But the methods now adopted are much more accu¬
rate. In a known latitude, a large aftronomical qua¬
drant, of fix, eight, or ten feet radius, is fixed truly
upon the meridian ; the limb of this quadrant is divid¬
ed into minutes, and imaller fubdivifions, by means of
a vernier; and it is furnilhed with a telefcope (having
crofs hairs, &c. turning properly upon the centre). By
this inftrument the altitude of the fun’s centre is very
carefully meafured, and the proper deduftions made. 42
With a fimilar inftrument we may afeertain the ap- Method of
parent motions of the fun in the following manner, be- ^certain-
ginning our obfervations about the 20th of March.
On tins day we muft note fome fixed ftar which comes ^on. mC~
to the meridian exactly at the fame time as the fun
does 5 for the ftars may be feen in the daytime with an
aftronomical telefcope. On the following day, both
the altitude of the fun, and the fituation of the ftars
when the fun is on the meridian, muft be obferved •
the fun’s meridian altitude will be about 23' 40" great¬
er than on the former day, and the ftar will be found
on the meridian about 3 m. 39 fee. in time before the
fun. Make fimilar obfervations for a few days, and
it will be found at the end of a week, that the fun’s
meridian altitude will be increafed 20 46', and the
ftar will be on the meridian 25 m. 26 fee, in time be¬
fore the fun, or it will be 6° 2i±r weft ward of the me¬
ridian when the fun is upon It. During this period of
feven days, therefore, the fun has been moving to¬
wards the eaft, and has increafed .his altitude by re¬
gular gradations. In fig. 2. let EQ^reprefent appor¬
tion of the equator, QS the meridian on which the
fun is, QS his altitude above the equator, E the place
of the ftar, and ES part of thd path of the fun : then,
in the fpherical triangle EQS, right-angled at q!
there are given EQyr: 6° and QS cr 20 46', toT
find the angle E. By the rules of fpherical trigonometry,
we have, tangt, of E=:
tangt. of SQ 
fine of QIC ~~
•0483250^
•1107463"
•43^479
24 A S T R
Apparent -4364479 = tangt. of 230 34' 43" the angle E re-
theHeaW quired-
ly Bodies. orbit in which the fun moves is called the
1   v~-.’ ecliptic. It does not coincide with the equator, but
43 cuts it, forming with it an angle, which in the year
Ecliptic. 1769 was determined by Dr Mafkelyne, at 23° 28' 1 o",
or 230.46944. This angle is called the obliquity of
the ecliptic.
Seafons ex- The different feafons of the year are occafioned by
plained. the combination of this proper motion of the fun with
his diurnal motion. The two points in which the
ecliptic cuts the equator, are called the equinoxes, or
equino&ialpoints; becaufe on the days that the fun
is in them, he defcribes by his diurnal motion the
equator, which being divided into two equal parts by
the horizon, the day is then equal to the night in eve¬
ry part of the earth. One of thefe equinoxes is called
the vernal, becaufe the fun is in it about the 20th of
March, or the beginning of the fpring. As the fun
advances in his orbit from that point, his meridian al¬
titude becomes greater and greater every day. The
vifible arches of the parallels which it defcribes, be¬
come continually greater ; and with them the length
of the day increafes, till the fun reaches his greateft
altitude, or diftance from the equator : then the day
is the longeft of the year. And as at that period the va¬
riations in the fun’s altitude are fcarcely fenfible for
fome time, as far at leaft as it affefts the length of the
day ; the point of the orbit, where the fun’s altitude is
a maximum, has for that reafon been called the fummer
foljlicc. The parallel which the fun defcribes when in
that point, is called the tropic of Cancer. From the fol-
ftice the fun defcends again towards the equator, croffes
it again at the autumnal equinox, and goes fouthw-ard
till its altitude becomes a minimum. This point of the
orbit is called the winter foljlice. The day is then the
fhorteft of the year, and the parallel which the fun de¬
fcribes, is called the tropic of Capricorn. From the
wunter folftice the fun again approaches the equator,
and returns to the vernal equinox.
Such is the conftant courfe of the fun and of the
feafons. The interval between the vernal equinox and
the fummer folftice, is called the fpring ; the interval
between this folftice and the autumnal equinox, is cal¬
led fummer; that betw-een the autumnal equinox and
the wdnter folftice, is autumn ; and that between this
folftice and the vernal equinox, is winter.
The different altitudes of the pole in different cli¬
mates, occafion remarkable peculiarities in the fea¬
fons, with wdiich it is proper to be acquainted. At
-the equator the poles are fituated in the horizon, W'hich
laft circle cuts all the parallels into two equal parts.
Hence the day and the night are conftantly of the
fame length all the year round. On the equinoxes the
fun is in the zenith at noon. His altitude is the leaft
pofiible at the folftices, and is then equal to the com¬
plement of the inclination of the ecliptic. During the
i'ummer folftice, the fhadow-s of bodies illuminated by
the fun are directed towards the fouth $ but they are
directed towards the north at the winter folftice ;
changes wdiich never take place in our northern cli¬
mates. Under the equator then there are in reality
two fummers and two winters. The fame thing takes
place in all countries lying between the tropics. Be¬
yond them there is only one fummer and one winter
l
O N O M Y. Part II.
in the year. The fun is never in the zenith. The Apparent
length of the longeft day increafes, and that of the Motionsof‘
Ihorteft day diminifties, as we advance toward the poles $ tJie^^n'
and w-hen the diftance between the zenith and the pole ^ ^ '"V.
is only equal to the inclination of the ecliptic, the fun
does not fet at all on the days of the fummer folftice,
nor rife on that of the winter folftice. Still nearer the
pole, the period in which he never fets in fummer, and
never riles in winter, gradually increafes from a few
days to feveral months j and, under the pole itfelf, the
equator then coinciding with the horizon, the fun ne¬
ver fets when it is upon the fame fide of the equator
with the pole, and never rifes while it is in the oppo-
fite fide.
The intervals of time between the equinoxes and Motion not
folftices are not equal. There are about feven days more uniform,
between the vernal and autumnal equinox, than between
the autumnal and vernal. Hence we learn, that the
motion of the fun in its orbit is not uniform. Nume¬
rous obfervations, made with precifion, have afcertained,
that the fun moves fafteft in a point of his orbit fituat¬
ed near the winter folftice, and floweft in the oppofite
point of his orbit near the fummer folftice. When in
the firft point, the fun moves in 24 hours i°.oi943 5
in the fecond point, he moves only The
daily motion of the fun is conftantly varying in every
place of its orbit, between thefe two points. The me¬
dium of the two is o°.^S6^2, or 59' 11", which is the
daily motion of the fun about the beginning of Octo¬
ber and April. It has been afcertained, that the va¬
riation in the angular velocity of the fun, is very near¬
ly proportional to the mean angular diftance of it
from the point of its orbit, where its Velocity is
greateft.
It is natural to think, that the diftance of the fun Diametn
from the earth varies as well as its angular velocity, varies.
This is demonftrated by meafuring the apparent dia¬
meter of the fun. Its diameter increafes and diminifti¬
es in the fame manner, and at the fame time, with its
angular velocity 5 but in a ratio twice as fmall. A-
bout the beginning of January, his apparent diameter
is about 32' 39", and at the beginning of July it is
about 31' 34", or more exa&ly, according to De la
Place, 32' 35', = 1955" in the firft cafe, and 31' 18"
:= 1878" in the fecond.
Opticians have demonftrated, that the diftance of Sun’s cfi-
any body is always reciprocally as its apparent diame- ftance va-
ter. The fun muft follow the fame law ; therefore,ries-
its diftance from the earth increafes in the fame pro¬
portion that its apparent diameter diminifhes. That
point of the orbit in which the fun is neareft the earth,
is called perigeon, or perigee ; and the point of the or¬
bit in which that luminary is fartheft diftant from the
earth, is called apogee. When the fun is in the firft
of thefe points, his apparent diameter is greateft, and
his motion fwifteft j but when he is in the other point,
both his diameter and the rapidity of his motion are
the fmalleft pofiible.
From thefe remarks it is obvious that if the orbit of
the fun be a circle, the earth is not fituated in the cen¬
tre of that circle, otherwife the 'diftance of the fun
from the earth would remain always the fame, which
is contrary to faft. It is poflible therefore, that the
variation in his angular velocity may not be real, but
only apparent. Thus in fig. 3. let AMPN be the
orbit
A S T R
Part II*
Apparent orbit of the fun, C the centre of that orbit, and E the
Motions of portion of the earth at fome diftance from the centre.
^ obvious that P is the fun’s perigee, and A its a-
. , , pogee. Now as the fun’s apparent orbit is a circle hav-
" ing the earth in its centre, it is evident that this orbit
muft be AMPN, and that the angular motion of the
fun will be meafured upon that circle. Suppofe now
that the fun in his apogee moves from A to A', it is
obvious that his apparent or angular motion will be the
fegment a a' of the apparent orbit, confiderably fmaller
than AA', fo that at the apogee the angular motion
of the fun will be lefs than his real motion. A-
gain : let the fun in his perigee move from P to P', de-
fcribing a fegment precifely equal to the fegment AA't
This fegment as feen from the earth will be refer¬
red to pp’, which in that cafe will be the fun’s angular
motion, evidently confiderably greater than his real mo¬
tion.
Hence it is obvious that even on the fuppofition that
the fun moved equably in his orbit, his angular motion
as feen from the earth would ftill vary, that is, would
be fmalleft at the apogee, and greateft at the perigee ;
and that the angular and real motion would only coin¬
cide In the points M and N, where the real and appa-
ent orbits cut each other. From the figure it is obvi¬
ous alfo, that the angular velocity would increafe gra¬
dually from the apogee to the perigee, and diminifh
gradually from the perigee to the apogee, which like-
wife correfponds with obfervation. Now the line EC,
which is the diflance of the earth from the centre of
the fun’s orbit, is called the eccentricity of that orbit.
The variation in the angular motion of the fun may be
owing to this eccentricity.
But if it were owing to this caufe alone, it is eafy
tion varies. deinonftrate that in that cafe the diminution of his
angular velocity would follow the fame ratio as the di¬
minution of his diameter. The faff however is, that
the angular velocity diminifhes in a ratio twice as great
as the diameter of the fun does. The variation of the
angular velocity cannot then be owing to the eccen¬
tricity alone. Hence it follows, that the variation of
the motion of the fun is not merely apparent, but real;
and that its velocity in its orbit aftually diminilhes,
as his diftance from the earth increafes. Two caufes
then combine to produce the variation in the fun’s an¬
gular velocity j namely, I. The increafe and diminution
of his diilance from the earth *, and 2. The real increafe
and diminution of his velocity in proportion to this
variation of diftance. Thefe two caufes combine in fuch
a manner that the daily angular motion of the fun di¬
minifhes as the fquare of his diftance increafes, lo that
the produft of the angular velocity multiplied into the
fquare of the diftance is a conftant quantity. But this
law is fo important that it will be neceflary to be more
particular.
The obfervation that the fun’s angular motion in his
orbit is inverfely proportional to the fquare of his dif¬
tance from the earth, w7as firft made by Kepler. The
difcovery was made by a careful comparifon of the fun’s
diurnal motion with his apparent diameter, which were
found to follow that law; and it is evident that the one
is the angular motion of the fun, and the other his dif¬
tance from the earth, which is inverfely proportional
to his apparent diameter. Let ASB (fig.4.) be the fun’s
orbit, E the earth, and S the fun. Suppofe a line ES
Vol. III. Part I.
43
Sun’s mo-
O N O M Y. 25
joining the centres of the earth and fun to move round Apparent
along with the fun. This line is called the radius vec- Motions of
tor. It is obvious that when S moves to S', ES,1 Boclies!'”
moving along with it, is now in the fituation ES', hav- 1——..m
ing defcribed the fmall feftor ESS'. In the fame time
that S performs one revolution in its orbit, the radius
veftor ES will defcribe the whole area ABS, enclofed
within the fun’s orbit. Let SS' be the fun’s angular
motion during one day. It is obvious that the fmall
feftor ESS' is proportional to the fquare of ES, mul¬
tiplied by SS': for the radius ve£tor is the fun’s dif¬
tance from the earth, and SS' his angular motion.
Hence this fe£tor is a conftant quantity, whatever the ^
angular motion of the fun be ; and the whole area Defcribej
SEA increafes as the number of days which the fun areas pro¬
takes in moving from S to A. Hence refults that re-P°rt‘?nal ^
markable law, firft pointed out by Kepler, that the “‘C timcs'
areas defcribed by the radius veBor are proportional to
the times. Suppofe the fun to defcribe SS' in one day,
and SA in 20 days, then the area SES' is to the area
SEA as x to 20 ; or the area SEA is 20 times greatef
than the area SES'.
The knowledge of thefe facls enables us to draw
upon paper, from day to day, lines proportional to the
length of the radius veftor of the folar orbit, and hav¬
ing the fame relative pofition as thefe lines. If we
join the extremity of thefe lines, by making a curve
pafs through them, we {hall perceive that this curve is
not exaftly circular. Let E in fig. 5. reprefent the
the earth, and Etf, E£, E<?, E</, E/^ &c. the pofition
and length of the radius vector during every day of
the year: if w’e join together the points a, b, c, d, e,f
g, h, 2, h, /, /7z, n, 0, by drawing the curve a e im, through
them, it is obvious that this curve is not a circle, but
elongated towards a and i, the points which reprefent
the fun’s greateft and leaft diftance from the earth. The
refemblance of this curve to the ellipfe induced Kep-
pler to compare them together, and he afcertained their
identity. Hence it follows, that the orbit of the fun
is an ellipfe, having the earth in one of its foci. The
centre C of the ellipfe is the point where its greater
axis is cut perpendicularly by its fmaller axis. The
diftance CE, between the earth and that centre, is the
eccentricity of the fun’s orbit. The eccentricity.of this
orbit is not great. Let the earth’s mean diftance from
the fun be reprefented by 10,000; it has been afcer¬
tained that the eccentricity is equal to 168 of thefe
parts. Hence the fun’s orbit does not differ much from
a circle.
To form a precife notion of the elliptical motion of His orbit aa
the fun, let us fuppofe a point to move uniformly in the e^*pfe-
circumference of a circle, whofe centre coincides with
the centre of the earth, and wdiofe radius is equal to the
fun’s diftance from the earth when in his perigee. Let
us fuppofe alfo, that the fun and the point fet out tooe-
ther from the perigee, and that the motion of the potnt
is equal to the fun’s mean angular motion. While the
the radius veftor of the point moves uniformly round
the earth, the radius ve&or of the fun moves with un¬
equal velocity, defcribing always areas proportional to
the times. At firft it gets before the radius ve&or of
the point, and forms with it an angle, which after hav¬
ing mcreafed till it reached a certain limit, diminifties
again and becomes equal to zero, when the fun is in
apogee; then the radius ve£tor of the fun and of the
D
point
26
A S
each other.
"T R 0
and with the
N O M Y.
Part II.
theHeaven
ly Bodies.
51
explained.
Apparent point coincide both with
Motions of greater axjs 0f tile ellipfe. After palling the apogee the
radius veftor of the point gets before that of the fun,
and forms with it angles exa&ly equal to the angles
formed by the fame lines in the former half of the el¬
lipfe, at the fame diftance from the perigee. At the
perigee, the radius veftor of the fun and of the point
again coincide with each other, and with the greater
axis of the ellipfe. The angle wdiich the radius ve&or
of the fun makes wnth that of the point, which indi¬
cates how much the one precedes the other, is called
Equation of the equation of the centre. It is always greateft when
the centre the motions of the point and of the fun are equal, and
it vanilhes altogether when there is the greateft differ¬
ence bettveen thefe motions. The angular motion of
the point is called the mean ?notion, and that of the
fun the real motion. The place of the point in the or¬
bit is called the mean place. Now, if to the mean
place in the orbit, we add or fubtraft the equation of
the centre, it is obvious that w’e have the fun’s real place
for any given time. The angular motion of the point
is knowm w-ith precifion for a given time, a day for in-
ffance, by.afcertaining the exaft length of time wdiich
the fun takes in making a complete revolution round
its orbit. For if wre afeertain howr many days that re¬
volution requires, wre have only to divide the whole
orbit by that number to prove the portion of it traverfed
by the point in one day. The equation of the centre
can only be found by approximation. Its maximum in
the year 1750 was i*’.9268.
In computations we begin always at that part of the
orbit where the motion of ?he fun is floweft. The di¬
ftance of the imaginary point from that part, is called
the mean anomaly. A table is made of the equation of
the centre, correfponding to each degree of the mean
anomaly. By adding or fubtra£ling thefe equations
from the mean anomaly, we obtain the true anomaly
or place of the fun for any given time.
The ecliptic is ufually divided, by aftronomers, into
52
Signs of the
zodiac.
S3
Orbit va¬
ries in po¬
rtion.
I 2 equal parts, called figns, each of wrhich of courfe
contains 30 degrees. They are ufually called the figns
of the zodiac *, and beginning at the equinox, where the
fun interfefls and rifes above the equator, have thefe
names and marks, Aries nr, Taurus , Gemini n,
Cancer as, Leo £1, Virgo tig, Libra £*., Scorpio nq,
Sagittarius /, Capricornus Aquarius x, Pifces- X*
Of thefe figns, the firft fix are called northern^ lying on
the north fide of the equator •, the laft fix are called
fouthern, being fituated to the fouth of the equator.
The figns from Capricornus to Gemini are called afeen-
ding, the fun approaching or riling to the north pole
vchile it paffes through them ; and the figns from Can¬
cer to Sagittarius are called defending, the fun, as it
moves through them, receding or defeending from the
north pole.
The longitude of the fun is his diftance in the eclip¬
tic from the firft point of Aries. His right afcenfion
is the arch of the equator intercepted between the firft
point of Aries, and the meridian circle, which paffes
through his longitude. The diftance of the fun from
the equator, meafured upon a meridian circle-, is called
his declination, and it is either north or fouth according
to the fituation of the fun.
It has been obferved that the pofition of the larger
axis of the elliptical orbit of the fun, is not confb.nt.
The angular diftance of the perigee from the vernal Apparent
equinox, counted according the fun’s movement, was Motions of
278°.6211 at the beginning of 1750; but it has, rela-^^'j^"
tive to the ftars, an annual motion of about ii".89 in ^ ^
the fame direftion as the lun.
The orbit of the fun is gradually approaching to the
equator. Its obliquity diminilhes in a century at the
rate of about i".50.
The precifion of modern aftronomers has enabled
them to alcertain fmall irregularities in the fun’s ellipti¬
cal motion, which obfervation alone wTould fcarcely
have been able to bring under precife laws. Thefe ir¬
regularities will be confidered afterwards.
To determine the diftance of the fun from the earth,Diftance of
has always been an interefting problem to aftronomers,lhe ^un’
and they have tried every method which aftronomy or
geometry poffeffes In order to refolve it. The ampleft and
moft natural, is that which mathematicians employ to
meafure diftant terreftrial objecls. From the twTo ex¬
tremities of a bafe whofe length is known, the angles
which the vifual rays from the objeift, w'hofe diftance is
to be meafured, make w ith the bafe, are meafured by
means of a quadrant 5 their fum fubtradrted from 1800,
gives the angle which thefe rays form at the objedt
where they interfedl. This angle is called the paral¬
lax, and when it is once known, it is eafy, by means of
trigonometry, to afeertain the diftance of the objeff.
Let AB, in fig. 6. be the given bafe, and C the objedl
whofe diftance wre wilh to afeertain. The angles CAB
and CBA, formed by the rays CA and CB with the
bafe, maybe afeertained byobfervation; and their fum
fubtracled from 180° leaves the angle ACB, w hich is the
parallax of the objeft C. It gives us the apparent fize
of the bafe AB as feen from C.
When this method is applied to the fun, it is necef-
fary to have the largeft pofilble bafe. Let us fuppofe
twTo obfervers on the fame meridian, obferving at the
fame inftant the meridian altitude of the centre of the
fun, and his diftance from the fame pole. The dif¬
ference of the two diftances obferved, will be the an¬
gle under which the line which feparates the obfervers
will be feen from the centre of the fun. The pofition
of the obfervers gives this line in parts of the earth’s
radius. Hence, it is eafy to determine, by obfervation,
the angle at which the femidiameter of the earth wTould
be feen from the centre of the fun. This angle is the
fun’s parallax. But it is too fmall to be determined
, with precifion by that method. We can only conclude
from it, that the fun’s diftance from the earth is at leaij
eq,ual to T 0,000 diameters of the earth. We (hall find
afterwards, that other methods have been difeovered
for finding the parallax with much greater precifion.
It amounts very nearly to 8".8: hence it follows, that
the diftance of the fun from the earth amounts to
23,405 femi-diameters of the earth.
Sect. II. Of the Divi/ion of Time.
Motion is peculiarly adapted for meafuring time.
For, as a body cannot be in different places in the fame
time, it can only arrive from one part to another, by
palling fucceflively through all the intermediate fpaces.
And if it be poffible to afeertain, that in every point
of the line which it deferibes it is actuated by the very
fame force, we can conclude with confidence, that it
will
Part II.
Apparent will defcribe the line with a uniform motion. Of courfe
Motions of tfjg different parts of the-line will be a meafure of the
^ Bodies”"time employed to traverfe them. When a pendulum
w;—^ 1 at the end of every ofcillation is precifely in the fame
circumftances, the length of the ofcillations is the fame,
and time may be meafured by their number. We
might employ alfo, for the fame purpofe, the revo¬
lutions of the heavenly fphere, which appear perfectly
uniform. But all nations have agreed to employ the
55 revolutions of the fun for that purpofe.
Aftronomi- In common language, the (/ay is the interval of time
cal day. which elapfes from the rifmg to the fetting of the fun j
the night is the interval that the fun continues below
the horizon. The ajlronomical day embraces the whole
interval which palfes during a complete revolution of
the fun. It is the interval of time which pafles from
12 o’clock at noon, till the next fucceeding noon. It
begins when the fun’s centre is on the meridian of that
place. It is divided into 24 hours, reckoning in a
numerical fucceffion from 1 to 24: the firft 12 are fome-
times dillinguilhed by the mark P. M. fignifying pcjl
meridiem, or after noon j and the latter 12 are marked
A. M. {ignifying ante meridiem, or before noon. But
aftronomers generally reckon through the 24 hours,
from noon to noon \ and what are by the civil or com¬
mon wray of reckoning called morning hours, are by
aftronomers reckoned in the fucceflion from 12, or
midnight, to 24 hours. Thus 9 o’clock in the morn¬
ing of February 14th, is, by aftronomers, called Fe«
bruary the 13th at 21 hours.
Sidereal An aftronomical day is fomewhat greater than a
day. complete revolution of the heavens, which forms a Jide-
real day. For if the fun crofs the meridian at the lame
inftant with a ftar, the day following it will come to
the meridian fomewhat later than the ftar, in confe-
quence of its motion eaftward, which caufes it to leave
the ftar ; and after a whole year has elapfed, it will
have crofted the meridian juft one time lefs than the.
ftar. A fidereal day is lefs than the folar day, for it Is
meafured by 360°, whereas the mean folar day is mea-
.fared by 360° 59' 8" nearly. If an aftronomical day
be =1, then a fidereal day is =0.997269722 ; or the
difference between the meafures of a mean folar day,
and a ftdereal day, viz. 59' 8", reduced to time, at the
rate of 24 hours to 360°, gives 3' 56" ; from which we
learn that a ftar which was on the meridian with the
fun on one noon, will return to that meridian 3'
previous to the next noon : therefore, a clock which
meafures mean days by 24 hours, wall give 23 h, 56 m.
57 4 fee. for the length of a fidereal day.
Days vary Aftronomical or folar days, as they are alfo called,
in length. are not eqUap Two caufes confpire to produce their
inequality, namely, the unequal velocity of the fun in
las orbit, and the obliquity of the ec liptic. The effeft
of the firft caufe is fenfible. At the fummer folftice,
when the fun’s motion is fioweft, the aftronomical day
approaches nearer the fidereal, than at the winter fol¬
ftice when his motion is molt rapid.
To conceive the effect of the fecond caufe, it is ne-
ceffary to recoiled! that the excefs of the aftronomical
day above the fidereal is owing to the motion of the
fun, referred to the equator. The fun deferibes every
day a fmall arch of the ecliptic. Through the extre¬
mities of this arch fuppofe two meridian great circles
draw/i, the arc of the equator, which they intercept,
27
is the fun’s motion for that day referred to the equator ; Apparent
and the time which that arc takes to pafs the meridian
is equal to the excefs of the aftronomical day above ly Bofjies.
the fidereal. But it is obvious, that at the equinoxes, u.—v——»
the arc of the equator is fmaller than the correfpond-
ing arc of the ecliptic in the proportion of the cofine
of the obliquity of the ecliptic to radius: at the folfti-
ces, on the contrary, it is greater in the proportion of
radius to the cofine of the fame obliquity. The aftro¬
nomical day is diminifhed in the firft cafe, and length¬
ened in the fecond.
To have a mean aftronomical day, independent of
thefe caufes of inequality, aftronomers have fuppofed a
fecond fun to move uniformly on the ecliptic, and to
pafs over the extremities of the axis of the fun’s 5s
orbit, at the fame inftant with the real fun. This re- Mean aftro-
iqoves the inequality arifing from the inequality of the nomical
fun’s motion. To remove the inequality arifing fromcaJ'
the obliquity of the ecliptic, aftronomers fuppofe a third
fun palling through the equinoxes at the fame inftant
with the fecond fun, and moving along the equator in
fuch a manner that the angular diftances of the two
funs at the vernal equinox ftiall be always equal. The
interval between twro confecutive returns of this third
fun to the meridian forms the mean ajlronomical day.
Mean time is meafured by the number of the returns of
this third fun to the meridian} and true time is mea¬
fured by the returns of the real fun to the meridian.
The arc of the equator, intercepted between two me¬
ridian circles drawm through the centres of the true
fun, and the imaginary third fun, reduced to time, is
wrhat is called the equation of lime. This will be ren¬
dered plainer by the following diagram.
Let Z<y>z£- (fig. 7.) be the earth ; ZFR2;, its axis j
ahede, &c. the equator; ABCDE, &c. the northern
half of the ecliptic from ‘V to ii, on the fide of the
globe next the eye ; and MNOP, &c. the fouthern half
on the oppofite fide from W to »Y1. Let the points at
A, B, C, D, E, F, &c. quite round from ry1 to
again bound equal portions of the ecliptic, gone
through in equal times by the real fun 3 and thofe at
a, b,c, d, e,f, &c. equal portions of the equator de-
feribed in equal times by the fitlitious fun; and let
Z'Y’s be the meridian. 4
As the real fun moves obliquely in the ecliptic, and
the fidlitious fun diredtly in the equator, with refpeft
to the meridian ; a degree, or any number of degrees,
between T and F on the ecliptic, mult be nearer the
meridian Zfy>2;, than a degree, or any correfponding
number of degrees, on the equator from ry to f; and
the more fo, as they are the more oblique : and there¬
fore the true fun comes fooner to the meridian every
day wdiilft he is in the quadrant <Y> F, than the ficti¬
tious fun does in the quadrant ry f; for which reafon,
the fotar noon precedes noon by the clock, until the
real fun comes to F, and the fictitious to f; w hich tw'o
points, being equidiftant from the meridian, both funs
will come to it precifely at noon by the clock.
Whilft the real fun deferibes the fecoird quadrant of
the ecliptic FGHIKL from Cancer to he comes
later to the meridian every day than'the fictitious fun
moving through the fecond quadrant of the equator
from / to =Qr 5 for the points at G, H, I, K, and L,
being farther from the meridian, their correfponding
points at g, h, i, and /, mult be later of coming to it:
L 2 and
ASTRONOMY.
23 A S T R
Apparent and as bold) funs come at the fame moment to the
tbeHeTven P°int W» the^ come t0 the endian at the moment
ly bodies."of noon b7 tbe clock'
• In departing from Libra, through the third qua¬
drant, the real fun going through MNOPQjowards
Vf at R, and the fi&itious fun through mnopq towards
r, the former comes to the meridian every day fooner
than the latter, until the real fun comes to ©, and the
fictitious to r, and then they come both to the meridian
at the fame time.
Laftly, As the real fun moves equably through
STUVW, from © towards • and the fictitious fun
through stuvw, from r towards T1, the former comes
later every day to the meridian than the latter, until
they both arrive at the point , and then they make
it noon at the fame time with the clock.
Having explained one caufe of the difference of time
fho.wn by a well-regulated clock and a true fun-dial,
fuppofing the fun, not the earth, as moving in the
ecliptic 5 we now proceed to explain the other caufe of
this difference, namely, the inequality of the fun’s ap¬
parent motion ; which is floweit in fummer, when the
fun is fartheft from the earth, and fwifteft in winter
when he is neareft to it.
If the fun’s motion were equable in the ecliptic, the
whole difference between the equal time as fliown by
the clock, and the unequal time as fhown by the fun,
would arife from the obliquity of the ecliptic. But the
fun’s motion fometimes exceeds a degree in 24 hours,
though generally it is lefs : and when his motion is’
floweft, any particular meridian will revolve fooner to
him than when his motion is quickeft ; for it wall over¬
take him in lefs time when he advances a lefs fpace than
when he moves through a larger.
Now, if there were two funs moving in the plane of
the ecliptic, fo as to go round it in a year ; the one
defcribing an equal arc every 24 hours, and the other
defcribing fometimes a lefs arc in 24 hours, and at
other times a larger, gaining at one time of the year
what it loft at the oppofite ; it is evident, that either
of thefe funs would come fooner or later to the meri¬
dian than the other, as it happened to be behind or
before the other ; and when they were both in con-
junction, they would come to the meridian at the fame
moment.
As the real fun moves unequably in the ecliptic, let
us fuppofe a fiftitious fun to move equably in a circle
coincident with the plane of the ecliptic. Let ABCD
(fig. 8.) be the ecliptic or orbit in which the real
fun moves, and the doted circle abed the imaginary or¬
bit of the fiftitious fun j each going round in a year
according to the order of letters, or from weft to eaft.
Let HIKL be the earth turning round its axis the
fame way every 24 hours ; and fuppofe both funs to
ftart from A and a, in a right line -with the plane of the
meridian EH, at the fame moment : the real fun at
A, being then at his greateft diftance from the
earth, at which time his motion is lloweft j and the
fiftitious fun at «, whofe motion is always equable,
becaufe his diftance from the earth is fuppofed to be
always the fame. In the time that the meridian re¬
volves from H to H again, according to the order of
the letters HIKL, the real fun has moved from A to
I1 j and the fictitious with a quicker motion from n to
through a large arc : therefore, the meridian EH
O N O M Y. Part IT.
will revolve fooner from H to h under the real fun at F, Apparent
than from HE to k under the fictitious fun at/; and Motions of
confequently it will then be noon by the fun-dial foon- t|ie^e^ven-
er than by the clock. ,ly E^dles;.
As the real ihn moves from A towards C, the fwift-
nefs of his motion increafes all the way to C, where it
is at the quickeft. But notwithftanding this, the fic¬
titious fun gains fo much upon the real, foon after his
departing from A, that the increafing velocity of the
real iun does not bring him up with the equally-moving
fiCHtious fun till the former comes to C, and the latter
to c, when each has gone half round its refpeClive or¬
bit 5 and then being in conjunction, the meridian EH,
revolving to EK, comes to both funs at the fame time,
and therefore it is noon by them both at the lame mo¬
ment.
But the increafed velocity of the real fun now' being
at the quickeft, carries him before the fictitious one':;
and therefore, the lame meridian will come to the ficti¬
tious fun looner than to the real: for whilft the ficti¬
tious fun moves from a to g, the real fun moves through
a greater arc from C to G : conlequently the point K
has its noon by the clock when it comes to C, but not
its noon by the fun till it comes to /. And although
the velocity of the real fun diminithes all the way from
C to A, and the fictitious fun by an equable motion
is 11 ill coming nearer to the real fun, yet they are not
in conjunction till the one comes to A and the other
to «, and then it is noon by them both at the fame
moment.
True time is obtained by adding or fubtraCting this
equation to the mean time. The mean and apparent
folar days are never equal, except when the fun’s daily
motion in right afeenfion is 59' 8" ; this is nearly the
cafe about April 15th, June 15th, September ill, and
December 24th : on thefe days the equation is nothing,
or nearly lb \ it is at the greateft about November ill,
when it is 16 m. 14 fee.
I he return of the fun to the fame equinox marks the Year,
years, in the fame way as his return to the fame meri¬
dian indicates the days. It has been afeertained, that
before the lun returns again to the fame equinox, an in¬
terval of 365.242222 days elapfes, or 365 days, 5 hours,
48 minutes, and 47 feconds. This is called the tropi¬
cal year : The lun takes a larger interval of time to re¬
turn again to the fame liar. The Jidereal year is the
interval wdrich the lun employs to return from one ftar
to another. It is greater than the tropical year by
0.014162 days, or 20 m. 23 fee.; therefore the length
of the fidereal year is 365 days, 6 h. 9 m. and 10 lec.
From this it follow's, that the equinoxes do not retain
the fame place in the ecliptic, but that they have a re¬
trograde motion, or contrary to that of the fun, in con-
fequence of which they deferibe every year an arc equal
to the mean fpace which the fun palfes over in 20' 23",
or about 50" j fo that they w’ould make a complete re¬
volution in 25972 years. This is called the preceffion
of the equinoxes. ^
Dr Malkelyne has invented a rule for computing Method of
the equation of time, in which the preceftion of the computing
equinoxes, as w'ell as the twro caufes mentioned above, ft16 e(lua-
are included. Let APLQ^ fig. 9. be the ecliptic, P011 of
ALQ^the equator, A the firft point of Aries, P thetime’
point where the fun’s apparent motion is lloweft, S
any place of the fun j draw perpendicular to the
equator.
Part IT.
Apparent equator, and take An:
ASTRO
AP. When the fun begins
N O M Y.
Motions of t0 in0ve from P, fuppofe a ftar to begin to move from
the Heaven- ^ wjt}1 fun’s mean motion in right afcenlion or
‘ty 165 longitude viz. at the rate of 59' 8" in a day. '
when n paffes the meridian let the clock be an >nea
to 12. Take n ?n~Vs, and when the ftar comes to my
if the fun moved uniformly with his mean motion, he
would be found at s; but at that time let S be the
place of the fun. Let the fun S, and confequently v,
be on the meridian •, and then as m is the place of the
imaginary ftar at that inftant, m v muft be the equa¬
tion of time. The fun’s mean place is at s, and as
A/*=AP, and««r=Pr, we have Awz = APj-, con¬
fequently tn v~Av—Affi—Av—APr. Let n be the
mean equinox, or the point where it would have been
if it had moved with its mean velocity, and draw a «
perpendicular to AQ^J then A m — A 2; -)- xm ~
An X co-fine % A a % m: or becaufe the co-fine of
z. A a the obliquity of the ecliptic, 23
0/ • 11
28 , is =r—
12
very nearly, Am — — Aa x m : hence mv — Av-
ous, however, to be able to divide the folar year into Apparent
a precife number of lunar months, becaufe many of^J’®"^
their feafts depended upon particular new moons. Va- jy £eci;es.
'us contrivances u c fallen unon for this purpofe
without much fuccefs, till at laft Meton, a Greek phi-
lofopher, announced that 19 years contained exactly
235 lunations: an affirmation which is within 24-
hours of being ex aft. To make every year correfpond
as nearly as poffible to the lunar, he divided the year
into 12 months, confifting alternately of 30 and 29
days each ; at the end of every three years an interca¬
lary month of 30 days wTas added, and at the end of
the 19th year there was added an intercalary month of
29 days. So that at the end of 19 years the folar and
lunar years began again on the fame day their cycle of
19 years. This difcovery of Meton appeared lo ad¬
mirable to the Greeks, that they engraved it in letters
of gold in their public places. Hence the number
which denotes the current year of that cycle is deno¬
minated golden number.
As the moon changes its appearance in a very re¬
markable degree every feven days, almoft all na¬
tions have fubdivided the month into periods of feven
<z?n — A a. Here A is the fun’s true right af-
12
cenfion, % m the mean right afcenfion or mean longi¬
tude ; and — A a (viz. A v) is the equation of the
12
equinoxes in right afcenfion ; therefore the equation of
time is equal to the difference of the fun’s true right
afcehfion and his mean longitude, correfted by the equa¬
tion of the equinoxes in right afcenfion.—When A m
is lefs than A t>, mean or true time precedes apparent j
when it is greater, apparent time precedes mean. That
is, when the fun’s true right afcenfion is greater than
his mean longitude correfted as above fliewn, we muft
add the equation of time to the apparent to obtain the
mean time ; and when it is leis, we muft fubtraft. To
convert mean time into apparent, wTe muft fubtraft in
the former cafe, and add in the latter.
Tables of the equation of time are computed by this
rule, for the ufe of aftronomers: they are either cal¬
culated for the noon of each day, as given in the Nau¬
tical and fome other almanacks •, or for every degree of
the fun’s place in the ecliptic. But a table of this
kind will not anfwer accurately for many years, on ac¬
count of the preceffion and other caufes, which render
a frequent revifal of the calculations neceffary.
Smaller di fmaller divifions of time were anciently mea-
vifionsof hired by the phafes of the moon. It is wfell known
time. that the moon changes once every 29 or 30 days, and
that the interval from one new moon to another is call¬
ed a lunation, or in, common language, a month. There
are about tw'elve lunations in a year. Hence the year
was divided into twelve months. In ancient times
people w'ere placed upon eminences on purpofe to watch
the firft appearance of the new moon when their month
began. It was cuftomary for thefe perfons to proclaim
the firft appearance of the moon. Hence the firft day
of every month wras called Calender ; from which term
the wmrd calendar is derived. Almoft all nations have
divided the year into twelve months, becaufe the feafons
nearly return in that period. But they foon perceived
that twelve lunar months were far from making a com¬
plete year or revolution of the fun. They, were anxi-
days, called weeks; the ancient Greeks w'ere almoft the
only people wffio did not employ that divifion. ^
The Roman year in the time of Romulus confifted Roman
of 10 months only, of 30 or 31 days each, fo that itsyear.
length was 304 days only. Numa added 50 days to
that year, and thus made it 354 days; and he added
twm additional months of 29 and 28 days, by fhortening
fome of the ancient months. He made the year com¬
mence on the firft of January. Numa’s year w^as ftill
more than 1 x days ffiorter than a complete revolution
of the fun. To make it correfpond wdth the feafons, it
w'as neceflary to intercalate three days; and thefe in¬
tercalations being left entirely to the priefts, were con¬
verted into a ftate engine ; being omitted, inferted, al¬
tered, and varied, as it fuited the purpofes of thofe ma-
giftrates whofe views they favoured. The confequence
was, what might have been expefted, the moft com¬
plete confufion and wTant of correfpondence between the
year and the feafons. (Cj
Julius Caefar undertook to remedy this inconvenience. Reformed'
He was both diftator and high pontiff, and of courfe Jullus
the reformation of the calendar was his peculiar pro-C,selar’
vince. That the undertaking might be properly exe¬
cuted, he invited Sofigenes, an Egyptian mathematician,
to come to his affiftance. It was- agreed upon to aban¬
don the motions of the moon altogether, and to make
the year correfpond with thofe of the fun.
The reformation was made in the year 47 before the
Chriftian era. Ninety days were added to that year,
which was from that circumftance called the year of
confufion, confifting of 445 days. Inftead of 354 days,
the year of Numa, Sofigenes made the year to confift
of 365 days, difperfing the additional days among
thofe months which had only 29 days. As the revo¬
lution of the fun employs nearly fix hours mote than
365 days, an additional day was intercalated every
fourth year, fo that every fuch year was to confift of
366 days. The additional day was inferted after the
23d of February, or the 7th before the calends of
March ; the day before the annual feaft celebrated in
commemoration of the flight of Tarquin from Rome.
That feaft w-as held the 6th before the calends of March.
The-
3° ASTRO
wittmTof T!1C l:ltCr?aIated <% ™ rifo called the 6th before the
fheHeaven-caj''11<^s or March. So that every fourth year there
}y Bodies, were two days denominated the 6th before the calends
v ' of March. Hence that year was called bijexti/e. In
xiritam it is denominated leap yea?'. After the death
of Julius Caefar there was a degree of confufion re-
fpefting the intercalations, from the ignorance of the
pnefts. Auguftus corroded the millake, and after
that time the Julian period went on without any inter¬
ruption.
. h ^ obvious that the Julian year, though a great
improvement upon the ancient Roman, was itill imper-
fed. It went on the fuppofition that the revolution of
the fun occupied precifely 365 daysapd^ hours, which
is about 11 minutes more than the {ruth. This error
in the interval which elapfed between the reformation
of Julius Caefar and the year 1582, had accumulated
tid it amounted to 10 days ; of courfe the year began
10 days later than it ought to have begun ; and the
fame error had taken place refpeding the feafons and
the ecjuinodial points. Various attempts had been
made to corred this error j at laft it was correded by
Pope Gregory XIII. The Gregorian calendar com¬
menced in the year 1582 ; the changes which he intro¬
duced were two in number. Pie ordered, that after
the 4th of Odober 1582, ten days fhould be omitted,
lo that the day which fucceeded the 4th was reckoned
not the 5th but the 15th of the month. This corred¬
ed the error which had crept into the Julian year. To
prevent any fuch error from accumulating again, he
ordered that the fecular years 1700, 1800, 1900, Ihould
not be biflextile but common years; that the fecular
jear 2000 fhould be biffextile, the next three fecular
years common, the fourth again biffextile, and fo on,
as in the following table.
N O M Y.
Part II.
Apparent
Motions of
*4
and by
Gregory
XIII.
1600 bifTextile.
1700 common.
1800 ib.
1900 ib.
2000 biffextile.
2100 common.
2200 ib.
2300 ib.
2400 biffextile.
2500 common.
2600 common.
2700 ib.
2800 bilTextile.
2900 common.
3000 ib.
In fhort thefe fecular years only are biffextile whofe
number, omitting the cyphers, is divifible by 4.
1 he Gregorian calendar is fufficiently exad for the
purpoies of common life, though it does not correfpond
precifely with the revolution of the fun. The error
wall amount to a day in 3600 years, fo that in the year
5200 it wall be neceffary to omit' the additional day
which ought to be added according to the rule laid
down above.
The Gregorian calendar w^as immediately adopted
b} aL the Roman Catholic kingdoms in Europe, but
the Proteftant dates refufed at firfl to accede to it. It
was adopted by moil of them on the continent about
the beginning of the 18th century j but in England
the change did not take place till 1752. From that
year 1 x days were omitted ; the omiffion of the addi¬
tional day in 1700 having made the difference between
the Julian and Gregorian calendar amount to 11 days.
The Julian calendar is called the old Jlyle, the Grego-
xian, the new Jlyle. At prefent the difference betxveen
them is 12 days. In confequence of the omiffion of the
additional day in 1800.
Sect. III. Of the Nature of the Sun. Motions of
. Thce. hnallnefs of the fun’s parallax is a demonflra-1^^
tion of its xmmenfe fize. We are certain that at the £2^11
diilance at which the iun appears to us under an angle *
of o .53424 the earth would be feen under an angle
not exceeding o°.oo9. Now, as the fun is obvioufly
a iphencal body as well as the earth; and as fpheres
are to each other as the cubes of their diameters, it
follows from this, that the fun is at leaft 200,000 times
!S§ei tnar‘ !-ae earth. Ry the exa&eft oblervations it
has been afcertained, that the diameter of the fun is
nearly 883,000 miles.
Dark fpots are very frequently obferved upon the
furiace of the fun. 1 hefe were entirely unknown be¬
fore the invention of telefccpes, though they are fome-
times of fufficient magnitude to be difcerned by the
naked e\e, omy looking through a fmokedgiafs to pre¬
vent the brightnefs of the luminary from deftroying the re
hgat. Ihe fpots are faid to have been firll difcovered Solar foots
m the year 1611 j and the honour of the difcovery is^hcnfirfl
dnputed betwixt Galileo and Scheiner, a German *Te-difcovered*
fuit at Ingolftadt. But whatever merit Scheiner mio-ht
nave in the priority of the difcovery, it is certain that
Galileo far exceeded him in accuracy, though the work
of Scheiner nas confiderable merit, as containing ob-
iervations felefted from above 3000, made by himfelf.
Since his time the fubjedl has been carefully lludied by
all the aftronomers in Europe. J 66
I here is great variety in the magnitudes of the Dr Long’s
iolar ipots j t^e difference is chiefly in fuperficial ex-account
tent of length and breadth j their depth or thicknefsthem'
is very fmall j fome have been fo large, as by compu¬
tation to be capable of covering the continents of Alia
and Africa; nay, the wdiole furface of the earth, or
even five times its furface. The diameter of a W
when near the middle of the difk, is meafured by com¬
paring tne time it takes in palling over a crofs hair in
a telefcope, with the time wherein the whole dilk of
the fun pafies over the fame hair j ft may alfo be mea¬
fured by tlie micrometer j and by either of thefe me¬
thods we may judge how? many times the diameter of
the fpot is contained in the diameter of the fun. Spots
are fubject to 'increafe and diminution of magnitude,
and ieldom continue long in the lame Hate. They are
of various fhapes j moft of them having a deep black
nucleus furrounded by a dufky cloud, whereof the in¬
ner parts near the black are a little brighter than the
outlkirts.^ They change their lhapes, fomething in the
manner that our clouds do j though not often fo fud-
denly : thus, what is of a certain figure to-day, lhall
to-morrowq or perhaps in a few hours, be of a diffe¬
rent one; what is now but one fpot, lhall in a little
time be broken into two or three ; and fometimes two
or three fpots lhall coalefce, and be united into one.
Dr Long, many years fince, while he was viewing
the image of the fun through a telelcope call upon
white paper, faw one roundilh fpot, by eflimation
not much lefs than the diameter of our earth, break
into two, wdiich receded from one another with pro¬
digious velocity. This obfervation was fingular at the
time; for though feveral writers had taken notice of
t/iis arcei it was done, none of them had been making
any obfervation at the time it w as a£lually doing.
1 ' & The
Part IT.
ASTRONOMY.
Apparent The number of fpots on the fun is very uncertain ;
theH*avelf fometimes.there are a great many, fometimes very few)
ly Bodies. an!^ fometimes none at all. Scheiner made obferva-
■    i tions on tbe fun from 1611 to 1629) and fays lie ne¬
ver found his difk quite free of fpots, excepting a few
days in December 1624. At other times he frequent¬
ly faw 20, 30, and in the year 1625 he was able to
count 50 fpots ^on the fun at a time. In an interval af¬
terwards of 2C years, from 1650 to 1670, fcarce any
fpots were to be feen, and fince that time fome years
have furnifhed a great number of fpots, and others
none at all ) but fince the beginning of the laft century,
not a year paffed wherein fome w^ere not feen ) and at
prefent, fays Mr Caflini, in his Element d' Jjlronomie
publifhed in 1740, they are fo frequent, that the fun
is feldom without fpots, and often fhowfs a good num¬
ber of them at a time.
From thefe phenomena, it is evident, that the fpots
are not endowed wuth any permanency ) nor are they
at all regular in their fhape, magnitude, number, or
in the time of their appearance or continuance. He-
velius obferved one that arofe and vanifhed in 16 or
17 hours $ nor has any been obferved to continue
longer than 70 days, which w7as the duration of one in
the year 1676. 1 hofe fpots that are formed gradually,
are gradually diffolved) while thofe that arife fudden-
ly, are for the mofl part fuddenly diffolved. When a
ipot difappears, that part where it wras generally be¬
comes brighter than the reft of the fun, and continues
fo for feveral days: on the other hand, thofe bright
parts (calledyhc?//<£, as the others are called maculce)
fometimes turn to fpots.
The folar fpots appear to have a motion -which
fpots move carries them acrofs the fun’s dilk. Every fpot, if it
com we continues long enough without being diffolved, appears
to enter the fun’s dilk on the eaft fide, to go from
thence with the velocity continually increafmg till it has
gone half its way) and then to move flower and flower,
till it goes off at the weft lide) after which it difap¬
pears for about the fame fpace of time that it fpent in
crofling the dilk, and then enters upon the eaft fide
again, nearly in the fame place, and croffes it in the
lame tract, and writh the fame unequal motion as be¬
fore. . This apparent inequality in the motion of the
fpots is purely optical, and is in fuch proportion as de-
monftrateg them to be carried round equably or in a
circle, the plane of which continued palles through or
near the eye of a fpeftator upon the earth.
Befides the real changes of the fpots already men¬
tioned, there is another which is purely optical, and is
owing to their being feen on a globe differently turned
towards us. If we imagine the globe of the fun to
have a number of circles drawn upon its furface, all
pafiing through the poles, and cutting his equator at
equal diftances, thefe circles which we may call meri¬
dians, if they wTere vifible, wrould appear to us at un¬
equal diftances, as in fig. 2. Nowq fuppofe a Ipot
w ere round, and^ fo large as to reach from one meri-
cuan to another, it wmuld appear round only at p-, when
it was m the middle of that half of the globe which is to¬
wards our earth ; for then we view the full extent of it
m length and breadth : in every other place it turns
away from us, and appears narrower, though of the
lame length, the farther it is from the middle ) and on
3*
67
The folar
to eaft.
its coming on at rr, and going off at n, it appears as Apparent
imall as a thread, the thin edge being then all that wre Motlonsof
pee> theHeaven-
Thefe fpots have made us acquainted with a very ^ A
important phenomenon, namely the rotation pf the fun w
upon its axis. Amidft the changes which thefe fpots
are continually undergoing, regular motions may be
dete&ed, agreeing exactly with the motion of the fur-
face of the fun, on the fuppofition that this luminary
revolves round an axis almoft perpendicular to the
ecliptic in the fame diretftion writh its motion in its or¬
bit round the earth. By a careful examination of the
motion of thefe fpots, it has been afcertained that the
fin turns round its axis in about 25 days and a half,
and that its equator is inclined to the ecliptic about
7°-5;
The fpots on the fun’s dilk are almoft always con¬
fined to a zone, extending about flc'.y on each fide
of the equator. Sometimes, however, they have been
obferved at the diftance of 39.°5 from the equator of
the fun.
Bouguer demonftrated, by a number of curious ex¬
periments on the fun’s light, that the intenfity of the
light is much greater toward the centre of the fun’s
dilk than towards its circumference. Now7, when a
portion of the fun’s furface is tranfported by the rota¬
tion of that luminary from the centre to the circumfe¬
rence of his dilk, as it is feen under a fmaller angle, the
intenfity of its light, inftead of diminilhing, ought to
increafe. Hence it follows, that part of the light
which iffues from the fun towards the circumference
of his dilk, muft be fomehow7 or other prevented from
making its way to the earth. This cannot be account¬
ed for, without fuppoling that the fun is furrounded by
a denfe atmofphere, which, being traverfed obliquely
by the rays from the circumference, intercepts more
of them than of thofe from the centre which pals it per¬
pendicularly.
he phenomena of the folar fpots, as delivered by Account of
Scheiner and Hevelias, may be fummed up in thetheir Phe~
following particulars. 1. Every fpot which hath a^“^by
nucleus, or confiderably dark part, hath alfo an umbra, oUAvers,
or fainter lhade, furrounding it. 2. The boundary
betw'ixt the nucleus and umbra is always diftinft and
well defined. 3. The increafe of a fpot is gradual, the
breadth of the nucleus and umbra dilating at the fame
time. 4. In like manner, the decreafe of a fpot is gra¬
dual, the breadth of the nucleus and umbra contrafting
at the fame time. 5. The exterior boundary of the
umbra never confifts of ftiarp angles ) but is alw-ays
curvilinear, how irregular foever the outline of the nu¬
cleus may be. 6. The nucleus of a fpot, whilft on
the decreafe, often changes its figure by the umbra
encroaching irregularly upon it, infomuch that in a
fmall fpace of time new encroachments are difcerni-
ble, whereby the boundary betwixt the nucleus and um¬
bra is perpetually varying. 7. It often happens, by
thefe encroachments, that the nucleus of a fpot is di¬
vided into two or more nuclei. 8. The nuclei of the
fpots vanifti fooner than the umbra. 9. Small umbrse
are often feen without nuclei. 10. An umbra of any
confiderable fize is feldom feen without a nucleus in the
middle of it. 11. When a fpot which confifted of a
nucleus and umbra is about to difappear, if it is not fuo-
ceeded.
32 ASTRO
Apparent ceeded by a facula, or fpot brighter than the reft of
Motions °i the place where it was is foon after not di-
tj‘r ftinguilhable from the reft.
In the Philoibphical Tranfaftions, vol. Ixiv. Dr
Wilfon, profcffor of aftronomy at Glafgow, hath given
a dilfertation on the nature of the folar fpots, and men¬
tions the following appearaces. I. When the fpot is
about to dilappear on the weftern edge of the fun’s limb,
the eaftern part of the umbra firft contracts, then va-
nilhes, the nucleus and weftern part of the umbra re¬
maining ; then the nucleus gradually contraffs and va-
nilhes, while the weftern part of the umbra remains.
At laft this difappears alfo j and if the fpot remains
long enough to become again viftble, the eaftern part
of the umbra firft becomes viftbl'e, then the nucleus}
and when the fpot approaches the middle of the difk,
the nucleus appears environed by the umbra on all
fides, as already mentioned. 2. When two fpots lie
very near to one another, the umbra is deficient on
that fide wdiich lies next to the other fpot : and this
will be the cafe, though a large fpot fhould be contigu¬
ous to one much fmaller j the umbra of the large fpot
will be totally wanting on that fide next the fmall one.
If there are little fpots on each fide of the large one,
the umbra does not totally vanifh •, but appears flat¬
tened or prefled in towards the nucleus on each fide.
When the little fpots difappear, the umbra of the large
one extends itfelf as ufual. This circumftance, he ob-
ferve.s, may fometimes prevent the difappearance of the
umbra in the manner above mentioned 5 fo that the weft¬
ern umbra may difappear before the nucleus, if a fmall
fpot happens to break out on that fide.
In the fame volume, p. 337. Mr Wollafton obferves,
that the appearances mentioned by Dr Wilfon are not
conftant. He pofitively affirms, that the faculae or
bright fpots on the fun are often converted into dark
ones. “ I have many times (fays he) obferved, near
the eaftern limb, a bright facula juft come on, which
has the next day ffiown itfelf as a fpot, though I do
not recoiled to have feen fuch a facula near the weftern
one after a fpot’s difappearance. Yet, I believe, both
thefe circumftances have been obferved by others; and
perhaps not only near the limbs. T he circumftance
of the faculae being converted into fpots, I think I may
be fure of. That there is generally (perhaps always)
a mottled appearance over the face of the fun, when
carefully attended to, I think I may be as certain. It
is moft vifible towards the limbs, but I have undoubt¬
edly feen it in the centre ; yet I do not recolleft to
have obferved this appearance, or indeed any fpots, to¬
wards the poles. Once I law, with a twelve-inch re-
fleflor, a fpot burft to pieces while I rvas looking at it.
I could not expeft fuch an event, and therefore cannot
be certain of the exa& particulars ; but the appearance,
as it ftruck me at the time, was like that of a piece of
ice when dallied on a frozen pond, which breaks to
pieces and Hides in various directions.He alfo ac¬
quaints us, that the nuclei of the fpots are not always
69 in the middle of the umbrae ; and gives the figure of one
Mr Dunn’s feen in November 13th 1773, which is a remarkable in-
jiccount. fiance to the contrary. Mr Dunn, however, in his new
Atlas of the Mundane Syftem, gives fome particulars
very different from the above. “ The face of the fun
(fays he) has frequently many large black fpots, of
various forms and dimenfions, which move from eaft to
I
N O M Y, Part II.
weft, and round the fun, according to fome obferva- Apparent
tions in 21; days, according to others in 26, and accord-
ing to fome in 27 days. The black or central part of ^ )30‘;je5
each fpot is in the middle of a great number of very .
fmall ones, wffiich permit the light to pafs between
them. The fmall fpots are fcarce ever in contaCl with
the central ones: but, wffiat is moft remarkable, w-hen
the whole fpot is near the limb of the fun, the fur¬
rounding fmall ones form nearly a ftratght line, and
the central part projeCls a little over it, like Saturn in
his ring.” 70
Dr Herfchel, with a view of afcertaining more ac- Herfchel’»
curately the nature of the fun, made frequent obferva- obferva-
tions upon it from the year 1779 to the year 1794.tl0ns*
He imagines that the dark fpots on the fun are moun¬
tains on its furface, which, confidering the great at-
traClion exerted by the fun upon bodies placed at its
furface, and the flow revolution it has upon its axis, he
thinks may be more than 300 miles high, and yet
Hand very firmly. He fays, that in Auguft, 1792, he
examined the fun wnth feveral pow7ers from 90 to 500;
and it evidently appeared that the dark fpots are the
opaque ground or body of the fun ; and that the lu¬
minous part is an atmofphere, wffiich, being intercepted
or broken, gives us a viewT of the fun itfelf. Hence he
concludes, that the fun has a very extenfive atmofphere,
which confifts of elaftic fluids that are more or lefs
lucid and tranfparent; and of wffiich the lucid ones fur-
niffi us with light. This atmofphere, he thinks, is not
lefs than 1843, nor more than 2765 miles in height;
and, he fuppofes, that the denlity of the luminous folar
clouds need not be much more than that of our au¬
rora borealis, in order to produce the effedls with which
wre are acquainted. The fun then, if this hypothefis be
admitted, is fimilar to the other globes of the folar
fyftem, with regard to its folidity—-its atmofphere—its
furface diverfified with mountains and valleys—its ro¬
tation on its axis—and the fall of heavy bodies on its
furface; it therefore appears to be a very eminent,
large, and lucid planet, the primary one in our fyftern,
diffeminating its light and heat to all the bodies with
wffiich it is connefted.
Dr Herfchel has lately given up the ufe of the old
terms fuch as fpots, nuclei, penumbrce, 8cc. and has in¬
troduced a number of new7 terms, which he confiders
as more precife. It will be neceffary, before we proceed
farther, to inlert his explanation of thele terms.
“ The expreffions,” fays he, “ wffiich I have ufed are Explana-
obenings, [hallows, ridges, nodules, corrugations, indcn- bon of his
r ■ a 1 ^ terms.
tations, and pores.
“ Openings are thofe places where, by the accidental
removal of the luminous clouds of the lun, its own folid
body may be feen ; and this not being lucid, the open¬
ings through wffiich wre fee it may, by a common tele-
fcope, be miftaken for mere black fpots, or their nuclei.
“ Shallows are extenfive and level depreflions of the
luminous folar clouds, generally furrounding the open¬
ings to a confiderable diftance. As they are lefs lu¬
minous than the reft of the fun, they feem to have
fome diftant, though very imperfedt refemblance to
penumbrse ; which might occafion their having been
called fo formerly.
“ Ridges are bright elevations of luminous matter,
extended in row7s of an irregular arrangement.
“ Nodules are alfo bright elevations of luminous mat¬
ter,
I.1
Openings.
t’art It. A S i R O
Apparent ter, but conrined td a fmall fpace. Thefe nodules, and
Motions of rJclges> on account of their being brighter than the ge-
ljK Bodiesn'neral ^ur'ace the fun, and alfo differing a little from
, y ‘ , it in colour, have been called faculee, and luculi.
“ Corrugations, I call that very particular and re¬
markable unevennefs, ruggednefs, or afperity, which is
peculiar to the luminous iolar clouds, and extends all
over the furface of the globe of the fun. As the de-
preffed parts of the corrugations are lefs luminous than
the elevated ones, the diik of the lun has an appear¬
ance which may be called mottled.
Indentations are the depreffed or low parts of the
corrugations *, they alfo extend over the whole furface
of the luminous lolar clouds.
Pores are very fmall holes or openings, about the
middle of the indentations.
From the numerous obfervations of this philofopher
he has drawn the following conclufions :—
1. Openings are places where the luminous clouds
of the fun are removed : large openings have generally
(hallows about them 5 but fmall openings are generally
without (hallows. They have generally ridges and
nodules about them, and they have a tendency to run
into each other. New openings often break out near
other openings. Hence he fuppofes that the openings
are occalioned by an elaftic but not luminous gas, which .
comes up through the pores and incipient openings,
and fpreads itfelf on the luminous clouds, forcing them
out of its way, and widening its paffage. Openings
fometimes differ in colour , they divide when decayed j
fometimes they increafe again ; but when divided they
ufually decreafe and vanifli j fometimes they become
large indentations, and fometimes they turn into
pores.
2. Shallows are depreffed below the general furface
of the fun, and are places from which the luminous fo-
lar clouds of the upper regions are removed. Their
thicknefs is vifible ; fometimes they exift without open¬
ings in them. Incipient (hallows come from the open¬
ings, or branch out from (hallows already formed, and
go forward. He fuppofes that the (hallows are occa-
(ioned by fomething coming out of the openings, which,
by its propelling motion, drives away the luminous clouds
from the place where it meets with the lead refiftancej
or which, by its nature, diffolves them as it comes up
to them. If it be an elaftic gas, its levity muff be fuch
as to make it afeend through the inferior region of the
folar clouds, and diffufe xtfelf among the fuperior lumi¬
nous matter.
3. Ridges are elevations above the general furface
of the luminous clouds of the fun. One of them,
which he meafured, extended over an angular fpace of
2' 4 9".9, which is nearly 7 c,ooo miles.
Ridges generally accompany openings : but they
often alfo exiit in places where there are no openings.
They ufually difperfe very foon. He fuppofes, that
the openings permit a tranfparent elaftic fluid to come
out, which difturbs the luminous matter on the top, fo
as to occafion ridges and nodules ; or, more precife-
ly, that fome elaftic gas, afting below the luminous
clouds, lifts them up, or increafes them •, and at lad
forces itfelf a paffage through them, by throwing them
afide.
4. Nodules are fmall, but highly felevated luminous
Vox.. HI. Part I.
73
Shallows.
Ridges.
75
Nodules.
N O M Y. 3.1
places. He thinks that they may be ridges fore-fhort-
ene<^» . t 1 rr theHeaven-
5. Corrugations conftd ot elevations and deprelhons. iy Bodies.
They extend all over the furface of the fun; they change w—^ .....a
their drape and (ituation j they increafe, diminilh, di¬
vide, and vanidi quickly. Difperfed ridges and no¬
dules form corrugations. 7(*
6. The dark places of corrugations are indentations. Pores.
Indentations are ufually without openings, though in
fome places they contain fmall ones. T hey change
to openings, and are of the fame nature as drallows.
They are low places, which often contain very fmall
openings. They are of different dzes, and are extend¬
ed all over the fun. With low magnifying powers they
appear like points. The low places of indentations
are pores. Pores increafe fometimes, and become
openings : they vanifli quickly.
“ It muff: be fufficiently evident,” fays Dr Herf-
chel, “ from what we have (hewn of the nature of
openings, (hallows, ridges, nodules, corrugations, in¬
dentations, and pores, that thefe phenomena could not
appear, if the (hining matter of the fun were a liquid j
fince, by the laws of hydroftatics, the openings, dial-
lows, indentations, and pores,* would inllantly be fill¬
ed up ; nor could ridges and nodules preferve their
elevation for a (ingle moment. Whereas, many open¬
ings have been known to laft for a whole revolution
of the fun •, and extenfive elevations have remained
fupported for feveral days. Much lefs can it be an
elaftic fluid of an atmofpheric nature : this would be
dill more ready to fill up the low places, and to ex¬
pand itfelf to a level at the top. It remains, therefore,
only for us to admit this fhining matter to exift in the
manner of empyreal, luminous, or phofphoric clouds,
redding in the higher regions of the (olar atmo-
fphere.” ^
From his obfervations, Dr Herfchel concludes, that Two re-
there are two difierent regions of folar clouds j that the gions of fo.
inferior clouds are opaque, and probably not unlike ‘ar cl°ucls*
thof® of our planet; while the fuperior are luminous, and
emit a vaft quantity of light : that the opaque inferior
clouds probably fuft'er but little of the light of the
felf-luminous fuperior clouds to come to the body of
the fun. “ The (hallows about large openings,” he
obferves, “ are generally of fuch a fize, as hardly to
permit any dire6l illumination from the fuperior clouds
to pafs over them into the openings; and the great
height and clofenefs of the (ides of fmall ones, though
not often guarded by (hallows, mull alfo have nearly
the fame effeft. By this it appears, that the planetary
clouds are indeed a mod effectual curtain, to k^ep the
brightnefs of the fuperior regions from the body of
the fun.
“ Another advantage ariflng from the planetary-
clouds of the fun, is of no lefs importance to the whole
folar fyftem. Corrugations are everywhere difperfed
over the fun ; and their indentations may be called
(hallows in miniature. From this we may conclude,
that the imroenfe curtain of the planetary folar clouds
is everywhere clofely drawn ; and, as our photumetri-
cal experiments have proved that thefe clouds refleiff
no lefs than 469 rays out of 1000, it is evident that
they mull add a mod capital fupport to the fplendour
of the fun, by throwing back fo great a (hare of the
E brightnefs
34 ASTRO
Apparent brightnefs coming to them from the illumination of the
rrin-WhfMUPe^-gions.”
N O M Y.
]y Bodies.
<78
Theory of
the folar
phenome¬
na.
Thefe obfervations are fufficient to prove, that the
fun has an atmofphere of great denfity, and extending
to-a great height. Like our atmofphere, it is obvi-
pufly fubjeft to agitations, fimilar to our winds; and
it is alfo tranfparent. The following is Dr Her-
fchel’s theoretical explanation of the folar pheno¬
mena.
“.We have admitted,” fays he, “ that a tranfparent
elaftic gas comes up through the openings, by forcing
itfelf a paffage through the planetary clouds. Our
obfervations feemed naturally to lead to this fuppofi-
tion, or rather to prove it j for, in tracing the (hal¬
lows to their origin, it has been (hewn, that they al¬
ways begin from the openings, and go forwards. We
have alfo feen, that in one cafe, a particular bias gi¬
ven to incipient (hallows, lengthened a number of
them out in one certain direction, which evidently de¬
noted a propelling force atting the fame way in them
all. I am, however, well prepared to diftinguiOi be¬
tween fadfs obferved, and the confequences that in rea-
foning upon them we may draw from them ; and it
will be eafy to feparate them, if that (hould hereafter
be required.
“ If, however, it be now allowed, that the caufe
we have afiigned may be the true one, it will then
appear, that the operations which are carried on in
the atmofphere of the fun are very (imple and uni¬
form.
_ “ By the nature and conftru&ion of the fun, an ela-
flic gas, which may be called empyreal, is conftantly
formed. This afeends everywhere, by a fpecific gra¬
vity lefs than that of the general folar atmofpheric gas
contained in the lower regions. When it goes up in
moderate quantities, it makes itfelf fmall palfages
among the lower regions of clouds : thelh we have
frequently obferved, and have called them pores. We
have (hewn that they are liable to continual and quick
changes, which muft be a natural confequence of their
fleeting generation.
“ When this empyreal gas has reached the higher
regions of the fun’s atmofphere, it mixes with other
gafes, which, from their fpecific gravity, have their
relidence there, and occafions decompoiitions which
produce the appearance of corrugations. It has been
(hewn, that the elevated parts of the corrugations are
fmall felf-luminous nodules, or broken ridges ; and I
have ufed the name of felf-luminous clouds, as a gene¬
ral expreflion for all phenomena of the fun, in what
(liape foever they may appear, that fhine by their own
light. Thefe terms do not exaflly convey the idea af¬
fixed to them ; but thofe of meteors, corufcaLons, in¬
flammations, luminous wifps, or others, which I might
have fele&ed, would have been liable to dill greater
objections. It is true, that when fpeaking- of clouds,
we generally conceive fomething too grofs, and even
too permanent, to permit us to apply that expreffion
properly to luminous decompofitions, which cannot
float or fwim in air, as we are ufed to fee our planeta¬
ry clouds do. But it (hould be remembered, that, on
account of the great compreffion aridng from the force
of the gravity, all the elaftic folar gafes muft be much
condenied ; and that, confequently, phenomena in the
fun’s atmofphere, which in ours would be mere tranft-
Part II,
tory corufcations, fuch as thofe of the aurora borealis, Apparent
will be fo compreffed as to become much more effica- Motions of
cious and permanent. theHeaveir-
“ The great i;gbt occafioned by the brilliant fupe- ,Iy Bodies».
nor regions, muft fcatter itfelf on the tops of the infe-
rior planetary clouds, and, on account of their great
denfity, bring on a very vivid refleaion. Between
the interftices of the elevated parts of the corrugations,
or felf-luminous clouds, which, according to the ob¬
fervations that have been given, are not clofely con-
nedled, the light reflected from the lower clouds will
be plainly vifible, and, being confiderably lefs intenfe
than the direft illumination from the upper regions,
will occafion that faint appearance which we have call¬
ed indentations.'
“ This mixture of the light reflefted from the inden¬
tations, and that which is emitted direttly from the
higher parts of the corrugations, unlefs very attentive¬
ly examined by a fuperior telefcope, will only have
the refemblance of a mottled furface.
“ When a quantity of empyreal gas, more than what
produces only pores in afeending, is formed, it will
make itfelf fmall openings ; or, meeting perhaps wdth
fome refiftance in palling upwards, it may exert its
aftion in the production of ridges and nodules.
“ Laftly, If (till further an uncommon quantity of
this gas (hould be formed, it will burft through the pla¬
netary regions of clouds, and thus will produce great
openings ; then, fpreading itfelf above them, it will oc¬
cafion large (hallows, and, mixing afterwards gradual¬
ly with other fuperior gafes, it will promote the in-
creafe, and aflift in the maintenance, of the general
luminous phenomena.
“ If this account of the folar appearances (hould be
well founded, we (hall have no difficulty in afeertain-
ing the aflual ftate of the fun, with regard to its ener¬
gy in giving light and heat to our globe 5 and nothing
will now remain, but to decide the queftion which
will naturally occur, whether there be aftually any
confiderable difference in the quantity of light and
heat emitted from the fun at different times.” This
queftion he decides in the affirmative, confidering the
great number of fpots as a proof that the fun is emit¬
ting a great quantity of light and heat, and the want
of (pots as the contrary. The firft is conneCled with '
a warm and good feafon ; the fecond, on the contra¬
ry, produces a bad one *.
Chap. II. Of the Moon.
Next to the fun, the moft confpicuous of all the
heavenly bodies is the moon. The changes which
it undergoes are more ftriking and more frequent than
thofe of the fun, and its apparent motions much more
rapid. Hence they were attended to even before thofe
of the fun were known ; a faCl which explains why
the firft inhabitants of the earth reckoned their time
by the moon’s motions, and of courfe followed the lu¬
nar inftead of the folar year. In confidering the
moon, we (hall follow' the fame plan that we obferved
with refpedt to the fun. We (hall firft give an ac¬
count of her apparent motions ; and, fecondly, of her
nature as far as it has been afeertained. Thefe topics
fliall occupy the two following feeftions.
* Phil.
,Tranf.l%o\.
part ii.
P- 265.
Sect.
Part II.
Apparent
Motions of
tiu'Heavcn-
ly Bodies,
So
Elliptical.
8r
Its eccen¬
tricity.
82
Moon’s ir¬
regulari¬
ties.
ASTRO
Sect. I. Of the Apparent Motions of the Moon.
The moon, like the fun, has a peculiar motion from
eaft to weft. If we obferve her any evening when fhe
is fituated very near any fixed ftar, we fhall find her,
in 24 hours, about 130 to the eaft of that ftar, and
her diftance continually increafes, till at laft, after a
certain number of days, Ihe returns again to the fame
ftar from the weft, having performed a complete revo¬
lution in the heavens. By a continued feries of obfer-
vations it has been afcertained, that the moon makes a
complete revolution in 27.32166118036 days, or 27
days 7 hours 43' 11" 31'" Such at leaft was
the duration of its revolution at the commencement of
1700. But it does not remain always the fame. From
a comparifon between the obfervations of the ancients
with thofe of the moderns, it appears, that the mean
motion of the moon in her orbit is accelerating. This
acceleration, but juft fenfible at prefent, will gradually
become more and more obvious. It is a point of great
importance to difcover, whether it will always conti¬
nue to increafe, or whether, after arriving at a certain
maximum, it will again diminilh. Obfervations could
be of no fervice for many ages in the refolution of this
queftion 5 but the Newtonian theory has enabled aftro-
nomers to afcertain that the acceleration is periodi¬
cal.
The moon’s motion in her orbit is ftill more une¬
qual than that of the fun. In one part of her orbit
fire moves fafter, in another flower. By knowing the
time of a complete revolution, wre can eafily calculate
the mean motion for a day, or any given time 5 and
this mean motion is called the mean anomaly. The
true motion is called the true anomaly : the difference
between the two is called the equation. Now the
moon’s equation fometimes amounts to 6° 18' 32".
Her apparent diameter varies with the velocity of
her angular motion. When fhe moves fafteft, her dia¬
meter is largeft ; it is fmalleft when her angular mo¬
tion is floweft. When fmalleft, the apparent diameter
is 0.489420° ; when biggeft, it is 0.558030°. Hence
it follows, that the diftance of the moon from the
earth varies. By following the fame mode of reafon-
ing, which we have detailed in the laft chapter, Kep¬
ler afcertained that the orbit of the moon is an ellipfe,
having the earth in one of its foci. Pier radius vedfor
defcribes equal areas in equal times; and her angular
motion is inverfely proportional to the fquare of her
diftance from the earth.
The eccentricity of the elliptic orbit of the moon,
has been afcertained to amount to 0.0550368, (the
mean diftance of the earth being reprefented by unity) ;
or the greater axis is to the fmaller, nearly as 100,000
to 99,848.
That point of the moon’s orbit which is neareft the
earth, is called the perigee; the oppofite point is the
apogee. The line which joins thefe oppofite points, is
called the line of the moon’s apjides. It moves
flowly eaftward, completing a fidereal revolution in
3232.46643 days, or nearly 9 years.
The inclination of the moon’s orbit is alfo va¬
riable : the greateft inequality is proportional to the
cofine. of twice the fun’s angular diftance from the
afcending node, and amounts when a maximum to
o.x 4679°.
N O M Y. 35
Even the elliptical orbit of the moon reprefents but Apparent
imperfectly her real motion round the earth j for that ^
luminary is fubjefted to a great number of irregulari- ^ Bodies,
ties, evidently connected with the pofitions of the fun,. . ^ ^
which confiderably alter the figure of her orbit. The
three following are the principal of thefe. 83
1. The greateft of all, and the one which was firft The evt .-
afcertained, is called by aftronomers the moon’s evec-'1-™'
tion. It is proportional to the fine of twice the mean
angular diftance of the moon from the fun, minus the
mean angular diftance of the moon from the perigee of
its orbit. Its maximum amounts to 1.3410°. In the
oppofiiions and conjunctions of the fun and moon it
coincides with the equation of the centre, which it al¬
ways diminiflies. Hence the ancients who determined
that equation by means of the eclipies, found that equa¬
tion fmaller than it is in reality. 84
2. There is another inequality in the motion of the Variation,
moon, which difappears during the conjundfions and
oppofitions of the fun and moon } and likewife when
thefe bodies are 90° diftant from each other. It is at
its maximum when their mutual diftance is about 45°,
and then amounts to about 0.5940. Hence it has been
concluded to be proportional to the fine of twuce the
mean angular diftance of the moon from the fun. This
inequality is called the variation. It difappears during
the eclipfes. 85
3. The moon’s motion is accelerated wr hen that of A-nnua^
the fun is retarded, and the contrary. This occafionse'xuat:ior“
an irregularity called the annual equation. It follows
exadfly the fame law with that of the equation of the
centre of the fun, only with a contrary line. At its
maximum it amounts to 0.18576°. During eclipfes,
it coincides with the equation of the fun.
The moon’s orbit is incltned to the ecliptic at an
angle of 5.14692°. The points where it interfefts the
ecliptic are called the nodes. Their pofition is not fix¬
ed in the heavens. They have a retrograde motion,
that is to fay, a motion contrary to that of the fun.
This motion may be eafily traced by marking theffuc-
ceflive ftars which the moon paffes when Ihe croffes the 8(j
ecliptic. They make a complete revolution of the Revolution
heavens in 6793.3009 days. The afcending node is°fher
that in which the moon rifes above the ecliptic towards ,!OC*es‘
the north pole, the defending node that in which fire
finks belowr the equator towards the fouth pole. The
motion of the nodes is fubjefted to feveral irregulari¬
ties, the greateft of which is proportional to the fine of
twice the angular diftance of the fun from the afcend¬
ing node of the lunar orbit. When at a maximum, it
amounts to 1.62945°. The inclination of the orbit
itfelf is variable. Its greateft inequality amounts to
0.14679°. It is proportional to the cofine of the fame
angle on which the irregularity in the motion of the
nodes depends.
The apparent diameter of the moon varies as well
as that of the fun, and in a more remarkable manner.
WThen fmalleft, it meafures 29.5' j when largeft, 34'.
This muft be owing to the diftance of the moon from
the earth being fubjedl to variations. 87
The great diftance of the fun from the earth ren- Moon’s pa-
ders it difficult to determine its parallax, on account of rallax.
its minutenefs. I his is not the cale with the moon.
The diftance of that luminary from the earth may be
determined without much difficulty.
E 2
Let
36 ASTRO
Apparent Let BAG (fig. 10.) be one half of the earth, AC
tp.j^°nS its femidiameter, S the fun, m the moon, and EKOL
ly Bodies "a <luartcr the circle defcribed by the moon in re-
—t— - volving from the meridian to the meridian again. Let
CRS be the rational horizon of an obferver at A, ex¬
tended to the fun in the heavens j and HAO, his fen-
fible horizon extended to the moon’s orbit. ALC is
the angle under which the earth’s femidiameter AC is
feen from the moon at L ; which is equal to the angle
OAL, becaufe the right lines AO and CL which in¬
clude both thefe angles are parallel. ASC is the angle
under which the earth’s femidiameter AC is feen from
the fun at S : and is equal to the angle OAjf, becaufe
the lines AO and CRS are parallel. Now, it is found
by obfervation, that the angle OAL is much greater
than the angle OAf; but OAL is equal to ALC,
and OA/is equal to ASC. Now as ASC is much
lefs than ALC, it proves that the earth’s femidiameter
• AC appears much greater as feen from the moon at L
than from the fun at S ; and therefore the earth is much
farther from the fun than from the moon. The quan¬
tities of thefe angles may be determined by obfervation
in the following manner.
Let a graduated inftrument, as DAE (the larger
the better), having a moveable index with fight-holes,
be fixed in fuch a manner, that its plane furface may
Le parallel to the plane of the equator, and its edge
AD in the meridian : fo that when the moon is in the
equinoctial, and on the meridian ADE, fhe may be
feen through the fight-holes when the edge of the
moveable index cuts the beginning of the divifions at
o, on the graduated limb DE j and wrhen {he is fo feen,
let the precife time be noted. Now as the moon re¬
volves about the earth from the meridian to the meri¬
dian again in about 24 hours 48 minutes, {he will go a
fourth part round it in a fourth part of that time, viz.
in 6 hours 12 minutes as feen from C, that is, from
the earth’s centre or pole. But as feen from A, the
obferver’s place on the earth’s furface, the moon will
feem to have gone a quarter round the earth when {he
comes to the fenfible horizon at O j for the index
through the fights of which {he is then viewed will be
at </, 90 degrees from D, where it was when the was
feen at E. Now let the exaft moment when the moon
is feen at O (which wall be when {he is in or near the
fenfible horizon) be carefully noted (g) that it may be
known in w'hat time fhe has gone from E to O ; which
time fubtrafted from 6 hours 12 minutes (the time
of her going from E to L) leaves the time of her going
from O to L, and affords an eafy method for finding
the angle OAL (called the moon's horizontal parallax,
which is equal to the angle ALC) by the following
analogy : As the time of the moon’s defcribing the arc
EO is to 90 degrees, fo is 6 hours 12 minutes to the
degrees of the arc Drt'E, which meafures the angle
EAL ■, from which fubtraft 90 degrees, and there re¬
mains the angle OAL, equal to the angle ALC, un¬
der -which the earth’s femidiameter AC is feen from
the moon. Nowq fince all the angles of a right-lined
N O M Y. Part II.
triangle are equal to 180 degrees, or to two right Apparent
angles, and the fides of a triangle are always proper- _
tional to the fines of the oppofite angles, fay, by the ly bodies.
Rule of Three, As the fine of the angle ALC at the C—y——^
moon L, is to its oppofite fide AC, the earth’s femi¬
diameter, which is known to be 3985 miles’, fo is ra¬
dius, viz. the fine of 90 degrees, or of the right angle
ACL, to its oppofite fide AL, which is the moon’s
diftance at L from the obferver’s place at A on the
earth’s furface •, or, fo is the fine of the angle CAL
to its oppofite fide CL, which is the moon’s diftance
from the earth’s centre, and comes out at a mean rate
to be 240,000 miles. The angle CAL is equal to
what OAL wants of 90 degrees. _ SS
Other methods have been fallen upon for determi- Another
ning the moon’s parallax ; of which the following is re-rnethod^
commended as the belt, by Mr Fergufon, though hi¬
therto it has not been put in pradice. “ Let two ob-
fervers be placed under the fame meridian, one in the
northern hemifphere and the other in the fouthern, st
fuch a diftance from each other, that the arc of the ce-
leftial meridian included betw een their two zeniths may
be at leaft 80 or 90 degrees. Let each obferver take
the diftance of the moon’s centre from his zenith, by
means of an exceeding good inftrument, at the moment
of her puffing the meridian : and thefe two zenith di-
ftances of the moon together, and their excels above
the diftance between the two zeniths, will be the di¬
ftance between the two apparent places of the moon.
Then, as the fum of the natural fines of the two ze¬
nith diftances of the moon is to radius, fo is the di¬
ftance between her two apparent places to her hori¬
zontal parallax : which being found, her diftance from
the earth’s centre may be found by the analogy men¬
tioned above.
Thus, in fig. 11. let VECQJje the earth, M the
moon, and Zhaz an arc of the celeftial meridian. Let
V be Vienna, whole latitude EV is 48° 20' north ; and
.C the Cape of Good Hope, whole latitude EC is 34*
30' fouth : both which latitudes we fuppofe to be ac¬
curately determined beforehand by the obfervers. As
thefe two places are on the fame meridian «VECj, and
in different hemifpheres, the fum of their latitudes
82° 50' is their diftance from each other. Z is the
zenith of Vienna, and 2; the zenith of the Cape of
Good Hope ; which two zeniths are alfo 82° 50' di-
ftant from each other, in the common celeftial meri¬
dian Zss. To the obferver at Vienna, the moon’s
centre will appear at a in the celeftial meridian ; and at
the fame inftant, to the obferver at the Cape, it will
appear at h. Now7 fuppofe the moon s diftance Z a
from the zenith of Vienna to be 38° T 53", and her
diftance zb from the zenith of the Cape of Good Hope
to be 46° 4' 41": the fum of thefe two zenith diftan¬
ces (Zfl-f-zi) is 84° 6' 34"; from which fubtrad
82° 50', the diftance of Zz between the zeniths of thefe
two places, and there wull remain 1° 16 34 ^or
arc ba, or diftance between the two apparent places of
the moon’s centre, as feen from V and from C. I hen,
fuppofing
(G) Here proper allowance muft be made for the refraftion, which being about 34 minutes of a degree in
the horizon, will caufe the moon’s centre to appear 34 minutes above the horizon when her centre is really
in it.
Part IT.
Apparent
Motions of
theHeaven-
ly Bodies.
ASTRO NOM Y.
s9 .
Moon’s di-
ftauce.
90
Her phafes
explained.
91
JLefiedts
the fun’s
bzht.
fupponng the tabular radius to be 10,000,000, the na¬
tural fine of 38° 1' 53" (the arc Zr?) is 6,160,816, and
the natural fine of 46° 4' 41" (the arc %b) is 7,202,821 :
the fum of both thefe fines is 13,363,637. Say
therefore, As 13,363,637 is to 10,000,000, fo is
l° 16' 34" to 57' 18"', which is the moon’s horizontal
parallax.
If the two places of obfervation be not exadlly un¬
der the fame meridian, their difference of longitude
muff be accurately taken, that proper allowance may
be made for the moon’s declination whilft die is palling
from the meridian of the one to the meridian of the
other.
From the theory of the parallax we know, that at
the diftance of the moon from the earth the apparent
fize of the earth would be to that of the moon as
21.3^2 to 5823. Their refpeftive diameters muff be
proportional to thefe numbers, or almolt as 11 to 3.
Hence the bulk of the moon is 49 times lefs than that
of the earth.
The different appearances, or phafes, of the moon
conftitute fome of the molt ftriking phenomena of the
heavens. When fire emerges from the rays of the fun
in an evening, file appears after funfet as a fmall cref-
cent juft vifible. The fize of this crefcent increafes
continually as Ihe feparates to a greater diftance from
the fun, and when Ihe is exadtly in oppofition to that
luminary, Ihe appears under the form' of a complete
circle. This circle changes into a crefcent as Ihe ap¬
proaches nearer that luminary, exadtly in the fame man¬
ner it had increafed, till at laft file difappears altoge¬
ther, plunging into the fun’s rays in the morning at
funrife. The crefcent of the moon being always di¬
rected towards the fun, indicates obvioufiy that file bor¬
rows her light from that luminary •, while the law of
the variation of her phafes, almoft proportional to the
verfed fine of the angular diftance of the moon from
the fun, demonftrates that her figure is fpherical.
Hence it follows, that the moon is an opaque fpherical
body.
Thefe different phafes of the moon are renewed af¬
ter every conjunction. They depend upon the excefs
of the fynodical movement of the moon above that of
the fun, an excefs which is ufually termed the fynodi¬
cal motion of the moon. The duration of the fynodi¬
cal revolution of the moon in the mean period between
two conjunctions is 29.530588 days. It is to the tro¬
pical year nearly in the ratio of 19 to 235, that is to
fay, that 19 folar years confift of about 235 lunar
months.
The points of the lunar orbit, in which the moon is
either in conjunction or oppofition to the fun are called
fy%i^ies. In the firft point the moon is faid to be new,
in the fecond to be full. The quadratures ?ixz thofe points
in which the moon is diftant from the fun 90* or 27c0.
When in thefe points the moon is faid to be in \\tx frjl
and third quarter. One half only of the moon is then
illuminated or feen from the earth. As a more parti¬
cular account of thefe phafes may be deemed neceffary,
we fubjoin the following explanation, which will per¬
haps be better underftood by the generality of read¬
ers.
_ 1 he moon is an opaque globe like the earth, and
ftiines only by reflecting the light of the fun ; there¬
fore, whilft that half of her which is towards the fun is
enlightened, the other half muft be dark and invifible. Apparent
Hence Ihe difappears when flie comes between us and Alotions oi:
. 1 1 j i.   ^  j _ theHeaven.*
ly Bodies.
the fun ; becaufe her dark fide is then towards us.
When fire is gone a little way forwmrd, we fee a little
of her enlightened fide : which ftill increafes to our
view us fine advances forward, until file comes to be
oppofite to the fun ; and then her whole enlightened
fide is towards the earth, and fhe appears with around
illuminated orb, wfiiich we call the full moon; her
dark fide being then turned away from the earth.
From the full file feems to decreafe gradually as fhe
goes through the other half of her courfe 5 ftiowing us
lefs and lefs of her enlightened fide every day, till her
next change or conjundtion with the fun, and then Ihe
difappears as before.
The moon has fcarce any difference of feafons; her
axis being almoft perpendicular to the ecliptic. What
is very Angular, one half of her has no darknefs at all ;
the earth conftantly affording it a ftrong light in the
fun’s abfence ; while the other half has a fortnight’s
darknefs and a fortnight’s light by turns.
Our earth is thought to be a moon to the moon ; Earth ap-
waxing and waning regularly, but appearing 13 times Pearsa
as big, and affording her 13 times as much light as fhe n „
does us. When ftie changes to us the earth appears
full to her j and when Ihe is in her firft quarter to
us, the earth is in its third quarter to her j and vice
verfa.
But from one half of the moon the earth is never
feen-at all: from the middle of the other half, it is al¬
ways feen over head $ turning round almoft 30 times as
quick as the moon does. From the circle which limits
our view of the moon, only one half of the earth’s fide
next her is feen ; the other half being hid below the
horizon of all places on that circle. To her the earth
feems to be the biggeft body in the univerfe 5 for it ap¬
pears 13 times as big as fire does to us.
As the earth turns round its axis, the feveral conti¬
nents, feas, and iflands, appear to the moon’s inhabi¬
tants like fo many fpots of different forms and bright-
nefs, moving over its furface ; but much fainter at fome
times than others, as our clouds cover them or leave
them. By thefe ipots the lunarians can determine the
time of the earth’s diurnal motion, juft as we do the
motion of the fun ; and perhaps they meafure their time
by the motion of the earth’s fpots j for they cannot
have a truer dial.
The moon’s axis is fo nearly perpendicular to the How the
ecliptic, that the fun never removes fenfibly from her hmar in¬
equator 5 and the obliquity of her orbit, which is nextiiabltants
to nothing as feen from the fun, cannot caufe the fun Xft
to decline fenfibly from her equator. Yet her inhabi-year.
tants are not deftitute of means for afcertaining the"
length of their year, though their method and ours muft
differ. For wTe can know the length of our year bv the
return of our equinoxes; but the lunarians, having al¬
ways equal day and night, muft have recourfe to an¬
other method and we may fuppofe, they meafure their
year by obferving when either of the poles of our earth
begins to be enlightened, and the other to difappear,
which is always at our equinoxes j they being conve¬
niently fituated for obferving great tra&s of land about
our earth’s poles which are entirely unknown to us.
Hence we may conclude, that the year is of the fame
abfolute length both to the earth and moon, though
very
3S
Apparent very different as to the number of days; we having 365^
Motion °f nature daySj and the lunarians only 12^, every day
Vy” Bodies0” and night in the moon being as long as 294 on the
The moon’s inhabitants on the fide next the earth
may as eafily find the longitude of their places as we
can find the latitude of ours. For the earth keeping
conflantly, or very nearly fo, over one meridian of the
„ moon, the call or weft diftances of places from that me¬
ridian are as eafily found as we can find our diftance
from the equator by the altitude of our celeftial
94 poles.
"Longitude As the fun can only enlighten that half of the earth
cafilyfound. which is at any moment turned towards him, and, be¬
ing withdrawn from the oppofite half, leaves it in dark-
nefs, fo he likewife doth to the moon j only with this
difference, that as the earth is furrounded by an at-
mofphere, we have twilight after the fun fets ; but if
the moon has none of her own, nor is included in that
of the earth, the lunar inhabitants have an immediate
tranfition from the brighteft funfhine to the blacked:
iig. 12. darknefs. For, let trk s w be the earth, and A, B.
C, D, E, F, G, H, the moon in eight different parts of
her orbit. As the earth turns round its axis from weft
to eaft, when any place comes to t, the twilight begins
there, and when it revolves from thence to r the fun S
rifes ; rvhen the place comes to s the fun fets, and when
-it comes to w the twilight ends. But as the moon
turns round her axis, which is only once a month, the
moment that any part of her furface comes to r (fee
the moon at G), the fun rifes there without any pre¬
vious warning by twilight 5 and when the fame point
comes to s the fun fets, and that point goes into dark-
9£ nefs as black as at midnight.
Herphafes The moon being an opaque fpherical body (for her
• explained, hills take off no more from her roundnefs than the ine¬
qualities on the furface of an orange take off from its
roundnefs), we can only fee that part of the enlighten¬
ed half of her which is towards the earth. And there¬
fore, when the moon is at A, in conjun&ion with the
fun S, her dark half is towards the earth, and (he dif-
appears, as at a, there being no light on that half to
render it vifible. When (he comes to her firft odlant
at B, or has gone an eighth part of her orbit from her
conjundtion, a quarter of her enlightened fide is to¬
wards the earth, and fhe appears horned, as at b.
When fire has gone a quarter 'of her orbit from be¬
tween the earth and fun to C, flie (hows us one half of
her enlightened fide, as at c, and we fay, lire is a quar¬
ter old. At D, (he is in her fecond odlant ; and by
fhowing us more of her enlightened fide fire appears
gibbous, as at </. At E, her whole enlightened fide is
towards the earth ; and therefore fhe appears round, as
at e; when we fay it is frill moon. In her third oc¬
tant at F, part of her dark fide being towards the
earth, fhe again appears gibbous, and is on the de-
creafe, as at /. At G, we fee juft one half of her en¬
lightened fide ; and fire appears half decreafed, or in
her third quarter, as atjn At H, we only fee a quar¬
ter of her enlightened fide, being in her fourth oftant;
where fire appears horned, as at h. And at A, ha¬
ving completed her courfe from the fun to the fun
again, fhe difappears y and we fay it is new moon.
Thus, in going from A to E, the moon feems conti¬
nually to increafe ^ and in going from E to A, to de¬
part II.
creafe in the fame proportion y having like phafes at Apparent
equal diftances from A to E, but as feen from the fun
S fhe is always full. jy Bodies.
The moon appears not perfectly round when fire is
full in the higheft or loweft part of her orbit, becaufe 96
we hkve not a full view of her enlightened fide atNever aP"
that time. When full in the higheft part of her orbit, ?e(^r1syper'
a fmall deficience appears on her lower edge y andtherouud.
contrary when full in the loweft part of her orbit.
It is plain by the figure, that when the moon chan¬
ges to the earth, the earth appears full to the moon y
and vice vcrfa. For when the moon is at A, new to
the earth, the whole enlightened fide of the earth is
towards the moon y and when the moon is at E, full
to the earth, its dark fide is towards her. Flence a
new moon anfwers to a full earth, and a full moon to
a new earth. The quarters are alfo reverfed to each
other. 97
Between the third quarter and change, the moon is Agreeable
frequently vifible in the forenoon, even when the fun
fliines y and then fhe affords us an opportunity of fee-phafcs>
ing a very agreeable appearance, wherever we find a
globular ftone above the levdl of the eye, as fuppofe on
the top of a gate. For, if the fun fhines on the ftone,
and we place ourfelves fo as the upper part of the ftone
may juft feem to touch the point of the moon’s lower-
moft horn, we fhall then fee the enlightened part of the
ftone exadlly of the fame fhape with the moon y horned
as fire is, and inclined the fame way to the horizon.
The reafon is plain y for the fun enlightens the ftone
the fame way as he does the moon ; and both being
globes, when we put ourfelves into the above fitua-
tion, the moon and ftone have the fame pofition to our
eyes y and therefore we muft fee as much of the illu¬
minated part of the one as of the other.
The pofition of the moon’s cufps, or a right line
touching the points of her horns, is very differently
inclined to the horizon at different hours of the fame
day of her age. Sometimes file Hands, as it were, up¬
right on Tier lower horn, and then fuch a line is per¬
pendicular to the horizon : when this happens, (he is
in what the aftronomers call the nonagejimal degree ; Nonagefi-
which is the higheft point of the ecliptic above the ho-mai degree,
rizon at that time, and is 90° from both fides of" the
horizon where it is then cut by the ecliptic. But
this never happens when the moon is on the meridian,
except when ftie is at the very beginning of Cancer or
Capricorn. 99
The explanation of the phafes of the moon leads usEclipfesof
to that of the cclipfes y thole phenomena which former-the moon,
ly were the fubjefts of dread and error, but wdiich phi-
lofophers have converted to the purpofes of utility and
inftrudfion. The moon can only become eclipfed by
the interpofition of an opaque body, which intercepts
from it the light of the fun y and it is obvious that this
opaque body is the earth, becaufe the eclipfes of the
moon never happen except w;hen the moon is in oppo-
fition, and confequently when the earth is interpofed
between her and the fun. The globe of the earth pro-
jefts behind it relatively to the motion of the fun a
conical lhadow, whofe axis is the ftraight line that
joins the centres of the earth and fun, and w hich ter¬
minates at the point wdten the apparent diameters of
thefe two bodies become equal. The diameters of
thefe bodies feen from the centre of the moon in oppo-
fition,
ASTRONOMY.
Part II.
Apparent
jVlotions of
theHeaven-
ly Bodies.
TOO
Period of
the eclipfes
ioi
Why the
moon is vi¬
able when
eclipfed.
ASTRO
fition, are nearly in tlie proportion of 3 for the fun and
x 1 for the earth. Therefore the conical fhadow of the
earth is at lead thrice as long as the diftance between
the earth and moon, and its breadth at the point where
it is traverfed by the moon more than double the dia¬
meter of that luminary.
The moon, therefore, would be eclipfed every time
that it is in oppolition if the plane of its orbit coincid¬
ed with the ecliptic. But in confequence of the mu¬
tual inclination of thefe two planes the moon, when in
oppofition, is often elevated above the earth’s conical
flradow', or depreffed below it j and never can pafs
through that fhadow unlefs when it is near the nodes.
If the whole of the moon’s difk. plunges into the
fhadow, the eclipfe is faid to be total; if only a part of
the difk enter the fhadow, the eclipfe is faid to be par¬
tial.
The mean duration of a revolution of the fun rela-
•tively to the nodes of the lunar orbit is 346.61963
days, and is to the duration of a fynodical revolution
of the moon nearly as 223 to 19. Confequently, after
a period of 223 lunar months, the fun and moon return
nearly to the fame fituation relatively to the order of
the lunar orbit. Of courfe the eclipfes muft return in
the fame order after every 223 lunations. This gives
us an eafy method of predifting them. But the ine¬
qualities in the motions of the fun and moon occafion
fenfible differences; befides the return of the two lu¬
minaries to the fame points relatively to the nodes not
being rigoroufly true, the deviations occafioned by this
want of exacdnefs alter at lad the order of the eclipfes
obferved during one of thefe periods.
The following explanation of the lunar eclipfes be¬
ing more particular, may be acceptable to fome of our
readers.
That the moon can never be eclipfed but at the time
of her being full, and the reafon why die is not
eclipfed at every full, has been fhowm already. In
fig. 13. let S be the fun, E the earth, RR the earth’s
'fhadow, and B the moon in oppofition to the fun : In
this fituation the earth intercepts the fun’s light in its
way to the moon •, and when the moon touches the
earth’s fhadow at “y, Ihe begins to be eclipfed on her
eaftern limb x, and continues eclipfed until her weftern
limb v leaves the fhadow at w: at B fhe is in the mid¬
dle of the fhadow, and confequently in the middle of
the eclipfe.
The moon, when totally eclipfed, is not invifible if
fhe be above the horizon and the fky be clear •, but ap¬
pears generally of a dufky colour, like tarnifhed cop¬
per, which fome have thought to be the moon’s native
light. But the true caufe of her being vifible is the
fcattered beams of the fun, bent into the earth’s fha¬
dow by going through the atmofphere ; which, being
more or lefs denfe near the earth than at confiderable
heights above it, refrafls or bends the fun’s rays more
inward, the nearer they are palling by the earth’s fur-
face, than thofe rays which ’go through higher parts of
the atmofphere, where it is lefs denfe according to its
height, until it be fo thin or rare as to lofe its refrac¬
tive power. Let the circle f, g, h, z, concentric to the
earth, include the atmofphere whofe refra&ive power
vanifhes at the heights f and i; fo that the rays W/u>
and V/T go on fbaight without fuffering the lead: re-
. N O M Y. 39
fraflion : but all thofe rays which enter the atmofphere Apparent
between f and k, and between z and /, on oppofite fides 01
the earth, are gradually more bent inward as they go ^ Bodies.
through a greater portion of the atmofphere, until ^ —z
the rays W k and V / touching the earth at m and zz,
are bent fo much as to meet at y, a little fhort of the
moon j and therefore the dark fhadow of the earth is
contained in the fpace mop q n, where none of the
fun’s rays can enter; all the reft R, R, being mixed
by the fcattered rays which are refracted as above, is
in fome meafure enlightened by them; and fome of
thofe rays falling on the moon, give her the colour of
tarnifhed copper or of iron almoft red hot. So that if
the earth had no atmofphere, the moon would be as-
invifible in total eclipfes as fhe is when new. If the
moon were fo near the earth as to go into its dark
fhadow’, fuppofe about p 0, fhe w’ould be invifible during
her flay in it 5 but vifible before and after in the fainter
fhadow RR.
When the moon goes through the centre of the
earth’s fhadow fhe is dire&ly oppofite to the fun ; yet
the moon has been often feen totally eclipfed in the ho¬
rizon when the fun was alfo vifible in the oppofite part
of it-, for the horizontal refraftion being almoft 34
minutes of a degree, and the diameter ot the fun and
moon being each at a mean ftate but 32 minutes, the
refraftion caufes both luminaries to appear above the
horizon when they are really below it.
When the moon is full at 12 degrees from either of
her nodes, flie juft touches the earth’s fhadowq but en¬
ters not into it. In fig. 14. let GH be the ecliptic,
ef the moon’s orbit where fhe is X 2 degrees from the
node at her full, c d her orbit where fhe is 6 degrees
from the node, a b her orbit where fhe is full in the
node, AB the earth’s fhadowq and M the moon.
When the moon defcribes the line ef, fhe juft touches
the fhadowq but does not enter into it; when fhe de¬
fcribes the line c d, fhe is totally, though not centrally,
immerfed in the fhadow7} and when fhe defcribes the
line a b, fhe palfes by the node at M in the centre of
the fhadow, and takes the longeft line poflible, which
is a diameter, through it : and fuch an eclipfe being
both total and central, is of the longeft duration, name-
ly, 3 h. 57 m. 6 fee. from the beginning to the end, if
the moon be at her greateft diftance from the earth j
and 3 h. 37 m. 26 fee. if fire be at her leaf! diftance.
The reafon of this difference is, that when the moon is
fartheft from the earth, fire moves flowed: ; andfwhen
neareft to it, quickeft. f-
The moon’s diameter, as well as the fun’s, is fuppo-
fed to be divided into 12 equal parts, called digits ; and
fo many of thefe parts as are darkened by the earth’s
fhadow, fo many digits is the moon eclipfed. All that
the moon is eclipfed above 1 2 digits, fhows how far the
fhadow7 of the earth is over the body of the moon, on
that edge to w7hich fire is neareft at the middle of the
eclipfe. 1 _ ro*-
It is difficult to obferve exa£!ly either the beginning Lunar
or ending of a lunar eclipfe, even with a good telefcope, eclipfes
becaufe the earth’s flradow is fo faint and ill-defined
about the edges, that when the moon is either juft
touching or leaving it, the obfeuration of her limb is
fcarce fenfible } end therefore the niceft obfervers can
hardly be certain to four or five feconds of time. But
both
i°3
Eclipfes of
the fun.
4°
Motions* of rff1 ^eg‘nning an4 ending of folar eclipfes are vi-
theHeavan- uiffantaneous : for the moment that the edge of
ly Bodies. *ne_ moon’s djfk touches the fun’s, his roundnefs feems
   .a iittle broke on that part j and the moment die leaves
it, he appears perfectly round again.
rlhe eclipfes of the fun only take place during the
conjunctions of the fun and moon, or when the moon
is placed between the fun and the earth. They are
owing to the moon concealing the fun from the earth,
or to the earth being plunged in the fhadow of the
moon. . The moon is indeed much fmaller than the fun ;
but it is fo much nearer to the earth that its apparent
diameter does not differ much from the diameter of
that luminary : and, in confequence of the changes
which take place in the apparent diameters of thefe
bodies, it happens that lometimes the apparent diame¬
ter of the moon is greater than that of the fun. If we
fuppofe the centres of the fun and moon in the fame
ftraight line with the eye of a fpe&ator placed on the
eaitn, he will fee tne tun echpfed. If the apparent di-
ameter of the moon happens to furpafs that of the fun,
the eclipfe will be tota/: but if the moon’s diameter be’
fmalleft, the obferver ■will fee a luminous ring, formed
by that part of the fun’s difk which exceeds that of the
moon’s, and the eclipfe will in that cafe be annular.
If the centre of the moon is not in the fame ftraight
line which joins the obferver and the centre of the fun,
the eclipfe can only be partial, as the moon can only
conceal z part of the fun’s dilk. Hence there muft be
a great variety in the appearance of the folar eclipfes.
\\ e may add alfo to thefe caufes of variety the eleva¬
tion of the moon above the horizon, which changes its
apparent diameter confiderably. For it is well known,
that the moon’s diameter appears larger when (lie is near
the horizon than when (lie is elevated far above it. Now',
as the moon’s height above the horizon varies according
to the longitude of the obferver, it follows, that the folar
eclipfes will not have the fame appearance to the obfer-
vers fttuated in different longitudes. One obferver
may fee an eclipfe which does not happen relatively to
another. In this refpecl the folar differ from the lunar
eclipfes, which are the fame to all the inhabitants
of the earth.
In any year, the number of eclipfes of both lumi¬
naries cannot be lefs than twro, nor more than feven ,
the mod; ufual number is four, and it is very rare to
have more than fix. For the fun paffes by both the
nodes but once a-year, unlefs he paffes by one of them
in the beginning of the year j and, if he does, he will
pafs by the fame node again a little before the year be
imifhed , becaule, as thefe points move ip-!- degrees
backwards every year, the fun will come to either of
them 173 days after the other. And when either
node is within 17 degrees of the fun at the time of new
moon, the fun wrill be eclipfed. At the fubfequent
oppofition, the moon will be eclipfed in the other node,
and come round to the next conjunction again ere the
former node be_ 17 degrees pall the fun, and will there¬
fore eclipfe him again. When three eclipfes fall
about either node, the like number generally falls
about the oppofite ; as the fun comes to it in 173 days
afterwards ; and fix lunations contain but four days
more. Thus, there may be two eclipfes of the fun
and one of the moon about each of her nodes. But
ASTRONOMY.
104
Number of
eclipfes in
a year.
Part Tl.
when the moon changes in either of the nodes, the Apparent
Cannot be near enough the other node at the next full Motions of
to. be eclipled j and in fix lunar months afterward file t!iepe^eu"
will change near the other node : in thefe cafes, there > ~
can be but two eclipfes in a year, and they are both of
the fun.
A longer period than the above-mentioned, for com¬
paring and examining eclipfes which happen at long in¬
tervals of time, is 557 years, 21 days, 18 hours, 30 mi¬
nutes, 11 feconds •, in which time there are 6890 mean
lunations j and the fun ^nd node meet again fo nearly
as to be but 11 feconds diftant ; but then it is not the
fame eclipfe that returns, as in the fliorter period above
mentioned. ^ _
Eclipfes of the fun are more frequent than of the Why mora
moon, becaufe the fun’s ecliptic limits are greater than eclipfes of
the moon’s 5 yet w’e have more vifible eclipfes of the l!ie Ult'0il
moon than of the fun, becaufe eclipfes of the moon are fPn'a^ ob^
feen from all parts of that hemifphere of the earth ferved.
which is next her, and are equally great to each of
thofe parts : but the fun’s eclipfes are vifible only to
that fmall portion of the hemifphere next him whereon
the moon’s fhadow falls.
The moon’s orbit being elliptical, and the earth in
one of its focufes, fire is once at her leaft diftance from
the earth, and once at her greateft, in every lunation. ^
When the moon changes at her leaft diftance from the Total and
earth, and fo near the node that her dark fhadow’ falls annular
upon the earth, (lie appears big enough to cover the eclipfc*.
whole dific of the fun from that part on which her
fliadow falls j and the fun appears totally eclipfed
there for fome minutes : but wdien the moon changes
at her greateft diftance from the earth, and fo near
the node that her dark ftiadow is diredled towards the
earth, her diameter fubtends a lefs angle than the
fun’s; and therefore Ihe cannot hide his whole dilk
from any part of the earth, nor does her lhadow reach
it at that time; and to the place over which the point
of her lhadow hangs, the eclipfe is annular, the fun’s
edge appearing like a luminous ring all round the body'
of the moon.
When the change happens within 17 degrees of the
node, and the moon at her mean diftance from the
earth, the point of her lhadow juft touches the earth,
and Ihe eclipfeth the fun totally to that fmall fpot
whereon her lhadow falls 5 but the darknefs is not of a
moment’s continuance.
The moon’s apparent diameter, when largeft, ex¬
ceeds the fun’s, when leaft, only 1 minute 38 feconds
of a degree ; and in the greateft eclipfe of the fun
that can happen at any time and place, the total
darknefs continues no longer than whilft the moon
is going 1 minute 38 feconds from the fun in her or¬
bit, which is about 3 minutes and 13 feconds of an
hour.
107
The moon’s dark Ihadow covers only a fpot on the Extent of
earth’s furface about 180 Englifh miles broad, when the moon’s
the moon’s diameter appears largeft, and the fun’s leaft ; ^iaclow and
and the total darknefs can extend no farther than the Penura'jr**
dark lhadow covers. Yet the moon’s partial lhadow
or penumbra may then cover a circular fpace 4900
miles in diameter, within all which the fun is more or
lefs eclipfed, as the places are lefs or more diftant from
the centre of the penumbra. When the moon changes
exaftly
tvt II*
Apparent
Morions of
theHeaven-
ly Bodies.
IQ'S
Beginning,
finding, See
of a folar
'?<£■ 13-
ASTRO
exactly in tKc node, tlie penumbra is circular on the
earth at the middle of the general eclipfe ; becaule at
that time it falls perpendicularly on the earth’s furface *,
but at every other moment it falls obliquely, and will
therefore be elliptical; and the more fo, as the time
is longer before or after tbe middle of the general
eclipfe •, and then much greater portions of the earth’s
furface are involved in the penum '.'a.
When the penumbra flrft touches the earth, the ge-
• neral eclipfe begins 5 when it leaves the earth, the ge¬
neral eclipfe ends : irom the beginning to the end the
fun appears eclipied in fome part of the earth or other.
When the penumbra touches any place, the eclipfe be¬
gins at that place, and ends when the penumbra leaves
it. When the moon changes in the node, the pe¬
numbra goes over the centre of the earth’s dilk. as
feen from the moon > and cdnfequenfly, by defenbing
the longeft line poffible on the earth, continues the
longeft upon it ; namely, at a mean rate, 5 hours 50
minutes ; more, if the moon be at her greateft diftance
from the earth, becaufe foe then moves floweft ; lefs,
if foe be at her leaft diftance, becaufe of her quicker
motion.
To make feveral of the above and other phenomena
plainer, let S be the fun, E the earth, M the rtioon,
and AMP the moon’s orbit. Draw tbe right line We
from the Weftern fide of the fun at W, touching the
weftern fide of the moon at e, and the eaith at e.
draw alfo the right line V d from the eaftern fide of
the fun at V, touching the eaftern fide of the moon at
</, and the earth at e : the dilk fpace ccd included
between thofe lines is the moon’s lhadow, ending in a
point at e, where it touches the earth ‘, becaufe in this
cafe the moon is fuppofed to change at M in the
middle between A the apogee, or fartheft point of her
orbit from the earth, and P foe perigee, Or heareft
point to it. For, had foe point P been at M, the
moon had been nearer th£ earth *, and her dark lhadow
at e would have covered a fpace upon it about 180
miles broad, and the fun Would have been totally dark¬
ened, with fome continuance : but bad the point A
been at M, the moon would have been farther from
the earth, and her lhadow would have ended in a point
a.little above e, and therefore foe fun would have ap¬
peared like a luminous ring all around the moon. Draw
the right lines WX dh atid VX eg, touching the con¬
trary fades of the fun and moon, and ending on the
earth at a and b ; draw alfo the right line SXM, from
the centre of foe fun’s dilk, through the moon’s cen¬
tre, to the earth 5 and fuppofe the two former lines
WX dh and VX eg to revolve on foe line SXM as an
axis, and their points a and b will deferibe foe limits
of foe penumbra TT on the earth’s furface, including
foe large fpace a. b a 1 within which the fun appears
more or lefs eclipfed, as the places are more or lefs di-
ftant from the verge of foe penumbra a b.
Draw foe right line_y 12 acrofs tbe fun’s dilk, per¬
pendicular to SXM the axis of the penumbra *, then
divide the line y 12 into twelve equal parts, as in the
figure, for the twelve digits or equal parts of the fun’s
diameter *, and at equal diftances from the centre of
foe penumbra at e (on foe earth’s furface YY) to its
edge a b, draw twelve concentric circles, marked with
the numeral figures 1234, &c. and remember that
Vol. III. Part I.
, N O M Y. 4*
the moon’s motion in her orbit AMP is from tveft to
eaft, as from r to /. I hen, , theHeaven-
To an obfervef on foe earth at b, foe eaftern limb ly Bodies,
of the moon at d fee ms to touch the wtrtern un (t1 . —v
the fun at W, when the moon is at M •, and the itm s
eclipfe begins at b, appearing as at A, fig. 15- at the
left hand ; but at foe fame moment of ablolute time,
to an obferver at a in fig. iq- the weftern edge at the
moon at c leaves foe eaftern edge of the lun at \ , am
the eclipfe ends, as at foe right hand C, fig. 15* ^
the very fame inftant, to all thole who hi e on t .c
circle marked I on the earth A, in fig. 14. the moon
M cuts off or darkens a twelfth part of the lun S, and
eclipfes him one digit, as at l in fig. 15. : to .thofe
who live on the circle marked 2 in fig. 14. the moon
cuts off two twelfth parts of the fun, as at 2 m
fig. 15 : to thofe on foe circle 3, three parts; and fo
on to foe centre at 12 in fig. 14. where the lun is
centrally eclipfed, as at B in the middle of fig. IJA
under which figure there is a fcale of hours and mi¬
nutes, to (how at a mean ftate how loog it is from the
beginning to the end of a central eclipfe of the fun on
the parallel of London ; and how many digits are
eclipfed at any particular time from the beginning at
A to the middle at B, or foe end at C. Thus, m 16
minutes from the beginning, foe fun is two digits
eclipfed ; in an hour and five minutes, eight digits ;
and in an hour and 37 minutes, 12 digits.^
Bv fig. 14. it is plain, that the lun is totally or
centrally eclipfed but to a fmall part of foe earth at
any time, becaufe the dark conical foadow e of the
moon M falls but on a fmall part of the earth; and
that the partial eclipfe is confined at that time to the
foace included by the circle a b, of which only one half
can be projected in the figure, the other half being
fuppofed to be hid by foe convexity of foe earth E ;
and likewife, that no pan of foe futi is eclipfed to foe.
large fpace YY of foe earth, becaufe the moon is not
between the fun and any of that part of foe earth ;
and therefore to all that part the eclipfe is invifible.
The earth turns eaftward on its axis, as from g to h,
which is the fame way that the moon’s fiiadow moves *
but foe moon’s motion is ihuch fwTfter in her orbit
from r to /: and therefore, although eclipfes of the
fun are of no longer duration on account of the earth’s
motion on its axis than they ivould be if that motion
was Hopped, yet in four minutes of time at moft, the
moon’s fwifter motion carries her dark fliadovv quite
over any place that its centre touches at the time of
greateft obfeuration. The motion of the fhadow on the
earth’s dilk is equal to foe moon’s motion from the
fun, which is about 30T minutes of a degree every
hour at a mean rate; but fo much of the moon’s orbit
is equal to 30F degrees of a great circle on the earth ;
and therefore the moon’s ftiadosv goes 30^ degrees, or
1830 geographical miles on the earth in an hour, ot
30F miles in a minute, which is almoft four times as
fwift as the motion of a cannon-ball.
As feen from foe fun or moon, foe earth’s axis ap¬
pears differently inclined every day of the year, on ac¬
count of keeping its parallelifm throughout its annual
courfe. In fig. 16. let EDON be the earth at the
two equinoxes and foe two folftices, NS its axis, N
foe north pole, S the fouth pole, Af-Q^the equator.
F ^
, , ASTRO
Motions'of i pp jr°p:C 0f C'dncei‘> 1 tropic of Capricorn, and
the Heaven-x i 'je circumference of the earth’s enlightened di^k
lyBodie, « feen from the fun or new moon at thefe times The
v   earth s axis has the pofition NES at the vernal equinox
iymg towards the right hand, as feen from the fun £
new moon; its poles N and S being then in the cir-
umference of tne dilk; and the equator and all its pa-
ralle.s feem to be ftrmght lines, becaufe their planes
pals through the obferver’s eye looking down upon the
echoic FG^VT ? ?0°a dIreaiy °tver E’ where
ecliptic FG inter eels the equator JE. At the fummer
olllice the earth s axis has. the pofition NDS ; and
nat part of the ecliptic FG, in which the moon is then
new, touches tne tropic of Cancer T at D. 1’he north
fair fallT f ^ tIme incliniag 234. degrees towards the
ened^ f ^manJ degref within the earth’s enlight¬
ened dilk, becaufe tne fun is then vertical to D 22.4.
dtf.reap ^ 0 equator or ALQj and the equator,
ward a of11-3 U fTU fIIiptlc CUrves bending down¬
ward 01 towards the fouth pole, as feen from the fun •
which pole together with 23F degrees all round it, is
earth ^ At Fv- ^ ^ ci‘?rk hemifphere of the
1 ,* ”5.the autumnal equinox, the earth’s axis
fromtntheFfritl0n N°S’ lying ,t0 the left h^d as feen
O mJhe fu" °r ^w moon, which are then vertical to
A where the ecliptic cuts the equator iEQ. Both
poms now lie in the circumference of the dilk, {he north
pole iuft g0'ng-t0dlfaP-Pear'behind k’ and the fouth
pole jurt entering into it; and the equator with all its
faialltls feem to be ftraight lines, becaufe their planes
pafs through the obferver’s eye, as feen from the fun,
and very neariy f° as feen from the moon. At the
winter follbce, the earth’s axis has the pofition NNS
funeiEnSs 2U^dP e 8 degrees towards the
iun, falls 2degrees within the enlightened dilk, as
cTtrfX °rpnew.moon» which are then verti-
th! In f Tn0f Capr!C°rn 23i degrees fouth of
r ]] qq r ^v’ -and the e<iuat01b with all its pa¬
rallels, feem _ elliptic curves bending upward ; the
nortkpole being as far hid behind the dilk in the dark
■lemifphere as the fouth pole is come into the light.
nr f urarer uat any tIme of the year is to the equinoxes
u«in^rrmh:more 11 partakes °f the «-
Thus it appears, that from the vernal equinox to the
u umnal, the north pole is enlightened : and the
equator and all its parallels appear elliptical as feen
from the fun, more or lefs curved as the time is nearer
o, 01 Either from, the fummer folftice; and bending
downwards, or towards the fouth pole ; the reverfe of
'nal1Ch Ahar£lnS fr°^ the.autumnal equinox to the ver¬
nal. A little confideration will be fufficient to con¬
vince the reader, that the earth’s axis inclines towards
the fun at the fummer folftice; from the fun at the
ter folftice; and fidewife to the fun at the equi¬
noxes: but towards the right hand, as feen from the
an at the vernal equinox ; and towards the left hand
at t ic autumnal. From the winter to the fummer fol-
mce the earth s axis inclines more or lefs to the right
hand, as leen from the fun ; and the contrary from die
lummer to the winter folftice.
The different pofmons of the earth’s axis, as feen
from the fun at different times of the year, affed folar
eclipfes greatly with regard to particular places; yea
fo iar as would make central eclipfes which fall at one
N O M Y.
Part IT,
though t"/!e year }f they fel1 at another, even Apparent’
ough the moon ftiould always change in the nodes Motions of
and at tne fame hour of the day; of which indefinite-’^eaven-
} various affedions, we ftiall only give examples for
the times of the equinoxes and folftices.
J /arae-,dia|ra™’ kt FG be Part of the eclip-Eclipfes
LtKf f’ V ’ ^ Part of the boon’s orbit
both leen edgevyife,. and therefore projeded into righ?
W’ 'h ? I C N°DE be one and the eartlA axis
fame node, at the above times, when the earth has the
orementioned different pofttions ; and let the fpaces
ncluded by the circles be the penumbra at
Kie times, as its centre is pafling over the centre of
tne earth’s difk. At the winter folftice, when the
earth s axis has the pofition NNS, the centre of the
penumbra P touches the tropic of Capricorn / in N at
the middle of the general eclipfe ; but no part of the
penumbra touches the tropic of Cancer T. At the
Nnw °ix T’, "’hen I116 earth’S axis has the portion
nr beTlng then part of tbe moon’s orbit
v iofe node is at D), the penumbra p has its centre at
T>, on the tropic oi Cancer T, at the middle of the
general eclipfe, and then no part of it touches the tro¬
pic ot Capricorn t. At the autumnal equinox, the
earth axis has the pofition NOS (i O h being then
part of the moon’s orbit), and the penumbra equally
includes part of both tropics T and /, at the middle of
re general eclipfe : at the vernal equinox it does the
ame». becaufe the earth’s axis has the pofition NES •
but, m the former of thefe two laft cafes, the penum¬
bra enters the earth at A, north of the tropic of Can¬
cer 1, and leaves it at m fouth of the tropic of Ca¬
pricorn t; having gone over the earth obliquely fouth-
ward, as its centre deferibed the line AO»r: whereas
in the latter cafe, the penumbra touches the earth at n
louth of the equator iEQ^and deferibing the line ,iEn
(hmftar to the former line AO™ in opeS fpace), goe?
oohquely northward over the earth, and leaves it at *
north of the equator.
In all thefe circumftances the moon has been fup-
po.ed to change at noon in her defeending node : Had
ue chained m her afeending node, the phenomena
would have been as various the contrary way, with re-
ipebt to the penumbra’s going northward or fouthward
over the earth. _ But becaufe the moon changes at all
hours, as often m one node as in the other, and at all
diftances from them both at different times as it hap¬
pens, the variety of the phafes of eclipfes are almoft
innumerable, _ even at the fame places; confidering
ado how varioufly the fame places are fituated on the
enlightened difk of the earth, with refpea to the pen¬
umbra’s motion, at the different hours when eclipfes
happen. v
When the moon changes 17 degrees fhort of her de-
icenamg node, the penumbra Pi8 juft touches the
northern part of the earth’s dilk, near the north Pole
N ; and as feen from that place, the moon appears to
touch the fun, but hides no part of him from fight
Had the change been as far fhort of the afeending
node, the penumbra would have touched the foutbern
part of the difk near the fouth pole S. When the moon
changes 1 2 degrees ftiort of the defeending node, more
than a third part of the penumbra Pi 2 falls on the
northern parts of the earth at the middle of the gene¬
ral eclipfe; Had file changed as far pall the fame node.
1X0
Duration
Fart IT. ASTRO
Apparent as mucli of the other fide of the penumbra about P
Motions of have fallen on the fouthern parts of the earth ;
^ Bodies'1"t^ie re!^ t^le expanfum, or open fpace. When
the moon changes 6 degrees from the node, almoft the
whole penumbra P6 falls on the earth at the middle
of the general eclipfe. And laftly, when the moon
changes in the node at N, the penumbra PN takes
the longeft courfe poflxble on the earth’s dilkj its centre
falling on the middle thereof, at the middle of the ge¬
neral eclipfe. The farther the moon changes from ei¬
ther node, within 17 degrees of it, the Ihorter is the
penumbra’s continuance on the earth, becaufe it goes
over a lefs portion of the dilk, as is evident by the
figure.
The nearer that the penumbra’s centre is to the
in different efluator at t^ie general eclipfe, the longer
parts of the*8 t^ie duration of the eclipfe at all thofe places where
earth. it is central; becaufe, the nearer that any place is to
the equator, the greater is the circle it defcribes by
the earth’s motion on its axis: and fo, the place mo¬
ving quicker, keeps longer in the penumbra,’ whole
motion is the fame way vrith that of the place, though
fafter, as has been already mentioned. Thus (fee the
earth at D and the penumbra at 12) whilft the point
b in the polar circle ab c d carried from £ to <• by the
earth’s diurnal motion, the point d on the tropic of
Cancer T is carried a much greater length from d to
I) ; and therefore, if the penumbra’s centre goes one
time over c and another time over D, the penumbra
will be longer in palling over the moving place d than
it was in palling over the moving place b. Confequent-
ly, central echpfes about the poles are of the Ihorteft
duration $ and about the equator, of the longed.
In the middle of fummer, the whole frigid zone, in¬
cluded by the polar circle abed, is enlightened : and if
it then happens that the penumbra’s centre goes over
the north pole, the fun will be eclipfed much the fame
number of digits at a as at c; but whilft the penumbra
moves eaftward over c, it moves eallward over a ; be¬
caufe, with refpedl to the penumbra, the motions of a
and c are contrary: for c moves the fame way with the
penumbra towards d, but a moves the contrary way to¬
wards b; and therefore the eclipfe will be of longer
duration at c than at a. At a the eclipfe begins on
the fun’s eaftern limb, but at c on his weltern : at all
places lying without the polar circles, the fun’s eclip-
fes begin on his weftern limb, or near it, and end on
or near his eaftern. At thofe places where the penum¬
bra touches the earth, the eclipfe begins with the ri¬
ling fun, on the top of his wreftern or uppermofl edge 5
and at thofe places where the penumbra leaves the
earth, the eclipfe ends with the fetting fun, on the top
of his eaftern edge, wdiich is then the uppermoft, juft
at its difappearing in the horizon.
About the new moon, that part of the lunar dilk
which is not illuminated by the fun is perceptible,
owing to the feeble light reftedled on it by the hemi-
fphere of the earth that is illuminated.
Sect. II. Of the Nature of the Moon.
We havefeen that the moon is about 39 times fmal-
ler than the earth. Her diameter is generally reck¬
oned about 2 180 miles. This is to the diameter of the
earth nearly as 20 to 73 5 therefore, the furface of the
moon is to that of the earth (being as the fquares of
in
Moon’sfize.
N O M Y. 43
their diameters) nearly as I to 14 T* And, admitting Apparent
the moon’s denlity to be to that of the earth as 5 to 4?tfgjj
their refnedtive quantities of matter xVill be as 1 to 39
very nearly. —v-—>
Bouguer has fhown by a fet of curious experiments 112
that the light emitted by the full moon is 300,000,
times lefs intenfe than that of the fun. Even when
concentrated by the moft porterful mirrors it produces
no effedt on the thermometer. Ir^
Many dulkilh fpots may be feen upon the moon’s Spots on her
difk, even wdth the naked eye ; and through a tele-iurface.
fcope, their number is prodigioufly increafed : the alfo
appears very plainly to be more protuberant in the mid¬
dle than at the edges, or to have the figure of a globe
and not a flat circle. When the moon is horned or
gibbous, the one fide appears very ragged and uneven,
but the other always exadtly defined and circular. The
fpots in the moon always keep their places exadtly ;
never vanifhing, or going from one fide to the other,
as thofe of the fun do. We fometimes fee more or lefs
of the northern and fouthern, and eaflern and weftern
part of the difk or face } but this is owing to what
is called her libration, and will hereafter be explained.
The aftronomers Florentius, Langrenus, John Heve-
lius of Dantzic, Grimaldus, Ricciolus, Caffini, and M.
de la Hire, have drawn the face of the moon as (he is
feen through telefcopes magnifying between 200 and
300 times. Particular care has been taken to note all
the finning parts in her furface 5 and, for the better
diftinguifhing them, each has been marked with a pro¬
per name. Langrenus and Ricciolus have divided the
lunar regions among the philofophers, aftronomers, and
other eminent men ; but Hevelius and others, fearing
left the philofophers fltould quarrel about the divifion of
their lands, have endeavoured to fpoil them of their
property, by giving the names belonging to different
countries, iilands, and feas on earth, to different parts
of the moon’s furface, without regard to fituation or
figure. The names adopted by Ricciolus, however, are
thofe which are generally followed, as the names of
Hipparchus, Tycho, Copernicus, &c. are more pleafing
to aftronomers than thofe of Africa, the Mediterra¬
nean Sea, Sicily, and Mount TEtna. Fig. 17. is a
tolerably exaft reprefentation of the full moon in her
mean libration, with the numbers to the principal fpots
according to Ricciolus, Caflini, Mayer, &c. The afterilk
refers to one of the volcanoes difeovered by Dr Her-
fchel, to be afterwards more particularly noticed. The
names are as follows :
16 Timocharis.
1,7 Plato.
18 Archimedes.
19 Infula Sinus Medii.
Pitatus.
Tycho.
Eudoxus.
Ariftoteles.
24 Manilius.
25 Menelaus.
26 Hermes.
27 Pofiidonius.
28 Dionyfius.
29 Plinius.
J Cafharina Cyrillus.
0 (_ Theophilus.
2 31 Fracaftorius.
* Herfchel’s Volcano.
1 Grimaldus.
2 Galilteus.
3 Ariftarchus.
4 Keplerus.
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
T4
*5
Gaffendus.
Shikardus.
Harpalus.
Heraclides.
Lanfbergius.
Reinoldus.
Copernicus.
Helicon.
Capuanus.
Bullialdus.
Eratofthenes.
20
21
22
23
44
.Apparent gj
Motions of
theHeaven- 3 2
ly Bodies.
34
35
36
37
38
AST
40 Taruntius.
£
Mare Humorura,
Mare Nubium
Mare Imbrium.
D Mare Neclaris.
E Mare Tranquillitatis.
F Mare Serenitatis.
G Mare Foecunditatis.
H Mare Crifium.
114
Great ine-
of the
moon.
FracaSorxus.
f Promontorium acutum
\ Cenforinus.
Mefala.
Promontorium Somnii.
Proclus.
Cleomedes.
Snellius ct Furnerius.
Petavius.
39 Langrenus.
] . That there are prodigious inequalities on her furface
theVuJface"15 pr°Ved b>' looking at her through a telefcope, at
~ any other time than when fhe is full; for then there is
no regular line bounding light and darknefs : but the
confines of thefe parts appear as it w'ere toothed and
cut with innumerable notches and breaks : and even in
the dark part, near the borders of the lucid furface,
there are feen fome fmall fpaces enlightened bv the
fun’s beams. Upon the fourth day after new moon,
there may be perceived fome (hining points like rocks
or fmall iilands within the dark body of the moon ; but
not far from the confines of light and darknefs there
are obferved other little fpaces which join to the en¬
lightened furface, but run out into the dark fide, which
by degrees change their figure, till at laft they come
wholly within the illuminated face, and have no dark
parts round them at all. Afterwards many more finn¬
ing fpaces are obferved to arife by degrees, and to ap¬
pear within the dark fide of the moon, which before
they drew near to the confines of light and darknefs
tvere invifible, being without any light, and totally im-
merfed in the fhadowu The contrary is obferved in the
4ecreafing phafes, wFere the lucid fpaces which joined
the illuminated furface by degrees recede from it, and,
alter they are quite feparated from the confines of light
and darknefs, remain for fome time vifible, till at lalt
they alfo difappear. Now it is impoffible that this
fhould be the cafe, unlefs thefe fhining points were
higher than the reft of the furface, fo that the light of
the fun may reach them. f
meafun'n ^0t content wkk perceiving the bare exiftence of
the lun'ir tbePe kinar mountains, aftronomers have endeavoured
mountains. t° meafure their height in the following manner. Let
Fig- 20. EGD be the hemifphere of the moon illuminated by
the fun, ECD the diameter of the circle bounding light
and darknefs, and A the top of a hill wuthin the dark
part when it firft begins to be illuminated. Obferve
with a telefcope the proportion of the right line AE,
or the diftance of the point A from the lucid furface
to the diameter of the. moon ED •, and becaufe in this
cafe the ray of light ES touches the globe of the moon,
AEG will be a right angle by 16th prop, of Euclid’s
third book •, and therefore in the triangle AEG ha¬
ving the two fides AE and EC, w^e can find out the
third fide AC ; from which fubdudling EC or EC, there
‘will remain AB the height of the mountain. Ric-
ciolus affirms, that upon the fourth day after new’
moon he has obferved the top of the hill called Si Ca¬
tharine's to be illuminated, and that it was diftant from
the confines of the lucid furface about a fixteenth part
of the moon’s diameter. Therefore, if CF=8, AE
wall be 1, and AC1—CE*-}-AEJ by prop. 47. of Eu¬
clid’s firft book. Now, the fquare of CE being 64,
and the fquare of AE being 1, the fquare of AC will
be 65, whole fquare root is 8,062, which exprelfes the
R O N O M Y.
Part IT.
”5
Method of
length of AC. From which dedufling BCr=8, there Apparent
will remain AC=zO,o62. So that CB or CE is there- Motions of
fore to AB as 8 is to 0,062, that is, as 8oco is to 62.
If the diameter of the moon therefore w^as known, the > 7
height of this mountain would alfo be knowm. This de-
monftration is taken from Dr Keill, who fuppofes the
femidiameter of the moon to be 1182 miles j according
to which, the mountain muft be fomewhat more than
nine miles of perpendicular height : but aftronomers
having now determined the moon’s femidiameter to be
only 1090 miles, the height of the mountain wall be
nearly 8|- miles.
In the former edition of this wrork, w’e could not Height of
help making fome remarks on the improbability thatthe JurfiF
the mountains of the moon, a planet fo much inferior over0 ated
in fize to the earth, fiiould exceed in fuch vaft proper- r<UC
tion the higheft of our mountains, which are com¬
puted at little more than one-third of the height juft n7
mentioned. Our remark is now confirmed by the ob- Dr Her-
fervations of Dr Herfchel. After explaining the me Jewel’s ob-
thod ufed by Galileo, IJevelius, &c. for meafuring
the lunar mountains, he tells us, that the former takes ’
the diftance of the top of a lunar mountain from the
line that divides the illuminated part of the dilk from
that w hich is in the ftiade to be equal to one-twentieth
of the moon’s diameter \ but Hevelius makes it only
one twenty-fixth. When we calculate the height of
fuch a mountain, therefore, it will be found, accord¬
ing to Galileo, almoft 54 miles; and according to He¬
velius 3^ miles, admitting the moon’s diameter to be
2180 miles. Mr Fergufon, howrever, fays (Aftrono-
my Explained, § 252.), that fome of her mountains,
by comparing their height with her diameter, are
found to be three times higher than the higheft hills
on earth : and Keill, in his Aftronomical Lectures, has
calculated the height of St Catharine’s hill, according
to the obfervations of Ricciolus, and finds it nine miles.
Having premifed thefe accounts, Dr Herfchcl explains
his method of taking the height of a lunar mountain
from obfervations made \vhen the moon was not in her
quadrature, as the method laid down by Hevelius an-
fwers only to that particular cafe ; for in all others the
projedlion muft appear fhorter than it really is. “ Let
SLM, fays he, or r/r«, (fig. 96.) be a line drawn
from the fun to the mountain, touching the moon at
L or /, and the mountain at M or m. Then, to an
obferver at E, or e, the lines LM, l m, will not ap¬
pear of the fame length, though the mountain ftiould
be of an equal height 5 for LM will be projetted into
0 n, and /m into ON. But thefe are the quantities
that are taken by the micrometer when we obferve a
mountain to projefl from the line of illumination. From
the obferved quantity 0 n, when the moon is not in her
quadrature, to find LM, wTe have the following ana¬
logy. The triangles 0 OL, rML, arefimilar j there¬
fore L 0 : LO ; : L r: LM, or LM . but
L 0
LO is the radius of the moon, and L r or on is the
obferved diftance of the mountain’s projeftion ) and
L 0 is the fine of the angle ROL rr 0 LS ; which
wre may take to be the diftance of the fun from the
moon without any material error, and which therefore
we may find at any given time from an ephemeris.
* The tetefcope ufed in thefe obfervations was a
Newtonian
Tart II.
ASTRO
Apparent Newtonian retie&or of fix feet eight inches focal length,
Motions of t0 which a micrometer was adapted, confiding of two
parallel hairs, one of -which was moveable by means of
■ly °ult" i a fine fcrew. The value of the parts Ihown by the in¬
dex -was determined by a trigonometrical obfervation
of a known object at a known diftance, and was veri¬
fied by feveral trials. The powTer was always 222, ex¬
cepting where another is exprefsly mentioned •, and
this was alfo determined by experiment, which fre¬
quently differs from theory on account of fome fmall
errors in the data, hardly to be avoided. The moon
, having fufficient light, an aperture of no more than
four inches was made ufe of j and, fays Dr Herfchel,
“ I believe, that for diftin&nefs of vifion, this inftru-
ment is perhaps equal to any that ever was made.”
With this inftrument he obferved a prominence,
which he calls a rock, fituated near the Lac us Niger of
Hevelius, and found that it proje&ed 41.56". To
reduce this into miles, put R for the femidiameter of
the moon in feconds, as given by the nautical alma¬
nack at the time of obfervation, and QJbr the obferved
quantity, alfo in feconds and centefimals; then it will
• ti • r\ i09°Q^.
be in general, R : 1090 : : Qj,—— :
zo n in miles.
Thus it is foXind, that 4T.56" is 46.79 miles. The
diltance of the fun from the moon at that time was,
by the nautical almanack, about 930 57^5 t^ie ^ne
which to the radius 1 is .9985, &c. and in this cafe
on
Uj
is LM =246.85 miles. Then, by Hevelius’s method,
the perpendicular height of the rock is found to be
about one mile. At the fame time, a great many
rocks, fituated about the middle of the dilk, proje&ed
from 25.92" to 26.56" ; which gives o/z about 29.3
miles : ib that thefe rocks are all lefs than half a mile
high.
Thefe obfervations were made on the 13th of No¬
vember 1779. On the 13th of January I780, exa¬
mining the mountains of the moon, he found that
there was not one of them fairly placed on level ground,
which is very neceffary for an exabt meafurement of
the projection : for if there fhould be a declivity on
the moon before the mountains, or a tra£t of hills pla¬
ced fo as to caff a fliadow upon that part before them
which would otherwife be illuminated, the projection
would appear too large } and, on the contrary, fhould
there be a riling ground before them, it would appear
too little.
Proceeding in this cautious manner, Dr Herfchel
meafured the height of many of the lunar prominences,
and draws at lalt the following conclufions.—“ From
thefe obfervations 1 believe it is evident, that the height
of the lunar mountains in general is greatly over-rated ;
and that, when we have excepted a few, the genera¬
lity do not exceed half a mile in their perpendicular
elevation. It is not fo eafy to find any certain moun¬
tain exadly in the fame htuation it has been meafured
in before ; therefore fome little difference muff be ex-
peCted in thefe meafures. Hitherto I have not had an
opportunity of particularly obferving the three moun¬
tains mentioned by Hevelius 5 nor that which Riccio-
ius found to projeCf a fixteenth part of the moon’s dia¬
meter, If Keill had calculated the height of this laff-
N O M Y. 45
mentioned hill according to the theorem I had given, Apparent
he would have found (fuppofmg the obfervation to ,
have been made, as he fays, on the fourth day after -v £otpes<
new moon) that its perpendicular height could not
well be lefs than between 11 and 12 miles. _ I fliall
not fail to take the firff opportunity of obferving thefe
four, and every other mountain of any eminence ; and
if other perfons, who are furniffied with good tele-
fcopes and micrometers, would take the quantity of
the projection of the lunar mountains, I make no
doubt but that we would be nearly as well acquainted
with their heights as we are with the elevation of our n3
own. One caution I would beg leave to mention to Caution ter
thofe wrho may ufe the excellent 3-5- feet refra6lors
Mr Dollond. The admirable quantity of light, w'hich
on mort occafions is fo defirable, will probably give ielefcope‘v
the meafure of the projeftion fomewhat larger than
the true, if not guarded again!! by proper limitations
placed before the object-glafs. I have taken no notice
of any allowance to be made for the refraftion : a ray
of light muff fuffer in palling through the atmofphere
of the moon, wdren it illuminates the top of the moun¬
tain, whereby its apparent height will be leffened, as
we are too little acquainted with that atmofphere to
take it into confideration. It is alfo to be obferved,
that this would equally affe£l the conclufions of Heve¬
lius, and therefore the difference in our inferences
would ftill remain the fame.”
In the continuation of his obfervations, Dr Her¬
fchel informs us, that he had meafured the height of
one of the mountains which had been meafured by He*
velius. “ Antitaurus (lays he), the mountain mea¬
fured by Hevelius, was badly fituated ; becaufe Mount
Mofchus and its neighbouring hills caff a deep fliadowq
which may be miftaken for the natural convexity of
the moon. A good, full, but juft meafure, 25.105''}
in miles, 29.27 : therefore LM 3.1.7 miles, and the
perpendicular height not quite half a mile. As great
exa&nefs w^as defired in this obfervation, it was repeat¬
ed with very nearly the fame refult. Several other
mountains were meafured by the fame method } and
all his obfervations concurred in making the height of
the lunar mountains much lefs than what former aftro-
nomers had done.'Mount Lipuluswas found to be near
two-thirds of a mile } one of the Apennine mountains,,
between Lacus Thrafimenus and Pontus liuxinus, mea¬
fured a mile and a quarter} Mens Armenia, near
Taurus, twm thirds of a mile } Mons Leucoptera three-
quarters of a mile. Mons Sacer projefled 45.625'''}
‘ but (fays he) I am almoft certain that there are two
very confiderable cavities or places where the ground
defeends below the level of the convexity,, juft before
thefe mountains} fo that thefe meafures muff of courfe
be a good deal too large : but fuppofing them to be
juft, it follows, that 0 n is 50.i93;miles, LM—64 miles,
and the perpendicular height above 1J miles.’ rr^.
As the moon has on its furface. mountains and val-Volcanoes
leys in common with the earth, fome modern aftrono-d1fcovere<^
mers have difeovered a ftill greater fimikrity, viz. that
fome of thefe are really volcanoes, emitting fire as thofe
on earth do. An appearance of this kind was difeo¬
vered fome years ago by Don Ulloa in an ecfipfe of
the fun. It vras a Imall bright fpot like a ftar near
the margin of the moon, and which he at that time
fuppofed to have beenra hole with the fun’s light ffffn-
4<3
through it
rve induced aftronomers
ASTRONOM
Succeeding obfervations, however, by the funbearns.
of
Apparent !ng
theHeTven- h,a.Ve luduced ailronomers to attribute appearances
iy Bodies. t“ls hhul to the eruption of volcanic fire j and Dr
"' Herfchel has particularly obferved leveral eruptions of
the lunar volcanoes, the laft of which he gives an ac¬
count of in the Phil. Tranf. for 1787. “ April 10.
IOh. 36' fidereal time. I perceive (fays he) three
volcanoes in different places of the dark part of the
new moon. Two of them are either already nearly
extinct, or otherwifc in a ftate of going to break out'-
which perhaps may be decided next lunation. The
thud ihous an actual eruption ot fire or luminous mat¬
ter. I meafured the dittance of the crater from the
northern limb of the moon, and found it 3' 57.3"; its
light is much brighter than the nucleus of the comet
which M. Mechain difcovered at Paris the 10th of this
month.
.A.piii 20. 10 h. 2 m. ficicrctil time. The volcano
burns with greater violence than laft night. Its dia¬
meter cannot be lefs than 3'’5 by comparing it with
that of the Georgian planet: as Jupiter was near at
hand, I turned the telefcope to his third fatellite, and
eftimated the diameter of the burning part of the vol¬
cano to be equal to at leaft twice that of the fatellite ;
whence we may compute that the ftiining or burning
matter muft be above three miles in diameter. It is
of an irregular round figure, and very fharply defined
on the edges. The other two volcanoes are much far¬
ther towards the centre of the moon, and refemble
large, pretty faint nebulae, that are gradually much
brighter in the middle 5 but no well defined luminous
fpot: can be difeerned in them. Thefe three fpots are
plainly to be diftinguilhed from the reft of the marks
upon the moon ; for the reflexion of the fun’s rays
fiom the earth is, in its prefent fituation, fufhciently
bright, with a ten feet refleaor, to fliow the moon’s
/pots, even the darkeft of them; nor did I perceive
any fimilar phenomena laft lunation, though I then
viewed the fame places with the fame inftrument.
“ The appearance of what I have called the aflua/
fire, or eruption of a volcano, exaftly refembled a
fmall piece of burning charcoal when it is covered by
a very thin coat of white allies, which frequently ad'-
here to it when it has been fome time ignited j and it
had a degree of brightnefs about as ftroyg as that with
which fuch a coal would be feen to glow in faint day¬
light. All the adjacent parts of the volcanic moun¬
tain feemed to be faintly illuminated by the eruption,
and were gradually more obfeure as they lay at a
greater diftance from the crater. This eruption re-
lembled much that which I faw on the 4th of May in
the year 1783, but differed confiderably in magnitude
rind brightnefs 5 for the volcano of the year 1783,
though much brighter than that which is now burning,
was not nearly fo large in the dimenfions of its erup¬
tion : the former feen in the telefcope refembled a ftar
of the fourth magnitude as it appears to the naked
eye ; this, on the contrary, {hows a vifible dilk of lu-
I20 minous matter very different from the fparkling bright-
Conjedtures nefs of ftar-light.”
concerning Concerning the nature of the moon’s fubftance there
Y.
her fub
ftance.
have been many conjectures formed. Some have ima¬
gined, that, befides the light refleaed from the fun,
the moon hath alfo fome obfeure light of her own, by
which Ihe would be vifible without being illuminated
c ' I
. . Pr0°f of this it is urged, that
during the time of even total eclipfes the moon is ftill
vifible, appearing of a dull red colour, as if obfcured
by a great deal of fmoke. In reply to this it hath
been advanced, that this is not always the cafe ; the
moon fometimes difappearing totally in the time of
an eclipfo, fo as not to be difcernible by the beft glaf.
fes, while little ftars of the fifth and fixth magnitudes
were diftmcftly feen as ufual. This phenomenon was
oblerved by Kepler twice, in the years 1580 and 1583 ;
and by Hevelius in 1620. Ricciolus and other fe-
fuits at Bologna, and many people throughout Hol¬
land, obferved the fame on April 14. 1642: yet at
Venice and Vienna {he was all the time confpicucus
In^the year Dec. 23. there was another total
obicuratlon. At Arles, the appeared of a yellowifh
brown ; at Avignon, ruddy and tranfparent, as if the
fun had Ihone through her; at Marfeilles, one part
was reddifli and the other very dulky ; and at length,
though in a clear Iky, fhe totally dilappeared. . The
general reafon for her appearance at all during the time
of eclipfes {hall be given afterwards : but as for thefe
particular phenomena, they have not yet, as far as we
know, been fatisfaeftorily accounted for.
Different conjectures have alfo been formed concern¬
ing the fpots on the moon’s furface. Some philofophers
have been fo taken with the beauty of the brighteft
places obferved in her. dilk, that they have imagined
them to be locks of diamonds ; and others have com¬
pared them to pearls and precious ftones. Dr Keill
and the greateft part of aftronomers now are of opi¬
nion, that thefe are only the tops of mountains, which
by reafon ol their elevation are more capable of re-
flefting the fun’s light than others which are lower.
1 he dulkilh. fpots, he fays, cannot be leas, nor any
thing of a liquid fubftance ; becaufe, when examined
by the telefcope, they appear to confift of an infinity
of caverns and empty pits, whofe ftiadows fall within
them, which can never be the cafe with Teas, or any
liquid lubftance : but, even within thefe fpots, bright¬
er places are alfo to be obferved ; which, according to
his hypothefis, ought to be the points of rocks Handing
up within the cavities. Dr Long, however, is of opi¬
nion, that feveral of the dark fpots on the moon are
really water. May not the lunar leas and lakes (fays
he) have illands in them, wherein there may be pits
and caverns > And if fome of thefe dark parts be
brighter than others, may not that be owing to the
feas and lakes being of different depths, and to their
having rocks in fome places and flats in others ?
It has alfo been urged, that if all the dark fpots ob¬
ferved on the moon’s furface were really the ftiadows
of mountains, or of the fides of deep pits, they could
not poffibly be fo permanent as they are found to be ;
but would vary according to the pofition of the moon
with regard to the fun, as we find ftiadows on earth
are varied according as the earth is turned towards or
from the fun. Accordingly it is pretended, that va¬
riable fpotij are a&ually difeovered on the moon’s diik,
and that the direftion of thefe is always oppofite to the
fun. Hence they are found among thofe parts which
are fooneft illuminated in the increafing moon, and in
the decreafing moon lofe their light fooner than the
intermediate ones ; running round, and appearino-
fometimes longer, and fometimes {hotter. The perl
manent
Part II.
Apparent
Motions of
theHeaven-
ly Bodies.
Part II,
Apparent manent dark, fpots, therefore, it is faid, muft be feme
Motions of matter which is not fitted for reflefting the rays of the
^j36 Bodies'”^uri ^'0 muc^ as t^ie bright parts do : and this property,
— -> we know by experience, belongs to water rather than
land , whence thefe philofophers conclude, that the
moon, as well as our earth, is made up of land and
12i feas.
Whether it has been a matter of difpute whether the moon
hns an^at ^as an^ atmofphere or not. I’he following argu-
mofphere. ments have been urged by thofe who take the nega¬
tive fide.
i. The moon confiantly appears with the fame
brightnefs when there are clouds in our atmofphere ;
which could not be the cafe if (he wTere lurroundod
with an atmofphere like ours, fo variable in its denfity,
and fo frequently obfeured by clouds and vapours.
2. In an appulfe of the moon to a ftar, when (lie comes
fo near it that part of her atmofphere is interpofed be¬
tween our eye and the ftar, refraefion would caufe the
latter to feem to change its place, fo that the moon
would appear to touch it later than by her own mo¬
tion (he would do. 3. Some philofophers are of opi¬
nion, that becaufe there are no feas or lakes in the
moon, there is therefore no atmofphere, as there is no
water to be raifed up in vapours.
All thefe arguments, however, have been anfwered
by other aftronomers in the following manner. 1. It
is denied that the moon appears always with the fame
•brightnefs, even when our atmofphere appears equally
clear. Hevelius relates, that he has feveral times found
in Ikies perfectly clear, when even ftars of the fixth
and feventh magnitude were vilible, that at the fame
altitude of the moon, and the fame elongation from the
earth, and with one and the fame telefcope, the moon
and its maculae do not appear equally lucid, clear, and
confpicuous at all times-, but are much brighter and
more diftimft at fome times than at others. From the
circumftances of this obfervation, fay they, it is evi¬
dent that the reafon of this phenomenon is neither in
our air, in the tube, in the moon, nor in the fpedtator’s
eye *, but muft be looked for in fomething exifting
about the moon. An additional argument is drawn
from the different appearances of the moon already
mentioned in total eclipfes, which are fuppofed to be
owing to the different conftitutions of the lunar atmo¬
fphere.
To the fecond argument Dr Long replies, that Sir
Ifaac Newton has fhown {Vrincip. prop. 37. cor. 5.),
that the weight of any body upon the moon is but a
I2Z third part of what the weight of the fame would be
Why the upon the earth : now the expanfion of the air is reci-
hght is not procally as the weight that compreffes it : the air,
tife'moo'n’? t^iere^ore5 furrounding the moon, being prefled toge-
atmofphere. t^ier ^7 a weight, or being attrafted towards the centre
of the moon by a force equal only to one-third of that
which attracts our air towards the centre of the earth,
it thence follows, that the lunar atmofphere is only
one-third as denfe as that of the earth, which is too
little to produce any fenfible refraction of the ftars
light. Other aftronomers have contended that fuch
refraCtion was fometimes very apparent. M. Caflini
fays that he frequently obferved Saturn, Jupiter, and
the fixed ftars, to have their circular figure changed in¬
to an elliptical one, when they approached either to
the moon’s dark or illuminated limb j though they
47
own, that in other occultations no fuch change could Apparent
be obferved. With regard to the fixed ftars, indeed, Mcn.Ionsot
it has been urged, that, granting the moon to have jy'gojq6;11'
an atmofphere of the fame nature and quantity as ours, y '
no fuch effeCt as a-gradual diminution of light ought
to take place; at leaft, that we could by no means be
capable of perceiving it. Our atmofphere is found to
be fo rare at the height of 44 miles as to be incapable
of refraCling the rays of light. This height is the
180th part of the earth’s diameter-, but fince clouds
are never obferved higher than four miles, we muft
conclude that the vaporous or obfeure part is only one
1980th. The mean apparent diameter of the moon
is 31' 29", or 1889 feconds : therefore the obfeure
parts of her atmofphere, when viewed from the earth,
muft fubtend an angle of lefs than one feccnd \ which
Ipace is paffed over by the moon in lefs than two fe¬
conds of time. It can therefore hardly be expeCled
that obfervation ihould generally determine whether
the fuppofed obicuration takes place or not.
The third argument is neceffarily incohclufive, be¬
caufe we know not whether there is any water in the"
moon or not-, nor, though this could be demonftrated,
would it follow that the lunar atmofphere anfwers no
other purpofe than the raifing of water into vapour.
There is, however, a ftrong argument in favour ofLuminotis
the exiftence of a lunar atmofphere, taken from the ring obfcr-
appearance of a luminous ring round the moon in the a^out
time of folar eclipfes. In the eclipfe of May 1. 1706,
Captain Stanyan, from Bern in Switzerland, writes, eclipfes.
that “ the fun was totally darkened there for the fpace
of four-minutes and a half: that a fixed ftar and pla¬
net appeared very bright : that his getting out of the
eclipfe was preceded by a blood-red ftreak of light
from his left limb, which continued not longer than fix
or feven feconds of time ; then part of the fun’s difk
appeared all on a fudden, brighter than Venus was ever
feen in the night ; and in that very inftant gave light
and fhadow to things as ftrong as moon light ufes to
do.” The publiflier of this account obferves that the
red ftreak of light preceding the emerfion of the fun’s
body, is a proof that the moon has an atmofphere ;
and its Ibort continuance of five or fix feconds fhows
that its height is not more than the five or fix hun¬
dredth part of her diameter.
Fatio, who obferved the fame eclipfe at Geneva,
tells us, that “ there was feen during the whole time
of the total immerfion, a whitenefs which feemed to
break out from behind the moon, and to encompafs
her on all fides equally : this whitenefs was not well
defined on its outward fide, and the breadth of it was
not a twelfth part of the diameter of the moon. The
planet appeared very black, and her dilk very well de¬
fined within the whitenels which encompaffed it about,
and was of the fame colour as that of a white crown
or halo, of about four or five degrees in diameter,
which accompanied it, and had the moon for its centre.
A little after the fun had begun to appear again, the
whitenefs, and the crown which had encompaffed the
moon, did entirely vanifti.” “ I muft add (fays Dr
Long), that this de/cription is a little perplexed, ei¬
ther through the fault of the author or of the tranf-
lator ; for I fuppofe Fatio wrote in French : however,
it plainly appears by it that the moon’s atmofphere was
viable, furrounded by a light of larger extent, which
l
ASTRONOM Y.
k
4S ASTRO
Apparent I think mull: he that luminous appearance (the zodiacal
^eH^av n mentioned from Caffini.” Flamftead, who pub-
^Jy Bodies^ hdred this account, takes notice, that, according to
tr - - h thefe obfervations, the altitude of the moon’s atmo¬
sphere cannot be well fuppofed lefs than 180 geogra¬
phical miles ; and that probably this atmofphere was
never difeovered before this eclipfe, by reafon of the
fmallnefs of the refraction, and the want of proper ob-
fervations.
An account of the fame eclipfe, as it appeared at
Zurich, is given by Dr Scheuchzer, in the following
words : “ We had an eclipfe of the fun, which was
both total and annular ) total, becaufe the whole fun
was covered by the moon ; annular, not what is pro¬
perly fo called, but by refraflion : for there appeared
round the moon a bright finning, which was owing to
the rays of tile fun refra&ed through the atmofphere
of the moon.
Dom. Caffini, from a number of accounts fent him
from different parts, fays, that in all thofe places where
it was total, during the time of total darknefs, there
was feen round the moon a crown or broad circle of
pale light, the breadth whereof was about a 12th part
of the moon’s diameter : that at Montpelier, where the
obfervers were particularly attentive to fee if they
could diftinguifh the zodiacal light already mentioned,
they took notice of a paler light of a larger extent,
which furrounded the crown of light before mentioned,
and fpread itfelf on each fide of it, to the diftance of
four degrees. He then mentions Kepler’s opinion, that
Ate crown of light which appears round the moon du¬
ring the total darknefs in an eclipfe of the fun is cau-
fed by fome celeffial matter furrounding the moon, of
lufficient denfity to receive the rays of the fun and
fend them to us and that the moon may have an at¬
mofphere fimilar to that of our earth, which may re-
124 fra£l the fun’s light.
13r Halley’s A total eclipfe of the fun was obferved on the 2 2d
afolar1 ^ April (5. S. in the year 1715, by Dr Halley at Lon-
eclipfe in ^on> and by M. Louville of the Academy of Sciences
*715. at Paris. Dr Halley relates, that “ when the firft part of
the fun remained on his eaft fide, it grew very faint, and
was eafily fupportable to the naked eye even through
the telefcope, for above a minute of time before the
total darknefs •, whereas, on the contrary, the eye could
not endure the fplendor of the emerging beams through
the telefcope even from the firft moment. To this,
two caufes perhaps concurred ; the one, that the pupil
of the eye did neceffarily dilate itfelf during the dark¬
nefs, which before had been much contradled by look¬
ing on the fun : the other, that the eaftern parts of
the moon, having been heated tvith a day near as long
as 30 of ours, muft of neceflity have that part of its
atmofphere replete with vapours raifed by the fo long
continued adtion of the fun} and, by confequence, it
was more denfe near the moon’s furface, and more
capable of obftrutting the fun’s beams; whereas at
the fame time the weftern edge of the moon had fuf-
fered as long a night, during which there might fall
in dews all the vapours that were raifed in the preced¬
ing long day ; and for that reafon, that that part of
its atmofphere might be feen much more pure and tranf-
parent.
“ About two minutes before the total immerfion,
the remaining part of the fun was reduced to a very
O M Y. Part IT.
fine horn, whofe extremities feemed to lofe their aCiite- Apparent
nefs, and to become round like flars ; and for the ^l)Pon:’
ipace 01 about a quarter ot a minute a Imau piece ot ]y Bo(ijeS4
the fouthern horn of the eclipfe feemed to be cut off u, i-v-.
from the reft by a good interval, ami appeared like an
oblong ftar rounded at both ends •, which appearance
would proceed from no other caufe but the inequalities
of the moon’s furface ; there being fome elevated parts
thereof near the moon’s fouthern pole, by whofe inte-
pofition part of that exceedingly fine filament of light
was intercepted. A few feconds before the fun was
totally hid, there difeovered itfelf round the moon a
luminous ring, about a digit, or perhaps a tenth part
of the moon’s diameter, in breadth. It was of a pale
whitenefs, or rather of a pearl colour, feeming to me
a little tinged with the colour of the iris, and to be
concenttic with the moon } tvhence I concluded it the
moon’s atmofphere. But the great height of it, far ,
exceeding that of our earth’s atmofphere, and the ob¬
fervations of fome who found the breadth of the ring
to increafe on the weft fide of the moon as the emerfion
approached, together with the contrary fentiments ot
thofe whofe judgments t ihall always revere, make me
lefs confident, eipecially in a matter to which I gave
not all the attention requifite.
“ Whatever it was, this ring appeared much bright¬
er and whiter near the body of the moon than at a
diftance from it 5 and its outward circumference, which
was ill defined, feemed terminated only by the extreme
rarity of the matter of which it was compofed, and in
all refpe&s refembled the appearance of an enlightened
atmofphere feen front far j but whether it belonged to
the'fun or moon, 1 ftiall not pretend to determine.
During the whole time of the total eclipfe, I kept myFlalhesof
telefcope conftaritly fixed on the moon, in order to 0^*
ferve what might occur in this uncommon appearance 5 irom
and I fawT perpetual ftafhes or corufeations of light,pind the
which feemed for a moment to dart out from behind moon,
the moon, now here, now there, on all fides, but
more efpecially on the weftern. fide, a little before the
emerfion j and about twro or three feconds before it, on
the fame weftern fide, where the fun was juft coming
out, a long and very narrow ftreak of dulky but ftrong
red light feemed to colour the dark edge of the moon,
though nothing like it had been leen immediately after
the emerfion. But this inftantly vanilhed after the
appearance of the fun, as did alfo the aforefaid lumi¬
nous ring.” # . 126
Mr Louville relates, that a luminous ring of a filver Mr Lou-
colour appeared round the moon as foonasthe fun was Mile s ob-
entirely covered by her dilk, and ddappeared the. mo-
ment he recovered" his light; that this ring was bright-
eft near the moon, and grew gradually fainter towards
its outer circumference, where it was, however, de¬
fined 5 that it was not equally bright all over, but had
feveral breaks in it 1 but he makes no doubt of its be¬
ing occafioned by the moon’s atmofphere, and thinks
that the breaks in it were occafioned by the mountains
of the moon : he fays alfo, that this ring had the
moon, and not the fun, for its centre, during the whole
time of its appearance. Another proof , brought by
him of the moon having an atmofphere is, that, to¬
wards the end of the total darknefs, there was feen on
that fide of the moon on which the fun was going to
appear, a piece of a circle, of a lively red, which might
* See N*
144. etfcq.
Part If. ASTRO
Apparent be owing to the red rays that are lead: refrangible be-
Motions of ing traniraitted through the moon’s atmofphere in the
theHeayen- eatefl. qUantity : and that he might be affured this
.!-v ^ Tednefs did not proceed from the glafles of his tele-
fcope, he took care to bring the red part into the
12"] middle of his glaffes.
Lightning He lays great ftrefs on the ftreaks of light which he
fuppofed to jart inftantaneoufiy from different places of the
"if the^Uent moon ^ur'in§ time of total darknefs, but chiefly
moon. near the eaftern edge of the difk : thefe he takes to be
lightning, fuch as a fpeftator would fee flafhing from
the dark hemifphere of the earth, if he were placed
upon the moon, and faw the earth come between him-
felf and the fun. “ Now (fays Dr Long) it is highly
probable, that if a man had, at any time, a view of
that half of the earth where it is night, he would fee
lightning in fome part of it or other.” Louville farther
obferves, that the moft mountainous countries are moft
liable to tempefts ; and that mountains being more
frequent in the moon, and higher, than on earth*, thun¬
der and lightning muft be more frequent there than
with us 5 and that the eaftern fide of the moon would
be moft fubjeft to thunder and lightning, thofe parts
having been heated by the fun for half the month
immediately preceding. It muft here be obferved, that
Halley, in mentioning thefe flafhes, fays they feemed
to come from behind the moon •, and Louville, though
lie fays they came fometimes from one part and fome-
times from another, owns, that he himfelf only faw
them near the eaftern part of the difk ; and that, not
knowing at that time what it was that he faw, he did
not take notice whether the fame appearance was to
be feen on other parts of the moon or not. He tells
us, however, of an Englifh aftronomer, who prefented
the Royal Society with a draught of what he faw in
the moon at the time of this eclipfe ; from which Lou¬
ville feems to conclude that lightnings had been ob¬
ferved by that aftronomer near the centre of the moon’s
difk. “ Now (fays Dr Long) thunder and lightning
wmuld be a demonftration of the moon having an at¬
mofphere fimilar to ours, wdierein vapours and exhala¬
tions may be fupported, and furnifh materials for
clouds, ftorms, and tempefts. But the ftrongeft proof
brought by Louville of the moon having an atmofphere
is this, that as foon as the eclipfe began, thofe parts of
the fun which were going to be hid by the moon grew
fenfibly palifh as the former came near them, fuffer-
ing beforehand a kind of imperfeft eclipfe or diminu¬
tion of light; this w'ould be orving to nothing elfe but
the atmofphere of the moon, the eaftern part whereof
going before her reached the fun before the moon
did. As to the great height of the lunar atmofphere,
which from the breadth of the luminous ring being
about a whole digit would upon a calculation come out
accoiinttd6 1 m^es» above three times as high as the atmofphere
128
Great
height of
the lunar
for> of the earth, Louville thinks that no objection ; fince
if the moon were furrounded with an atrnofphere of
the fame nature with that which encompafles the earth,
the gravitation thereof towards the moon wrould be but
one third of that of our atmofphere towards the earth ;
and confequently its expanfipn would make the height
of it three times as great from the moon as is the height
of our atmofphere from the earth.”
The fame luminous ring has been obferved in other
total eclipfes, and even in fuch as are annular, though
Vol. III. Part I.
N O M Y. 49
without the luminous ftreaks or flafhes of lightning Apparent^
above-mentioned 5 it is even taken notice of by Plutarch: .
however, fome members of the academy at Paris have ]y Bodies,
endeavoured to account for both thefe phenomena o——y—
without having recourfe to a lunar atmofphere; and I29
for this purpofe they made the following experiments : Thefe pbe-
The image of the fun coming through a fmall hole in-n°meiia^
to a darkened room, was received upon a circle of wood
or metal of a diameter a good deal larger than that offor_
the fun’s image ; then the flradow of this opaque circle
was caft upon white paper, and there appeared round
it, on the paper, a luminous circle .ftxch as that which
furrounds the moon. The like experiment being made
with a globe of wood, and with another of ftone
not polifhed, the fliadows of both thefe caft upon pa¬
per were furrounded with a palifh light, moft vivid
near the fhadows, and gradually more diluted at a di-
ftance from them. They obferve alfo, that the ring
round the moon was feen in the eclipfe of 1706 by
Wurzelbaur, who caft her fliadow upon white paper.
The fame appearance was obferved on holding an o-
paque globe in the fun, fo as to cover his whole body
from the eye ; for, looking at it through a fmoked
glafs, in order to prevent the eye from being hurt by
the glare of light it would otherwife be expofed to,
the globe appeared with a light refembling that round
the moon in a total eclipfe of the fun.
Thus they folve the phenomenon of the ring feen
round the moon by the infleftion, or diffrahiHon as they
call it, of the folar rays pafixng near an opaque fuh-
ftance. As for the fmall ftreaks of light above-men¬
tioned, and which are fuppofed to be lightning, they
explain thefe by an hypothefis concerning the cavities
of the moon themfelves ; which they confider as con¬
cave mirrors refledting the light of the fun nearly to
the fame point; and as thefe are continually chang¬
ing their lituation with great velocity by the moon’s
motion from the fun, the light which any one of them
fends to our eye is feen but for a moment. This, how¬
ever, will not account for the flafties, if any fuch there
are, feen near the centre of the dilk, though it does, in
no very fatisfadtory manner, account for thofe at the edges. T ,0
It has already been obferved, that the occultations ofOcculta-
the fixed ftars and planets by the moon, in general hap-tions of the
pen without any kind of refraction of their light by fixec! ^ars
the lunar atmofphere. The contrary, however, has ^oen>
fometimes been obferved, and the ftars have been feen
manifeftly to change their fhape and colour on going
behind the moon’s dilk. An inftance of this happen¬
ed on the 28th of June N. S. in the year 1715, when
an occultation of Venus by the moon happened in the
day-time. Some aftronomers in France obferving this
with a telefcope, faw Venus change colour for about a
minute before fire was hid by the moon ; and the fame
change of colour was obferved immediately after her
emeriion from behind the difk. At both times the
edge of the difk of Venus that was neareft the moon
appeared reddifh, and that which was moft diftant of
a bluifh colour. Thefe appearances, however, which
might have been taken for proofs of a lunar atmo¬
fphere, were fuppofed to be owing to the obfervers ha¬
ving direCled the axis of their telefcopes towards the
moon. This would neceffarily caufe any planet or ftar
near the edge of the moon’s difk to be feen through
thofe parts of the glaffes which are near their circum-
G ference,
jo AST R
Apparent ference, and confequently to appear coloured. This
was evidently the cafe from other obfervations of an
occultation of Jupiter by the moon the fame year,
when no fuch appearance of refraction could be per¬
ceived while he was kept in the middle of the tele-
fcope. Maraldi alfo informs us, that he had obferved
before this twro other occultations of Venus and one
of Jupiter j and was always attentive to fee whether
thofe planets changed their figure or colour either up¬
on the approach of the moon to cover them, or at
their firft coming again into fight ; but never could
perceive any fuch thing. Nor could he, in a great
number of occultations of the fixed ftars, perceive
the fmalleft apparent change in any of them, except¬
ing once that a fixed ftar feemed to increafe its di-
ftance a little from the moon as it was going to be co¬
vered by her; but this, he fufpefted, might be owing
to his telefcope being directed fo as to have the ftar
feen too far from the middle of its aperture. He con¬
cludes, therefore, that the moon has no atmofphere :
and he remarks, that at Montpelier, perhaps becaufe
the air is clearer there than at London, the luminous
ring round the moon appeared much larger than at
London •, that it w'as very white near the moon, and
gradually decreafing in brightnefs, formed round her
a circular area of about eight degrees in diameter.
If, fays he, this light was caufed by the atmofphere of
the moon, of what a prodigious extent muff that at-
I3T mofphere be ?
fbT ^ave related all thefe opinions at full length, in
atmofphere orc^er to Put our readers in poffeffion of the arguments
that have been advanced upon this fubjedf ; but it is
now generally admitted, and indeed, fcarcely can be
denied, that the atmofphere of the moon, if it really
has any, is almoff entirely infenfible.
From the fpots upon the moon’s difk it has been af-
certained, that the fame hemifphere of that luminary
is always directed towards the earth. Hence it fol¬
lows that fhe turns round her axis once during every
revolution round the earth.
Exa£t obfervations have afcertained that flight va-
©i the moon. rjetjes take p}ace refpedling the appearances of the
moon’s dillc. The fpots are obferved alternately to
approach towards and recede from the edge of the
moon. Thofe that are very near the edge appear and
difappear alternately, making periodical ofcillations,
w'hich are diflinguilhed by the name of the libration of
the moon. To form a precife idea of the nature of this
libration we muff confider that the dilk of the moon,
feen from the centre of the earth, is terminated by the
circumference of a great circle of the moon, perpendi¬
cular to a line drawn from the earth’s centre to that
of the moon. The lunar hemifphere is proje£led upon
the plane of this circle turned tovrards the earth,
and its appearances are due to the movements of ro¬
tation of that body relative to its radius veftor. If the
moon did not revolve round her axis, this radius vedlor
would defcribe a great circle on the moon’s furface, all
the points of which wTould prefent themfelves fuccef-
fively to us. But the moon, revolving in the fame time
that this radius vector defcribfes the great circle, always
keeps the fame point of the circle nearly upon the ra¬
dius, and of courfe the fame hemifphere turned towards
the earth. The inequalities of her motion produce the
T32
T urns
round her
axis.
. T33
Libration
O N O M Y. Part II.
flight variations in her appearance : for the rotation Apparent
of the moon does not partake fenfibly of thefe irregula- Motions of
rities. Hence it varies fomewhat relatively to the ra. dieHeaven-
dius veftor, which accordingly cuts fucceflively differ- . 1-v
ent points of the furface. Of courfe the globe of the v
moon makes ofcillations relatively to that radius cor-
refponding to the inequalities of her motions, which
alternately conceal from our view and difcover to us
fome parts of her furface.
Farther : the axis of rotation of the moon is not ex-
a£tly perpendicular to the plane of her orbit. If we
fuppofe the pofition of this axis fixed, during a revolu¬
tion of the moon, it inclines more or lefs to the radius
vedlor, fo that the angle formed by thefe two lines is
acute during one part of her revolution, and obtufe du¬
ring another part of it. Hence the poles of rotation
are alternately vifible from the earth, and thofe parts
of her furface that are near thefe poles.
Befides all this, the obferver is not placed at the
centre of the earth, but at its furface. It is the radius
drawm from his eye to the centre ®f the moon, which
determines the middle point of her vifible hemifphere.
But in confequence of the lunar parallax, it is obvious
that this radius muff cut the furface of the moon in
points fenfibly different according to the height of that
luminary above the horizon. All thefe caufes concur
to produce the libration of the "moon, a phenomenon
which is merely optical, and not connefted with her
rotation, which relatively to us is perfectly equable j
or at leafi: if it be fubjefted to any irregularities, they
are too fmall to be obferved.
This is not. the cafe with the variations in the plane Theory of
of the moon’s equator. While endeavouring to de- it.
termine its pofition by the lunar fpots, Caflini was led
to this remarkable concluficn, which includes the whole
aftronomical theory of the real libration of that lumi¬
nary. Conceive a plane paffing through the centre of
the moon perpendicular to her axis of rotation, and of
courfe coinciding with the plane of her equator 5 con¬
ceive a fecond plane, parallel to the ecliptic, to pafs
'through the fame centre ; and alfo a third plane, which
is the mean plane of the lunar orbit: thefe three planes
have a common interfeflion } the fecond, placed be¬
tween the two others, forms with the firff an angle of
l°.503, and with the third an angle of 50.14692 ;
therefore the interfeclions of the lunar equator with
the ecliptic coincide always with the mean nodes
of the lunar orbit, and like them have a retro¬
grade motion, which is completed in the period of
6793.3009 days. During that interval the twro poles
of the equator and lunar orbit defcribe fmall circles
parallel to the ecliptic, encloling between them the
pole of the ecliptic, fo that thefe three poles are con-
ftantly upon a great circle of the heavenly fphere.
Chap. III. Of the Planets. ,
Amidst the infinite variety of ftars wftuch occupy a
place in the fphere of the heavens, and which occupy
nearly the fame relative pofition rvith refpefl to each
other, there are eight wdrich may be obferved to move
in a very complicated manner, but following cer¬
tain precife laws, for they always commence the fame
motions again after every period. The motions of
thefe
Part II.
ASTRONOMY.
Apparent thefe ftars, called planets, conftitutes’one of the principal
Motions of 0biefts of aftronomy. Thefe planets are called
Mercury. c;. Pallas.
Sl
theHeaven-
ly Bodies
Venus.
Mars.
Ceres.
6. Jupiter.
7. Saturn.
8. Herfchel.
Mercury and Venus never feparate from the fun farther
than certain limits j the reft feparate to all the poflible
angular diftances. The movements of all thefe bodies
are included in a zone of the heavenly fphere called
the zodiac. This zone is divided into two equal parts
by the ecliptic. Its breadth was formerly confidered as
only about 16° ; but it muft be much increafed if the
orbits of Ceres and Pallas, the two newly difeovered
planets, are to be comprehended in it. It will be pro¬
per to confider the motions and appearances of each of
thefe planets. This will be the fubjedt of the follow¬
ing fedlions.
Sect. I. Of Mercury.
Mercury is a fmall ftar, but emits a very bright
white light : though, by reafon of his always keeping
near the fun, he is feldom to be feen 5 and when he
does make his appearance, his motion towards the fun
is fo fwift, that he can only be difeerned for a Ihort
time. He appears a little after funfet, and again a lit-
J35 tie before funrife.
His appar- Mercury never goes to a greater diftance from the
entmotions. fUn than about 2y0.5 5 fo that he is never longer in
fetting after the fun than an hour and 50 minutes;
nor does he ever rife fooner than 1 hour and 50 mi¬
nutes before that luminary. Very frequently, he goes
fo near the fun as to be loft altogether in his rays.
When he begins to make his appearance in the even¬
ing after funfet, he can fcarcely at firft be diftinguiih-
ed in the rays of the twilight. But the planet difen-
gages itfelf more and more, and is feen at a greater di¬
ftance from the fun every fucceflive evening ; and hav¬
ing got to the diftance of about 22°.5, it begins to re¬
turn again. During this'interval, the motion of Mer¬
cury referred to the ftars is diredl; but when it ap¬
proaches within 18° of the fun it appears for fome time
ftationary ^ and then its motion begins to be retro¬
grade. The planet continues to approach the fun, and
at laft plunges into his rays in the evening, and difap-
pears. Soon after, it may be perceived in the morn¬
ing, before funrife, feparating farther and farther from
the fun, his motion being retrograde, as before he dif-
appeared. At the diftance of 180 it becomes ftation¬
ary, and aflumes a direft motion, continuing, however,
to feparate till it comes to 22.50 of diftance ; then
it returns again to the fun, plunges into his rays, and
appears foon after in the evening, after funfet, to repeat
the fame career. The angular diftance from the fun,
which the planet reaches on both Tides of that lumina¬
ry, varies from 160 to nearly 28°.
• I he duration of a complete ofcillation,or the inter¬
val of time that elaples before the planet returns again
to the point from which it fet out, varies alfo from
roo to 130 days. I he mean arc of his retrogradation
is about 13J0; its mean duration 23 days. But the
quantity differs greatly in different retrogradations.
In general, the laws of the movements of Mercury are
very complicated j he does not move exa&ly in the
plane of the ecliptic; fometimes he deviates from it Apparent
more than y°. Motions of
Some confiderable time muft have elapfed before
aftronomers fufpe&ed that the liars which were feen ap- ■ ' - ■
preaching the fun in the evening and in the morning
were one and the fame. The circumftance, howrever,
of the one never being feen at the fame time with the
other would gradually lead them to the right conclu-
fion. _ _ 135
The apparent diameter of Mercury varies as well as Diameter,
that of the fun and moon, and this variation is obviouf-
ly connected with his pofition relatively to the fun, and
with the direflion of his movement. The diameter is
at its minimum when the planet plunges into The folar
rays in the morning, or when it difengages itfelf from
them : it is at its maximum when the planet plunges
into the folar rays in the evening, or when it difenga¬
ges itielf from them in the evening ; that is to fay$.
when the planet paffes the fun it its retrograde mo¬
tion, its diameter is the greateft poflible ; when it paf¬
fes the fun in its direft motion, it is the fmalleft pof-
fible 5—and the mean length of the apparent diameter
of Mercury is 11". t ^
Sometimes, when the planet difappears during its Nature,
retrograde motion, that is to fay, when it plunges into
the fun’s rays in the evening, it may be feen crofling
the fun under the form of a black fpot, which deferibes
a chord along the dilk of the fun. This black fpot is
recognized to be the planet by its pofition, its apparent
diameter, and its retrograde motion. Thefe tranfts of
Mercury, as they are termed, are real annular eclipfes
of the fun : they demonftrate that the planet is an
opaque body, and that it Sorrow's its light from the
fun. When examined by means of telefcopes magni¬
fying about 2 00 or 300 times, he appears equally lu¬
minous throughout his w-hole furface, without the leaft
dark fpot. But he exhibits the fame difference of phafes
with the moon, being fometimes horned, fometimes
gibbous, and fometimes fhining almoft w'ith a round
face, though not entirely full, becaufe his enlightened
fide is never turned direftly towards us j but at all
times perfectly wTell defined without any ragged edge,
and perfectly bright. .Like the moon, the crefcent is
always turned towards the fun. Thefe different phafes
throw confiderable light on the orbit of Mercury.
Sect. II. Of Verms.
Venus, the moft beautiful ftar in the heavens,
known by the names of the morning and evening far,
likewife keeps near the fun, though fhe recedes from
him almoft double the diftance of Mercury. She is
never feen in the eaftern quarter of the heavens when
the fun is in the weftern j but always feems to attend
him in the evening, or to give notice of his approach
in the morning.
The planet Venus prefents the fame phenomena with
Mercury ; but her different phafes are much more fen-
fible, her ofcillations wider, and of longer duration.
Her greateft diftance from the fun varies from 450 to
nearly 48°, and the mean duration of a complete of-
cillation is 584 days.
Venus has been fometimes feen moving acrofs the Her appar-
fun’s dilk in the form of a round black fpot, with anentmotions*
apparent diameter of about 59". A few days after
this has been obferved, Venus is feen in the morning,
Cr 2 weft
52
Apparent weft of the iun, in the form of a fine crefcent, with
t^'^'ons ot the convexity turned toward the fun. She moves gra-
ly dually weftward with a retarded motion, and the cref-
' - cent becomes more full. In about ten weeks Hie has
moved 46° weft of the fun, and is now a femicircle,
and her diameter is 26". She is now ftationary. She
then moves eaftward with a motion gradually accele¬
rated, and overtakes the fun about 9^ months after
having been feen on his dilk. Some time after, fhe
is feen in the evening, eaft of the fun, round, but very
fmall. She moves eaftward, and increafes in diame¬
ter, but lofes of her roundnefs, till fire gets about 46°
eaft of the fun, when (he is again a femicircle. She
now moves weftward, increafing in diameter, but be¬
coming a crefcent like the waning moon ; and, at laft,-
after a period of nearly 584 days, comes again into
conjunction with the fun with an apparent diameter
. of 59".
The mean arc of her retrogradation is about 160,
and its mean duration is 42 days. She does not move
exaftly in the plane of the ecliptic, but deviates from
it feveral degrees. Like Mercury, the fometimes
crofles the fun’s dilk. The duration of thefe tranfits,
as obferved from different parts of the earth’s furface,
are very different : this is owing to the parallax of Ve¬
nus, in confequence of which different obfervers refer
to different parts of the fun’s dilk, and fee her deferibe
different chords on that dilk. In the tranfit which
happened.in 1769, the difference of its duration, as ob¬
ferved at Otaheite and at Wardhuys in Lapland,
• amounted to 23 m. 10 fee. This difference gives us
the parallax of Venus, and ~of courfe her diftance from
the earth during a conjunction. The knowdedge of
this parallax enables us, by a method to be afterwards
deferibed, to afeertain that of the fun, and confequent-
ly to difeover its diftance from the earth.
The great variations of the apparent diameter of
Venus demonftrate that her diftance from the earth is
exceedingly variable. It is largeft when the planet
paffes over the furface of the fun. Her mean appa¬
rent diameter is 58,,.
From the movement of certain fpots upon the fur¬
face of Venus, it has been concluded that Ihe revolves
round her axis once in 24 hours 5 but this requires to
be correCled by future obfervations. It is extremely-
difficult to perceive or examine thefe fpots in our cli¬
mate. The fubjecl merits the attention of aftrono-
mers farther to the fouth, in more favourable circum-
ftances. The following detail will Ihow the uncer¬
tainty which has prevailed among aftronomers refpeCt-
140 ing thefe rP0?'
Spots when I^r Long informs us, that the earlieft account he
firft difeo- had met with of any fpots feen by means of the tele-
fcope on the dilk of Venus was in a colleCHon of let¬
ters printed at Paris in 1665, in one of which Mr
Auzout relates his having received advice from Poland
that Mr Burratini had, by means of large telefcopes,
feen fpots upon the planet Venus fimilar to thofe upon
the moon. In 1667, Cjifimi, in a letter to Mr Petit,
mentions his having for a long time carefully obferved
Venus through an excellent telefcope made by Campa-
ni, in order to know w’hether that planet revolved on
its axis or not, as he had before found Jupiter and
Mars to do. But though he then obferved fome fpots
upon her, he fays, that even when the air was quiet
A S T R O N O M Y.
Part IT.
V9.
Revolution
round her
axis.
vered on
the dhk of
Venus.
141
Caffini’s ob
fervations.
and clear, they appeared faint, irregular, and not W'ell Apparent
defined } fo that it was difficult to have fuch a diftindt
view of any of them as to be certain that it was the Ve-goj
fame fpot which was feen again in any fubfequent ob- ■ ^ .
fervation ; and this difficulty was increafed, in the firft
place, wffien Venus wras in her inferior femicircle 5 be-
caufe at that time ffie mult be viewed through the
thick vapours near the horizon ; though otherwife it
was molt proper, on account of her being then nearelt
to us. In the fecond place, if we would obferve her
at fome height above thofe vapours, it could only be
for a ftiort time ; and thirdly, when Ihe is low in her
inferior circle, and at that time neareft the earth, the
enlightened part of her is too fmall to difeover any
motion in it. Lie was therefore of opinion, that he
Ihould fucceed better in his obfervations when the pla¬
net was about its mean diftance from us, Ihowing about
one half of her enlightened hemifpbere ; at which time
alfo he could obferve her for a much longer time above
the gx-ols atmofpherical vapours. His firft appearance
of fuccefs w as Odlober 14. 1666, at three quarters pall
five in the evening 5 when he faw a bright fpot (fig.
37.), but could not then view that fpot long enough
to draw any inference concerning the planet’s motion.
He had no farther fuccefs till the 20th of April the
following year when, about a quarter of an hour be¬
fore funrife, he began again to perceive on the dilk of
Venus, now about half enlightened, a bright part near
the fe&ion, diftant from the fouthern horn a little more
than a fourth part of the diameter of the dilk, and near
the eaftern edge. He took notice alfo of a darkilh ob¬
long fpot nearer to the northern than the fouthern
horn : at funrife the bright part was advanced farther
from the fouthern horn than when he firft obferved it;
but though he was pleafed to find that he bad now a T ,
convincing proof of the planet’s motion, he was fur-why the
prifed that the fpots moved from fouth to north in the fpots feeai
lower part of the dilk, and from north to fouth in thet0 move
upper part 5 a kind of motion of which we have no ex-
ample except in the librations of the moon. This,
however, was occafioned by the fituation of the planet’s
axis. Caffini expedited to have found the rotation of
Venus fimilar to that of Jupiter and Mars, both of
which have their axis perpendicular to their refpe<5tive
orbits, and turn round according to the order of the
figns fo that in each of them the motion of the infe¬
rior half of their refpe£tive globe, or that part next the
fun, is from eaft to w-eft ; in the fuperior half from weft
to eaft but in Venus, wffiofe axis is inclined 75 de¬
grees towards her orbit, the coincidence is fo near, that
one half of her dilk appears to move from fouth to
north, the other from north to fouth. r ^
On the 21ft of April, at funrife, the bright partPartkuIar
was a good way off the fe£fion, and about a fourthaccoun£ °f
part of the diameter diftant from the fouthern horn.t^e
When the fun was eight degrees fix minutes high, itfp0ts at dif-
feemed to be got beyond the centre, and w:as cutferent
through by the fe&ion. At the time the fun was fe-dmes.
ven degrees high, the fedftion cut it in.the middle, which
Ihovved its motion to have fame inclination towards the
centre.
May 9. a little before funrife, the bright fpot was
feen near the centre, a little to the northward, with
twro obfeure ones fituated between the feflion and the
circumference, at a diftance from each other, equal to
that
Part II.
Apparent
Motomof
theHeaven-
ly Bodies.
144
CatTmi’s
conclulions
concerning
the revolu¬
tion of Ve¬
nus on her
axis.
X4S .
Difficulties
attending
thefe ob-
fervations.
146
Bianchini’s
obferva-
tions.
ASTRO
that of each of them from the neareft angular point
or horn of the planet. The weather being at that
time clear, he obferved fpr an hour and half a quarter
the motion of the bright fpot, which feemed to be
exaftly from fouth to north, without any fenllble de¬
clination to call or weft. A variation was at the fame
time perceived in the darkilh fpot too great to be
afcribed to any optical’caufe. The bright fpot was’al-
fo feen on the 10th and 13th days of May beiore fun-
rife between the northern horn and the centre, and the
fame irregular change of darkiftr fpots was taken no¬
tice of •, but as the planet removed to a greater diftance
from the earth, it became more difficult to obferve
thefe appearances. The above phenomena are repre-
fented as they occurred, in fig. 19 to 25.
But though, from the appearances juft now related,
M. Caffini was of opinion that Venus revolved on her
axis he was by no means fo pofitive in this matter as
with regard to Mars and Jupiter. “ The Ipots on
thefe (fays he) I could attentively obferve for a whole
night, when the planets were in oppofition to the fun :
I could fee them return to tire fame fituation, and con-
fider their motion during fome hours, and judge whe¬
ther they were the fame fpots or not, and vi hat time
they took in turning round : but it was not the fame
with the fpots of Venus ; for they can be obferved on¬
ly for fo fhort a time, that it is much more difficult to
know with certainty when they return into the fame
fituation. I can,- however, fuppofing that the bright
fpot which I obferved on Venus, and particularly this
year, was the fame, fay that (he finilhes her motion,
whether of rotation or libration, in lefs than a day;
fo that, in 23 days nearly, the fpot comes into the
fame fituation on nearly the fame houi of the day,
though not without fome irregularity. Now (fuppo¬
fing the bright fpot obferved to be always the fame)
whether this motion is an entire turning round, or on¬
ly a libration, is what I dare not pofitively affirm.”
In 1669, M. Caffini again obferved Venus through
a telefcope, but could not then perceive any fpots up¬
on her furface j the reafon of which Du Hamel con-
jethires to have been the llublnation of the vapours
near the horizon, which prevented them from being
vifible. However, rve hear nothing more of any fpots
being feen on her diik till the year 1726-, when, on
the 9th of February, Bianchini, with fome of Cam-
pani’s telefcopes of 90 and 100 Roman palms, began
to obferve the planet at the altitude of 40° above the
horizon, and continued his oblervation till, by the
motion of feveral fpots, he determined, the pofition of
her axis to be inclined as above-mentioned, that the
north pole pointed at a circle of latitude drawn through
the 20th degree of Aquarius, elevated 15 °r 20 above,
the orbit of Venus. He delineated alfo the figures of
feveral fpots which he fuppofed to be feas, and com¬
plimented the king of Portugal and fome othei great
men by calling them by their names. Though none
of Bianchini’s obfervations were continued long enough
to know whether the fpots, at the end of the period
affigned for the rotation of the planet, wemd have
been in a different fituation from what they were at
the beginning of it *, yet, from obfervations of two
and of four days, he concluded the motion of the fpots
to be at the rate of x 50 per day 5 at which advance
the planet muft turn round either once in 24 days or
N O M Y. S3
in'23 hours*, but without farther obfervation it coffid App-ientf
not be determined which of the two was the period or qieHeaven.
revolution } for if an obferver ftiould at a particular jy ;g0(iieSj
hour, fuppofe feven in the evening, mark exaftly the' —
place of a fpot, and at the fame hour next evening I47
find the fpot advanced 150, he would not be able to Doubts
determine whether the fpot had advanced only 15 ,
had gone once quite round with the addition ol 15. flie takes
more in part of another rotation. Mr Bianchini, jn revoi_
however, fuppofes Venus to revolve in 24 days eightving round
hours } the principal proof adduced for which is an her
obfervation of three fpots, ABC, being fituated as
in fig. 26. wffien they wrere viewed by himfexf and .fe¬
veral perfons of diilindlion lor about an hour, duiing
which they could not perceive any change, of place.
The planet being then hid behind the Barbanni palace,
they could^not have another view ol her till three
hours after, when the fpots Hill appeared unmoved.
“ Now (fays Mr Bianchini) if her rotation -were fo
fwift as to go round in 23 hours, in this fecond view,
three hours after the former, the fpots muft have ad¬
vanced near 50 degrees 5 fo that the fpot C would
have been gone off at R, the ipot B would have fuc-
ceeded into the place of C, the fpot A into the place
of B, and there w-ould have been no more but two
fpots, A and B, to have been feen.” _ 14S
Caffini, the fon, in a memoir for 1732, denies theDifpute be.
conclufion of Bianchini to be certain. He fays, that tween Caf-
during the three hours interval, the fpot C might be
gone off the difk, and the fpot B got into the place
thereof, where, being near the edge, it would, appear
lefs than in the middle, ft hat A, fucceeding into the
place of B, w’ould appear larger than it had done near
the edge, and that another Ipot might come into the
place of A } and there were other Ipots befides thefe
three on the globe of the planet, as appears by the fi¬
gures of Bianchini himfelf, particularly one which
would naturally come in the place of A. I hat if the
rotation of Venus be fuppefed to be in 23 hours, it
will agree wdth Bianchini’s obfervations, as well as with
thofe of his father 5 but that, on the other fuppofition,
the latter muft be entirely rejedled as erroneous : and
he concludes with telling us, that Venus had frequent¬
ly been obferved in the moft favourable times by Mr
Maraldi and himfelf with excellent telefcopes of 80 and
100 feet focus, without their being able to fee any di-
ftincf fpot upon her diik. “ Perhaps (fays Dr Long)
thofe feen by Bianchini had difappeared, or the air in
France was not clear enough $ which latl might be the
reafon why his father could never fee thofe Ipots in
France which he had obferved in Italy, even when he
made ufe of the longeft telefcopes.” Neither of thelc
aftronomers take notice of any indentings in the curve
which divides the illuminated part from the dark in the-
diik of Venus, though in fome view-s of that planet by
Fontana and Ricciolus, the curve is indented } and it
has from thence been concluded, that the furface of the
planet is mountainous like that of the moon. This
had alfo been fuppofed by Burratini, already mention¬
edand a late wuiter has obferved, that, “ when the
air is in a good ftate for obfervation, mountains like
thofe of the mocn may be obferved with a very power¬
ful telefcope.” # I49,
Caffini, befides the difeovery of the fpots on the dilk-Caffini di£
of Venus by which he was enabled to’afcertain her re-covers her
volution fftellitfe.
54
Apparent
Motions of
theHeaven-
ly Bodies.
. 15°
Difcovered
alfo by Mr
■Short.
, . ASTRO
volution °n an axis, had alfo a view of her fatellite or
“ T’-n' ^ glVCS the following account 
• ft- D’ f u^ft 28th, at 15 minutes after four
n the mornmg, looking at Venus with a telefcope of
34 teet, I law, at the diftance of one-third of her dia¬
meter eaftward a luminous appearance, of a lhape not
VC de ine^ that feemed to have the fame phafe with
enus, which was then gibbous on the weflern fide.
J he diameter of this phenomenon was nearly equal to
a louith part of the diameter of Venus. I obferved it
attentively ror a quarter of an hour, and having left off
looking at it for four or five minutes, I faw it no more:
but day-light was then advanced. I had feen a like
phenomenon which refembled the phafe of Venus
Jan. 25th, A. D. 1672, from 52 minutes after fix in
the morning to two minutes after feven, when the
rightnefs of the twilight made it difappear. Venus
t as then horned • and this phenomenon, the diameter
whereof was nearly a fourth part of the diameter of
r;i\rS u therxarme fhape* 11 was diftant
on th° ’T hT, °f diameter of Planet,
on the weflern fide. In thefe two obfervations, I was
n d0’^t whether 11 was not a fatellite of Venus of fuch
a confidence as not to be very well fitted to reflea the
light ol the fun ; and which, in magnitude, bore near-
v the fame proportion to Venus as the moon does to
the earth, being at the fame diftance from the fun and
the earth as Venus was, the phafes whereof it refem-
blea. Notwithftanding all the pains I took in looking
for it after thefe two obfervations, and at divers othc?
times, in order to complete fo confiderable a difcoverv
1 was never able to fee it. I therefore fufpended my
judgment of this phenomenon. If it fhould return of¬
ten there will be thefe two epochas, which, compared
Wlt.h J°.their obfervations, may be of ufe to find out the
periodical time of its return, if it can be reduced to
any rule.”
A fimilar obfervation was made by Mr Short on the
23d of Oaober 1740, about funrife. He ufed at this
time a reflecting telefcope of about 16.5 inches, which
magnified between 50 and 60 times, with which he
perceived a fmall ftar at about 1 o' diftance from Ve¬
nus, as meafured by the micrometer; and, putting on
a magnifying power of 240 times, he found the ftar
put on the fame appearance with the planet herfelf.
Its diameter was fomewhat lefs than a third of that of
the primary, but its light was lefs vivid, though ex¬
ceedingly (harp and well defined. The fame appear¬
ance continued with a magnifying power of 140 times.
A line, palling through the centre of Venus and it
made an angle of 18 or 20 degrees with the Equator :
he faw it feveral times that morning for about thefpace'
of an hour, after which he loft fight of it, and could
never find it again.
From this time the fatellite of Venus, though very
frequently looked for by aftronomers, could never be
perceived, which made it generally believed that Cafli-
m and Mr Snort had been miftaken ; but as the tran-
iits of the planet over the fun in 1761 and 1760 feem¬
ed to promife a greater certainty of finding it, the fa-
telhte was very carefully looked for by almoft every
one who had an opportunity of feeing the tranfit, but
generally without fuccefs. Mr Baudouin at Paris had
provided a telefcope of 25 feet, in order to obffrve the
paffage of the planet over the fun, and to look for its
T
in O M \. part jp
fatelhte ; but he did not fucceed either at that time or Apparent'
- the months of April and May following. Mr Mon- Motions of
aigne, however, one of the members of the Society 0fthefIeaven-
Limoges, had better fuccefs. On the 2d of Mav frfodies-
176!, he perceived, about half an hour after nine at * 
mght, at the diftance of 20' from Venus a fmall cref c 151
cent with the horns poin,^ the fj’ ^ S
of the planet; the diameter of the former being about « the tfan-
one-fourth of that of the latter; and a line drawn fromfltin
\enus to the fatellite making an angle with the verti-
ca! of about 20° towards the fouth. But though he
repeated this obfervation feveral times, feme doubt re
roamed whether it was not a fmall ftar. Next dav he
law the fame ftar at the fame hour, diftant from Venus
about ha-f a minute, or a minute more than before
and making with the vertical an angle of io° below
on the north fide ; fo that the fatellite feemed to have
defenbed an arc of about 30°, whereof Venus was the
centre and the radius 20'. The two following nights
were hazy, fo that Venus could only be feen - but on
the 7th of May, at the fame hou/as before,’ L faw
e latdhte again above Venus, and on the north fide
at the diftance of 25' or 26' upon a line which made an
angle of about 4 5° with the vertical towards the right
1 af • ' 1 i e hght °f the fatellite was always very weak
mt it had the fame phafes with its primary, whether
byftfei/08?] h ^ thC field °f his ^lefc°Pe or
nffird * 1 • a telefr°Pe was r‘me fret long, and mag¬
nified an objeft between 40 and 50 times, but had no
micrometer; fo that the diftances above-mentioned are
only from ellimation.
Fig. 27. reprefents the three obfervations of Mr Mon-
Vi the planet Ve™si ZN the vertical.
wfth ? r \° ecllPtlc’ making them an angle
th the vertical of 450 ; the numbers 3, 4 7 mark
the fituations of the fatellite on the relpedive days
from the figure it appears that the points 2 and 7
would have been diametrically oppofite, had the fatel-
lite gone 15® more round the point V at the laft obfer¬
vation ; lo that m four days it went through irc°
I hen as 155° is to four days or 96 hours, fo is 360
to a fourth number, which gives 9 days 7 hours for
™.e Zh°\C ^ngth °f the fyn°dical revolution. Hence
Mr Baudouin concluded, that the diftance of this fa-
telhte was about 60 of the femidiameters of Venus
irom its furface ; that its orbit cut the ecliptic nearly
at right angles ; had its afeending node in 220 of Vir¬
go ; and was in its greateft northern digreflion on the
7th at nine at night; and he fuppofed that at the tran¬
fit at the primary the fatellite would be feen accompa¬
nying it. By a fubfequent obfervation, however, on
the 11™ of May, he correaed his calculation of the
periodical time of the fatellite, which he now enlarged
to 1 2 days ; in confequence of which he found that it
would not pafs over the difk of the fun along with its
primary, but go at the diftance of above 20'from his
outhern limb ; though if the time of its revolution
mould be 15 hours longer than 12 days, it might then
paft over the fun after Venus was gone off. He ima- WhftL •
gmed the reafon why tins fatellite was fo difficult toktellite is
be oblerved might.be, that one part of its globe was ^ difficult
crufted over with fpots, or otherwife unfit to reflect t0 be feen*
the light of the fun. _ By comparing the periodical
time of this fatellite with that of our moon, he com¬
puted the quantity of matter in Venus to be nearly
equal
Part IT. ASTRONOMY. 55
Apparent equal to tliat in our eartli ; in which cafe it muft have
Motions of eonfiderable influence in changing the obliquity of the
'lyBodieT? ecliptic, the latitudes and longitudes of liars, &c.
v — > It is now known that this fuppofed fatellite of Cafli-
ni was merely an optical deception.
IS3 In the Philofophical Tranfaclions for 1761, Mr Hirft
tions^con gives an account of his having obferved an atmofphere
cerning the round the planet Venus. The obfervations were made
atmofphere at Fort St George; and looking attentively at that
of Venus. part 0f fun’s where he expedted the planet
■would enter, he plainly perceived a faint (hade or pe¬
numbra ; on which he called out to his two afliftants,
“ ’Tis a coming !” and two or three feconds after, the
firft external contadl took place, in the moment where¬
of all the three agreed ; but he could not fee the pe¬
numbra after the egrefs : and of the other two gentle¬
men, one had gone home, and the other loft the pla¬
net out of the field of his telefcope. Mr Dunn at Chel-
fea faw a penumbra, or finall diminution of light, that
grew darker and darker for about five feconds before
the internal contadl preceding the egrefs ; from wdience
he determines that Venus is furrounded with an atmo¬
fphere of about 50 geographical miles high. His ob¬
fervations, he tells us, were made with an excellent
fix-feet Newtonian refledlor, with a magnifying power
of 1 10, and of 220 times : he had a clear dark glafs
next has eye, and the fun’s limb appeared well defin¬
ed ; but a very narrow waterilh penumbra appeared
round Venus. The darkeft part of the planet’s phafis
was at the diftance of about a fixth part of her diame¬
ter from its edge ; from which an imperfedl light in-
creafed to the centre, and illuminated round about.
In the northern parts of Europe this penumbra
could not be feen. Mr Wargentin, who communica¬
ted feveral obfervations of the firft external contadf,
fays, that he could not mark the time exadlly, be-
caufe of the undulation of the limb of the fun ; but
thought it very remarkable that, at the egrefs, the
limb of Venus that was gone oflf the fun Ihowed itfelf
with a faint light during almort the whole time of
emerfion. Mr Bergman, who was then at the obfer-
vatory at Upfal, begins his account at the time when
three-fourths of the difk of the planet was entered up¬
on that of the fun ; and he fays, that the part which
was not come upon the fun was vifible, though dark,
and furrounded by a crefcent of faint light, as in fig. 28.:
but this appearance was much more remarkable at the
egrefs ; for as foon as any part of the planet was got
off the fun, that part was vifible with a like crefcent,
but brighter, fig. 29. As more of the planetary dilk
>vent off that of the fun, however, that part of the
crefcent which was fartheft from the fun grew fainter,
and vaniflied, until at laft only the horns could be
feen, as in fig. 30. The total ingrefs was not inftanta-
neous: but, as two drops of wTater, when about to
part, form a ligament between them ; fo there was a
dark fwelling ftretched out between Venus and the
fun, as in fig. 31. ; and when this ligament broke, the
planet appeared to have got about an eighth part of
her diameter from the neareft limb of the fun, fig. 32.:
he faw the like appearance at going off, but not fo di-
ftimft, fig. 33. Mr Chappe likewife took notice, that
the part of Venus which was not upon the fun was vi¬
fible during part of the time of ingrefs and egrefs ;
that it was farther furrounded by a fmaU luminous
ring of a deep yellow near the place that appeared in Apparent^
the form of a crefcent, which was much brighter at Motions of
the going off than coming upon the fun ; and that, du- Bodies,
ring the whole time the difk of Venus was upon the l
fun, he faw nothing of it. The time of total ingrefs
was inftantaneous like a flaflr of lightning ; but at the
egrefs the limb of the fun began to be obfcured three
feconds before the interior contact. Some of the
French aftronomers attributed this luminous ring round
Venus to the inflexion of the fun’s r^ys, as they alfo
do the light ieen round the moon in folar eclipfes ; but
Mr Chappe fuppofes it to have been owing to the fun
enlightening more than one half of the planetary globe,
though he owns this caufe not to be altogether fuftr-
cient. Mr Fouchy, who obferved the tranfit at La
Muette in France, peixeived, during the whole time,
a kind of ring round Venus, brighter than the reft of
the fun, which became fainter the farther it went from
the planet, but appeared more vivid in proportion as
the fun was clearer. Mr Ferner, who obferved at the
fame place, confirms the teftimony of Mr Fouchy.
“ During the whole time (fays he) of my obferving
with the telefcope, and the blue and green glaffes, I
perceived a light round about Venus, wdiich followed
her like a luminous atmofphere more or lefs lively, ac¬
cording as the air was more or lefs clear. Its extent
altered in the fame manner ; nor was it well termi¬
nated, throwing out, as it were, fome feeble rays on
all Tides.” 154
“ I am not clear (fays Dr Long) as to the mean-^r Fong’s,
ing of the luminous circle here mentioned ; whether,
when the whole planet was upon the fun, they faw a vations,
ring of light round it, diftind! from the light of the
fun ; or whether they mean only the light which fur¬
rounded that part of Venus that w^as not upon the
fun.” Mr Chappe takes this and other accounts of
the obfervations made in France in this latter fenfe ;
and though he fometimes called the luminous part of
the crefcent that furrounded the part of the planet not
upon the fun a ring, he explains himfelf that he did
fo, becaufe at the coming upon the fun he perceived
it at one fide of the planet, and on the oppofite fide
on its going off: for which reafon he fuppofed that it
furrounded it on all fides. See fig. 34, 35.
Sect. III. Of Mars.
The two planets which wre have juft defcribed, ap¬
pear to accompany the fun like fatellites,. and their •
• mean motion round the earth is the fame with that lu¬
minary. The remaining planets go to all the poffible
angular diftances from the fun. But their motions '
have obvioufly a connedlion with the fun’s pofition.
Mars is of a red fiery colour, and always gives a
much duller light than Venus, though fometimes he
equals her in fizc. He is not fubjedl to the fame li¬
mitation in his motions as Mercury or Venus ; but ap¬
pears fometimes very near the fun, and fometimes at
a great diftance from him ; fometimes rifing when the
fun fets, or fetting when he riles. Of this planet it is-
remarkable, that when he approaches any of the fix¬
ed ftars, which all the planets frequently do, theie
ftars change their colour, grow dim, and often be¬
come totally invifible, though at fome little diftance
from the body of the planet : but Dr Herfchel thinks
this has been exaggerated by former aftronomers.
Mars-
S6 A S T R
Apparent Mars appears to move from rvefl to eaft round the
tht'll -avctf eart^- mean duration of his fidereal revolution
ly bodies. ^^^'979579 days. His motion is very unequal,
w—When we begin to perceive this planet in the morn¬
ing when he begins to feparate from the fun, his mo¬
tion is direft and the moll rapid poflible. This rapi¬
dity diminilhes gradually, and the motion ceafes alto¬
gether when the planet is about diftant from the
fun $ then his motion becomes retrograde, and increa-
fes in rapidity till he comes into oppofition with the
fun. It then gradually diminilhes again, and becomes
nothing when Mars approaches within 137° of the fun.
Then the motion becomes direct after having been re¬
trograde for 73 days, during which interval the pla¬
net defcribed an arch of about 160. Continuing to
approach the fun, the planet at laft is loft in the even¬
ing in the rays of that luminary. All thefe different
phenomena are renewed after every oppofition of Mars;
but there are confiderable differences both in the ex¬
tent and duration of his retrogradations.
Mars does not move exactly in the plane of the
ecliptic, but deviates from it feveral degrees. His ap¬
parent diameter varies exceedingly. His mean appa¬
rent diameter is 27", and it increafes fo much, that
when the planet is in oppofition, the apparent diame¬
ter is 81". Then the parallax of Mars becomes fenfi-
ble, and about double that of the fun.
The dilk of Mars changes its form relatively to its
pofition with regard'to the fun, and becomes oval. Its
phafes ftiew that it derives its light from that lumi¬
nary. The fpots obferved on its furface have inform¬
ed aftronomers that it moves-round its axis from weft
.to eaft in 1.02733 days, and its axis is inclined to the
ecliptic at an angle of about 59.7°.
Spots when They were firlt obferved in 1666 by Caflini at Bo-
firft feen on logna with a telefcope of Campani about 16^ feet
long ; and continuing to obferve them for a month, he
found they came into the fame fituation in 24 hours
and 40 minutes. The planet -was obferved by fome
aftronomers at Rome with longer telefcopes made by
Euftachio Divini; but they afligned to it a rotation
in 13 hours only. This, however, was afterwards
fnown by Mr Caflini to have been a miftake, and to
have arifen from their not diftinguilhing the oppofite
fides of the planet, -which it feems have fpots pretty
much alike. He made further obfervations on the
fpots of this planet in 1670 ; from whence he drew an
additional confirmation of the time the planet took to
revolve. The fpots were again obferved in fubfequent
oppofitions ; particularly for feveral days in 1704 by
Maraldi, who took notice that they were not always
well defined, and that they not only changed their
fhape frequently in the fpace between two oppofitions,
but even in the fpace of a month. Some of them,
* however, continued of the fame form long enough to
afcertain the time of the planet’s revolution. Among
thefe there appeared this year an oblong fpot, refem-
bling one of the belts of Jupiter when broken. Tt did
not reach quite round the body of the planet ; but had,
not far from the middle of it, a fmall protuberance to¬
wards the north, fo well defined that he w7as thereby
enabled to fettle the period of its revolution at 24
hours 39 minutes ; only one minute lefs than what
Caflini had determined it to be. See fig. 45.
The near approach of Mars to the earth in 1719,
O N O M Y. Part II.
gave a much better opportunity of viewing him than Apparent
had been obtained before : as he was then within 2±° ^ic>Uoris °f
of his perihelion, and at the fame time the oppofition jy p^eT"
to the fun. His apparent magnitude and brightnefs
were thus fo much increafed, that he w as by the vul¬
gar taken for a new’ ftar. His appearance at that time,
as feen by Maraldi through a telefcope of 34 feet long,
is reprefented fig. 37. There was then a long belt
that reached half w-ay round, to the end of which ano¬
ther fhorter belt was joined, forming an obtufe angle
with the former, as in fig. 38. This angular point
wras obferved on the 19th and 20th of Auguft, at 11
hours 15 minutes, a little eaft of the middle of the
dilk ; and 37 days after, on the 25th and 26th of Sep¬
tember, returned to the fame fituation.. This interval,
divided by 36, the number of revolutions contained in
it gives 24 hours 40 minutes for the period of one re¬
volution ; w-hich wras verified by another fpot of a tri¬
angular ihape, one angle whereof .was towards the
north pole, and the bafe towards the fouth, which on
the 5th and 6th of Auguft appeared as in fig. 39. and
after 72 revolutions returned to the fame fituation on
the 16th and 17th of Oftober. The appearances of
Mars, as delineated by Mr Hook, when viewed
through a 36 feet telefcope, are reprefented fig. 40.
He appeared through this inftrument as big as the full
moon. Some of the belts of this planet are faid to be
parallel to his equator; but that feen by Maraldi was
very much inclined to it. z -5
Befides thefe dark fpots, former aftronomers took Blight
notice that a fegment of his globe about the fouth pole fy°ts al>out
exceeded the reft of his dilk fo much in brightnefs, P°1£S ul
that it appeared beyond them as if it were the fegment
of a larger globe. Maraldi informs us, that this bright
fpot had been taken notice of for 60 years, and w?as
more permanent than the other fpots on the planet.
One part of it is brighter than the reft, and the leaft
bright part is fubjeft to great changes, and has fome-
times difappeared.
A fimilar brightnefs about the north pole of Mars
was alfo fometimes obferved ; and thefe obfervations
are now confirmed by Dr Herfchel, who has viewed
the planet with much better inftruments, and much
higher magnifying pow-ers, than any other aftrcnomer x ^
ever was in poffeffion of. His obfervations w-ere madeBrHcr-
with a view to determine the figure of the planet, the Abel’s ac-
pofition of his axis, &c. A very particular account c.oullt ?f
of them is given in the 74th volume of the Philofophi-116 e ‘'30t'’
cal Tranfa61ions, but which our limits wdll not allow
us to infert. Tig. 41 to 64. Ihowthe particular appear¬
ances of Mars, as viewed on the days there marked.
The magnifying powers he ufed were fometimes as high
as 932 ; and with this the fouth polar fpot was found
to be in diameter 4I'". Fig. 65 lhow7s the connexion
of the other figures marked 56, 57, 58, 59, 60, 61,62,
which complete the udiole equatorial fucceflion of fpots
on the dilk of the planet. The centre of the circle
marked 57 is placed on the circumference of the inner
circle, by making its diftance from the circle marked
c9 anfwer to the interval of time betw'een the two ob¬
fervations, properly calculated and reduced to fideieal
meafure. The fame is done with regard to the circles
marked 58, 59, &.c. and it will be found by placing
any one of thefe connedled circles in fuch a manner as
to have its contents in a fimilar fituation with the fi¬
gures
Fart II. ASTRO
Apparent gures in the fmgle reprefentation, which bears the
Motions of fame number, that there is a fufficient refemblance be-
thelleayen-tween tpiem . though fome allowance muft undoubted-
iy ^ ma(je for the diftortions occahoned by this kind
3 of projeftion.
Caufes of With regard to the bright fpots themfelves, Dr Her-
tbe appear- fchel informs us, that the poles of the planets are not
ance and cxa&ly 'm the middle of them, though nearly fo.^
^nce of,ar" <4 From the appearance and difappearance (fays he) of
thefe fpots, the bright north polar fpot in the year 1781, we^ col¬
lect that the circle of its motion was at fome conhder-
able diftance from the pole. By calculation, its lati¬
tude muft have been about 76 or 77° J ^ov
that, to the inhabitants of Mars, the declination of the
fun, June 25th, 12 h. 15 m. of our time was about 90
56' fouth $ and the fpot muft have been fo far removed
from the north pole as to fall a few degrees within the
enlightened part of the difk to become vifible to us. The
fouth pole of Mars could not be many degrees from
the centre of the large bright fouthern fpot of the
year 1781 j though this fpot was of fuch a magnitude
as to cover all the polar regions farther than the 70th
or 65th degree ; and in that part which was on the
meridian, July 3d, at 10 h. 54 minutes, perhaps a lit¬
tle farther.
“ From the appearances of the fouth polar fpot in
1781, we may conclude that its centre was nearly po¬
lar. We find it continued vifible all the time Mars
revolved on his axis j and to prefent us generally with
a pretty equal (hare of the luminous appearance, a
ipot which covered from 450 to 6o° of a great circle
T59 on the globe of the planet, could not have any confi-
Of the ex- derable polar diftance. From the obfervations and
act pofuion calculations made concerning the poles of Mars, we
j-vp P°leS may conclude, that his north pole muft be directed to-
»* wards forae point of the heavens, between 9® 24® 35'
and o’ 70 15'} becaufe the change of the fituation of
the pole from left to right, which happened in the
time the planet palfed from one place to the other,
is a plain indication of its having gone through the
node of its axis. Next, we may alfo conclude, that
the node muft be confiderably nearer the latter point
of the ecliptic than the former j for, whatever be the
inclination of the axis, it will be feen under equal angles
at equal diftances from the node. But by a trigono¬
metrical procefs of folving a few triangles, we foon dif-
covered both the inclination of the axis, and the place
where it interfeas the ecliptic at reaangles (which, for
want of a better term, 1 have perhaps improperly call¬
ed its node.) Accordingly I find by calculation, that
the node is in 170 47' of Pifces, the north pole of
Mars being direaed towards that part of the heavens •,
and that the inclination of the axis to the ecliptic is
590 40'. By further calculations we find that the
pole of Mars on the 17th of April 1777, was then
aaually 81° 27'inclined to the ecliptic, and pointed
towards the left as feen from the fun.
“ The inclination and fituation of the node of tv
axis of Mars, with refpea to the ecliptic, being found,
may be thus reduced to the orbit of the planet him-
felf. Let EC (fig. 66.) be a part of the ecliptic,
OM part of the orbit of Mars, PEO a line drawn
from P, the celeftial pole of Mars, through E, that
point which has been determined to be the place of
Vol. III. Part I.
N O M Y. 57
the node of the axis of Mars in the._ ecliptic, and con- Apparent^
tinned to O, where it interfe&s his orbit. Now, theHeaven.
according to M. de la Lande, we put the node ot
the orbit of Mars for 1783 in Is 17° 58k we have
from the place of the node of the axis, that is, 11s
17° 47' to the place of the node of the orbit, an arch
EN of 6o° n'. In the triangle NEO, right-angled
at E, there is alfo given the angle ENO, according
to the fame author, x° fl', wdiich is the inclination ot
the orbit of Mars to the ecliptic. Hence we find the
angle EON 89° 5', and the fide_ ON 6o° 12'. A-
gain, when Mars is in the node of its orbit N, wre have
by calculation the angle PNF.rr63° 7; > to which
adding the angle ENO=l° 51', we have PNOre
64° 58': from which two angles, PON and PNO,
with the diftance ON, we obtain the inclination of the
axis of Mars, and place of its node with refpeft to
its own orbit; the inclination being 6i° l8', and the
place of the node of the axis 58° 31' preceding the in-
terfeflion of the ecliptic with the orbit of Mars, or in
our 190 28'of Pifces.” r 160
Our author next proceeds to (how how the feamns Of the Tea-
in this planet may be calculated, &c. Which con-^s m
jeftures, though they belong properly to the next lec-"'a* '
tion, yet are lo much connedled with what has gone
before, that we ihall infert here what he fays upon the
fubje£h
“ Being thus acquainted with what the inhabitants
of Mars will call the obliquity of their ecliptic, and
the fituation of their equinodtial and folftitial points,
wre are furnhhed with the means ot calculating the tea-
fons on that planet, and may account, in a manner
which I think highly probable, for the remarkable ap¬
pearance about its polar regions.
“ But firft, it may not be improper to give an in-
ftance how to refolve any query concerning the Mar¬
tial feafons. Thus, let it be required to compute the
declination of the fun on Mars, June 23. 1781, at
midnight of our time. If qr, » D , S5, &c. (fig. 67.)
reprefent the ecliptic of Mars, and T S3 =£> vy the
ecliptic of our planet, Aa, the mutual interfe&ion
of the Martial and terreftrial ecliptics, then there is
given the heliocentric longitude of Mars, tn m:
9s io° 30'; then taking away fix figns, and b ot
W a zz 1* 170 58', there remains b mzz i* 22u 32'.
From this arch,' with the given inclination^ i° 51' oi:
the orbits to each other, we have cofine of inclination
to radius, as tangent of bm to tangent of BM =
Is 220 33'. And taking away B ^ ~ I3 i'J 29',
which is‘the complement to Vj? B (or ss A, already
fhown to be Is 28° 31'), there will remain qp M ~
o® 21° 4', the place of Mars in its own orbit; that
is, on the time above mentioned, the fun’s longitude
on Mars will be 6® 21® 4'; and the obliquity of
the Martial ecliptic, 28° 42', being alfo given, we
find, by the ufual method, the fun’s declination 90 56'
fouth. . 161
“ The analogy between Mars and the earth is per-Confider-
haps by far the greateft in the whole folar fyftera. ajde refem.
Their diurnal motion is nearly the fame ; the obliqui-J^*^'
ty of their refpedlive ecliptics not very different: ofearth and
all the fuperior planets, the diftance of Mars from the Mars,
fun is by far the neareft alike to that of the earth;
nor will the length of the Martial year appear very
H different
58
ASTRONOM
163
Of the
MononTof ^^crent i"rom w^at TVe enjoy, when compared to the
theHeaven- urp”finS duration of the years of Jupiter, Saturn,
ly Bodies. and the Georgium Sidus. If then we find that the
—    globe we inhabit has its polar region frozen and co-
vered with mountains of ice and fhow that only part-
abouteth?tSly meIt wlle.n alterniltely expofed to the fun, I may
poles of ell be permitted to lurmile, that the fame caufes may
Mars, f«p- probably have the fame effeft on the globe of Mars •
pofed to be that the bright polar fpots are owing to the vivid re-
£y?aowed defjion of light from frozen regions 5 and that the re-
du&ion of thofe fpots is to be afcribed to their being
expofed to the fitn. In the year 1781, the fouth po¬
lar fpot was extremely large, which we might well
expeft, as that pole had but lately been involved in a
whole twelvemonth’s darknefs and abfence of the fun •
but in 1783, I found it confiderably fmaller than be¬
fore, and it decreafed continually from the 20th of
May till about the middle of September, when it feem-
ed to be at a Hand. During this lalt period the fouth
pole had already been above eight months enjoying the
benefit of fummer, and Hill continued to receive the
fun-beams, though, towards the latter end, in fuch an
oblique dire&ion as to be but little benefited by them.
On the other hand, in the year 1781, the north polar
fpot, which had then been its twelvemonth in the fun-
fhine, and was but lately returning into darknefs, ap¬
peared final], though undoubtedly increafing in lize.
Its not being vifible in the year 1783, is no objeftion
to thefe phenomena, being owing to the pofition of
the axis, by which it was removed out of fight.
. , , “ That a planetary globe, fuch as Mars, turning on
an a.xis’ <llould be of a fpheroidical form, will eafily find
Mars. admittance, when two familiar infiances in Jupiter and
the earth, as well as the known laws of gravitation and
the centrifugal force of rotatory bodies, lead the way
to the reception of fuch do&rines. Se far from creating
difficulties, or doubts, it will rather appear fingular,
that the fpheroidical form of this planet has not al¬
ready been noticed by former aftronomers • and yet,
retiedHng on the general appearance of Mars, we form
find, that opportunities of making obfervations on its
real form cannot be very frequent : for when it is near
enough to view it to an advantage, we fee it generally
gibbous, and its appofitions are fo fcarce, and of fo
fivort a duration, that in more than two years time,
we have not above three or four weeks for fuch obfer¬
vations. Befides, aftronomers being generally accuf-
tomed to fee this planet diftorted, the fpheroidical
form might eafily be overlooked.
Difference “ September 25. 1783. At 9b. ijo m. the equatorial
betwixt the diameter of Mars meafured 21" 53"'j the polar diame-
equatoria ter 21" 15'", full meafure; that is, certainly not too
fmall. This difference of the diameters was fhown, on
the 28th of the fame month, to Mr'YVilfon of Glafgow,
♦vho faw it perfeclly well, fo as to be convinced that
it was not owing to any defect or difiortion occafioned
by the lens •, and becaufe I wifhed him to be fatisfied
of the reality of the appearance, I reminded him of
feveral precautions fuch as caufing the planet to pafs
direaiy through the centre of the field of view, and
judging of its figure when it was moft dirtina and belt
defined, ike. Next day the difference between the
two diameters was ihown to Dr Blagden and Mr Au-
bert. I he former not only faw it immediately, but
thought the flattening almoft as much as that of Jupi-
and polar
diameters
of Mars.
Y. Pai-t U.
ter. Mr Aubert alfo faw it very plainly, fo as to en- Apparent
tertain no manner of doubt about the appearance. Motions of
“ September 30th, 10 h. 52 m. the equatorial diame-t]he^e‘Ten-
ter was 22" 9 ", with a magnifying power of 278. By > ^ °(1CJk
a fecond meafure it was 22" 31'", full large ; the polar
diameter, very exact, was 21" 26,,/. On the firlt of
October, at xoh. 50m. the equatorial diameter mealured
103 by the micrometer, and the polar 98 j the value
of the divifions in feconds and thirds not being well
determined, on account of fome changes lately made
in the focal length of the objedt metals of the tele-
fcope. On the 13th, the equatorial diameter w'as ex¬
actly 22" 35'" : the poiar diameter 21" 35"''.” In a
great numoer of fucceeding obfervations, the fame ap¬
pearance occurred; but on account of the quick
changes in the appearance df this planet, Dr Heri’chel
thought proper to fettle the proportion betwixt the
equatorial and polar diameters from thofe which were
made on the very day of the appofition, and which
wTere alfo to be preferred on account of their being re¬
peated with a very high power, and in a fine clear air,
with two different inftruments of an excellent quality,
from thefe he determined the proportions to be as
103 to 98, or 1355 to 1272.
It has been commonly related by aftronomers, that of the^at-
the atmofphere of this planet is poffeffed of fuch Itrong mofphere
refraftive powers, as to render the fmall fixed ftars°f Mars,
near which its paffes invifible. Dr Smith relates an ob-
fervation of Caffini, where a ftar in the water of Aqua¬
rius, at the diftance of fix minutes from the difk of
Mars, became fo faint before its occultation, that it
could not be feen by the naked eye, nor with a three
feet telefcope. This would indicate an atmofphere of
a very extraordinary fize and denfity : but the follow¬
ing obfervations of Dr Herfchel feem to fhow that it
is of much fmaller dimenfions. “ 1783, 061. 26th.
'1 here are two fmall liars preceding Mars, of different
fizes ; with 460 they appear both dulky red, and are
pretty unequal; with 218 they appear confiderably
unequal. The diftance from Mars of the neareft, which
is alfo the largeft, with 227 meafured 3' 2G1' 20"'.
Some time after, the fame evening, the diftance was
3' 8,/ 55"', Mars being retrograde. Both of them
were feen very diilinclly. They were viewed with a
new 20 feet refle£lor, and appeared very bright. Oc¬
tober 27th, the fmall ftar is not quite fo bright in pro¬
portion to the large one as it was laft night, being a
good deal nearer to Mars, which is now on the fide of
the fmall ftar ; but when the planet was drawn afide, or
out of view, it appeared as plainly as ufual. The di¬
ftance of the fmall ftar was 2' 5" 27'". The largeft of
the two liars (adds he), on which the above obfer¬
vations were made, cannot exceed the 12th, and the
fmallefl the 13th or 14th magnitude ; and I have no
reafon to fuppofe that they were any otherwife affefled
by the approach of Mars, than what the brightnefs of
its fuperior light may account for. From other pheno-
'.ena it appears, however, that this planet is not with¬
out a confiderable atmofphere ; for befides the perma¬
nent fpots on its furface, I have often noticed occafion-
al changes of partial bright belts, and alfo once a dark-
ilh one in a pretty high latitude ; and thefe alterations
we can hardly aferibe to any other caufe than the va¬
riable difpofition of clouds and vapours floating in the
atmofphere of the planet.”
Sect.
Part II.
Apparent
Motions of
theHeaven-
ly Bodies.
A S T R
Sect. IV. Of'Jupiter.
Jupiter is the brighteft of all the planets except
Venus. He moves from weft to eaft in a period of
4332.6°22o8 days, exhibiting irregularities fimilar to
thole of Mars. Before he comes into oppolition, and
when diftant from the fun about 115°, his motion be¬
comes retrograde, and increafes in fwiftnefs till he
comes into oppofition. The motion then becomes
gradually flower, and becomes direct when the planet
advances within 1150 of the fun. The duration
of the retrograde motion is about 121 days, and the
arch of retrogradation deferibed is about io°. But
there is a confiderable difference both in the amount
t66 and in the duration of this retrograde motion.
Bdfts of Ju- Jupiter has the fame general appearance with Mars,
fidt diilo" onty ^at the belts on his furface are much larger and
v<ved. more permanent. Their general appearance, as deferibed
by Dr Long, is reprefented fig. 68—71. ; but they are
not to be feen but by an excellent teleicope. They are
faid to have been firft difeovered by Fontana and two
other Italians ; but Caffmi was the firft who gave a
good account of them. Their number is very variable,
as fometimes only one, and at others no fewer than
eight, may be perceived. They are generally parallel
to one another, but not always fo ; and their breadth
is likewife variable, one belt having been obferved to
grow narrow, while another in its neighbourhood has
increafed in breadth, as if the one had flowed into the
other : and in this cafe Dr Long obferves, that a part
of an oblique belt lay between them, as if to form a
communication for this purpofe. The time of their
continuance is very uncertain, fometimes remaining
unchanged for three months 5 at others, new belts
Spots Come- ^ave been formed in an hour or two. In fome of
times ap- thefe belts large black fpots have appeared, which
moved fwiftly over the difk from eaft to weft, and
returned in a fliort time to the fame place; from
. whence the rotation of this planet about its axis has
been determined. On the 9th of May 1664, Dr Hook,
with a good 12 feet telefcope, obferved a fmall fpot in
the biggeft of the three obfcure belts of Jupiter ; and
obferving it from time to time, found that in two hours
it bad moved from eaft to weft about half the vifible
diameter of the planet. In 1665, Caflini obferved a
fpot near the largeft belt of Jupiter which is moft fre¬
quently feen. It appeared round, and moved with the
greateft velocity when in the middle, but appeared
narrower, and moved flower, th« nearer it was to the
circumference. “ Thefe circumftances (fays Dr Long)
ihowed that the fpot adhered to the body of Jupiter,
and wus carried round upon it. It continued' there¬
on till the year following ; long enough to determine
the periodical time of Jupiter’s rotation upon" his axis
Account of to be ph. 56 m.” This principal, or ancient fpot
one of thele as it is called, is the largeft, and of the longeft con-
fpots. tinuance of auy hitherto known, and has appeared
and vaniflied no fewer than eight times between the
years 1665 and 1708 ; from the year laft mentioned
it was invifible till 1713. The longeft time of its con¬
tinuing to be vifible was three years; and the longeft
time of its difappearing was from 1708 to 1713 : it
feems to have fome connexion with the principal fou-
fliern belt j for the fpot has never been feen when that
pear in
them.
lS3
O N O M Y. s0
difappeared, though that belt has often been vifible Apparent
without the fpot. Befides this ancient fpot, Cafimi, in ^‘°;:ons ot
the year 1699, law one of lefs liability that did not
continue of the fame fhape or dlmenfions, but broke .' —v_ ,
into feveral fmall ones, whereof the revolution was but
9 h. 51 m.; and two other fpots that revolved in ph.
52 J m. '1 he figure of Jupiter is evidently an oblate
Ipheroid, the longeft diameter of his dilk being to the
Ihorteft as 13 to 1 2. His rotation is from weft to eaft,
like that of the fun, and the plane of his equator is zg0
very nearly coincident with that of his orbit ; fo that No differ-
there can fcarce be any difference of feafons in that ence otfea-
planet. His rotation has been obferved to be fome- lc?ris iaJu'
what quicker in his aphelion than his perihelion. The
axis of rotation is nearly perpendicular to the plane of
the ecliptic, and the planet makes one revolution in
0.41377 day, or about 9 h. 55' and 37". The changes
in the appearance of thefe fpots, and the difference in
the time of their rotation, make it probable that they
do not adhere to Jupiter, but are clouds tranfported by
the winds with different velocities in an atmofphere
fubjeift: to violent agitations.
The apparent diameter of this planet, is a maximum
during his oppofition to the fun, it is then equal to
about 46"; when in conjundfion it is fmaller, being
only about 31": his mean apparent diameter is equal
to 36". 1
hour little ftars are obferved around Jupiter, which Is attended
conftantly accompany him. Their relative fituation hy four
is continually changing. They ofcillate on both fides moonS-
of the planet, and their relative rank is determined by
the length of thefe ofcillations. That one in which
the ofcillation is fhorteft is called the frjl fatellite, and
io on. Thefe fatellites are analogous to our moon.
See fig. 18. and 186. dhey are all fuppofed to move
in ellipfes ; though the eccentricities of all of them
are too fmall to be meafured, excepting that of the
fourth ; and even this amounts to no more than 0.007
of its mean diftance from the primary. The orbits of
thefe planets were thought by Galileo to be in the
fame plane with that of their primary: but Mr Caflini
has found that their orbits make a fmall angle with it;
and as he did not find any difference in the place of
their .modes, he concluded that they were all in the
lame place, and that their afeending nodes were in the
middle of Aquarius. After obferving them for more
than 36 years, he found their greateft latitude, or de¬
viation from the plane of Jupiter’s orbit, to be 2° cc'.
The firft of thefe fatellites revolves at the diftance ofDiftances
5.697 of Jupiter’s femidiameters, or 1' 51" as meafured and perio-
by proper inftruments ; its periodical time is id. i8h.<lical bmes
27' 34W* The next fatellite revolves at the diftance ofot ^up!ter,s
9.017 femidiameters, or 2' 56", in 3 d. 13 h. 13' 43". mooTls-
the third at the diftance of 14.384 femidiameters, or
4' 42", in 7 d. 3 h. 42' 36"; and the fourth at the di¬
ftance of 25.266, or 8' 16", in 16 d. 16 h. 32' 09".
Since the time of Caflini it has been found that the
nodes of Jupiter’s fatellites are not in the fame place;
and from the different points of view in which we have
an opportunity of obferving them from the earth, we
fee them fometimes apparently moving in rtra’ight
lines, and at other times in elliptic curves. All of
them, by reafon of their immenfe diftance, feem to keep
near their primary, and their apparent motion is a kind
of ofcillation like that of a pendulum, going alternate-
H 2 ]v
6o
Apparent
Motions of
theHeaven-
ly Bodies.
ASTRONOMY.
17.2
Occulta-
tions and
eclipfes of
Jupiter’s
fatellites.
173 ,
The latel-
iites fbme-
tiines ap¬
pear as
dark ip'jts.
. J74
Why they
vary in
their light
and appa¬
rent mag¬
nitude.
ly from their greateft diftance on one fide to the
greateft diitance on the other, fometimes in a ftraight
line, and fometimes in an elliptic curve. When a fa-
tellite is in its fuperior femicircle, or that half of its
orbit which is more diftant from the earth than Jupi¬
ter is, its motion appears to us dire61, according to
the order of the figns •, but in its inferior femicircle,
when it is nearer to us than Jupiter, its motion ap¬
pears retrograde; and both thefe motions feem quicker
the nearer the fatellites are to the centre of the pri¬
mary, dower the more diftant they are, and at the
greateft diftance of all they appear for a ftiort time to
be ftationary.
From this account of the fyftem of Jupiter and his
fatellites, it is evident, that occultations of them muft
frequently happen by their going behind their primary,
or by coming in betwixt us and it. I he former takes
place when they proceed towards the middle of their up¬
per femicircle { the latter, when they pafs through the
fame part of their inferior femicircle. Occultations of
the former kind happen to the firft and fecond fatellite j
at every revolution, the third very rarely efcapes an oc-
cultation, but the fourth more frequently by reafon of
its greater diftance. It is feldom that a fatellite can lie
difeovered upon the dilk of Jupiter, even by the bed;
telefcopes, excepting at its firft entrance, when by rea¬
fon of its being more diredlly illuminated by the rays of
the fun than the planet itfelf, it appears like a lucid
fpot upon it. Sometimes, however, a fatellite in puf¬
fing over the dftk, appears like a dark fpot, and is
eafily to be diftinguidied. This is fuppofed to be ow-
, ing to fpots on the body of thefe fecondary planets ;
and it is remarkable, that the fame fatellite has been
known to pafs over the dilk at one time as a dark fpot,
and at another fo luminous that it could not be diftin-
guilhed from Jupiter himfelf, except at its coming on
and going off. To account for this, we muft fay, that
either the fpots are fubjedl to change ; or if they be
permanent like thole of our moon, that the fatellites at
different times turn different parts of their globes to¬
wards ns. Poffibly both thefe caufes may contribute
to produce the phenomena juft mentioned. For thefe
reafons alfo both the light and apparent magnitude of
the fatellites are variable j for the fewer fpots there are
upon that fide which is turned towards us, the brighter
it will appear j and as the bright fide only can be feen,
a fatellite muft appear larger the more of its bright
fide it turns towards the earth, and the lefs fo the
more it happens to be covered with fpots. The fourth
fatellite, though generally the fmalleft, fometimes ap¬
pears bigger than any of the reft : the third fometimes
feems leaft, though ufually the largeft; nay, a fatellite
may be fo covered with fpots as to appear lefs than its
fhadow pa{Tmg over the difk of the primary, though
we are certain that the fhadow muft be fmaller than
the body which calls it. To a fpedlator placed on the
furface of Jupiter, each of thefe fatellites would put
on the phafes of the moon; but as the diftance of any
of them from Jupiter is but fmall when compared with
the diftance of that planet from the fun, the fatellites
are therefore illuminated by the fun very nearly in the
fame manner with the primary itfelf j hence they ap¬
pear to us always round, having conftantly the greatert
part of their enlightened half turned towards the earth:
a&d indeed they are fo fmall, that were they to put on
Part II.
the phafes of the moon, thefe phafes could fcarce be Apparent
difeerned through the bell telefcopes. theHeaverf
When the fatellites pafs through their inferior femi- ^ ^0,^es "
circles, they may call a fhadow upon their primary,. 1
and thus caufe an eclipfe of the fun to his inhabitants ij$
if there are any', and in fome fituations this lhadowr Their iha-
may be obferved going before or following the fatel-
lite. On the other hand, in palling through their ble on th“
fuperior femicircles, the fatellites maybe eclipfed in dilk of Ju-
the fame manner as our moon by palling through the piter.
fhadow of Jupiter: and this is a6lually the cafe with 176
the firft, fecond, and third of thefe bodies 5 but the Three of
fourth, by reafon of the largenefs of its orbit, paffes ^lT1^'r s
fometimes above or below the fhadowq as is the cafe eclipl-ecl in
w ith our moon. The beginnings and endings of thefe every revo-
eclipfes are eafily feen by a telefcope when the earth lution.
is in a proper fituation with regard to Jupiter and the 177
fnn ; but when this or any other planet is in conjunc-At what
tion with the fun, the fuperior brightnefs of that lu-^™.ef^e ^
minary renders both it and the fatellites invifible. From cuitatiJns "
the time of its firft appearing after a conjundlion until Sec. of Ju-
near the appofition, only the immerfions of the fatel-piter’s la-
lites into his lhadow, or the beginnings of the eclipfes, are
are vifible •, at the appofition, only the occultations of
the fatellites, by going behind or coming before their
primary, are obfervable j and from the appofition to
the conjunflion, only the immerfions, or end of the
eclipfes, are to be feen. This is exadlly true in the
firft fatellite, of wdiich we can never fee an immerfion
with its immediately fubfequent femerfion: and it is but
rarely that they can be both feen in the fecond 5 as in
order to their being fo, that fatellite muft be near one
of its limits, at the fame time that the planet is near
his perihelion and quadrature with the fun. With re¬
gard to the third, w’hen Jupiter is more than 46 de¬
grees from conjundtion with, or appofition to, the fun,
both its immerfions and immediately fubfequent emer-
fions are vifible j as they likewife are in the fourth,
when the diftance of Jupiter from conjundlion or appo¬
fition is 24 degrees.
When Jupiter is in quadrature with the fun, the earth
is fartheft out of the line that paffes through the centres
of the fun and Jupiter, and therefore the fhadow of
the planet is then moft expofed to our view’: but even
then the body of the planet will hide from us one fide
of that part of the fhadow’ wkich is neareft to it, through
which the firft fatellite paffes; which is the reafon
that though we fee the entrance of that fatellite into
the fhadow, or its coming out from thence, as the
earth is fi.tuated on the eaft or weft fide thereof, w’e
cannot fee them both •, whereas the other fatellites go¬
ing through the fliadow’ at a greater diftance from Ju¬
piter, their ingrefs and egrefs are both vifible.
Sect. V. Of Saturn.
Saturn is likewife a very confpicuous planet, though
not fo brilliant as Jupiter. The period of his fidereal
revolution round the earth, is 10759.077213 days.
He moves from w’eft to eaft nearly in the plane of the
ecliptic, and exhibits irregularities fimilar to thofe of
Jupiter and Mars. He becomes retrograde both before
and after his oppofition, when at the diftance of about
109° from the fun. His retrograde motion continues
about 139 days, and during its continuance he defferibes
an
4
Part II.
Apparent
Motions of
theHeayen-
ly Bodies,
178
Telefcopic
appearance
of Saturn.
astronomy.
179
His ring
firft difco-
vered by
Huygens.
an arc of about. 6°. His diameter is a maximum at bis
oppofition, and bis mean apparent diameter is 18".
Saturn, when viewed through a good teleicope,
makes a more remarkable appearance than any of the
other planets. Galileo firft difcovered his uncommon
ftiape, which he thought to be like two final! globes,
one on each fide of a large one : and he publiftied his
difcovery in a Latin fentence : the meaning of which
was, that he had feen him appear with three bodies-,
though, in order to keep the difcovery a fecret, the
letters were tranfpofed. Having viewed him for two
years, he was fnrprifed to fee him become quite round
without thefe appendages, and then after feme time to
affume them as before. Thefe adjoining globes were
what are now called the anfx of his ring, the true
ft,ape of which was firft difcovered by Huygens about
40 years after Galileo, firft with a telefcope of I 2 feet,
and then with one of 23 feet, which magnified objefts
100 times. From the difeovenes made by him and
other aftronomers, it appears that this planet is iur-
rounded by a broad thin ring, the edge of which re-
fledts little or none of the lun’s light to us, but t e
planes of the ring refiedt the light in the fame manner
that the planet itfelf does and if we fuppofe the dia¬
meter of Saturn to be divided into three equal parts,
the diameter of the ring is about feven of theft: parts.
The ring is detached from the body of Saturn m iuch a
manner, that the diftance between the innermoft parte
the ring and the body is equal to its breadth. If we had
a view of the planet and his ring, with our eyes, per¬
pendicular to one of the planes of the latter we fhould
fee them as in fig. 72- : hut our eye is never fo much ele¬
vated above either plane as to have the vifual ray itand
at right angles to it, nor indeed is it ever elevated more
than about 30 degrees above it ft> that the ring, be¬
ing commonly viewed at an oblique angle, appears of
an oval form, and through very good telefcopes double
as reprefented fig. 73- and 74. Both the outward
and inward rim is projefted into an ellipfis, more or
lets oblong according to the different degrees of obli¬
quity with which it is viewed. Sometimes our eye is
in the plane of the ring, and then it becomes invifible |
either becaufe the outward edge is not fitted to retied:
the fun’s light, or more probably becaufe it is too thin
to be feen at fuch a diftance. As the^ plane of this
rino-keeps always parallel to itfelf, that is, its fituation
in one part of the orbit is always parallel to that in any
other part, it difappears twice in every revolution or the
planet, that is, about once in 15 years j and be fome-
times appears quite round for nine months together.
At other times, the diftance betwixt the body of the
planet and the ring is very perceptible mfomuch that
Mr Whifton tells us of Dr Clarke’s father having feen
a ftar through the opening, and^ fuppofed him to have
been the only perfon who ever faw a fight fo rare, as
the opening, though certainly very large, appears very
finall to us. When Saturn appears round, if our eye
be in the plane of the ring, it will appear as a dark
line acrofs the middle of the planet’s difk j and it our
eye be elevated above the plane of the ring, a lhadowy
belt will be vifible, caufed by the fhadow of the ring
as well as by the interpofition of part of it betwixt the
eye and the planet. The ftiadow of the ring is bioad-
eft when the fun is moft elevated, but its obfeure parts
appear broadeft when our eye is moft elevated above
6l
the plane of it. When it appears double the ring
next the body of the planet appears bnghteft^hen tiieHeaven-
the rine appears of an elliptical form, the parts abqut ly Bodies.
the ends of the largeft axis are called the anfie, as has   v >
been already mentioned. Thefe, a little before and
after the difappearing of the ring, are of unequal mag¬
nitude : the largeft anfa is longer vifible before the pla- lSo
net’s round phafe, and appears again fooner than theRlngofSa-
other. On the firll of Oftober ,7.+, the largeft anfa Mrn pro. ^
was on the eaft fide, and on the 12th on the weft Me ^
was on me can nuc^, _ , . . , revon
of the difk of the planet, which makes it probable tbaton its
the ring has a rotation round an axis. Herichel has
demonftrated, that it revolves, in its own plane m l O
hours 32' is4"* The obfervations of this philolopner
have added greatly to our knowledge of Saturn’s ring.
According to him there is one ftngle, dark, confidera-
bly broad line, belt, or zone, which he has conftant-
ly found on the north fide of the ring. _ As this dark
belt is fubjeft to no change whatever, it is probably
owing to iotne permanent conftruction of the Surface of
the ring : this conftruaion cannot be owing to the iha-
dow of a chain of mountains, fince it is vifible all
round on the ring j for therevcould be no fliade at the
ends of the ring : a fimilar argument will apply agauw
the opinion of very extended caverns. It is pretty
evident that this dark zone is contained between two
concentric circles 5 for all the phenomena correfpond
with the proieaion of fuch a zone. The nature of the
ring; Dr Herfchel thinks no lefs fohd than that of Sa¬
turn itfelf, and it is obferved to caft a ftrong ffadow
upon the planet. The light of the ring is alfo ge¬
nerally brighter than that of the planet j for the ring
appears fufficiently bright when the telefcope affords
fcarcely light enough for Saturn. The dodor con¬
cludes that the edge of the ring is not flat, but fpheri-
cal or i'pheroidical. The dimenfions of the ring, or of
the two rings with the fpace between them, Dr Her¬
fchel gives as below : M;]es_
Inner diameter of fmaller ring I46345
Outfide diam. of ditto i84393
Inner diam. of larger ring I9°^S
Outfide diam. of ditto 204883
Breadth of the inner ring 20000
Breadth of the outer ring 7200
Breadth of the vacant fpace, or dark zone . 2o39
There have been various conjeaures relative to
the nature of this ring. Some perfons have ima¬
gined that the diameter of the planet Saturn was once
equal to the prefent diameter of the outer ring,,
and that it was hollow; the prefent body being con¬
tained within the former furface, in like manner as a
kernel is contained within its ffell: they fuppofe that,
in confequence of fome concuffion,, or other caufe he
the outer (hell all fell down to the inner body, and left,
only the ring at the greater diftance from the centre,,
as we now perceive it. This conjecture rs m fome
meafure corroborated by tbe confideration, that both
the planet and its ring perform their rotations about
the fame common axis, and in very nearly the fame
time. But from the obfervations of Dr Heifchel, he
thus concludes: “ It does not appear to me that there
is fufficient ground for admitting the ring of Saturn to
be of a very changeable nature, and I gueft that it*
phenomena will hereafter be fo fully explained, asto.
axis
£>2
A S T R O N o
thellcuven
ly Bodies.
i8r
His feven
iateliites.
In the meanwhile we muft
a nnai judgment of its conlfrudion, till w e
can have more obfervation*. Its divifion, however
into two very unequal parts, can admit of no doubt.”
. 1 hc diameters of Saturn are not equal : that which
is perpendicular to the plane of his ring appears lefs Jby
one-eleventh than the diameter fituated in that plane.
H we compare this form with that of Jupiter, we have
reaion to conclude that Saturn turns rapidly round his
loner axis^ and that the ring moves in the plane of his
equaton Herfchel has confirmed this opinion by adual
obferyation. He has afcertained the duration of a re¬
volution of Saturn round his axis to amount to 0.428
day Huygens obferved five belts upon this planet
nearly parallel to the equator.
Saturn is Hill better attended than Jupiter (fee fijr. 18
and 186.) j having, befides the ring above-mentioned’
no fewer than fcven moons continually circulating round
him. 1 he firft, at the diftance of 2.097 femidiameters
of his img,_ and 4.893 of the planet itfelf, performs its
revolution in I d. 21 h 18' 57" j the fecond, at 2.686
iem,diameters of the ring, and 6.268 of Saturn re¬
volves in 2 d. I7 h 41' 22"; the third, at the di-
itance ot 8.754 femidiameters of Saturn, and of
the ring, m 4 d. 12 h. 25' 12"; the fourth, 'called
.e Huygeman Satellite, at 8.698 femidiameters of the
ring, and 20.295 Saturn, revolves in 15 d. 22 h. ui'
X2' ; while the fifth, placed at the valt diftance of
59.154 lemidiameters of Saturn, or 25.348 of his ring,
does not perform its revolution in lefs than 79 d. 7 h.
47 O-. . I he orbits of all thefe fatellites, except the
fifth are nearly in the fame plane, which makes an
angle with the plane of Saturn’s orbit of about at0-
and by reafon of their being inclined at fuch larg-e’
angles, they cannot pafs either acrofs their primary or
behind it with refpea to the earth, except when very
near their nodes; fo that eclipfes of them happen much
more feldom than of the fatellites of Jupiter. There
is, however, an account in the Philof. TranfaA. of an
occultation of the fourth fatellite behind the body of
oaturn ; and there is a curious account by Caflini in
the Memoirs of the Royal Academy for 1692, of a
fixed liar being covered by the fourth fatellite, fo that
for 13 minutes they appeared both as one ftar.
fometimes ^f011 °f w" fraallnefs> thefe fatellites cannot
difappears, ^ ^ u"le{s the air be ver7 clear; and Dorn. Caflini
•and why. f°r leverai years obferved the fifth fatellite to grow lefs
and lefs as it went through the eaftern part of its or¬
bit until it became quite invifible ; while in the weftern
part it gradually became more and more bright until
it arrived at its greateft fplendor.—“This phenomenon
Hays Hr Long) cannot be better accounted for than
by luppofing one half the furface of this fatellite to
be unfit to refleA the light of the fun in fufficient
quantity to make it yifible, and that it turns round its
axis nearly in the fame time as it revolves round its
primary ; and that, by means of this rotation, and
keeping always the fame face toward Saturn, we upon
the earth may during one half of its periodical time
be able to fee fucceflively more and more of its bright
Me, and during th, other half of its period have mire
and more of the fpotted or dark fide turned towards us.
In the year 170J, this fatellite unexpefledly became
rble 111 a11 Parts its orbit through the very fame
M Y.
Fart IL
tdefcopes that were before often made ufc of to view it Apparent*
le eaitern part without fuccefs : this fhows the fpots Modons of
upon this fatelhte, like thofe upon Jupiter and fom>Heavcn.
p,ane,s- *“
i he two other fatellites were difeovered by Dr Her¬
fchel in 1787 and 1788. They are nearer^ Saturn
than any of the other five. But in order to prevent con-
ThTcf hl h?rC b,eei\Called the 6th aild 7th fatellites.
the fifth latelute has been obferved by Dr Herfchel
to turn once round its axis, exaAly in the time in which
L-mooT r°Und SatUrn‘ In this refI,ea tt refembles
Sect. VI. Of Herfchel.
182
Fifth fa
tellite
Jhe planets Jntherto deferibed have been known
aT™ antl.quUy 5 but the PIa»et Herfchel,
called alfo the Georgium Sidus, and Uranus, efcaped
the attention of the ancient aitronomers. Flamftead,
Mayer, and Le h-oumer had obferved it as a fmall
liar; but m 1781 Dr Herfchel difeovered its motion,
and afcertained it to he a planet. Like Mars, TUpi-
ter, and Saturn, it moves from weft to eaft round the
lun. I he duration of its fidereal revolution is 30680
days.. Its motion, which is nearly in the plane of the
ecliptic, begins to be retrograde before and after the
oppofition, when the planet is 103.50 from the fun;
ns retrograde motion continues for about 151 days-
and the arc of retrogradation amounts to 3.6°. If we
judge of the dillance of this planet by the flownefs of
its motions, it ought to be at the verv confines of the
planetary fyffem.
The apparent magnitude of this planet is fo fmall Its
that it can feldom be feen with the naked eye. It is^es
accompanied by fix fatellites : two of them, which
were diicovered by Dr HerfcVl in 1787, revolve about
that planet in periods of 8 d. 17 h. 1 m. 19 fee. and
13 d. 11 h. 5 m. ij fee. refpeAively, the angular di-
itances from the primary being 33" and 444"; their
orbits are nearly perpendicular to the plane of the
echptie I he hilfory of the difeovery of the other four
with iuch elements as could then be afcertained are
given in the Philofophical TranfaAions for
.. rt L 1 he precife periods of thefe additional iatel-
htes cannot be afcertained without a greater number
of obiervations than had been made w’hcn Dr Herfchel
lent the account of their difeovery to the Royal So-
dety > but he gave the following eflimates as the moft
probable which could be formed by means of the data
then determined. Admitting the diftance of the in-
tenor fatelhte to be zf.j, its periodical revolution
will be y d. 21 h. 25 nr. If the intermediate fatellite
be placed at an equal diftance betiveen the tw-o old fa-
tellites, or at 38".57, its period will be 10 d. 23 h. 4 m.
I he neareft exterior fatellite is about double the di-
ftance of the fartheft old one 5 its periodical time will
therefore be about 38 d. 1 h. 49 m. The moft diftant
latelhte is full four times as far from the planet as the
old feoond fatellite ; it will therefore take at leaft
107 d. 16 In 40 m. to complete one revolution. All
theie fatellites perform their revolutions in their orbits
contrary to the order of the figns ; that is, their real
motion is retrograde.
Sect.
Part II.
A
Apparent
Motions of
theHcaven-
ly Bodies.
S T
Sect. VII. Of Ceres and Id alias.
R O N O M Y.
Apparent
These two planets, lately difcovered by Piazzi and
Olbers, two foreign aftronomers, ought to have follow¬
ed Mars in the order of defcription, as their orbits are
placed between thofe of Mars and Jupiter j but as they
have been obferved only for a very Ihort time, we
judged it more proper to referve the account of them
till we came to the words Ceres and Pallas, when
the elements of their orbits will in all probability be
determined with more precifion than at prefent. They
are invifible to the naked eye j and Dr Herfchcl has
afcertained that their iize is extremely fmall. For that
reafon, together with the great obliquity of their or¬
bits, he has propofed to diftinguifh them from the pla¬
nets, and to call them ajleroids.
Chap. IV. Of the Comets,
The planets are not the only moving bodies vifible
in the heavens. There are others which appear at
uncertain intervals, and with a very different afpett
from the planets. Thefe are very numerous, and no
fewer than 450 are fuppofed to belong to our folar fy-
ffem. They are called Comets, from their having a
long tail, fomewhat refembling the appearance of hair.
This, however, is not always the cafe j for fome co¬
mets have appeared which were as well defined, and as
round as planets : but in general they have a luminous
matter diffufed around them, or prqjebling out from
them, which to appearance very much refembles the
Aurora Borealis. When thefe appear, they come in a
diredl line towards the fun, as if they were going to
fall into his body ; and after having difappeared for
fome time in confequence of their proximity to that lu¬
minary, they llv off again on the other fide as fa ft as
they came, projebling a tail much greater and brighter
in their recefs from him than when they advanced to¬
wards him ; but, getting daily at a farther diftance
from us in the heavens, they continually lofe of their
fplendour, and at laft totally difappear. Their appa¬
rent magnitude is very different 5 foraetimes they ap¬
pear only of the bignefs of the fixed ftars } at other
times they will equal the diameter of Venus, and fome-
times even of the fun or moon. So, in 1652, Heve-
lius obferved a comet which feemed not inferior to the
moon in fize, though it had not fo bright a fplendour,
but appeared with a pale and dim light, and had a dif-
mal afpedf. Thefe bodies will alfo fometimes lofe their
fplendour fuddenly, while their apparent bulk remains
unaltered. With refpe£l to their apparent motions,
they have all the inequalities of the planets; fome-
times feeming to go forwards, fometimes backwards,
and fometimes to be ftationary.
The comets, viewed through a telefcope, have a
very different appearance from any of the planets.
The nucleus, or ftar, feems much more dim. Sturmius
tells us, that obferving the comet of 1680 with a tele¬
fcope, it appeared like a coal dimly glownng 5 or a rude
mafs of matter illuminated with a dufky fumid light,
lefs fenfible at the extremes than in the middle ; and
not at all like a ftar, which appears with a round dilk
and a vivid light.
Hevelius obferved of the comet in 1.661, that its
184
body was of a yellowifh colour, bright and confpicu-
ous, but without any glittering light. In the middle ^ot“ms ot~
was a denfe ruddy nucleus, almoit equal to Jupiter,
encompaffed with a much fainter thinner matter.— '
February 5th. The nucleus was fomewhat bigger and
brighter, of a gold colour, but its light more dufky
than the reft of the ftars j it appeared alfo divided in¬
to a number of parts.—Feb. 6th. The nuclei ftill ap¬
peared, though lefs than before. One of them on the
left fide of the lower part of the difk appeared to be
much denfer and brighter than the reft; its body
round, and reprefenting a little lucid ftar; the nuclei ftil!
encompaffed with another kind of matter.—Feb. 10th.
The nuclei more obfcure and confufed, but brighter
at top than at bottom.—Feb. 1 jth. The head dimi-
nifhed much both in brightnefs and in magnitude.—.
March 2d. Its roundnefs a little impaired, and the
edges lacerated.—March 28th. Its matter much dif-
perfed j and no diftincl nucleus at all appearing.
Wiegelius, who faw through a tclefcope the comet
of 1664, the moon, and a little cloud illuminated by
the fun, at the fame time, obferved that the moon ap¬
peared of a continued luminous furface, but the comet
very different, being perfectly like the little cloud en¬
lightened by the fun’s beams.
The comets, too, are to appearance furrounded with Atmo?
atmofpheres of a prodigious fize, often riling ten timesfi)lieres a51^
higher than the nucleus. They have often likewife P^ales °f
dift’erent phafes, like the moon. cornleg^
“ The head of a comet (fays Dr Long) to the eye, Dr Long's
unaftifted by glalfes, appears fometimes like a cloudy account of
ftar j fometimes fhines wdth a dull light like that of t^em*
the planet Saturn : fome comets have been faid to equal,
fome to exceed, ftars of the firft magnitude ; fome to
have furpaffed Jupiter, and even Venus j and to have
call a ftiadow' as Venus fometimes does.
“ The head of a comet, feen through a good tele¬
fcope, appears to confift of a folid globe, and an at-
mofphere that furrounds it. The folid part is fre¬
quently called the nucleus ; tvhich through a telefcope
is eafily diftinguiihed from the atmofphere or hairy ap¬
pearance. " .
“ A comet is generally attended with a blaze or
tail, whereby it is diftinguifhed from a ftar or planet •,
as it is alfo by its motion. Sometimes the tail only of
a comet has been vifible at a place where the head has
been all the while under the horizon j fuch an appear¬
ance is called a beam.
“ The nucleus of the comet of 1618 is faid, a few Appearaa*.
days after coming into view, to have broken into three ces of
or four parts of irregular figures. One obferver corn-
comet of
1618.
pares them to fo many burning coals 5 and fays they
changed their fituation while he was looking at them,
as wdren a perlon ftirs a fire ; and a few days after were
broken into a great number of fmaller pieces. Another
account of the fame is, that on the ift and 4th of De¬
cember, the nucleus appeared to be a round, folid, and
luminous body, of a dulky lead colour, larger than any
ftar of the firft magnitude. On the 8th of the fame
month it was broken into three or four parts of irre¬
gular figures : and on the 20th was changed into a
cluster of fmall ftars.
As the tail of a comet is owung to the heat of the Phenome*;
fun, it grows larger as the comet approaches near to. "a of their
d tails.
i3?
64
Apparent and fhortens as it recedes from, that luminary.
Motions of the tail of a comet were to continue of the fame length,
theHeayen--t appear longer or (hotter according to the dif-
,ly bodies. ^ £erent views 0f t^g fpe&ator j for if his eye be in a line
drawn through the middle of the tail lengthwife, or
nearly fo, the tail will not be diftinguifhed from the reft
of the atmofphere, but the whole will appear round *, if
the eye be a little out of that line, the tail will appear
(hort as in fig. 75.5 and it is called a bearded comet when
the tail hangs down towards the horizon, as in that
figure. If the tail of a comet be viewed fidewife, the
whole length of it is feen. It is obvious to remark,
that the nearer the eye is to the tail, the greater will
be the apparent length thereof.
“ The tails of comets often appear bent, as in fig. 76.
and 77. owing to the refiftance of the tether j w-hich,
though extremely (mail, may have a fenfibie effect on
fo thin a vapour as the tails confift of. This bending
is feen only when the earth is not in the plane of the
orbit of the comet continued. When that plane paffes
through the eye of the fpe&ator, the tail appears
ftraight, as in fig. 78, 79.
“ Longomontanus mentions a comet, that, in 1618,
Dec. 10th, had a tail above 100 degrees in length;
which (hows that it muft then have been very near the
earth. The tail of a comet will at the fame time ap¬
pear of different lengths in different places, according
as the air in one place is clearer than in another. It
need not be mentioned, that in the fame place, the dif¬
ference in the eyes of the fpe&ators will be the caufe
of their diiagreeing in their eftimate of the length of
188 the tail of a comet.
Difference “ Hevelius is very particular in telling us, that he
between obferved the comet of 1665 to caft a ihadow upon the
vationsof > for iu t^e thereof there appeared a dark
Hevelius line. It is fomewhat furprifing, that Hooke fliould
and Hooke, be pofitive in affirming, on the contrary, that the
place where the ftiadow of the comet (hould have been,
if there had been any ffiadow, was brighter than any
other part of the tail. He was of opinion that comets
have fome light of their own : His obfervations were
made in a hurry *, he owns they were ffiort and tranfi-
tory. Hevelius’s were made with fo much care, that
there is more reafon to depend upon them. Dom. Caf-
fini obferved, in the tail of the comet of 1680, a dark-
nefs in the middle ; and the like was taken notice of by
a curious obferver in that of 1744.
1S9 « There are three comets, viz. of 1680, 1744, ami
the comet I759> th^ deferve to have a farther account given of
of 1680. them. The comet of 1680 was remarkable for its
near approach to the fun ; fo near, that in its perihe¬
lion it was not above a fixth part of the diameter of
that luminary from the furface thereof, big. 77-. ta¬
ken from Newton’s Principia, reprefents fo much of
the trajectory of this comet as it paffed through while
it was vifible to the inhabitants of our earth, in going
from and returning to its perihelion. It (hows alio
the tail, as it appeared on the days mentioned in the
figure. The tail, like that of other cornets, increafed
in length and brightnefs as it came nearer to the (un ;
and grew' (hotter and fainter as it went farther from
him and from the earth, till that and the comet were
too far off to be any longer vifible.
*<f‘ The comet of 1744 was firft feen at Laufanne in
Part II.
Switzerland, Dec. 13. 1743, N. S. From that time Apparent
it increafed in brightnefs and magnitude as it was co" gjjeave°^
ming nearer to the fun. The diameter of it, when at jy £0[jieS-'
the diftance of the fun from us, meafured about one 1  v—, j
minute; which brings it out equal to three times the 190
diameter of the earth. It came fo near Mercury, that,01 ^at of
if its attraction had been proportionable to its magni-1^’
tude, it was thought probable it would have difturbed
the motion of that planet. Mr Betts of Oxford, how¬
ever, from fome obfervations made there, and at Lord
Macclesfield’s obfervatory at Sherburn, found, that
when the comet was at its lead diftance from Mercury,
and almoft twice as near the fun as that planet was, it
was ftill diftant from him a fifth part of the diftance
of the fun from the earth ; and could therefore have no
effeCt upon the planet’s motions. He judged the co¬
met to be at lead equal in magnitude to the earth. He
fays, that in the evening of Jan. 23d, this comet ap¬
peared exceedingly diftinCl and bright, and the diame¬
ter of its nucleus nearly equal to that of Jupiter. Its
tail extended above 16 degrees from its body ; and was
in length, fuppofing the fun’s parallax io;/, no lefs than s
23 millions of miles. Dr Bevis, in the month of May
1744, made four obfervations of Mercury, and found
the places of that planet, calculated from correCI ta¬
bles,' differed fo little from the places obferved, as to
(how that the comet had no infiuence upon Mercury’s
motion.
“ The nucleus, which had before been always round,
on the 10th of February appeared oblong in the di¬
rection of the tail, and feemed divided into two parts,
by a black ftroke in the middle. One of the parts
had a fort of beard brighter than the tail; this beard
was furrounded by two unequal dark ftrokes, that fe~
parated the beard from the hair of the comet. The
odd phenomena difappeared the next day, and nothing
was feen but irregular obfeure fpaces like fmoke in the
middle of the tail; and the head refumed its natural
form. February 15th, the tail was divided into two
branches; the eaftern part about feven or eight de¬
grees long, the weftern 24. On the 23d, the tail
began to be bent; it (bowed no tail till it was as near
to the fun as the orbit of Mars ; the- tail grew longer
as it approached nearer the fun ; and at its greateft
length was computed to equal a third part of the di¬
ftance of the earth from the fun. Fig. 76. is a view
of this comet, taken by an obferver at Cambridge.
I remember that, in viewing it, I thought the tail
feemed to fparkle, or vibrate luminous particles. He¬
velius mentions the like in other comets ; and that
their tails lengthen and (horten while we are viewing.
This is probably owing to the motion of our air. ,pt
“ The comet of 17^9 did not make any confldera-Of the co¬
ble appearance by reafon of the unfavourable fituation met of
of the earth all the time its tail might otherwife have17531
been confpicuous ; the comet being then too near the
fun to be feen by us; but deferves our particular con-
fideration, as it was the firft that ever had its return
foretold.”
Hevelius gives pictures of comets of various (hapes ;
as they are deferibed by hiftorians to have been like a
iword," a buckler, a tun, &.c. Thefe are drawn by
fancy only, from the defeription in words. He- gives,
however, alfo pictures of fome comets, engraved by
- his
ASTRONOMY.
if
1
Part II. A S T R
Apparent his own hand from the views he had of them through
Motions of a very iong ancj excellent telefcope. In thefe we find
^v- BodiVs!" changes i’1 t-he nucleus and the atmofphere of the fame
w—y——j comet. The nucleus of the comet of 1661, which in
one obfervation appeared as one round body, as it is
reprefented in fig. 87. in fubfequent views feemed to
confift of feveral fmaller ones feparated from one ano¬
ther, as in fig. 86. The atmofphere furrounding
the nucleus, at different times, varied in the extent
thereof; as did alfo the tail in length and breadth.
The nuclei of other comets, as has already been ob-
ferved, have fometimes phafes like the moon. Thofe
of 1744 and 1769 had both this kind of appearance.
See fig. 34.
Chap. V. Of the fixed Stars.
Number of The parallax of the ftars is infenfible. When viewed
iked ftars through the bell telefcopes, they appear not at all mag-
bytek*211 n^ec*’ ^ut rat^er diminilhed in bulk j by reafon, as is
fcopes.2 thought by fome, that the telefcope takes off that
twinkling appearance they make to the naked eye ;
but by others, more probably, that the telefcope tube
excludes a quantity of the rays of light, which are not
only emitted from the particular ftars themfelves, but
by many thoufands more, which falling upon our eye¬
lids and the aerial particles about us, are reftefted into
our eyes fo ftrongly as to excite vibrations, not only on
thofe points of the retina where the images of the ftars
are formed, but alfo in other points at the fame diftance
round about. This without the telefcope makes us ima¬
gine the ftars to be much bigger than when we fee them
only by a few rays coming direftly from them, fo as
to enter our eyes without being intermixed with others.
The fmallnefs of their apparent diameter is proved by
tire fuddennefs with which they difappear on their oc-
cultations by the moon. The time •which they take
does not amount to one fecond, -which (hows their ap¬
parent diameter not to exceed 4". The vivacity of
their light, compared wuth their fmall diameter, leads
us to luppofe them at a much greater diftance than the
planets, and to confider them as luminous bodies like
our fun, inftead of borrowing their light from that lu-
I9j minary like the planets.
Dift'erent The ftars, on account of their apparently various
inagmtudes magnitudes, have been diftributed into feveral claffes
° 'ar'‘ or orders. Thofe which appear largefl: are calledy?tf7\r
of the firfl magnitude; the next to them in luftre,^<7rx
of the fecond magnitude ; and fo on to the fxth, which
are the fmalleft that are vifible to the bare eye. This
diftribution having been made long before the inven¬
tion of telefcopes, the ftars which cannot be feen with¬
out the afliftance of thefe inftruments are diftinguiflied
194 hy the names of telefcopic flars.
Telefcppic The ancients divided the ftarry fphere into particu-
ihirs. ^ iar conftellations, or fyftems of ftars, according as they
Unformed ^ neal" °ne anot^er5 as t0 occupy thofe fpaces which
flars. t^ie hgures of different forts of animals or things would
take up, if they were there delineated. And thofe
ftars which could not be brought into any particular
conftellation were called unformed flars.
O N O M Y. 6s
This divifion of the ftars into different conftellations, Apparent
or afterifms, ferves to diftinguifh them from one an0-^^ons ot
ther, fo that any ^particular liar may be readily found BodkT-
in the heavens by means of a celeftial globe ; on which . ^ ^
the conftellations are fo delineated, as to put the moft 10S
remarkable ftars into fuch parts of the figures as are Ufes of
moft eafily diftinguilhed. The number of the ancient ^ie'r.
conftellations is 48, and upon our prefent globes about
70. On Senex’s globes are inferted Bayer’s letters jtions;
the firft in the Greek alphabet being put to the biggeft
ftar in each conftellation, the fecond to the next, and
fo on : by which means, every ftar is as eafily found as
if a name were given to it. Thus, if the ftar y in the
conftellation of the Ram be mentioned, every aftrono-
mer knows as well what ftar is meant as if it were
pointed out to him in the heavens. See fig. 205,
206, where the ftars are reprefented with the figures
of the animals from whence the conftellations are
marked.
# ipy
There is alfo a divifion of the heavens into three Divifion of
parts. I. The zodiac , from fydiov, theheaveiv^
“ an animal,” becaufe moil of the conftellations in it,FlS*26* 2$s
which are 12 in number, have the names of animals j
As .dries the ram, Taurus the bull, Gemini the twins,
Cancer the crab, Leo the lion, Virgo the virgin, Libra
the balance, Scorpio the fcorpion, Sagittarius the archer,
Capricornus the goat, Aquarius the water-bearer, and
Pifces the fifties. The zodiac goes quite round the
heavens : it is about 16 degrees broad, fo that it takes
in the orbits of all the planets, and likewife the orbit
of the moon. Along the middle of this zone or belt
is the ecliptic, or circle which the earth defcribes an¬
nually as feen from the fun, and which the fun ap¬
pears to defcribe as feen from the earth. 2. All that
region of the heavens which is on the north fide of
the zodiac, containing 21 conftellations. And, 3. That
on the fouth fide, containing 15. .
The ancients divided the zodiac into the above 12 Zodiac how-
conftellations or figns in the following manner : They divided,
took a veffel with a fmall hole in the bottom, and, ha¬
ving filled it with water, fuffered the fame to diftil drop
by drop into another veffel fet -beneath to receive it;
beginning at the moment when fome ftar rofe, and con¬
tinuing till it rofe the next following night. The wa¬
ter falling down into the receiver they divided into
12 equal parts ; and having two other fmall veffels
in readinefs, each of them fit to contain one part,
they again poured all the water into the upper veffel;
and, obferving the rifing of fome ftar in the zodiac,
they at the lame time fuffered the water to drop in¬
to one of the fmall veffels j and as foon as it was
full, they fhifted it, and fet an empty one in its place.
When each veffel was full, they took notice what ftar
of the zodiac rofe j and though this could not be done
in one night, yet in many they obferved the rifing of
1 2 ftars or points, by which they divided the zodiac
into 1 2 parts.
The names of the conftellations, and the number of'
ftars obferved in each of them by different aftrcnomers
are as follow.
Vol. III. Part. I.
7 he
j
66
Apparent
Motions of
theHeaven-
ly Bodies.
ASTRONOMY.
The Ancient Conjlellationst
Part II.
Apparent
Motions of
theHeaven-
ly Bodies.
Catalogue
of the con-
ftellations.
Urfa minor
Urfa major
Draco
Cepheus
Bootes, ArBophilax
Corona Borealis
Hercules, Engonajin
Lyra
Cygnus, Gallina
Caffiopeia
Perfeus
Auriga
Serpentarius, Opiuchus Serpentarius
The Little Bear
The Great Bear
The Dragon
Cepheus
The Northern Crown
Hercules kneeling
The Harp
The Swan
The Lady in her chair
Perfeus
The Waggoner
Serpens
Sagitta
Aquila, Vultur
Antinous
Delphinus
Equulus, Equi/echo
Pegafus, Equus
Andromeda
Triangulum
Aries
Taurus
Gemini
Cancer
Leo
Coma Berenices
Virgo
Libra, Chelce
Scorpio
Sagittarius
Capricornus
Aquarius
Pifces
Cetus
Grion
Eridanus, Fluvius
Lepus
Canis major
Canis minor
Argo Navis
Hydra
Crater
Corvus
Centaurus
Lupus
Ara
Corona Auflralis
Pifcis Auftralis
Columba Noachi
Robur Carolinum
Grus
Phoenix
Indus
Pavo
Apus, Avis Indica
}
The Serpent
The Arrow
The Eagle 1
Antinous J
The Dolphin
The Horfe’s Head
The Flying Horfe
Andromeda
The Triangle
The Ram
The Bull
The Twins
The Crab
The Lion
Berenice’s Hair
The Virgin
The Scales
The Scorpion
The Archer
The Goat
The Water-bearer
The Fifties
The Whale
Orion
Eridanus, the River
The Hare
The Great Dog
The Little Dog
The Ship
The Hydra
The Cup
The Crow
The Centaur
The Wolf
The Altar
The Southern Crown
The Southern Fifli
Ptolemy.
8
35
31
13
23
8
29
10
10
*3
29
14
29
18
5
15
10
4
20
23
4
18
44
25
23
35
S2
17
24
31
28
45
33
22
38
34
12
29
2
45
27
7
7
37
19
7
13
18
The new Southern Conjlellations.
Tycho.
7
29
32
4
18
8
28
11
18
26
29
9
15
13
5
12
3
10
4
19
23
4
21
43
25
15
3°
H
33
10
10
14
28
41
36
21
42
10
*3
13
2
3
J9
3
4
Noah’s Dove
The royal Oak
The Crane
The Phenix
The Indian
The Peacock
The Bird of Farad ife
10
12
13
13
12
H
11
Apis, Mufca
Chamaeleon
Triangulum Auftrale
Pifcis volans, Pojfer
Dorado, Xiphias
Toucan
Hydrus
Flamftead.
24
87
80
35
54
21
1*3
21
Si
55
59
66
74
64
18
7*
18
10
89
66
16
66
141
85
83
95
43
no
51
44
69
51
108
113
97
78
84
19
3i
64
60
31
9
35
24
9
12
24
The Bee or Fly
The Chameleon
The South Triangle
The Flying Fifti
The Sword Fifti
The American Goofe
The Water Snake
Hevelius.
12
73
40
51
52
8
45
17
47
37
46
40
40
22
5
23
19
*4
6
38
47
12
27
51
38
29
49
21
50
20
20
22
29
47
39
45
62
27
16
21
*3
4
31
10
4
10
5
8
6
9
10
Heve/ius's
Part II,
ASTRO
Apparent
Motions of Hevelius's CovJlellaUms wade out of the unformed Stars.
theHeaven.
ly Bodies.
Hevel. Flamft.
Lynx The Lynx 19 44
Leo minor The Little Lion 53
Afterion & Chara The Greyhounds 23 25
Cerberus Cerberus 4
Vulpecula 8c Anfer The Fox and Goofe 27 35
Scutum Sobielki Sobiefki’s Shield 7
Lacerta The Lizard 10 16
Catnelopardalus The Camelopard 32 58
Menoceros The Unicorn 19 31
Sextans The Sextant 11 41
Several ftars obferved by the ancients are now no more
to be feen, but are detlroyed ; and new ones have ap¬
peared which were unknown to the ancients. Some
of them have alfo difappeared for fome time, and again
become vifible.
We are alfo affured from the obfervations of aftrono-
mers, that fome ftars have been obferved which never
v/ere fcen before, and for a certain time they have di-
ftinguifhed themfelves by their fuperlative luftrc j but
afterwards decreafing, they vaniftied by degrees, and
were no more to be feen. One of thefe ftars being firft
feen and obferved by Hipparchus, the chief of the an¬
cient aftronomers, fet him upon compofing a catalogue
of the fixed ftars, that by it pofterity might learn
■whether any of the ftars perifh, and others are produ¬
ced afrefh.
After feveral ages, another new ftar appeared to Ty¬
cho Brahe and the aftronomers who were cotemporary
with him •, which put him on the fame defign wdth
Hipparchus, namely, the making a catalogue of the
fixed ftars. Of this, and other ftars which have ap¬
peared fince that time, we have the following hiftory
j)r Hal- ^y Dr Halley : “ The firft new ftar in the chair of
ley’s hi- Caftiopeia, was not feen by Cornelius Gemma on the
ftory of gth of November 1572, who fays, he that night con-
new ftars. fKjereC[ that part 0f the heaven in a very ferene Iky,
and faw it not : but that the next night, November 9.
it appeared with a fplendor furpafling all the fixed
ftars, and fcarce lefs bright than Venus. This was not
feen by Tycho Brahe before the nth of the fame
month : but from thence he allures us that it gradually
decreafed and died awray, fo as in March 1574) after
fixteen months, to be no longer vifible $ and at this day
no figns of it remain. The place thereof in the fphere
of fixed ftars, by the accurate obfervations of the fame
Tycho, was os 90 17' 1Eaa * pf'% with 53° 45'
north latitude.
“ Such another ftar was feen and obierved by the
fcholars of Kepler, to begin to appear on Sept. ^o.JL
vet. anno 1604, which was not to be feen the day be¬
fore : but it broke out at once with a luftre furpafling
that of Jupiter $ and like the former, it died away gra¬
dually, and in much about the fame time difappeared
totally, there remaining no footfteps thereof in Janu¬
ary i6oy. This was near the ecliptic, following the
right leg of Serpentarius ; and by the obfervations of
Kepler and others, was in 7 fee. 20° 00' a imii '* pp,
with north latitude 1° 56'. Thefe two feem to be of
a diftimfl fpecies from the reft, and nothing like them
has appeared fince.
“ But between them, viz. in the year 1596, we have
N O M Y. ... 67
the firft account of the wonderful ftar in Collo Ceti,
feen by David Fabriciuson the third of Auguft,//. vet. tjiejjeaven.
as bright as a ftar of the 3d magnitude, which has ly Bodies.
been fince found to appear and difappear periodically ; ..i t
its period being precifely enough feven revolutions in fix
years, though it returns not always wuth the fame luftre.
Nor is it ever totally extinguifhed, but may at all times
be feen with a fix feet tube. 1 his was Angular in its
kind, till that in Collo Cygni was difeovered. It pre¬
cedes the firft ftar of Aries i° 40', with 150 57r fouth
latitude.
“ Another new ftar wras firft difeovered by William
Janfonius in the year 1600, in pcEiore, or rather m
eduSiione, Colli Cygni, which exceeded not the third
magnitude. This having continued fome years, became
at length fo frnall, as to be thought by fome to have
difappeared entirely : but in the years i657» *65 8, and
1659, it again arofe to the third magnitude ; though
foon after it decayed by degrees to the fifth or fixth
magnitude, and at this day is to be feen as fuch in 9s
180 38' « Ima * TS with 550 29' north latitude.
“ A fifth new ftar was firft feen by Hevelius in the
year 1670, on fitly 15. f. vet. as a ftar of the third
magnitude, but by the beginning of October was fcarce
to be perceived by the naked eye. In April following
it was again as bright as before, or rather greater than
of the third magnitude, yet wholly diiappeared about
the middle of Auguft. The next year, in March 1672,
it was feen again, but not exceeding the fixth magni¬
tude : fince wrhen, it has been no further vifible, though
we have frequently fought for its return j its place is
9s 3° 17' # ima * 'Y*, and has lat. north 470 28'.
“ The fixth and laft is that difeovered by Mr G. Kirch
in the year 1686, and its period determined to be of
404I- days j and though it rarely exceeds the fifth mag¬
nitude, yet it is very regular in its returns, as we found
in the year 1714. Since then we have watched, as the
abfence of the moon and clearnefs of the weather would
permit, to catch the firft beginning of its appearance
in a fix feet tube, that, bearing a very great aperture,
difeoversmoft minute ftars. And on June 15. laft, it
wras firft perceived like one of the very leaft telelcopi-
cal ftars: but in the reft of that month and July, it
gradually increafed, fo as to become in Augurt vifible
to the naked eye : and fo continued till the month of
September. After that, it again died away by degrees:
and on the 8th of December, at night, was fcarce
difcernible by the tube j and, as near as could be guef-
fed, equal to what it w^as at its firft appearance on June
2?th : fo that this year it has been feen in all near fix
months, which is but little lefs than half its period ;
and the middle, and confequently the greateft bright-
nefs, falls about the 10th of September.” 201
Concerning the changes wdiich happen among the Mr Monta-
fixed ftars, Mr Montanere, profeffor of mathematics at afc“
Bononia, gave the following account, in a letter to the a_
Royal Society, dated April 30th 1670. “ There are the
not wanting in the heavens two ftars of the fecond fixed ftars.
magnitude in the ftern of the fhip Argo, and its yard ;
Bayerus marked them with the letters /3 and £. I and
others obferved them in the year 1664, upon the oc-
cafion of the comet that appeared that year : when
they difappeared firft, 1 know not: only I am fure that
in the year 1668, upon the 10th of April, there was
not the leaft glimpfe of them to be feen ; and yet the
I 2 reft
68
Apparent
Motions of
theHeaven-
ly Bodies.
ASTRONOMY.
202
Mr Bigot’s
remarks on
the ac¬
counts of
variable
dtars.
203
Star in Co¬
lo Ceti.
204
Algol.
reft about them, even of the third and fourth magni¬
tudes, remained the fame. I have obferved many more
changes among the fixed ftars, even to the number of
a hundred, though none of them are fo great as thofe I
have {bowed.”
The late improvements in aftronomy, and particu¬
larly thofe in the conftruftion of telefcopes, have now
given aftronomers an opportunity of obferving the
changes which take place among the ftars with much
greater accuracy than could be formerly done. In a
paper in the 76th volume of the Philofophical Tranf-
adions, Mr Edward Pigot gives a differtation on the
ftars fufpe&ed by the aftronomers of laft century to be
changeable. For the greater accuracy in the invefti-
gation of his fubjefl, he divides them into two clafies;
one containing thofe which are undoubtedly change¬
able, and the other thofe which are only fufpeded' to
be fo. The former contains a lift of 12 ftars, from the
firft to the fourth magnitudes ; including the new one
which appeared in Caffiopeia in 1572, and that in Ser-
pentarius in 1604 : the other contains the names of 38
ftars of all magnitudes, from the firft to the feventh.
He is of opinion, that the celebrated new ftar in Caflio-
peia is a periodical one, and that it returns once in
150 years. Mr Keill is of the fame opinion : and Mr
Pigot thinks, that its not being obferved at the expi¬
ration of each period is no argument againft the truth
of that opinion j “ fince (fays he), perhaps, as with
moft of the variables, it may at ditferent periods have
different degrees of luftre, fo as fometimes only to in-
creafe to the ninth magnitude j and if this ihould be
the cafe, its period is probably much ftiorter.” For
this reafon, in September 1782, he took a plan of the
fmall ftars near the place where it formerly appeared,
but in four years had obferved no alteration.
The ftar in the neck of the Whale had alfo been ex¬
amined by Mr Pigot from the end of 1782 to 1786,
but he never found it exceed the fixth magnitude ;
though Mr Goodricke had obferved it on the 9th of
Auguft to be of the fecond magnitude, and on the 3d
of September the fame year it was of the third magni¬
tude. Mr Pigot deduced its period from its apparent
equality with a fmall ftar in the neighbourhood, and
thence found it to be 320, 328, and 337 days.
The moft remarkable of thefe changeable ftars is
that called Algol, in the head of Medufa. It had long
been known to be variable 3 but its period was firft
afcertained by Mr Goodricke of York, who began to
obferve it in the beginning of 1783. It changes con¬
tinually from the firft to the fourth magnitude 3 and
the time taken up from its greateft. diminution to its
leaft is found, at a mean, to be 2 d. 20 h. 49 m. and
3 fec* During four hours it gradually diminifhes in
luftre, wdiich it recovers during the fucceeding four
hours 3 and in the remaining part of the period it in¬
variably preierves its greateft luftre, and after tl.» ex¬
piration of the term its diminution again commences.
According to Mr Pigot, the degree of brightnefs of
this ftar when at its minimum is variable in different
periods, and he is of the fame opinion with regard to
its brightnefs when at its full 3 but whether thefe dif¬
ferences return regularly or not, has not been deter¬
mined.
The 420th of Mayer’s catalogue, in Leo, has lately
been drown to be variable by Mr Koch. Some years
Part II*
before 1782, that gentleman perceived it undoubtedly Apparent
fmaller than the 419th of the lame catalogue. In Fe- Mo,*nsof
bruary that year, it was of the fame brightnefs with the^ven-
the 4 x9th, that is, of the feventh magnitude. tn ■ ^ ^_c ^
April 17835 it was of the ninth magnitude 3 and in
the fame month 1784, it was of the tenth. Mr Pigot
could never obferve this ftar, though he frequentlv
looked for it with a night-glafs, and on the fifth o*f
April 1785 with a three-feet achromatic tranfit inftru-
ment.
In 1704, Maraldi obferved a variable ftar in Hydra, viable
whofe period he fettled at about two years, though ftar in Hy*
with confiderable variations : but from the observations dra.
even of Maraldi, Mr Pigot concludes, that its period
was then only 494 days 3 and from fome others made
by himfelf, he thinks that now it is only 487 days 3 fo
that fince the time of Maraldi it has Ihortened feven
days. The particulars relating to this ftar are as fol¬
low. 1. W hen at its full brightnefs it is of the fourth
magnitude, and does not perceptibly change for a fort¬
night. 2. It is about fix months in increafing from
the tenth magnitude and returning to' the fame; fo
that it may be conftdered as inviftble during that time.
3. It is confiderably more quick, perhaps one half
more fo, in its increafe than in its decreafe. 4. Though
when at its full it may always be ftyled a ftar of the
fourth magnitude, it does not conftantly attain the
fame degree of brightnefs, but the differences are very
fmall. This ftar is the 30th of Hydra in Hevelius’s
catalogue, and is marked by him of the fixth magni¬
tude.
The new ftar in Serpentarius, obferved by Kepler,
feems to have been of the fame nature with that of
Caffiopeia 3 and Mr Pigot therefore looks upon it alfo
to be a periodical one, though, after taking a plan of
the neareft ftars in that part of the heavens, in the year
1782, he could, in four years time, perceive no altera¬
tion.
The variation of the ftar /3 Lyrae was difeovered by
Mr Goodricke above mentioned, who fufpeifts its pe¬
riod to be fix days nine hours 3 which coincides with
the opinion of Mr Pigot.
The new ftar near the Swan’s Head, obferved bySwai^
Don Anthelme in December 1669, loon became of the Head,
third magnitude, and difappeared in 1672. Mr Pigot
has conftantly looked for it fince November 1781, but
without fuccefs. He is of opinion, that had it only in-
creafed to the 10th or nth magnitude, he would have
feen it, having taken a plan of all the neighbouring
fmall ftars.
The next variable .ftar in Mr Pigot’s catalogue is
the n Antinoi, whofe variation and period he difeo¬
vered in 1785. From his corretled obfervations, he
concludes that it continues at its greateft brightnefs
40 hours without decreafing 3 it is 66 hours after it
begins to decreafe before it comes to its full diminu¬
tion 3 after which it continues ftationary for 30 hours
more, and then increafes for 36 hours. In every pe¬
riod it feems to acquire its full brightnefs, and to be
equally decreafed.
The variable ftar in the Swan’s Neck w7as obferved Swan’s
for three years. The period of this ftar had been Neck,
fettled by Maraldi and Caffmi at 405, and by M. le
Gentil at 405.3 days 3 but from a mean of the ob-
feivations of Mr Pigot, it appears to be only 392.
“ Perhaps
Part IT.
Apparent
Motions of
theHeaven-
ly Bodies.
aoS
Swan’s
Bread.
209
Stars, va¬
riation of,
■which is
lefs cer¬
tain.
ASTRONOMY.
“ Perhaps (fays he) its period is irregular j to deter¬
mine which feveral intervals of 15 years ought to be
taken j and I am much inclined to believe that it will
be found only 396 days 21 hours.” The particulars
relating to this ftar are, 1. When at its full bright-
nefs it undergoes no perceptible change for a fortnight.
2. It is about three months and a half in increafing
from the 11th magnitude to its full brightnefs, and
the fame in decreafing •, for which reafon it may be
confidered as invifible during fix months. 3. It does
not always attain the fame degree of luftre, being
fometimes of the fifth and fometimes of the feventh
magnitude.
In 1600, G. Janfonius difcovered a variable ftar in
the breaft of the Swan, which was afterwards obferved
by different aftronomers, and fuppofed to have a period
of about 10 years. The refults of Mr Pigot’s calcu¬
lations from the obfervations of former aftronomers
are, I. That it continues in full luftre for five years.
2. It decreafes rapidly for two years. 3. It is invifible
to the naked eye for four years. 4. It increafes flowly
during feven years. 5. All thefe changes are com¬
pleted in 18 years. 6. It was at its minimum at the
end of the year 1663. 7. It does not always increafe
to the fame degree of brightnefs, being fometimes of
the third, and at others only of the fixth, magnitude.
“ I am entirely ignorant (fays Mr Pigot) wrhether it
is fubjeft to the fame changes in this century, having
not met with any feries of obfervations on it *, but if
the above conjectures are right, it will be at its mini¬
mum in a very few years. Since November 1781 I
have conftantly feen it of the fixth magnitude. Some¬
times I have fufpeCted that it has decreafed within
thefe two laft years, though in a very fmall degree.”
The laft ftar in Mr Pigot’s firft clafs is the 5 Cephei,
whofe variation was difcovered by Mr Goodricke. Its
changes are very difficult to be feen, unlefs it is obfer¬
ved at the times of its greateft and leaft brightnefs.
The refult of the obfervations hitherto made upon it
are, that its period confifts of 5 days 8 hours 37’ on a
mean. The following obfervations relate to fome
ftars of the fecond clafs.
1. Hevelius’s 6th Caftiopeiae was miffing in 1782,
nor could Mr Pigot find it in 1783 and 1784-
2. | or 46th Andromedte, faid to be variable, but
the evidence is not convincing to Mr Pigot.
3. Flamftead’s 50, 52, t Andromedse, and Heve¬
lius’s 41 Andromedae. The pofition and charaClers of
thefe ftars differ confiderably in different catalogues,
and fome of them are faid by Caftini to have difappear-
ed and re-appeared. Mr Pigot therefore gives their
comparative brightnefs as obferved in the years 1783,
1784, and 1785, during which time he does not men¬
tion any particular change.
4. Tycho’s 20th Ceti. “ This (fays Mr Pigot)
murt be the ftar which Hevelius faid had difappeared,
being Tycho’s fecond in the Whale’s Belly. There
can hardly be any doubt that it is the mifplaced by
Tycho. This ^ is of the fourth or fifth magnitude.
5. <r, or the 17th Eridani of Ptolemy and Ulug
Beigh. Flamftead fays he could not fee this ftar in
1691 and 1692 : but in 1782, 1783, and 1784, Mr
Pigot obferved in that place one of the feventh mag¬
nitude, w7hich appeared always of the fame luftre.
6. Flamftead’s 41 Tauri was fuppofed by Caflini to
be either a new or variable ftar j but Mr Pigot thinks ApP^ent^
there is no reafon to be of that opinion. “ I hat it ^st^ejjeavea„
not newT (fays he) is evident, fince it is Ulug Beigh’s jy £ocpes.
26th and Tycho’s 43d. *
7. A ftar about north of 53 Eridani, and 47
Eridani. Caflini fuppofed the firft of thefe ftars to be
a newT one, and that it was not vifible in 1664. He
mentions another ftar thereabouts, which he alfo
efteemed a new7 one.
8. v Canis Majoris. Maraldi could not fee this ftar-
in 1670 j but in 1692 and 1693 it appeared of the
fourth magnitude. Mr Pigot made frequent obferva¬
tions upon it from 1782 to 1786, but could perceive
no variation.
9. cc, /3 Geminorum. “ If any of thefe ftars (fays
our author) have changed in brightnefs, it is probably
the /3. In 1783, 1784, and 1785, the/3 was undoubt¬
edly brighter than us.”
10. | Leonis. According to Montanari, this ftar
was hardly vifible in 1693. In 1783? x7^45 anc^ I7^5*
it was of the fifth magnitude. By Tycho, ITamftead,
Mayer, Bradley, &c. it is marked of the fourth.
11. ■vj/ Leonis. This ftar is faid to have difappeared;'
before the year 1667 ; but according to Mr Pigot’s
obfervations, was conftantly of the fifth or fixth mag¬
nitude fince 1783.
12. 25th Leonis. In 1783, our author firft per¬
ceived that this ftar was miffing, and could not per¬
ceive it in 1784 and 1785, even with a tranfit inftru-
ment.
13. Bayer’s 7 Leonis, or Tycho’s 16 Leonis, was
not vifible in 1709, nor could it be feen in 1785. It
is a different ftar from the 1 Leonis of the other cata¬
logues, though Tycho’s defcription of its place is the
fame.
. 14. $ Urfie Majoris. This ftar is fufpe&ed to
change in brightnefs, on account of its being marked
by Tycho, the prince of Heffe, &c. of the fecond
magnitude, while Hevelius, Bradley, and others, have
marked it of the third. In 1.786, and for three years
before, it appeared as a bright ftar of the fourth mag¬
nitude.
15. »i Virginis. This is fuppofed to be variable, be-
caufe Flamftead, on the 27th of January 1680, could,
not fee it; but he obferved it in 1677, and fome years
afterwards. Mr Pigot obferved it frequently in 17 84
and 1785, and found it a ftar of the fixth magnitude
without any perceptible change.
16. Bayer’s ftar of the fixth magnitude i° fouth of
g Virginis, “ This ftar (fays Mr Pigot) is not in any
of the nine Catalogues that I have. Maraldi looked
for it in vain •, and in May 1785 I could not fee the
leaft appearance of it.” It certainly was not of the
eighth magnitude.
17. A ftar in the northern thigh of Virgo, marked
by Ricciolus of the fixth magnitude, could not be feen
by Maraldi in 1709 ; nor wTas it of the ninth magni¬
tude, if at all vifible in 1785.
18. The 91 and 92 Virginis. In 1785, one of
thefe ftars, probably the 91, w7as miffing : the remain¬
ing one is of the fixth or feventh magnitude.
19. u, Draconis. Mr Pigot coincides in opinion with
Dr Herfchel, that this ftar is variable. Bradley, Flarm-
flead, &c. mark it of the fecond magnitude, but in
1786 it was only a bright fourth. It was frequently
2 examined.
7° ASTRONOMY, Part II
Apparent examined by Mr Pigot from the 4th of October 1782,
cheHeavetf "’ithcait any alteration being perceived,
jy Bodies. 20' layer’s ftar in the weft fcale of Libra. Maral -
c—y—di could not fee this ftar, and it was likewife invifible
to Mr Pigot in 1784 and 1785.
21. N° 6 of Ptolemy and Ulug Beigh’s unformed in
Libra. This ftar is not mentioned in any other cata¬
logues than the above. Mr Pigot frequently obferved
a little ftar of the feventh magnitude very near its
place.
22. * Librae. This ftar is thought to be variable,
but Mr Pigot is not of that opinion, though “ certain¬
ly (fays he) it is rather Angular, that Hevelius, whofe
. attention was dire&ed to that part of the heavens to
find Tycho’s nth, did not find the * ; and the more
fo, as he has noticed two much fmaller ftars not far
from it. During thefe three years I have found the k
conftantly of the fifth magnitude.”
23. Tycho’s jj^ Libr*. Mr Pigot is of opinion
that no fuch ftar as this ever exifted ; and that it is no
other than the *> with an error of 2 degrees of longi¬
tude.
24. 33 Serpentis. This ftar was miffing in 1784$
nor could it be perceived with a night-glafs in 1785.
25. A ftar marked by Bayer near e Urfee majoris.
This ftar could not be feen by Caffini ; nor was Mr
Pigot able to difcover it with a night-glafs in 1782.
26. The or Ptolemy and Ulug Beigh’s 14th Ophi-
uchi, or Flamftead’s 36th. Mr Pigot has no doubt
that this is the ftar which is faid to have difappeared
before the year 1695 ; and it is evident that it was not
feen by Hevelius. In 1784 and 1785 Mr Pigot found
it of the fourth or fifth magnitude j but he is far from
being certain of its having undergone any change, efpe-
cially as it has a fouthern declination of 26 degrees 5
for which reafon great attention muft be paid to the
ftate of the atmofphere.
27. Ptolemy’s 13th and 18th Ophiuchi, fourth mag¬
nitude. Mr Pigot is of opinion that thefe ftars are
mifplaced in the catalogues. The 18th of Ptolemy
he thinks ought to be marked with a north latitude
inftead of a fouth, which would make it agree nearly
with Flamftead’s 58th j and he is alfo of opinion that
the 13th of Ptolemy is the 40th of Flamftead.
28. <r Sagittarii. Dr Herfchel, as well as Mr Pigot,
is of opinion, that this ftar has probably changed its
magnitude, though the reafon feems only to be the
great difagreement concerning it among the different
catalogues of ftars.
29. 6 Serpentis. This ftar, according to Mr Mon¬
tanan, is of variable magnitude $ but Mr Pigot never
could perceive any alteration.
30. Tycho’s 27th Capricorni was miffing in Heve-
lius’s time, and Mr Pigot could not find it with a
tranfit ihftrument.
31. Tycho’s 22d Andromedce, and « Andromedse.
Mr Caffini informs us, that in his time the former had
grown fo fmall that it could fcarcely be feen ; and Mr
Pigot, that no ftar was to be feen in its place in 1784
and 1785 : but he is of opinion that Caffini may have
miftaken the 0 Andromedse for the 22d *, for which rea¬
fon he obferved this ftar three years, but without any
alteration in its brightnefs.
32. Tycho’s 19th Aquarii. Hevelius fays that this
,Jlar was miffing, and that Flamftead could not fee it
I
with his naked eye in 1679. Mr Pigot could not fee Apparent
it in 1782 5 but is perfuaded that it is the fame with Motions of
Flamftead’s 56th marked /by Bayer, from which
is only a degree and an half diftant. The 53d of. }
Flamftead, marked/in Ptolemy’s catalogue, is a dif¬
ferent ftar.
33. La Caille’s 483 Aquarii was firft difcovered to
be miffing in 1778, and was not vifible in 1783 and
1784-
Befides thefe there are ieveral others certainly vari¬
able, but which cannot be feen in this country. There
are fome alfo fufpe&ed to be variable, but for which
Mr Pigot thinks there is no reafon. Dr Herfchel alfo
gives ftrong reafons for not laying great ftrefs on all
the obfervations by which new ftars have been faid to
be difcovered. Mr Pigot allures us from repeated ex¬
perience, that even more than a fingle obfervation, if
not particularifed and compared with neighbouring
ftars, is very little to be depended upon different
ftreaks of the clouds, the ftate of the wxather, &c. ha¬
ving often caufed him to err a whole magnitude in the
brightnefs of a ftar. 2IO
As thefe changes to which the fixed ftars are liable Wollafton’s
do not feem to be fubje£l to any certain rule, Mr Wol-method of
lafton has given an eafy method of obferving wT hetherdifcoyerinS
they do take place in any part of the heavens or not, am0‘n(r
and that wuthout much expence of inftruments or w^afte fixed liars,
of time, which are great objections to aftronomical ob¬
fervations in general. His firft idea was, that the
work fliOuld be undertaken by aftronomers in general;
each taking a particular diftridt of the heavens, and
from time to time obferving the right afcenfion and
declination of every ftar in that fpace allotted to him,
framing an exact map of it, and communicating their
obfervations to one common place of information.
This method, however, being too laborious, he next
propofes the noting down at the time, or making a
drawing of wdiat one fees wdiile they are obferving. A
drawing of this kind once made, would remain, and
could be confulted on any future occafion $ and if done
at firft with care, a tranfient review would difcover
whether any fenfible change had taken place fince it
was laft examined, which could not fo wTell be done by
catalogues or verbal defcription. For this purpofe he
recommends the following method : “ To a night-glafs,
but of Dollond’s conftrucftion, which magnifies about
fix times, and takes in about as many degrees of a
great circle, I have added crofs wires interfering one
another at an angle of 45 degrees. More wdres may
he crofted in other direcftfons; but I apprehend thefe
will be fufficient. This telefcope I mount on a polar
axis. One coarfely made, and without any divifions
on its circle of declination, will anfwer the purpofe, as
there is no great occafion for accuracy in that refpe<ft ;
but as the heavenly bodies are more readily followed
by an equatorial motion of the telefcope, fo their re¬
lative pofitions are much more eafily difcerned when
they are looked at conftantly as in the lame direrion.
A horizontal motion, except in the meridian, would
be apt to miflead the judgment. It is fcarcely necef-
fary to add, that the wires muft ftand fo as for one to
defcribe a parallel of the equator nearly ; another will
then be a horary circle, and the whole area will be
divided into eight equal feftors.
“ Thus prepared, the telefcope is to be pointed to a
known
Part II. ASTRO
Apparent known ftar, which is to be brought into the centre or
Motions of common interfettion of all the wires. The relative
theHeayen- portions of fuch other liars as appear within the field
ly Bodies. ^ ^ jU(jgej Gf eye . whether at or j,
from the centre towards the circumference, or vice
verfa ; and fo tvith regard to the nearelt wire refpec-
tively. Thefe, as one fees them, are to be noted down
with a black-lead pencil upon a large meflage-card held
in the hand, upon which a circle fimilarly divided is
ready drawn. One of three inches diameter feems moll
convenient. The motion of the heavenly bodies in
fuch a telefcope is fo flow, and the noting down of the
liars fo quickly done, that there is commonly full time
for it without moving the telefcope. When that is
wanted, the principal liar is eafily brought back again
into the centre of the field at pleafure, and the work
refumed. After a little practice, it is aftonifliing
how near one can come to the truth in this way : and
though neither the right afeenfions nor the declinations
are laid down by it, nor the diftances between the
liars meafured ; yet their apparent fituations being pre-
ferved in black and white, with the day and year, and
hour, if thought necelfary, written underneath, each
card then becomes a regitler of the then appearance of
the heavens j which is eafily re-examined at any time
with little more than a tranfient view •, and which will
yet Ihow, on the firfl: glance, if there fliould have hap¬
pened in it any alteration of confequence.”
Fig. Bo. Ih'ows part of the Corona Borealis deline¬
ated in this manner, and which was afterwards fully
taken dowm by making the liars a, /3, y, c*, e, 0, i, x.,
tt, £, cr, and t, fucceflively central ; and thefe were
joined with fome of the liars of Bootes, for the fake of
connefting the w'hole, and united into one map, as re-
prefented fig. 8l.
In obferving in this wTay, it is evident, that the pla¬
ces of fuch liars as happen to be under or very near
any of the wares, are more to be depended upon than
thole which are in the intermediate fpaces, efpecially if
towards the edges of the fields *, fo alfo thofe which are
nearell to the centre, becaufe better defined, and more
within the reach of one wire or another. For this rea-
fon, different liars of the fame fet mull fucceflively be
made central, or brought towards one of the wires,
where any fufpicion arifes of a miftake, in order to ap¬
proach nearer to a certainty •, but if the Hand of the
telefcope be tolerably well adjufted and fixed, this is
foon done.
In fuch a glafs it is feldom that light fufficient for
\ difeerning the wares is wanting. When an illuminator
is required, a piece of card or wdiite palleboard pro-
jedling on one fide beyond the tube, and which may be
brought forward occafionally, is better than any other.
By cutting acrofs a fmall fegment of the objefl-glafs,
it throws a fuflicient light down the tube though the
candle be at a great diftance, and one may lofe fight
of the falfe glare by drawing back the head, and mo¬
ving the eye a little to one fide, when the fmall liars
will be feen as if no illuminator wras there. See a de¬
lineation of the principal fixed liars, with the appa¬
rent path of the fun among them, in figures 82 and
211 ^3’
Galaxy, or A very remarkable appearance in the heavens is that
milky-way. called the galaxy, or milky-way. This is a broad cir¬
cle, fometimes double, but for the moll .part Angle,
N O M Y. 71
furrounding the whole celellial concave. We perceive Apparent
alfo in different parts of the heavens fmall white fpots,
which appear to be of the lame nature with the milky- jy jj0(jjes>
way. Thefe fpots are called nebulcc. ——v—J
We lhall fubjoin in this place, for the entertainment
of the reader, the theories of Mr Michell and Dr Her-
fchel, concerning the nature and pofition of the fixed
liars. . 212
“ The very great number of liars (fays Mr Mi-Mr Mi¬
chell) that have been dilcovered to be double, triple,5 con"'
&c. particularly by Mr Herfchel, if we apply the doc-J^^l^
trines of chances, as I have heretofore done in my in- the natUre
quiry into the probable parallax, &c. of the fixed liars, of the ftx-
publifhed in the Philofophical Tranfa£tions for the year ed ftars*
1767, cannot leave a doubt with any one who is pro¬
perly acquainted with the force of thole arguments,
that by far the greatell part, if not all of them, are
fyllems of liars fo near each other, as probably to be
liable to be affe£led fenfibly by their mutual gravita¬
tion 5 and it is therefore not unlikely, that the periods -
of the revolutions of fome of thefe about their princi¬
pals'(the fmaller ones being, upon this hypothefis, to
be confidered as fateliites to the other) may fome time
or other be difeovered.” Having then Ihown in what
manner the magnitude of a fixed liar, if its denfity
were known, would affe£t the velocity of its light, he 2I3
concludes aflalt, that “ if the femidiameter of a fphere In what
of the fame denfity with the fun were to exceed his in cafes hght
the proportion of 500 to I, a body falling from an in-f^ofed to
finite height towards it (or moving in a parabolic return to
curve at its furface) would have acquired a greater ve- the body
locity than that of light 5 and confequently, fuppofing emits
light to be attrafled by the fame force in proportion lt;‘
to its vis inet-tice with other bodies, all light emitted
from fuch a body would be made t© return towards it
by its own proper gravity. But if the femidiameter
of a fphere, of the fame denfity with the fun, was of
any other fize lefs than 497 times that of the fun,
though the velocity of light emitted by fuch a body
would never be wholly dellroyed, yet it wmuld always
fuffer fome diminution, more or lefs according to the
magnitude of the fphere. The fame effeiSls would like-
wife take place if the femidiameters were different
from thofe already mentioned, provided the denfity
was greater or lefs in the duplicate ratio of thele fe¬
midiameters inverfely. 214
After proceeding in his calculations, in order to find Compara-
the diameter and diltance of any liar, he proceedstlve bJ;1Sht*
thus : “ According to Mr Bouguer the brightnefs of 1C
the fun exceeds that of a wax candle in no lefs a pro- fixed ftar&
portion than that of 8oco to 1. If therefore the
brightnefs of any of the fixed liars fhould not exceed
that of our common candles, which, as being fome-
thing lefs luminous than wax, w7e will fuppofe in round
numbers to be only one ten thoufandth part as bright
as the fun, fuch a liar would not be vifible at more
than one hundredth part of the dillance at which it
would be feen if it were as bright as the fun. Now,
becaufe the fun would Hill, I apprehend, appear as
bright and luminous as the liar Sirius, if removed to
400,000 times his prefent dillance, fuch a body, if no
brighter than our common candles, would only appear
equally luminous with that liar at 4000 times the di¬
llance of the fun 5 and we might then be able, with
the bell telefcopes, to diltinguiflr fome fcnfible ap¬
parent ■;
7-2
Apparent parent diameter of it: but the apparent diameters
theHir'ven ^le ^Lars °f leffer magnitudes would ft ill be too
ly Bodies. fmaii to be diftiaguilhable even with our bell; telefcopes,
t—-y-— unlefs they were yet a good deal lefs luminous j which
may poflibly, however, be the cafe with fome of them :
for though we have indeed very flight grounds to go
upon with regard to the fpecific brightnefs of the fixed
flars, compared with that of the fun at prefent, and
can therefore form only very uncertain and random
conjectures concerning it; yet from the infinite variety
which we find in the works of the creation, it is not
unreafonable to fufpett, that very poflibly fome of the
fixed ftars may have fo little natural brightnefs in pro¬
portion to their magnitude, as to admit of their dia¬
meters having fome fenfible apparent fize when they
ill all come to be more carefully examined, and with
larger and better telefcopes than have been hitherto in
215 common ufe.
abearance “ With refpeft to the fun, we know that his wdiole
otthe'fun bar face is extremely luminous, a very fmall and tem-
fuppofed to porary interruption fometimes, from a few fpots, ex-
proceed cepted. This univerfal and exceflive brightnefs of'thc
from an at- whole furface is probably owing to an atmofphere,
Pam . bgiHg luminous throughout, and in fome mea-
fure alfo tranfparent, the light proceeding from a con-
fiderable depth of it, all arrives at the eye, in the fame
manner as the light of a great number of candles
would do if they were placed one behind another, and
their flames were fulEciently tranfparent to permit the
light of the more diflant ones to pafs through thofe
that wrere nearer without interruption.
“ How far the fame conflitution may take place in
the fixed flars we do not know : probably, however, it
may ftill do fo in many ; but there are fome appear¬
ances, with regard to a few7 of them, which feem to
make it probable that it does not do fo univerfally,
Nowr, if I am right in fuppofing the light of the fun
to proceed from a luminous atmofphere which mull
neceffarily dififufe itfelf equally over the whole furface,
and I think there can be very little doubt that this is
really the cafe, this conflitution cannot w'ell take place
in thofe ftars wdiich are in fome degree periodically
216 more and lefs luminous, fuch as that in Collo Ceti,
Oftheva- jt *s a|p0 not very improbable, that there is fome
m ' el ai • difference from that of the fun in the conftitution of
thofe ftars which have fometimes appeared and difap-
peared. of which that in the conftellation of Cafliopeia
is a notable inftance. And if thefe conjeCtures are
wTell founded which have been formed by fome philo-
fophers concerning ftars of this kind, that they are
not wholly luminous, or at leaft not conftantly fo,
but that all, or by far the greateft part of their fur-
faces, is fubjeft to confiderable changes, fometimes
becoming luminous, at other times extinguifhed } it is
amongft ftars of this fort that we are moft likely to
meet wfith inftances of a fenfible apparent diameter,
their light being much more likely not to be fo great
in proportion as that of the fun, which if removed to
Part IT.
400,000 times his prefent diftanee, would ftill appear, Apparent
I apprehend, as bright as Sirius, as I have obferved
above*, w’hereas it is hardly to be expedted, with any jy
telefcope whatfoever, that we fnould ever be able to di- ■
ftinguifh a wTell-defined difk of any body of the fame
fize with the fun at much more than 10,coo times his
prefent diftance.
“ Hence the greateft diftance at which it wTould be
poftible to diftinguifh any fenfible apparent diameter of
a body as denfe as the fun, cannot well greatly exceed
five hundred times ten thoufand j that is, five million
times the diftance of the fun ; for if the diameter of
fuch a body was not lefs than 500 times that of the
fun, its light, as has been fhowm above, could never
arrive at us.” 2if
Dr Herfchel, improving on Mr Michell’s idea ofDrHer-
the fixed ftars being colledled into groups, and af- 1\hel’s °P1*
filled by his own obfervations with the extraordinary
telefcopic powers already mentioned, has fuggefted a conflruc-
theory concerning the conftrudlion of the univerfe en- tion of the
tirely new and lingular. It had been the opinion ofim^ver^e*
former aftronomers, that our fun, befides occupying
the centre of the fyftem which properly* belongs to
him, occupied alfo the centre of the univerfe : but
Dr Herfchel is of a very different opinion. “ Hither¬
to (fays he) the fidereal heavens have, not inadequately
for the purpofe defigned, been reprefented by the con¬
cave furface of a fphere, in the centre of which the
eye of the obferver might be fuppofed to be placed.
It is true, the various magnitudes of the fixed ftars.
even then plainly fuggefted to us, and would have
better fuited, the idea of an expanded firmament of
three dimenfions j but the obfervations upon which I
am now going to enter, ftill farther illuftrate and en¬
force the neceflity of confidering the heavens in this
point of view. In future therefore we ftiall look upon
thofe regions into wdiich w7e ma^ now penetrate by
means of fuch large telefcopes (a), as a naturalift re¬
gards a rich extent of ground or chain of mountains,
containing ft rata varioufly inclined and directed, as
wTell as confifting of very different materials. A fur¬
face of a globe or map therefore wall but ill delineate
the interior parts of the heavens.” 2lg
With the powerful telefcope mentioned in the note, His obfer-
Dr Herfchel firft began to furvey the Via Laftea, and vations oa
found that it completely refolved the w’hitifh appear-
ance into ftars, which the telefcopes he formerly ufed
had not light enough to do. The portion he firfl: ob¬
ferved was that about the hand and club of Orion 5 and
found therein an aftonifhing multitude of ftars, w'hofe
number he endeavoured to eftimate by counting many
fields (b), and computing from a mean of thefe how
many might be contained in a given portion of the
milky-W'ay. In the moft vacant place to be met with
in that neighbourhood he found 63 ftars j other fix
fields contained no, 60, 70, 90, 70, and 74 ftars j a
mean of all which gave 79 for the number of ftars to
each field 5 and thus he found, that by allowing 15
minutes
ASTRONOMY.
(a) Dr Herfchel’s obfervations, on which this theory is founded, were made with a Newtonian refle&or of
20 feet focal length, and an aperture of 18 inches.
(b) By this word w'e axe to underftand the apparent fpace in the heavens he could fee at once through his
telefcope.
theHeaven
ly Bodies.
219
On the
nebulas.
Part II. ASTRO
Apparent minutes for the diameter of his field of view, a belt of
Motions of degrees long and two broad, which he had often
theHeaven-pafs before his telefcope in an hour’s time,
could not contain lefs than 50,000 ftars, large
enough to be diftinftly numbered •, befides which,
he fufpefted twice as many more, which could be feen
only now and then by faint glimpfes for want of fuf-
ficient light.
The fuccefs he had within the milky-way foon indu¬
ced him to turn his telefcope to the nebulous parts of
the heavens, of which an accurate lift had been publifh-
ed in the ConnoiJJance des 'Temps for 1783 and I7®4*
Moft of thefe yielded to a Newtonian redeftor of 20
feet focal diftance and 12 inches aperture ; which plain¬
ly difcovered them to be compofed of ftars, or at leaft
to contain ftars, and to (how every other indication of
confifting of them entirely. “ The nebulae (fays he)
into ftrata. are arranged into rtrata, and run on to a great length ;
and fome of them I have been able to purfue, and to
guefs pretty well at their form and direftion. It is
probable enough that they may furround the whole
ftarry fphere of the heavens, not unlike the milky-way,
which undoubtedly is nothing but a ftratum of fixed
ftars : And as this latter immenfe ftarry bed is not of
equal breadth or luftre in every part, nor runs on in
one rtraight direftion, but is curved, and even divided
into two ftreams along a very confiderable portion of
it; we may likewife expe& the greateft variety in the
ftrata of the clufters of ftars and nebulae. One of thefe
nebulous beds is fo rich, that, in palling through a
fe&ion of it in the time of only 36 minutes, I have
N O M
Thus in fig. 83.
Y. 73
an eye at S within the ftratum Apparent^
220
They are
arranged
Variety of detected no lefs than
(hapes af-
fumed by
Ihem.
Why the
31 nebulae, all diftinftly vifible
upon a fine blue Iky. Their fituation and lhape, as
well as condition, feem to denote the greateft variety
imaginable. In another ftratum, or perhaps a differ¬
ent branch of the former, I have often feen double and
treble nebulce varioufly arranged ; large ones with fmall
feeming attendants *, narrow, but much extended lucid
nebulae or bright dallies; fome of the lhape of a fan,
refembling an eleftric brulh iffuing from a lucid point;
others of the cometic lhape, with a feeming nucleus in
the centre, or like cloudy ftars, furrounded with a ne¬
bulous atmofphere : a different fort again contain a ne-
bulofity of the milky kind, like that wonderful inex¬
plicable phenomenon about 5 Orionis •, while others
Ihine with a fainter mottled kind of light, wThich de¬
notes their being refolvable into ftars.
“It is very probable that the great ftratum called
an ^arsttf t^ie milky-way, is that in which the fun is placed, though
furround perhaps not in the very centre of its thicknefs. We
the hea- gather this from the appearance of the galaxy, which
vens. feems to encompafs the whole heavens, as it certainly
mull do if the fun is within the fame. For luppofe
a number of ftars arranged between two parallel planes,
indefinitely extended every way, but at a given confi¬
derable diftance from one another, and calling this a
fidereal ftratum, an eye placed fomewhere within it
will fee all the ftars in the direction of the planes of
the ftratum proje&ed into a great circle, which will
appear lucid on account of the accumulation of the
ftars, while the reft of the heavens at the fides will on¬
ly feem to be fcattered over wufh conftellations, more or
lefs crowded according to the diftance of the planes or
number of ftars contained in the thicknefs or fides of
the ftratum.
Vox.. III. Part I.
ab, will fee the ftars in the direaion of its length a b,
or height <? d, with all thofe in the intermediate fitu- ly Bo(]ies<
ation, projected into the lucid circle ABC.D ; wdiile v"'" "
thofe in the fides m e, n w, will be feen fcattered over
the remaining part of the heavens at MVNW. 22 5
<1 |f eye were placed fomewhere without the Celeftial
ftratum, at no very great diftance, the appearance of^PP^aran-
the ftars within it would affume the form of one of the on yjr C
leffer circles of the fphere, which would be more or Herfchel's
lefs contra&ed to the diftance of the eye ; and if this hypothefn.
diftance were exceedingly increafed, the w^hole ftratum
might at laft be drawn together into a lucid fpot of any
(hape, according to the polition, length, and height of
the ftratum.
“ Let us now fuppofe, that a branch or fmaller ftra¬
tum ftrould run out from the former in a certain direc¬
tion, and let it alfo be contained between two parallel
planes extended indefinitely onwards, but fo that the
eye may be placed in the great ftratum fomewhere be
fore the feparation, and not far from the place where
the ftrata are ftill united ; then will this fecond ftratum
not be projefted into a bright circle like the former,
but will be feen as a lucid branch proceeding from the
firft, and returning to it again at a certain diftance lefs
than a femicircle. Thus, in the fame figure, the ftars
in the fmall ftratum pg will be projected into a bright
arch at PRR.P, which after its feparation from the
circle CBD, unites with it again at P.
“ What has been inftanced in parallel planes may
eafily be applied to ftrata irregularly bounded, and
running in various dire&ions; for their projection will
of confequence vary according to the quantities of the
variations in the ftrata and the diftance of the eye
from the fame. And thus any kind of curvatures, as
well as various degrees of brightnefs, may be produced
in the projections. 224
“ From appearances, then, as I obferved before, we fun’s
may infer, that the fun is moft likely placed in one of the
the great ftrata of the fixed ftars, and very probably 1
not far from the place where fome fmaller ftratum
branches out from it. Such a fuppofition wdll fatis*
faCtorily, and wbth great fimplicity, account for all the
phenomena of the milky-way; which according to
this hypothefis, is no other than the appearance of the
projection of the ftars contained in this ftratum and its
lecondary branch. As a farther inducement to look
on the galaxy in this point of view, let it be confider-
ed, that we can no longer doubt of its whitifh appear¬
ance arifing from the mixed luftre of the numberlefs
ftars that compofe it. Now, fhould w^e fuppofe it to
be an irregular ring of ftars, in the centre nearly of
which we muff then fuppofe the fun to be placed, it
will appear not a little extraordinary, that the fun,
being a fixed ftar, like thofe which compofe this ima¬
gined ring, ihould juft be in the centre of fiich a mul¬
titude of celeftial bodies, without any^apparent reafon
for this fingular diftinClion ; whereas, on our fuppo¬
fition, every ftar in this ftratum, not very near the ter¬
mination of its length or height, will be fo placed as
alfo to have its own galaxy, with only fuch variations
in the form and luftre of it as may arife from the par- 225
ticular fituation of each ftar. Herfchel’s
“ Various methods
be taken to come to a
method of
may laivv_n Lyj V/Wiiiv- iiy a. • ,,
j # gauging tfH5
knowledge of the fun’s place in the fidereal ftratum, heavens.
K one
74
Apparent
Motions of
theHeaven-
ly Bodies
226
How to
find the
place of the
fun in the
fidereal
ftratum.
227
Obferva-
tions on
nebulae.
ASTRO
one of which I have already begun to put in pra&ice .•
I call it gauging the heavens; or the Jlar-gauge. It
confifts in repeatedly taking the number of ftars in ten
fields of view of my refie<£k>r very near each other ; and
by adding their fums, and cutting off one decimal on
the right, a mean of the contents of the heavens in all
the parts which are thus gauged are obtained. Thus
it appears that the number of ftars increafes very
much as we approach the milky-way •, for in the pa¬
rallel from 92 to 94 degrees north polar diftance, and
right afcenfion 15 h. 10', the ftar-gauge runs up from
9.4 ftars in the field to 18.6 in about an hour and a
half j whereas in the parallel from 78 to 80 degrees
north polar diftance, and R. A. 11, 12, 13, and 14
hours, it very feldom rifes above 4. We are, however,
to remember, that, with different inftruments, the ac¬
count of the gauges will be very different, efpecially
on our fuppoiition of the fun in a ftratum of ftars.
For let a b, fig. 84. be the ftratum, and fuppofe the
fmall circleto reprefent the fpace into which, by
the light and power of a given telefcope, we are ena¬
bled to penetrate, and let GHLK be the extent of
another portion which we are enabled to vifit by means
of a larger aperture and power, it is evident, that the
gauges with the latter inftrument will differ very much
in their account of ftars contained at MN and at KG
or LH, when with the former they will hardly be af-
fefted with the change from m n \.o k g or lh.
“ The fituation of the lun in the fidereal ftratum
will be found by confidering in what manner the ftar-
gauge agrees with the length of a ray revolving in fe-
veral direftions about an affumed point, and cut off
by the bounds of the ftratum. Thus, in fig. 85. let S
be the place of an obferver : S r r r, £ r, lines in the
plane r S r, r r, drawn from S within the ftratum to
one of the boundaries here reprefented by the plane AB.
Then, fince neither the fituation of S nor the form of
the limiting furface AB is known, we are to affume
a point, and apply to it lines proportional to the feve-
ral gauges that have been obtained, and at fuch angles
from each other as they may point out : then will the
termination of thefe lines delineate the boundary of the
ftratum, and confequently manifeft the fituation of the
fun within the fame.
“ In my late obfervations on nebulae, I foon found,
that I generally detefled them in certain directions ra¬
ther than in others : that the fpaces preceding them
were generally quite deprived of their ftars, fo as often
to afford many fields without a fingle ftar in it : that
the nebulae generally appeared fome time after among
ftars of a certain confiderable fize, and but feldom
among very fmall ftars : that when I came to one ne¬
bula, I generally found feveral more in the neighbour¬
hood : that afterwards a confiderable time paffed before
I came to another parcel. Thefe events being often
repeated in different altitudes of my inftrument, and
fome of them at confiderable diftances from each other,
it occurred to me that the intermediate fpaces between
the fweeps might alfo contain nebulae j and finding
this to hold good more than once, I ventured to give
notice to my afliftant at the clock, that ‘ I found my-
felf on nebulous ground.’ But how far thefe circum-
flances of vacant places preceding and following the
nebulous ftrata, and their being as it were contained in
9 bed of liars fparingly featured between them, may
N O M Y. Part II,
hold good in more diftant portions of the heavens, and Apparent
which I have not been yet able to vifit in any regular
manner, I ought by no means to hazard a conjeCture. ]y g0(]]es/
I may venture, however, to add a few particulars about v—j
the direftion of fome of the capital ftrata or their 228
branches. The well known nebula of Cancer, vifible Direcftion
to the naked eye, is probably one belonging to a cer-
tain ftratum, in which I fuppofe it to be fo placed as to pai ftrata
lie neareft to us. This ftratum I fhall call that of of ftars.
Cancer. It runs from % Cancri towards the fouth, over
the 67th nebula of the Connoiffance des Temps, which
is a very beautiful and pretty much compreffed clufter
of ftars, eafily to be feen by any good telefcope j and
in which I have obferved above 2CO ftars at once
in the field of view of my great refle&or with a power
of 157. This clufter appearing fo plainly with any
good common telefcope, and being fo near to the one
which may be feen with the naked eye, denotes it to
be probably the next in diftance to that wfithin the
quartile formed by y, «, 6. From the 67th nebula the
ftratum of Cancer proceeds towards the head of Hy¬
dra ; but I have not yet had time to trace it farther
than the equator.
“ Another ftratum, which perhaps approaches nearer
to the folar fyftem than any of the reft, and whofe fi¬
tuation is nearly at reftangles with the great fidereal
ftratum in which the fun is placed, is that of Coma
Berenices, as I fhall call it. I fuppofe the Coma it-
felf to be one of the clufters in it, and that on account
of its nearnefs it appears to be fo fcattered. It has
many capital nebulae very near it: and in all probabi¬
lity this ftratum runs out a very confiderable way. It
may perhaps even make the circuit of the heavens,
though very likely not in one of the great circles' of
the fphere ; for unlefs it ftiould chance to interfeft the
great fidereal ftratum of the milky-way before men¬
tioned, in the very place in which the fun is ftationed,
fuch an appearance would hardly be produced. How¬
ever, if the ftratum of Coma Berenices ftrould extend
fo far as I apprehend it may, the direftion of it to¬
wards the north lies probably, with fome windings,
through the Great Bear onwards to Cafliopeia, thence
through the girdle of Andromeda and the Northern
Fifh, proceeding towards Cetus ; while towards the
fouth it paffes through the Virgin, probably on to the
tail of Hydra and Centaurus.”
By a continued feries of obfervations, Dr Herfchel
became confirmed in his notions j and in a fucceeding
paper * has given a fketch of his opinions concerning *
the interior conftruftion of the heavens. “ That the ‘Iran/.
milky-way (fays he) is a moft extenfive ftratum ofvoi. 75,
ftars of various fizes, admits no longer of the 0f the^in
doubt ; and that our fun is one of the heavenly bodies
belonging to it is as evident. I have now viewed and ftruaion of
gauged this finning zone in almoft every direftion, and the hea-
find it compofed of firming ftars, whofe number, by’vens'
the account of thofe gauges, conftantly increafes and
decreafes in proportion to its apparent brightnefs to
the naked eye. But in order to develope the ideas of
the univerfe that have been fuggefted by my late ob¬
fervations, it will be beft to take the fubjedt from a
point of view at a confiderable diftance both of fpace
and time.
“ Let us then fuppofe numberlefs ftars of various
fizes Mattered over an indefinite portion of fpace, in
fuch
231
Nebulae,
bow form¬
ed.
Part II. ASTRO
Apparent fuch a manner as to be almoft equally diftributed
Motions of throUgh the whole. The laws of attraftion, which no
theSSn"d°ubt extend to the remoteft regions of the fixed ftars,
.1* will operate in fuch a manner as moll probably to pro-
230 duce the following remarkable effedts.
Confequen- « will frequently happen, that a ftar, being
ces ot the confl(lcrably larger than its neighbouring ones, will
traftion'ac- attradl them more than they will be attracted by
ting among others that are immediately around them; by which
the Itars. means they will be in time, as it were, condenfed about
a centre ; or, in other words, form themfelves into a
clufter of ftars of almoft a globular figure, more or
lefs regularly fo according to the fize and original di-
ftance of the furrounding ftars. The perturbations of
thefe mutual attradlions muft undoubtedly be very
intricate, as we may eafily comprehend, by confidering
what Sir Ifaac Newton has faid, Princtp. lib. i. prop.
38. et feq: but in order to apply this great author’s
reafoning of bodies moving in ellipfes to fuch as are
here for a while fuppofed to have no other motion than
what their mutual gravity has imparted to them, we
muft fuppofe the conjugate axes of thefe ellipfes indefi¬
nitely diminilhed, whereby the ellipfes will become
ftraight lines.
“ II. The next cafe, which will happen almoft as
frequently as the former, is where a few' ftars, though
not fuperior in fize to the reft, may change to be ra¬
ther nearer each other than the furrounding ones ; for
here alfo will be formed a prevailing attraftion in the
combined centre of gravity of them all, which will oc-
cafion the neighbouring ftars to draw together; not,
indeed, fo as to form a regular globular figure, but,
however, in fuch a manner as to be condenfed towards
the common centre of gravity of the whole irregular
clufter. And this conftruftion admits of the utmoft
variety of Ihapes, according to the number and fituation
of the ftars which firft gave rife to the condenfation of
the reft.
“ HI. From the compolition and repeated conjunc¬
tion of both the foregoing forms, a third may be de¬
rived, when many large ftars, or combined fmall ones,
■are fituated in long extended regular or crooked rows,
hooks, or branches; for they will alfo draw the fur-
rounding ones fo as to produce figures of condenfed
ftars coarfely fimilar to the former, which gave rife to
thefe condenfations.
“ IV. We may likewife admit of ftill more extenfive
combinations ; when, at the fame time that a clufter of
ftars is forming in one part of fpace, there may be ano¬
ther colle&ing in a different, but perhaps not far di-
ftant, quarter, which may occafion a mutual approach
towards their common centre of gravity.
“ V. In the laft place, as a natural confequence of
the former cafes, there will be great cavities or vacan¬
cies formed by the retreat of the ftars towards the va¬
rious centres which attraft them; fo that, upon the
whole, there is evidently a field of the greateft variety
for the mutual and combined attradlions of the heaven¬
ly bodies to exert themfelves in.
“ From this theoretical view of the heavens, wTich
has been taken from a point not lefs diftant in time
than in fpace, we will now retreat to our owm retired
ftation, in one of the planets attending a ftar in its
great combination wuth numberlefs others: and in or¬
der to inveftigate what will be the appearances from
232.
Vacancies,
how they
are occa-
lioned in
the hea¬
vens.
N O M Y. 75
this contradled fituation, let us begin with the naked Apparent
eye. The ftars of the firft magnitude, being in all pro- tj^eaven
bability the neareft, will furnifh us with a ftep to begin jy £p^-es_
our feale. Setting off, therefore, with the diftance *-—^——■>
of Sirius or Ardturus, for inftance, as unity, we will 233
at prefent fuppofe, that thofe of the fecond magnitude ^ow
are at double, thofe of the third at treble, the diftance, app^^0
&c. Taking it for granted, then, that a ftar of the us accor(}_
feventh magnitude (the fmalleft fuppofed vifible with ing to this
the naked eye) is about feven times as far as one ofhyP01*16!1*'
the firft, it follows, that an obferver wTho is enclofed in
a globular clufter of ftars, and not far from the centre,
will never be able with the naked eye to fee to the end
of it; for fince, according to the above eftimations,
he can only extend his view to above feven times the
diftance of Sirius, it cannot be expedled that his eyes
fhould reach the borders of a clufter which has perhaps
not lefs than 50 ftars in depth everywhere around
him. The whole univerfe to him, therefore, will be
comprifed in a fet of conftellations richly ornamented
with fcattered ftars of all fizes : Or, if the united
brightnefs of a neighbouring clufter of ftars fhould, in
a remarkable clear night, reach his fight, it will put
on the appearance of a fmall, faint, whitifh, nebulous
cloud, not to be perceived without the greateft atten¬
tion. Let us fuppofe him placed in a much extended
ftratum or branching clufter of millions of ftars, fuch
as may fall under the third form of nebulae already con-
fidered. Here alfo the heavens will not only be richly
fcattered over writh brilliant conftellations, but a ftii-
ning zone or milky-way will be perceived to furround
the whole fphere of the heavens, owing to the com¬
bined light of thefe ftars which are too fmall, that is,
too remote to be feen. Our obferver’s fight will be fo
confined, that he will imagine this Angle colledtion of
ftars, though he does not even perceive the thoufandth
part of them, to be the whole contents of the heavens.
Allowing him now the ufe of a common telefcope, he
begins to fufpedl that all the milkinefs of the bright
path w'hich furrounds the fphere may be owing to
ftars. He perceives a few clufters of them in various
parts of the heavens, and finds alfo that there are a
kind of nebulous patches : but ftill his views are not
extended to reach fo far as to the end of the ftratum
in which he is fituated; fo that he looks upon thefe
patches as belonging to that fyftem which to him feems
to comprehend every celeftial objedt. He nowr in-
creafes his pow7er of vifion ; and, applying himfelf to
a clofe obfervation, finds that the milky-w ay is indeed
no other than a colledlion of very fmall ftars. He
perceives, that thofe objedls which had been called
nebula, are evidently nothing but clufters of ftars.
Their number increafes upon him; and when he re-
folves one nebula into ftars, he difeovers ten new ones
which he cannot refolve. He then forms the idea of
immenfe ftrata of fixed ftars, of clufters of ftars, and of
nebulae ; till, going on with fuch interefting obferva-
tions, he now perceives, that all thefe appearances
muft naturally arife from the confined fituation in
which we are placed. Confined it may juftly be
called, though in no lefs a fpace than what appear¬
ed before to be the vrhole region of the fixed ftars,
but which now has affumed the ftiape of a crookedly
branching nebula ; not indeed one of the leaft, but per¬
haps very far from being the moft confiderable, of thofe
K 2 numberlefs
7<5
Apparent
Motions of
theHeaven-
ly Bodies.
234
Arguments
in favour
of the fore¬
going theo¬
ry from ob-
fervations
On nebulae.
235
Method of
meafuring
the dimen-
fions of the
heavens.
ASTRO
numberlefs cluflers that enter into the conftrudlion of
the heavens.”
Our author now proceeds to (how that this theoreti¬
cal view of the heavens is perfectly confident with fafts,
and feems to be confirmed by a feries of obfervations.
Many hundreds of nebulae of the firlt and fecond forms
are to be feen in the heavens ; and their places, he
fays, will hereafter be pointed out; many of the third
form defcribed, and inftances of the fourth related j
a few of the cavities mentioned in the fifth particular-
rized, though many more have been already obferved :
ib that, “ upon the whole (fays be), I believe it will
be found, that the foregoing theoretical view, with all
its confequential appearances, as feen by an eye enclo-1
fed in one of the nebulae, is no other than a drawing
from nature, wherein the features of the original have
been clofely copied : and I hope the refemblance will
not be called a bad one, when it (hall be confidered
how very limited mud be the pencil of an inhabitant
of fo fmall and retired a portion of an indefinite fydem
in attempting the picture of fo unbounded an extent.”
Dr Herfchel next prefents us with a long table of
dar-gauges, or accounts of the number of dars at once
in the field of his telefcope, which go as high as 588 5
after which he propofes the following
Problem.
“ The dars being fuppofed nearly equally fcattered,
and their number, in a field of view of a known angu¬
lar diameter, being given) to determine the length of
the vifual ray.
“ Here, the arrangement of the dars not being fix¬
ed upon, we mud endeavour to find which way they
may be placed fo as to fill a given fpace mod equally.
Suppofe a rectangular cone cut into frudula by many
equididant planes perpendicular to the axis ) then, if
one dar be placed at the vertex and another in the axis
at the fird interfeftion, fix dars may be let around it fo
as to be equally didant from one another and from the
central dar. Thefe petitions being carried on in the
fame manner, we fliall have every dar within the cone
furrounded by eight others at an equal didance from
that dar taken as a centre. Fig. too. contains four
feclions of fuch a cone didinguifhed by alternate drades;
which will be fufficient to explain what fort of arrange¬
ment I would point out.
“ The feries of the number of dars contained in
the feveral fedions will be 1, 7, 19, 37, 61, 91, &c.
which continued to « terms, the fum of it, by the
differential method, will be na-\-n. d'-\-n. 
2 2
n~—'-d", &c. where a is the fird term, d\ d’\ d’", &c.
3
the fird, fecond, and third differences. Then, fince a— 1,
d!—6, 6, o, the fum of the feries will be ni.
Let S be the given number of dars) 1 the diameter of
the bafe of the field of view) and B the diameter of the
great redangular cone 5 and by trigonometry we lhall
have B=r=-——Now, fince the field of view
x rr held
of a telefcope is a cone, we fhall have its folidity to
that of the great cone of the dars formed by the
above condruftion, as the fquare of the diameter of the
bafe of the field of view, to the fquare of the diameter
N O M Y. Part II.
of the great cone, the height of both being the fame 5 Apparent
and the dars in each cone being in the ratio of the fo- ^0t’011s
0 3 theHeaven-
lidity, as being equally fcattered, we have n~ V/B*S; 'B<x^es- f
and the length of the vilual ray —«—1, which was
to be determined.” Another folution of this problem
on the fuppofition of another arrangement of dars, is
given ; but Dr Herfchel prefers the former. 235
From the data now laid down, Dr Herfchel nextProofs°f
endeavours to prove that the earth is ‘ the planet of”uJ
a dar belonging to a compound nebula of the third ingTnebu.
form.’ “ I drall now (fays he) proceed to flrow, that la.
the dupendous fidereal fydem we inhabit, this extendve
dratum, and its fecondary branch, confiding of many
millions of dars, is in all probability r? detached nebu/a.
In order to go upon grounds that feem to me to be ca¬
pable of great certainty, they being no lefs than an
affual furvey of the boundaries of our fidereal fydem,
which I have plainly perceived as far as 1 have yet gone
round it, everywhere terminated, and in mod places
very narrowly too, it will be proper to diow the length
of my founding line, if I may fo call it, that it may ap¬
pear whether it was fufficiently long for the purpofe.
“ In the mod crow ded parts of the milky-way, I Length of
have had fields of view that contained no fewer than the line by
588 dars, and thefe w’ere continued for many mi'^erfehe^
nutes: fo that in one quarter of an hour’s time there meafures
paffed no lefs than 116,000 dars through the field of the hea-
view of my telefcope. Now, if we compute the length vens.
of the vifual ray, by putting S—588, and the diame¬
ter of the field of view 15 minutes, we diall find
3
n v^BzS=r498 ) fo that it appears the length of
what I have called my Sounding Line, or ti—1, wTds
not probably lefs than 497 times the didance of Sirius
from the fun.
“ It may feem inaccurate that w^e diould found an
argument on the dars being equally fcattered, when, in
all probability, there may not be any tw'o of them in
the heavens whofe mutual didance diall be equal to
that of any other two given dars : but it diould be
confidered, that when we take all the dars colleftively, ,
there will be a mean didance which may be affumed
as the general one ) and an argument founded on fuch
a fuppofition wdll have in its favour the greated pro-
bability of not being far fhort of truth. And here Iclufter of
mud obferve, that the difference between a crowdedftars Re¬
place and a cinder (none of the latter being put intofine®*
the gauge table), may eafily be perceived by the ar¬
rangement as w7ell as the fize and mutual didance cf
the dars •, for in a cluder they are generally not only
refembling each other pretty nearly in fize, but a cer¬
tain uniformity of didance alfo takes place : they are.
more and more accumulated towards the centre, and put
on all the appearances which we diould naturally expeft
from a number of them colle&ed into a group at a
certain didance from us. On the other hand, the rich
parts of the milky-way, as well as thofe in the didant
broad parts of the dratum, confid of a mixture of dars
of all poffible fizes, that are feemingly placed without
any particular apparent order. Perhaps we might re¬
collect, that a greater condenfation towards the centre
of our fydem than towards the borders of it diould be
taken into confideration) but with a nebula of the
third form containing fuch various and extenfive com¬
binations
Part II
Apparent
Motions of
theHeaven-
\y Bodies.
239
Extent of
our nebula
ASTRO
binations as I bave found to take place in ours, this
circuraftance, which in one of the firft form would be
of confiderable moment, may, I think, be Mely ne-
gledled. _ r o j r n
“ If Tome other high gauge be felected from the
table, fuch as 472 or 344, the length of the vjfual ray
will be found 461 and 4r5’ And although, in confe-
quence of what has been faid, a certain degree of
doubt may be left about the arrangement and fcatter-
ing of the ftars, yet when it is recollefted, that in tnofe
parts of the milky-wTay, where thefe high gauges were
taken, the ftars were neither fo fmall nor lo crowded
as they muft have been, on a fuppofition of a nauch
farther continuance of them, when certainly a miiKy
or nebulous appearance muft have come on, I need
not fear to have over-rated the extent of my vifual ray *,
and indeed every thing that can be faid to Ihprten it
vtoll only contrail the limits of our nebula, as it has m
moft places been of fufficient length to go far beyond
the bounds of it. Thus in the fides of our ftratum,
oppofite to our fituation in it, where the gauges often
run below 5, our nebula cannot extend to 100 times
the diftanCe of Sirius *, and the fame telefcope which
could Ihow 588 ftars in a field of view of 15 minutes,
muft certainly have prefented me alfo wuth the ftars in
thefe fituations, had they been there. If we ihould
anfwer this by obferving, that they might be at too
great a diftance to be perceived, it wnll be. allowing
that there muft at leaft be a vacancy amounting to the
length of a vifual ray, not fhort of 400 times the di-
ftaryse of Sinus ^ and this is amply lufficient to make
our nebula a detached one. It is true, that it would
not be confident confidently to affirm that w*e were on
an ifland, unlefs we had found ouifelves everywhere
bounded by the ocean*, and therefore I ftiall go no far¬
ther than the gauges will authorize , but confidermg
the little deptlTof the ftratum in all thofe places which
have been a£tually gauged, to which muft be added all
the intermediate parts that have been viewed and found
to be much like the reft, there is but little room to ex-
pefl a eonneftion between our nebula and any of the
neighbouring ones. A telefcope, with a much larger
aperture than my prefent one, grafping together a
greater quantity of light, and thereby enabling us to
fee farther into fpace, wall be the fureft means of com¬
pleting and eftablifiiing the arguments that have been
ufed : "for if our nebula is not abfolutely a detached
one, I am firmly perfuaded that an inftrument may be
made large enough to difcover the places ivhere the
ftars continue onwards. A very bright milky nebulo-
fity muft there undoubtedly come on, fince the ftars in
a field of view will increafe in the ratio of n3 greater
than that of the cube of the vifual ray. I hus, if 5^^
ftars in a mven field of view are to be feen by a ray of
497 times the diftance of Sirius, when this is length¬
ened to 1000, wdiich is but little more than double the
former, the number of ftars in the fame field of view
will be no lefs than 4774? f°r wdien the vifual ray r is
«3
N O M Y. 77
ftinguifh them j for they need not, if arranged in re- Apparent,
gular fquares, approach nearer to each other t^ian ^gjjeaven-
6".2’] y but the milky nebulofity I have mentioned, jy £0(ties.
would be produced by the numberlefs ftars beyond i,, — -1
them, which, in one refpe6t, the vifual ray might alfo
be faid to reach. T o make this appear, we muft re¬
turn to the naked eye: which, as we have before efti-
mated, can only fee the ftars of the feventh magnitude
fo as to diftinguifh them : but it is neverthelels very
evident, that the united luftre of millions of ftars, fuch
as I fuppofe the nebula in Andromeda to be, will
reach our fight in the ftiape of a very fmall faint nebu¬
lofity 5 fince the nebula of which 1 fpeak may eafily
be feen in a fine evening. In the fame manner, my
prefent telefcope, as I have argued, has not only a
vifual ray that will reach the ftars at 497 times the
diftance of Sirius, fo as to diftinguifti them, and pro¬
bably much farther, but alio a power of {bowing the
united luftre of the accumulated ftars that compofe a
milky nebulofity at a diftance far exceeding the foimer
limits : fo that from thefe confiderations it appears
again highly probable, that my prefent telefcope not
{bowing fuch a nebulofity in the milky-way, goes al¬
ready far beyond its extent } and confequently .much
more would an inftrument, fuch as I have mentioned,
remove all doubt on the fubje6f, both by ftiowing the
ftars in the continuation of the ftratum, and by expo-
fing a very ftrong milky nebulofity beyond them, that,
could no longer be miftaken for the dark ground of
the heavens; 240
“ To thefe arguments, which reft on the firm balls Analogical
of a feries of obfervation, we may add the following arguments
confiderations drawn from analogy. Among the gjreat 0
given, the number of ftars S will be — jTi
vhere
;/=r-4- } and a telefcope with a threefold power of
extending into fpace, or with a ray of 1500, which I
think may eafily be conftru&ed, will give us 16,096
ftars. Nor would thefe be fo dole, but that a good
power applied to fuch an inftiument might eafily di¬
number of nebulae which I have now already ieen,
amounting to more than 900, there are many which, in
all probability are equally extenfive with that which
we inhabit *, and yet they are all feparated from each
other by very confiderable intervals, Some, indeed,
there are that feem to be double and treble 5 and though
with moft of thefe it may be that they are at a very
great diftance from each other, yet we allow that
fome fuch conjundlions really are to be found j nor is
this what we mean to exclude : But then thefe com¬
pound or double nebulae, which are thofe of the third
and fourth forms, ftill make a detached link in the
great chain. It is alfo to be fuppofed, that there may
be fome thinly fcattered folitary ftars between the large
interftices of nebulae ; which being fituated fo as to be
nearly equally attra&ed by the feveral clufters when
they were forming, remain unaflociated : and though
we cannot expedl to fee thofe ftars on account of their
vaft diftance, yet we may well prefume that their num¬
ber cannot be very confiderable in comparifon to thofe
that are already drawn into fyftems ; which conjefture
is alfo abundantly confirmed in fituations where the
nebulae are near enough to have their ftars vifible j for
they are all infulated, and generally to be feen upon a
very clear and pure ground, wuthout any ftar near them
that might be thought to belong to them. And though
I have often feen them in beds of ftars, yet from the
fize of thefe latter we may be certain, that they were
much nearer to us than thofe nebulm, and belong
undoubtedly to our own fyftem.,,
Having thus determined that the vifible fyftem of
nature, bv us called the univerfe, confifting of all the
releftial
his doc¬
trine.
78
Motionsof bodies, and many more than can be feen by
theHeaven- t!le.naked eye, ^ only a group of ftars or funs with
ly Bodies, their planets, conftituting one of thofe patches called a
»-—v—nebula, and perhaps not one ten-thoufandth part of
what is really the univerfe, Dr Herfchel goes on to
delineate the figure of this vaft nebula, which he is of
241 opinion may now be done ; and for this purpofe he
How the gives a table, calculating the diftances of the ftars which
figure of form its extreme boundaries, or the length of the vi-
maybe de- .1 ln dlfferent Parts, by the number of ftars con-
linsated. tained in the field of his telefcope at different times,
according to the principles already laid down. He
does not, however, as yet attempt the whole nebula,
but of a particular fe&ion, reprefented fig. 160. “ I
have taken one (fays he) which palfes through the
poles, of our fyftem, and is at re&angles to the con-
jun&ion of the branches, which 1 have called its /engtb.
The name of po/es feems to me not improperly ap¬
plied to thofe points which are 90 degrees diftant from
a circle pafling along the milky-way 5 and the north
pole is here fuppofed to be fituated in right afcenfion
186°, and polar diftance (that is from the pole com¬
monly fo called) 58°. The fedlion is one which makes
an angle of 350 with our equator, crofting it in
1 244-° and 3044-°. A celeftial globe, adjufted to the
latitude of 550 north, and having c Ceti near the
meridian, will have the plane of this fe&ion pointed
out by the horizon. The vifual rays are to be projeft-
ed on the plane of the horizon of the latitude juft
mentioned, which may be done accurately enough by
a globe adjufted in the manner directed. The ftars in
the border, which are marked larger than the reft, are
thofe pointed out by the gauges. The intermediate
parts are filled up by fmaller ftars, arranged in ftraight
lines between the gauged ones. From this figure,
which I hope is not a very inaccurate one, w^e may fee
that our nebula, as we obferved before, is of the third
form j that is, a very extenfive, branching, compound
congeries of many millions of ftars, which moft pro¬
bably owes its origin to many remarkably large, as
well as pretty clofely fcattered, fmall ftars, that may
have drawn together the reft. Now, to have fome idea
of the wonderful extent of this fyftem, I muft obferve,
that this fe&ion of it is drawn upon a fcale where the
diftance of Sirius is no more than the 80th part of an
inch j fo that probably all the ftars, which in the fineft
nights we are able to diftinguifti with the naked eye,
may be comprehended within a fphere drawm round
the large ftar near the middle, reprefenting our fitua-
tion in the nebula of lefs than half a quarter of an inch
radius.”
Dr Herfchel now proceeds to offer fome further
thoughts on the origin of the nebulous ftrata of the
heavens: in doing which he gives fome hints concern¬
ing the antiquity of them. “ If it were poflible (fays
he) to diftinguifh between the parts of an indefinitely
extended whole, the nebula we inhabit might be faid
to be one that has fewer marks of antiquity than any
of the reft. To explain this idea perhaps more clear¬
ly, we Ihould recolleft, that the condenfation of clufters
of ftars has been afcribed to a gradual approach ; and
whoever reflects on the number of ages that muft have
paffed before fome of the clufters that are to be found
in my intended catalogue of them could be fo far con-
denfed as we find them at prefent, will not wonder if
Part II,
I afcribe a certain air of youth and vigour to many Apparent
very regularly fcattered regions of our fidereal ftratum. Morions of
There are, moreover, many places in it in which, if we
may judge from appearances, there is the greateft rea-
fon to believe that the ftars are drawing towards fecon- 242
dary centres, and will in time feparate into clufters, foOfthede-
as to occafion many fubdivifions. Hence wTe may fur- car and re'
mile, that when a nebulous ftratum confifts chiefly 0fc£mPofitlon
nebulae of the firft and fecond forms, it probably owes ^ U ^
its origin to what may be called the decay of a great
compound nebula of the third form ; and that the fub¬
divifions wdiich happened to it in length of time, occa-
fioned all the fmall nebulae w hich fprung from it to lie
in a certain range, according as they w^ere detached
from the primary one. In like manner, our fyftem,
after numbers of ages, may very poflibly become divid¬
ed, fo as to give rife to a ftratum of two or three
hundred nebulae j tor it would not be difficult to point
out. fo many beginning or gathering clufters in it.
This thrown a confiderable light upon that remarkable
colle&ion of many hundreds of nebulae wdiich are to
be leen in w’hat I have called the nebulous Jiratuni in
Coma Berenices. It appears, from the extended and
branching figure of our nebula, that there is room for
the decompofed fmall nebulae of a large reduced former
great one to approach nearer to us in the fides than in
any other parts. Nay, poffibly there might originally
be another very large joining branch, which in time
became feparated by the condenfation of the ftars :
and this may be the reafon of the little remaining
breadth of our fyftem in that very place; for the ne¬
bulae of the ftratum of the Coma are brighteft and moft
crowded juft oppofite to our fituation, or in the pole
of our fyftem. As foon as this idea was fuggefted, I
tried alfo the oppofite pole ; where accordingly I have
met with a great number of nebulae, though under a
much more fcattered form.
“ Some parts of our fyftem indeed feem already to
have fuftained greater ravages of time than others;
for inftance in the body of the Scorpion is an open¬
ing or hole, which is probably owing to this caufe.
It is at leaft four degrees broad j but its height I have
not yet afcertained. It is remarkable, that the 80
Nebuleufe fans Etoiles of the ConnoiJJ'ance des Temps,
which is one of the richeft and moft compreffed clu¬
fters of fmall ftars I remember to have feen, is fituated
juft on the weft border of it, and wmuld almoft autho¬
rize a fufpicion that the ftars of which it is compofed
were colle&ed from that place, and had left the vacan¬
cy. What adds not a little to this furmife is, that
the fame phenomenon is once more repeated with the
fourth clufter of the Connoi/fance des Temps ; which is
alfo on the w'eftern border of another vacancy, and has
moreover a fmall miniature clufter, or eafily refolvable
nebula, of about 24 minutes in diameter north, follow¬
ing it at no very great diftance.
“ There is a remarkable purity or clearnefs in the
heavens when we look out of our ftratum at the fides j
that is, towards Leo, Virgo, and Coma Berenices on
one hand, and towards Cetus on the other 5 whereas
the ground of the heavens becomes troubled as we ap¬
proach towards the length or height of it. Thefe
troubled appearances are eafily to be explained by
afcribing them to fome of the diftant ftraggling ftars
that yield hardly light enough to be diftinguifhed.
And
astronomy.
Part II.
Apparent
Motions of
theHeaven-
ly Bodies.
«43
Univerfe
compofed
of nebulae.
Nat. Phil.
1. xps, 196
*44
Of the fize
and di-
ftance of
nebulae.
ASTRO
And I have indeed often experienced this to be the
caufe, by examining thefe troubled fpots for a long
while together, when at laft I generally perceived the
flars which occafioned them. But when we look to¬
wards the poles of our fyftem, where the vifual ray does
not graze along the fide, the draggling liars wall of
courfe be very few in number j and therefore the
ground of the heavens will affume that purity which
I have always obferved to take place in thofe regions.”
Thus, then, according to Dr Herfchel, the univerfe
coniifts of nebula, or innumerable colle£lions of innu¬
merable liars, each individual of which is a fun not on¬
ly equal, but much iuperior to ours : at leaft if the
words of IVIr Nicholfon have any weight} for he tells
us, that “ each individual fun is dellined to give light
to hundreds of worlds that revolve about it, but which
can no more be feen by us, on account of their great
diftance, than the folar planets can be feen from the
fixed liars.” “ Yet (continues he), as in this unex¬
plored, and perhaps unexplorable, abyfs of fpace, it is
no necefiary condition that the planets Ihould be of
the fame magnitudes as thofe belonging to our fyltem,
it is not impoffible but that planetary bodies may be
difcovered among the double and triple liars.”
Though in the above extra&s from Dr Herfchel’s
papers, the words condetifation, clujlers, &c. of liars
frequently occur, wre are by no means from thence to
imagine that any of the celellial bodies in our nebula
are nearer to one another than we are to Sirius, whofe
dillance is fuppofed not to be lefs than 400,000 times
that of the fun from us, or 38 millions of millions of
miles. The whole extent of the nebula being in fome
places near 500 times as great, mull be fuch, that the
light of a liar placed at its extreme boundary, fuppo-
fing it to fly with the velocity of 12 millions of miles
every minute, mull have taken near 3000 years to
reach us. Dr Herfchel, however, is by no means of
opinion, that our nebula is the mod confiderable in
the univerfe. “ As we are ufed (fays he) to call the
appearance of the heavens, where it is furrounded, with
a bright zone, the milky- way, it may not be amifs to
point out fome other very remarkable nebulae, which
cannot well be lefs, but are probably much larger, than
our own fydem •, and being alfo extended, the inhabi¬
tants of the planets that attend the liars which com-
pofe them, mud likewife perceive the fame phenome¬
na : for which reafon they may alfo be called milky-
’ivays, by way of didindlion.
“ My opinion of their fize is grounded on the fol¬
lowing obfervations : There are many round nebulae of
the fird form, of about five or fix minutes in diameter,
the dars of which I can fee very didin&ly •, and on
comparing them with the vifual ray calculated from
fome of my long gauges, I fuppofe by the appearance
of the fmall dars in thofe guages, that the centres of
thefe round nebulae may be 600 times the didance of
Sirius from us.”—He then goes on to tell us, that the
dars in fuch nebulae are probably twice as much con-
denfed as thofe of our fyllem •, otherwife the centre of
it would not be lefs than 6000 times the didance of
Sirius from us •, and that it is pofiibly much under¬
rated by fuppofing it only 600 times the didance of
that dar.
“ Some of thefe round nebulae (fays Dr Herfchel)
have others near them, perfeftly fimilar in form, colour,
N O M Y. 79
and the didribution of dars, but of only half the dia- Apparent
meter: and the dars in them feem to be doubly crowrd-
ed, and only at about half the didance from each other. lv Bodies.
They are indeed fo fmall, as not to be vifible without u—v >
the utmod attention. I fuppofe thefe miniature nebulae
to be at double the didance of the fird. An indance
equally remarkable and indrudlive is a cafe where, in
the neighbourhood of two fuch nebulae as have been
mentioned, I met with a third fimilar, refolvable, but
much fmaller and fainter nebula. The dars of it are
no longer to be perceived } but a refemblance of colour
with the former two, and its diminidied fize and light,
may wrell permit us to place it at full twdce the di¬
dance of the fecond, or about four or five times the
didance of the fird. And yet the nebulofity is not
of the milky kind : nor is it fo much as difficultly re¬
folvable or colourlefs. Now in a few of the extend¬
ed nebulae, the light changes gradually, fo as from
the refolvable to approach to the milky kind ; which
appears to me an indication, that the milky light of
nebulae is owdng to their much greater didance. A
nebula, therefore, whofe light is perfedlly milky, can¬
not well be fuppofed to be at lefs than fix or eight
thoufand times the didance of Sirius j and though the
numbers here afi'umed are not to be taken otherwife
than as very coarfe edimates, yet an extended nebula,
which an oblique fituation, where it is pofiibly fore-
diortened by one-half, two-thirds, or three-fourths of
its length, fubtends a degree or more in diameter, can¬
not be otherwife than of a wonderful magnitude, and
may well outvie our milky way in grandeur.” 24-
Dr Herfchel next proceeds to give an account of fe-Vaft length
veral remarkable nebulae, and then concludes thus : °f dme rc"
“ Now, what great length of time mud be required
to produce thefe effedls (the formation of nebulae) may nebul».
eafily be conceived, when, in all probability, our whole
fydem of about 800 dars in diameter, if it were feen
at fiich a didance that one end of it might affume the
refolvable nebulofity, would not, at the other end,
prefent us with the irrefolvable, much lefs with the
colourlefs and milky, fort of nebulofities.”. Great in¬
deed mud be the length of time requifite for fuch di-
dant bodies to form combinations by the laws of at-
traftion, fince, according to the didances he has af-
fumed, the light of fome of his nebulae mud be thirty-
fix or forty-eight thoufand years in arriving from them
to us. It would be worth while then to inquire, whe¬
ther attraBion is a virtue propagated in time or not $
or whether it moves quicker or flower than light ? . 246'
In the courfe of Dr Herfchel’s obfervations and in- Why the
quiries concerning the drufture of the heavens, an ob-^J* do not
jeftion occurred, that if the different fydems were
formed by the mutual attra£lions of the dars, the whole tiier.
would be in danger of dedruftion by the falling of
them one upon another. A fufficient anfwer to this,
he thinks, is, that if we can really prove the fydem of
the univerfe to be what he has faid, there is no doubt
but that the great Author of it has amply provided
for the prefervation of the whole, though it diould not
appear to us in what manner this is effefled. Several
circumdances, however, he is of opinion, manifedly
tend to a general prefervation : as, in the fird place,,
the indefinite extent of the fidereal heavens; wffiich
* mud produce a balance that will effeftually fecure all
the parts of the great whole from approaching to each
other.
8o
ASTRONOMY. Part II.
Apparent
Motions of
theHeaven-
ly bodies.
247
Of the pla¬
netary
nebulae.
448
Method of
afcertain-
ingthefitu-
ation of the
ftars.
other. “ There remains then (fays he) only to fee
how the particular ftars belonging to feparate clufters
are prevented from rulhing on to their centres of at-
traftion.” This he fuppofes may be done by projec¬
tile forces 5 “ the admiihon of which will prove fuch a
barrier ag&inft the feeming dellructive power of attrac¬
tion, as to fecure from it all the ftars belonging to a
clufter, if not for ever, at leaft for millions of ages.
Befides, we ought perhaps to look upon fuch clufters,
and the deftru&ion of a ftar now and then in fome
thoufands of ages, as the very means by which the
whole is preferred and renewed. Thefe clufters may
be the laboratories of the univerfe, wherein the moil
falutary remedies for the decay of the whole are pre¬
pared.”
In fpeaking of the planetary nebulae, by which name
he diftinguilhes thofe fpots that are all over equally lu¬
minous, he fays, “ If we ihould fuppofe them to be
Angle ftars with large diameters, we ihall find it diffi¬
cult to account for their not being brighter, unlefs we
fhould admit that the intrinfic light of fome ftars may
be very much inferior to that of the generality j which,
however, can hardly be imagined to extend to fuch a
degree. We might fuppofe them to be comets about
their aphelion, if the brightnefs, as well as magnitude
of their diameters, did not oppofe this idea ; fo that,
after all, we can hardly find any hypothefis,fo probable
as that of their being nebulae ; but then they muft con-
ftft of ftars that are comprefl'ed and accumulated in the
higheft degree. If it were not perhaps too hazardous
to purfue a former furmife of a renewal in what I figu¬
ratively called the Laboratories of the Utiiverfe, the ftars
forming thefe extraordinary nebulae, by fome decay or
wafte of nature being no longer fit for their former
purpofes, and having their projeflile forces, if any
fuch they had, retarded in each other’s atmofphere,
may ruffi at laft together ; and, either in fucceffion or
by one general tremendous ffiock, unite into a new
body. Perhaps the extraordinary and hidden blaze of
a new ftar in Caffiopeia’s chair, in 1572, might pof-
fibly be of fuch a nature. If a little attention to thefe
bodies fhould prove that, having no annual parallax,
they belong moft probably to the clafs of nebulae, they
may then be expedled to keep their ftation better than
any one of the ftars belonging to our fyftem, on ac¬
count of their being probably at a very great di-
ftance.”
As the fixed ftars conftantly keep nearly the fame
fituation relative to each other, aftronomers have agreed
to refer to them, as to fo many fixed points, the differ¬
ent motions of the other heavenly bodies. Hence the
reafon of dividing them into conftellations. But it was
neceffary befides, for the fake of perfeft precifion to
mark exaftly the relative fituation of every ftar in the
celeftial fphere. This is accomplilhed in the following
manner.
“ A great circle is fuppofed to pafs through the two
poles, and through the centre of every ftar. This cir¬
cle is called a circle of declination. The arc of this
circle included between the ftar and the equator mea-
fures the declination of the ftar. The declination of a
liar then is its perpendicukf diftance from the equator.
It is north or fouth, according as the ftar is fituated on
the north or fouth fide of the equator. All the ftars
t
fituated in the fame parallel of the equator have of Apparent
courfe the fame declination.
The declination then marks the fituation of a ftar
north or fouth from the equator. Precifion requires
ftill another circle from which their diftance eaft or weft
may be marked, in order to give the real place. The cir¬
cle of declination which pafles through that point of the
equator, called the vernalequinoBialpoint, has been cho-
fen for that purpofe. The diftance of the circle of decli¬
nation of a given ftar from that point meafured on the e-
quator, or the arc of the equator included between the
vernal equinox, and the circle of declination of the ftar
is called its right afcenfon. If we know the declina¬
tion and the right afcenfion of a ftar, we know its pre-
cife fituation in the heavens.
The declination of any ftar may be eafily found by
obferving the following rule : I ake the meridian alti¬
tude of the ftar, at any place where the latitude is known ;
the complement of this is the %enith difance, and is cal¬
led north or fouth, as the ftar is north or fouth at the
time of obfervation. Then, I. When the latitude of
the place and zenith diftance of the ftar are of differ¬
ent kinds, namely, one north and the other fouth, their
difference will be the declination 5 and it is of the fame
kind with the latitude, when that is the greateft of the
two, otherwife it is of the contrary kind. 2. If the la¬
titude and the zenith diftance are of the fame kind,
i. e. both north or both fouth, their fum is the declin¬
ation j and it is of the lame kind with the latitude.
To prove the truth of this rule, turn to fig. 86. where
Z is the zenith of the place, EQjhe equinotfial, and ^
EZ the latitude. 1. Let r reprefent the place of a ftar Rules for
on the meridian, and Z r the zenith diftance, the lati-finding the
tude being greater : then E r (the declination) will be dechnatl0i,»
equal to EZ—Zr (the zenith diftance)-, again, let c
be the place of a ftar in the meridian, when the zenith
diftance exceeds the latitude ; then E c (the declina¬
tion — Z c (the zenith diftance)—EZ (the latitude).
And it is manifeft, that in the former inftance Z and r
are on the fame fide of the equinoftial 5 and that in the
latter cafe Z and c are on contrary fides. 2dly,
Let^< be the place of a ftar on the meridian, having
its zenith diftance Thy of the lame kind with EZ the
latitude of the place: then Ej (the declination)” EZ
+zy, and the declination is of the fame kind as the
latitude, becaufe Z and^y are on the fame fide of the
equinoflial. Q^E. D.
For an Example, fuppofe that in north latitude 5 2°
15', the meridian altitude of a ftar is 510 28 on the
fouth ; then 38° 32' the zenith diftance, being taken
from 5 2° 15' the latitude, leaves 130 43' for the declina¬
tion of the ftar north. _ 25°
Having, by means like the above, found the decli-
nation of a ftar, it becomes requilite, in the next place,
to know the right afcenfion, as its fituation with regard
to the equator will then be known. Now the right
afcenfion being eftimated from the point where the e-
quator and ecliptic interfeft each other in the fprkig, a
point which is marked out by nothing that comes under
the cognizance of our fenfesj fome phenomenon, there¬
fore, muft be chofen, whofe right afcenfion is either
given, or may be readily known, at any time that the
right afcenfions of other objetts may be difcovered by
comparifon with it. For this purpofe nothing appears
Motions ot
theHeaven-
ly Bodies, j
Part IT.
ASTRONOMY.
Si
Apparent fo proper as the fun j becaufe its motion is the moft
Motions of gmpje> an(l Ji;S ri^ht afcenhon quickly found.
'^Bodies*1* h'or ’‘n 87. we have given (jS the declination
. ^  'h of the fun (which maybe ealily taken every day at
noon by obfervation), and the angle SEQ^the obliquity
of the ecliptic—i. e. one leg of a right-angled fpherical
triangle, and its oppofite angle, to find the adjacent leg
EQ, the right afeenfion—it may be done by this pro¬
portion •, as the tangent of the obliquity of the ecliptic:
the tangent of the declination : : radius : the fine of the
right afeenfion reckoned from the nearer equinoftial
point.
For example : fuppofe on the 13th of February the
fun’s fouth declination is
obliquity of the ecliptic is
the fun’s right afeenfion :
As tangt. 23°
To tangt. 130 24'
So is radius
found to 130 24', and the
2 30 28'} we fliall thus find
28'
9.6376106
9-377oo30
10.0000000
To fine 330 16' 58" 9.7393924
Here 330 16' 58" is the fun’s diflance from T ; but
as the declination is at that time decreafing, and the fun
approaching T, this mull be taken from 360°, and the
remainder 326° 43' 2" is the right afeenfion.
In a iimilar maimer may the fun’s right alcenfion be
calculated for every day at noon, and arranged in ta¬
bles for ufe : for any intermediate time between one
day at noon and the following, the right afeenfion may
be determined by proportion.
The longitude ES of the fun, when required, may
be readily found by the rules to afeertain the hypothe-
nufe of the fame triangle.
The apparent diurnal motion of the heavenly bodies
being uniform, and performed in circles parallel to the
equator, the interval of the times in which tw'O ftars
pafs over, any meridian mull bear the fame proportion
to the period of the diurnal motion, as that arc of the
equator intercepted, betwreen the two fecondaries puf¬
fing through the ftars, does to 360°, as is evident from
the nature of the fphere : w e may therefore find the
right afeenfion of a ftar thus : Let an accurate pendu¬
lum clock be fo regulated that the index may pafs over
th# tw'enty-four hours during the time in wdiich any
fixed ftar after departing from the meridian will return
to it again, which is rather lefs than tw^enty-four hours.
Then let the index of a clock thus regulated be fet to
twelve o’clock w'hen the fun is on the meridian ; and
obferve the time the index points to, w'hen the fixed
ftar w'hofe right afeenfion is fought comes to the meri¬
dian ; which may be moft accurately known by means
of a tranfit telefcope. Let thefe hours and parts, as
marked by the clock, be converted into degrees, &c.
of the equator, by allowing 150 to an hour ; and the
difference between the right afeenfions of the fixed ftar
and the fun will be known : this difference added to
the fun’s right afeenfion for that day at noon, gives the
right afeenfion of the fixed ftar fought.
Or, if a clock whofe dial plate is divided into 360°,
inftead of twrelve hours, be ordered in fuch a manner,
that the index may pafs round the wdiole circle in the
interval which a ftar requires to come to the fame meri¬
dian again, and another index be fo managed as to
point out the fexagefimal parts : then, when the fun is
on the meridian, let the indices of the clock be put to
V©1. III. Part I.
, bodies.
his right afeenfion*at noon that dayj and when the ftar Apparent
comes to the meridian, its right afeenfion w-ill be Ihown A'lotions ot
by the clock, without any kind of reduction. Y Bodies?
The ftars are referred likewife to the ecliptic as w’ell C—
as to the equator. In that cafe the terms longitude and
latitude are ufed. ' 251
The longitude of any of the heavenly bodies is an Longitude
arc of the ecliptic contained between the firft point ofoi the ljea*
Aries, and a fecondary to the ecliptic or circle of lati-^c" '
tude, palling through the body 5 it is always meafured
according to the order of the figns. If the body be
fuppofed feen from the centre of the earth, it is called
geocentric longitude ) but if it be fuppofed feen from
the centre of the fun, then is the longitude heliocen-
trw' . ... 252
The latitude of a heavenly body is its diftance from Latitude?*
the ecliptic, meafured upon a fecondary to the eclip¬
tic drawn through the body. If the latitude be fuch
as is feep from the earth’s centre, it is called geocentric
latitude } but if it be fuppofed feen from the centre of
the fun, it is heliocentric.
The equator being the principal circle which re-
fpefts the earth, the latitudes and longitudes of terref-
trial objects are referred to it, and, for a fimilar reafon
(the fun’s motion in the ecliptic rendering that the
pidncipal of the celeftial circles), the fituations of hea¬
venly objects are generally afeertained by their lati¬
tudes and longitudes referred to the ecliptic : it has
therefore become a ufeful problem to find the latitudes
and longitudes of the ftars, &c. having their declina¬
tions, and right afeenfions, with the obliquity of the
ecliptic, given. One of the beft methods of perform-
ing this problem has been thus inveftigated : Let How tound.
S be the place of the body (fig. 88.), EC the
ecliptic, EQ^the equator 5 and SL and SR being re-
fpeiSlively perpendicular to EC and EQ^ ER will re-
prefent the right afeenfion, SR the declination, EL
the longitude, and SL the latitude ; then, by fpherics,
rad. : fine ER : : co-tang. SR : co-tang. SER 5 and
SER-fCEQ=:SEL. Alfo, co-fine SER : rad.: : tang.
ER : tang. ES $ and rad.: co-fine SEL : : tang. ES :
tang. EL ; therefore, co-fine SER : co-fine SEL : :
tang. ER : tang. EL j whence wre readily get,
co-fine SEL x tang. ER , . ,
 —   — the tangent of EL, the
co-lme SER 0
longitude. Then, rad.: fine of EL : : tang. SEL :
tang, SL, the latitude.
But the fame thing may be performed very expedi-
tioufiy by means of the following excellent rule, given
by Dr Malkelyne, the prefent worthy aftronomer
royal:
I. The fine of the right afeenfion co-tang, de¬
clination —.10— co-tang, of arc A, which call north,
or fouth, according as the declination is north or fouth.
2. Call the obliquity of the ecliptic fouth in the fix
firft figns of right afeenfion, and north in the fix laft.
Let the fum of arc A, and obliquity of ecliptic, ac¬
cording to their titles, ~ arc B with its proper title.
[If one be north and the other fouth, the proper title
is that which belongs to the greater; and in this cafe,
arc B is their difference.] 3. The arithmetical com¬
plement of co-fine arc A-f- co-fine arc'Bx tang- right
afeenfion rr tangent of the longitude : this is of the
fame kind as the right afeenfion, unlefs arc B be more
than 90°, when the quantity found of the fame kind as
L the
32
ASTRONOM Y.
Part IT,
Apparent the right afcenfion mufi: be fubtrafied from I 2 figns,
Motions of or ^60®. 4. The fine of longitude -f- tang, arc
''iy Bodies'1' B —xo= tang, of the required latitude, of the fame
-y-i—- title as arc B. Note, If the longitude be found near
o° or near 1800, for the fine of longitude, in the laft
operation, fubfiitute tang, longitude -j- co-fine longi¬
tude —10 ; and then the laft operation will be tang,
longitude -j- co-fine longitude -(- tang, arc B —20=
tang, latitude. By fine, tang. &c. are meant loga¬
rithm fine, log. tang. &c.
This rule may be exemplified by inquiring what
are the latitude and longitude of a ftar whofe declina¬
tion is 12° 59' north, and right afcenfion 4f 290 38',
the obliquity of the ecliptic being 230 28' ?
Here, fine of right afcenfion 290 38' 9-7037486
Co-tang, of declination 12 59 io-6372I26
Co-tang, of arc A, north 24 31 io-34o696i2
Obliquity of ecliptic, fouth 23 28
Arc B, north - 1 3 cof. 9*9999271
Arith.comp.ofco-finearc A 0*0410347
Tangent of right afcenfion 9*7678344
Tangent of longitude 147° 13' 26" 9*8087962
Or 4f 270 13' 26", anfwTering to 270 13' 26" of Leo.
Then, fine of longitude - - 9‘7334^43
Tangent of arc B - - 8*2631153
Tang, of latitude, north, 34' 6" 7.9965996
254
Stars vary Aftronomers have obferved that the ftars vary in
in right a- r;g*ht afcenfion and in declination, but keep the fame
and decli latitude : hence it was concluded that their variations
nation. in declination and right afcenfion were owing to the
revolution of the celeftial fphere round the poles of the
ecliptic. Or they may be accounted for by fuppofing
that the poles of the equator revolve llowly round thofe
of the ecliptic. This revolution is called the precef-
fion of the equinoxes. A more particular account of
255 it will be neceffary.
Obferva- By a long feries of obfervations, the fhepherds of Afia
tions of the were aye to mark out the fun’s path in the heavens ;
fhepherds he beIng always in the 0PP°fite P0^1 to tllat wllich
1 Uj' comes to the meridian at midnight, with equal but op-
pofite declination. Thus they could tell the ftars
among which the fun then was, although they could
not fee them. They difcovered that this path was a
great circle of the heavens, afterwards called the
Ecliptic; which cuts the equator in two oppofite
points, dividing it, and being divided by it, into two
equal parts. They farther obferved, that when the
fun was in either oT thefe points of interfe&ion, his
circle of diurnal revolution coincided with the equa¬
tor, an<J therefore the days and nights were equal.
Hence the equator came to be called the Equinoc¬
tial line, and the points in which it cuts the eclip¬
tic were called the Equinoctial points, and the
fun was then faid to be in the equinoxes. One of thefe
was called the Vernal and the other the Autumnal
256 Equinox.
To deter- b w*as evidently an important problem in pradlical
n}ine ^ aftronomy to determine the exaft moment of the fun?s
fun’s occu- occupying thefe ftations ; for it was natural to compute
pying the the courfe of the year from that moment. Accordingly
equinoctial has been the leading problem in the aftronomy of
joints.
all nations. It is fufceptible of confiderable precifion, Apparent
without any apparatus of inftruments. It is only ne-
cefiary to obferve the fun’s declination on the noon of ^ Bo(jjes>
ttvo or three days before and after the equinoctial day.
On two confecutive days of this number, his declination
muft have changed from north to fouth, or from fouth
to north. If his declination on one day wras obferved
to be 21' north, and on the next 5' fouth, it folknvs that
his declination was nothing, or that he was in the equi-
noCtial point about 23 minutes after 7 in the morning
of the fecond day. Knowing the precife moments, and
knowing the rate of the fun’s motion in-the ecliptic, it
is eafy to afcertain the precife point of the ecliptic in
which the equator interfered it. .
By a feries of fuch obfervations made at Alexandria Hippar-
between the years 161 and 127 before Chrift, Hippar-chus’s dif-
chus, the father of our aftronomy, found that the pointcovene!*
of the autumnal equinox was about fix degrees to the
eaftward of the ftar called Spica virginis. Eager to
determine everything by multiplied oblervations, he ran-
facked all the Chaldean, Egyptian, and other records,
to which his travels could procure him accefs, for obfer¬
vations of the fame kind ; but he does not mention his
having found any. He found, however, fome obferva¬
tions of Ariftillus and Timochares made about 150
years before. From thefe it appeared evident that the
point of the autumnal equinox was then about eight de¬
grees eaft of the fame ftar. He difcufies thefe obferva¬
tions with great fagacity and rigour ; and, on their au¬
thority, he afferts that the equinoftial points are not
fixed in the heavens, but move to the w’eftw-ard about a
degree in 75 years or fomewhat lefs. *
This motion is called the Precession of the Eqjji- Why called
noxes, becaufe by it the time and place of the iun’s the piecel-
equino&ial ftation precedes the ufual calculations : it is
fully confirmed by all fubfequent oblervations. In 1750 ^
the autumnal equinox w^as obferved to be 20° 21'weft-
ward of Spica Virginis. Suppofing the motion to have
been uniform during this period of ages, it lollow’s that
the annual preceflion is about 5^ t i that is, if the ce¬
leftial equator cuts the ecliptic in a particular point on
any day of this year, it will on the fame day of the fol¬
lowing year cut it in a point 5®
and the fun wall come to the equinox 2Q/ 2^" before he
has completed his round of the heavens. Thus the
equinoftial or tropical year, or true year of feafons, is
fo much fhorter than the revolution of the fun or the
fidereal year. _ > . 259
It is this difcovery that has chiefly immortalized Importance
the name of Hipparchus, though it muft be acknow-of the dif-
ledged that all his aftronomical refearches have been covery.
conduced with the fame fagacity and intelligence. It
was natural therefore for him to value himfelf highly
for the difcovery. It muft be acknowledged to be one
of the moft Angular that has been made, that the re¬
volution of the whole heavens ftiould not be liable,
but its axis continually changing. For it muft be ob¬
ferved, that fince the equator changes its pofition, and
the equator is only an imaginary circle, equidiftant from
the two poles or extremities of the axis; thefe poles
and this axis muft equally change their pofitions. The
equino&ial points make a complete revolution m about
25,741; years, the equator being all the while inclined
-to the ecliptic in nearly the fame angle. Therefore
the poles of this diurnal revolution xnuft defcribe a
* circle
Part II.
Apparent
Motions of
theHeaven-
Jy Bodies.
4n i.w —'-y-” —
26c
Hipparchus
has been
accufed of
j»Iagiarifm,
* See Du-
plus fur le
uadiaque
des Egyp-
tiens, Mtm
de l'Acad,
dcs Inf trip.
7.61
But falfely.
A S T R
circle round tlie poles of tbe ecliptic at the diftance
of about 234 degrees in 25,745 years \ and in the time
of Timochares the north pole of the heavens mull have
been 30 degrees eaflward of where it now is.
Hipparchus has been accufed of plagiarifm and in-
fincerity in this matter. It is now very certain that
the preceflion of the equinoxes was known to the aftro-
nomers of India many ages before the time of Hip¬
parchus. It appears allb that the Chaldeans had a
pretty accurate knowledge of the year of feafons.
From their faros wre deduce their mealure of this year
to be 365 days 5 hours 49 minutes and 11 fecdnds,
exceeding the truth only by 26", and much more exadt
than the year of Hipparchus. They had alfo a fidereal
year of 365 days 6 hours 11 minutes. Now what could
occafron an attention to two years, if they did not fuppofe
the equinoxes moveable ? The Egyptians alfo had a
knowledge of fomething equivalent to this : for they
had difeovered that the dog-ftar was no longer the
faithful forewarner of the overflowing of the Nile $ and
they combined him with the liar Fomalhafet * in their
myftical calendar. ’ This knowledge is alfo involved in
the precepts of the Chinefe aflronomy, of much older
date than the time of Hipparchus.
But all thefe acknowledged fadls are not fufficient
for depriving Hipparchus of the honour of the dilco-
very, or fixing on him thp charge of plagiarifm. This
motion was a thing unknown to the afltondmers of the
Alexandrian fchool, and it was pointed out to them
by Hipparchus in the way in which he afeertained
every other pofition in aftronomy, namely, as the ma¬
thematical refult of aftual obfervations, and not as a
thing deducible from any opinions on other fubjedls re¬
lated to it. We fee him, on all other occafions, eager to
confirm his own obfervations, and his deductions from
them, by every thing he could pick up from other afl.ro-
nomers \ and he even adduced the above-mentioned
practice of the Egyptians in corroboration of his doc¬
trine. It is more than probable then that he did not
know any thing more. Had he known the Indian
preceflion of 54" annually, he had no temptation what¬
ever to withhold him from ufing it in preference to one
which he acknowledges to be inaccurate, becaufe de¬
duced from the very fliort period of 150 years, and
from the obfervations of Timochares, in which he had
no great confidence.
Small periodical irregularities in the inclination of
the equator to the ecliptic, and in the preceflion of the
equinoxes, were difeovered and examined by Bradley
with great fagacity. He found that the pole deferibed
an epicycle, whofe diameter wTas about 18", having for
its centre that point of the circle round the pole of the
ecliptic in which the pole would have been found inde¬
pendent of this new motion. Fie alfo obferved, that
the period of this epicyclical motion was 18 years and
feven months. It ftruck him, that this was precifely
the period of the revolution of the nodes of the moon’s
orbit. He gave a brief account of thefe refults to
Lord Macclesfield, then prefident of the Royal So¬
ciety, in 1747. Mr Machin, to whom he alfo com¬
municated the obfervations, gave him in return a very
neat mathematical hypothefis, by which the motion
might be calculated.
Let E (fig. 89.) be the pole of the ecliptic, and SPQ^
circle diftant from it 230 28', reprefenting the circle
o N o M Y. - 8.3
deferibed by the pole of the equator during one revolu- Apparent
tion of the equino&ial points. Let P be the place ^H^aven.
this laft-mentioned pole at fome given time. Round jy Bodies.
P deferibe a circle ABCD, W'hofe diameter AC is iS'k 1 — / 1 i"1
The real fituation of the pole will be in the circumference 262
of this circle j and its place, in this circumference, de- Mathema-
pends on the place of the moon’s afeending node,
Draw EPF and GPL perpendicular to it j let GL be ^^ ^
the colure of the equinoxes, and EF the colure of the tOT be fup-
folftices. Dr Bradley’s obfervations {bowed that the pofed to
pole was in A when the node was in L, the vernal equi- defenbe a
nox. If the node recede to H, the winter folftice, the circ e"
pole is in B. When the node is in the autumnal equi¬
nox at G, the pole is at C ; and when the node is in
F, the fummer folftice, the pole is in D. In inter¬
mediate fituations of the moon’s afeending node, the
pole is in a point of the circumference ABCD, three
figns or 90° more advanced.
Dr Bradley, by comparing together a great number More exa&
of obfervations, found that the mathematical theory, if an elljpfe
and the calculation depending on it, would correfpond
much better with the obfervations, if an ellipfe were ^circle,
fubftituted for the circle ABCD, making the longer
axis AC 18" and the fhorter, BD, 16". M. d’Alem¬
bert determined, by the phyfical theory of gravitation,
the axis to be 18" and X3'/-4. 264
Thefe obfervations, and this mathematical theory, Thefe ob-
muft be confidered as fo many fafts in aftronomy, and fervations
we muft deduce from them the methods of computing an(^
the places of all celeftial phenomena, agreeable to the °
univerfal praftice of determining every point of the hea- aftronomy,
vens by its longitude, latitude, right afeenfion, and de¬
clination. 265
It is evident, in the firft place, that the equation Obliquity
of the pole’s motion makes a change in the obliquity °f t*56 e-
of the ecliptic. The inclination of the equator to the chptic»
ecliptic is meafured by the arch of a great circle inter¬
cepted between their poles. Nowt, if the pole be in O
inftead of P, it is plain that the obliquity is meafured
by EO inftead of EP. If EP be confidered as the
mean obliquity of the ecliptic, it is augmented by 9"
when the moon’s afeending node is in the vernal equi¬
nox, and confequently the pole in A. It is on the
contrary, diminilhed 9" when the node is in the au¬
tumnal equinox, and the pole in C j and it is equal to
the mean when the node is in the colure of the folftices.
This change of the inclination of the earth’s axis to the
plane of the ecliptic was called the nutation of the
axis by Sir Ifaac Newton.
Dr Bradley alfo difeovered a general and periodical,
motion in all the ftars, which alter a little their relative
fituations. To form an idea of this motion, let us fup¬
pofe that each ftar deferibes annually a fmall circum¬
ference parallel to the ecliptic, whofe centre is the
mean pofition of the ftar, and whofe diameter, as feen
from the earth, fubtends an angle of about 40" 5 and
that it w'as in that circumference as the fun in its orbit,
- but fo that the fun always precedes it by 90°. This
circumference,^projedled upon the furface of the celef¬
tial fphere, appears under the form of an ellipfe, more
or lets flattened according to the height of the ftar
above the equator, the fmaller axis of the ellipfe be¬
ing to the greater axis as the fine of that height to ra¬
dius. Thefe periodical movements of th(? ftars have
received the name of aberrations of the Jixed fars.
L 2 Befides
84 ASTRO
Apparent^ Befides tliefe genei'cil motions, particular motions
the Heaven ^ave ^een detected in feveral liars, exceflively How in¬
ly Bodies, deed, but which a long fucceflion of ages has rendered
C——v- < fenfible. Thefe motions have been chiefly obferved in
Sirius and Arfturus. But aflronomers fuppofe that all
the liars have fimilar motions, which may become evi-
266 dent in procefs of time.
Diitance of No method of aicertaining the diftance of fixed liars
the fixed }lath hitherto been found out. Thofe who have formed
■n^afunible.conje(^ures concerning them, have thought that they
"’were at kail 400,000 times farther from us than we
are from the fun.
rJhey are faid to be fixed, becaufe they have been
generally obferved to keep at the fame diltances from
each other ; their apparent diurnal revolutions being
267 cRufed folely by the earth’s turning on its axis. They
feem aPPear a feeble magnitude to the bare eye, be-
— ^ caufe t1‘ie retina is affefled not only by the rays of light
.yaked eye. which are emitted direflly from them, but by many
thoufands more, which falling upon our eyelids, and
upon the aerial particles about us, are redefled 'into
our eyes fo llrongly as to excite vibrations not only in
thofe points of the retina where the real images of the
liars are formed, but alfo in other points at fome di-
liance round about. This makes us imagine the liars
to be much bigger than they wrould appear if we faw
them only by the few rays which come diredlly from
them, fo as to enter our eyes without being intermixed
with others. Any one may be fenfible of this, by
looking at a liar of the firll magnitude through a long
narrow tube 5 wdrich, though it takes in as much of
the Iky as would hold 1000 fuch liars, yet fcarce ren¬
ders that one vilible.
The more a telefcope magnifies, the lefs is the aper¬
ture through which the liar is feen ; and confequent-
ly, the fewer ray£ it admits into the eye. Now, fince
the liars appear lefs in a telefcope which magnifies 200
times, than they do to the bare eye, infomuch that
they feem to be only indivifible points, it proves at
once that the liars are at immenfe dillances from us,
and that they Ihine by their own proper light. If
they fhone by borrowed light, they would be as invi-
fible without telefcopes as the fatellites of Jupiter are 5
for thefe.fatellites appear bigger when viewed with a
good telefcope than the large!! fixed liars do.
n f Ur Herfchel has propofed a method of afeertaining
the fixed ° t^ie Parallax ^ie fixed liars, fomething fimilar, but
ilars. more complete, than that mentioned by Galileo and
others •, for it is by the parallax of the fixed liars that
wTe Ihould be bell able to determine tbeir dillance.
The method pointed out by Galileo, and firll attempt¬
ed by Hooke, Flamllead, Molineux, and Bradley, of
taking dillances of liars from the zenith that pafs very
near it, has given us a much jufter idea of the immenfe
dillance of the liars, and furnilhed us with an approxi¬
mation to the knowledge of their parallax, that is much
nearer the truth than we ever had before. But Dr
Herfchel mentions the infufficiency of their inltru-
ments, which were fimilar to the prefent zenith fee-
tors, the method of zenith dillances tfeeing liable to
confiderable errors on account of refraction, the change
of pofition of the earth’s axis arifing from nutation,
precellion of the eepainoxes, and other caufes, and the
aberration of the light. The method of his own is by
N O M Y. Part IT.
means of double liars ^ which is exempted from thefe Apparent
errors, and of fuch a nature that the annual parallax, Motions of
even if it fhould not exceed the tenth part of a fecond, ^godt'es'"
may Hill become more vifible, and be afeertained, at r . ^
kail to a much greater degree of approximation than
it has ever been done. This method is capable of eve- ph'd.Tranf,
ry improvement which the tekfeope and mechanifm of vol. IxxiL
micrometers can furnilli. The method audits theoryP*S2*
will be feen by the following inveltigation, extracled
from his paper on the fubjeft. Let O, E, (fig. 90.)
be two oppofitc points in the annual orbit, taken in
the fame plane with two liars #, b, of unequal magni-1
tudes. Let the angle « O be obferved, w hen the
earth is at O, and 17 E £ be obferved when the earth is
at E. From the difference of thefe angles, if there
Ihould be any, wre may calculate the parallax of the
liars, according to the theory fubjoined. 7'hefe two
liars ought to be as near each other as poffible, and
alfo to differ as much in magnitude as we can find
them.
Dr Herfchel’s theory of the annual parallax of
double liars, with the method of computing from thence
wrhat is generally called the parallax of the fixed liars,
or of lingle liars of the firll magnitude, luch as are
nearelt to us, fuppofes, Jh'J}, that the liars, one with
another, are about the fize of the fun 5 and, fecondly,
that the difference of tbeir apparent magnitudes is ow¬
ing to their different diftances; fo that the liar of the
fecond, third, ’or fourth magnitude, is twro, three, or
four times as far 01T as one of the firll. Thefe princi¬
ples which he premifes as pollulata, have fo great a
probability in their favour, that they will hardly be
objefted to by thofe who are in the kail acquainted
with the doftrine of chances. Accordingly, let OE
(fig. 91.) be the wdiole diameter of the earth’s an¬
nual orbit, and let b, c, be three liars fituated in
the ecliptic, in fuch a manner that they may be feen
all in one line O a b c, when the earth is at O. Let
the line Q a b c be perpendicular to OE, and drawr PE
parallel to cOj then, if On, a b, be, are equal to
each other, a will be a liar of the firll magnitude, b of
the fecond, and c of the third. Let us nowT fuppofe
the angle O tz E, or parallax of the whole orbit of the
earth, to be 1" of a degree 5 then we have PE a—O a
Em" : and becaufe very fmall angles, having the
fame fubtenfe OE, may be taken to be in the inverfe
ratio of the lines O a, O b, O c, &c. we lliall have
O b E=r-H', O c Erz-J", &c. Now when the earth i&
removed to E, we lhall have ¥¥*b—JLb o— V', and
PE a—PE b—a E b—f, i. e. the liars a, b, will ap¬
pear to be diflant. We alfo have PE crzE c Q—
f, and PE a—PE czza E czzzf ; i. e. the liars a, cr
will appear to be dillant when the earth is at E.
Now, fince we have b EPzrTh an<3 c EP—1-", there¬
fore b EP—c EP=£ E c=\"—\"=y'; i. e. the liars
b, c, wall appear to be only removed from each
other when the earth is at E, Whence we may de¬
duce the following expreflion, tc denote the parallax
that will become vifible in the change of dillance be¬
tween the two liars, by the removal of the earth from
one extreme of its orbit to the other. Let P exprel’s
the total parallax of a fixed liar of the firll magnitude,
M the magnitude of the largelt of the two liars, m the
magnitude of the fmallell, and p the partial parallax
to
Part II.
Apparent to be obferved by the change in the diftance of a dou-
Motions of m—M _ , i • r j
tlieHeaven-bk ftar j then will Pj and />, being tound
ly Bodies. mm
‘——v——' ^ • ... . T. PMw „ „ c
by obfervation, will give us P~-——. x.. Cr. oup-
pofe a ftar of the firft magnitude fliould have a fmall
liar of the twelfth magnitude near it; then will the
12 X I?
partial parallax we are to expert to fee be ^ y, or
of the total parallax of a fixed flar of the firfl mag¬
nitude j and if we Ihould, by obfervation, find the
partial parallax between two fuch liars to amount to
i", we (hall have the total parallax P
ASTRONOMY.
X X I X 12
i".o9og.
If the liars are
12—i
of die third and twenty-
24—3
'.3428.
fourth magnitude, the partial parallax will be ^ ^ 24
P . and if, by obfervation, /> is found to be a
72
tenth of a fecond, the whole parallax will come ouc
■ i X3 X 24 
24—3
Farther, fuppofe the liars, being ftill in the ecliptic,
to appear in one line, when the earth is in any other
part of its orbit between O and E •, then will the pa¬
rallax Hill be expreffed by the fame algebraic formula,
and one of the maxima will Hill lie at O, the other at
E j but the whole elleft will be divided into two parts,
which will be in proportion to each other as radius —
fine to radius -j- fine of the liars diilance from the
nearelt conjundlion or oppofition.
When the liars are anywhere out of the ecliptic,
fituated fo as to appear in one line O a b c perpendicu¬
lar to OE, the maximum of parallax will Hill be ex-
-M
expreffion for which will be
A
-M,
x ss
'RR ‘
H
B b (or D </):
J-
P S
2 R
the value of p into this exprellion, we ootain
J'
Apparent
,1 r t cl', l' Motions of
and by lubftituting theHeaveIW
ly Bodies.
-M
2 M 771
SS ,
xiSC+I’
as above. When the Itars
P • but there will arife another ad-
preffed Sy .
ditional parallax in the conjunclion and oppofition,
which will be to that which is found 90° before or af¬
ter the fun, as the fine (.S’) of the latitude of the liars
feen at O is to the’radius (R)j and the effe61 of this
parallax will be divided into two parts j half of it ly¬
ing on one fide of the large liar, the other half on the
other fide of it. This latter parallax, moreover, will
be compounded with the former, fo that the diltance
of the liars in the conjundlion and oppofition will then
be reprefented by the diagonal of a parallelogram,
whereof the two femiparallaxes are the fides ; a general
are in the pole of the ecliptic, b q will become equal
A M
to Z>Q^and B b will be 7071 Again, let;
the liars be at fome diilance, <?. g. 5" from each other,
and let them both be in the ecliptic. This cafe is re-
folvable into the firll •, for imagine the liar a (fig- 92-)
to Hand at v, and in that fituation the liars x, b, c,
will be in one line, and their parallax expreffed by
But the angle <7 E .r may be taken to be
M wz _
equal to a O x; and as the foregoing formula gives
us the angles x b x Y. c, we are to add a E .v or 5"
to x E b, and we lhall have aYb. In general, let the
dillance of the liars be r/, and let the obferved diilance
at E be D, then will D=d-\-p, and therefore the
whole parallax of the annual orbit will be expreffed by
D M 771 M 771 
771 M
Suppofe the two flars now to differ only in latitude,
one being in the ecliptic, the other, e. g. 5 north
when feen at O. This cafe may alfo be refolved by
the former j for imagine the liars c, (fig. 91.) to
be elevated at right angles above the plane of the fi¬
gure, fo that a O b, or a O c, may make an angle of 5,"
at O ; then, inltead of the line O a b c, E tf, E b, E c>
EP, imagine them all to be planes at right angles to
the figure j and it will appear that the parallax of the
liars in longitude mull be the fame as if the fmall liar
had been without latitude. And fince the liars b, c,
by the motion of the earth from O to E, will not
change their latitude, we lhall have the following con-
llrudlion for finding the diilance of the liars a b, tic,
at E, and from thence the parallax B. Let the tri¬
angle a b (S (fig. 94.) reprefent the fituation of the
liars j is the fubtenfe of 5", the angle under which
they are fuppofed to be feen at O. The quantity b ;
771—M.
2 M P
for the liars will apparently deferibe two ellipfes in the
heavens, whofe tranfverfe axes will be to each other in
the ratio of M to 7n (fig. 93.), and A <7, B C r,
Vi d, will be the cotemporary fituations. Now, if b
be drawn parallel to AC, and the parallelogram b q
BQ^be completed we lhall have Z» Q_=r 4 C A—*-
c a— 4 C p, or femiparallax 90° before or after the
fun, and B b may be refolved into, or is compound¬
ed of, b Q^and b q ; but b q~\- BD—4 b d — the fe-
miparallax in the conjunction or oppofition. We alfo
therefore the diftance
have R : S
by the former theorem is found,  P, which is
J 1V1 771
the partial parallax that would have been feen by the
earth’s moving from O to E, if both liars had been in
the ecliptic 5 but on account of the difference in lati¬
tude, it will be nowr reprefented by a g, the hypothe-
nufe of the triangle ab : therefore, in general, put-
/DD—ddx M irt
ting a b—d, and a /3rrD, we have V  
— P. Hence D being taken by obfervation, and dr
M, and 771, given, we obtain the total parallax.
If the fituation of the liars differs in longitude as well
as latitude, we may refolve this cafe by the following
method. Let the triangle a b fS (fig. 169.) reprefent
the fituation of the liars, a b—d being their dillance
feen at O, a /SrrD their dillance feen at E. That the
change b ji, which is produced by the earth’s motion
. n- 1 1 m—
will be truly expreued by -rr-; P may be proved aa
M 77Z
before, by fuppofing the liar a to have been placed at
86
ASTRONOMY. Part II.
Apparent
Motions of
theHeaven-
ly Bodies
*. Now let the angle of pofition b a uhe taken by a
micrometer, or by any other method fufficiently exa6t $
then, by folving the triangle ab k, we (hall have the Ion.
gitudinal and latitudinal differences a « and £ « of the
two liars. Put a u~x, b a—y, and it will be x-^-bp
~ 0 q, whence D
MP
VD1—v1 x VPw—ixhn
M.
+ y y; and
-M
:P.
If neither of the liars fliould be in the ecliptic, nor
have the fame longitude or latitude, the laft theorem
will {till ferve to calculate the total parallax whofe
maximum will lie in E. There will, moreover, arife
another parallax, whofe maximum will be in the con¬
junction and oppofition, which will be divided, and lie
on different lides of the large liar ; but as we know the
W'hole parallax to be exceedingly frnall, it will not be
neceffary to inveltigate every particular cafe of this
kind ; for by reafon of the divifion of the parallax,
which renders obfervations taken at any other time,
except where it is greateft, very unfavourable, the for¬
mulas would be of little ufe. Dr Herfchel clofes his
account of this theory with a general obfervation on
the time and place where the maxima of parallax will
happen.
When two unequal liars are both in the ecliptic, or,
not being in the ecliptic, have equal latitudes, north
or fouth, and the largell liar has moll longitude 5 the
maximum of the apparent dillance will be when the
fun’s longitude is 90 degrees more than the liars, or
when obferved in the morning 5 and the minimum
when the longitude of the fun is 90 degrees lefs than
that of the liars, or when obferved in the evening.
When the Imall liar has molt longitude, the maximum
and minimum, as well as the time of obfervation, will
he the reverfe of the former. When the liars differ in
latitudes, this makes no alteration in the place of the
maximum or minimum, nor in the time of obferva¬
tion j i. e. it is immaterial whether the largeff liar has
the lealt or the greatell dillance of the two liars.
Chap. VI. Of the Figure of the Earth-
Having now deferibed the apparent motions of the
heavenly bodies, let us return to the earth, in order to
examine the information which has been colle&ed con-
cerning its figure.
Earth fphe- We have feen already, that the earth is fpherical.
rical. The force of gravity conllantly directed towards its
centre retains bodies on its furface, though lituated on
places diametrically oppofite, or though antipodes to
each other. The fun and liars appear always" above
the earth ; for above and below are merely relative to
2^o the direction of gravity.
Dimenfions AsToon as the fpherical figure of the earth was dif-
hqw afeer- covered, curiolity naturally led men to endeavour to
tamed. meafure its dimenfions. Hence it is probable, that at¬
tempts of that nature were made in very ancient times.
The reference which feveral of the ancient meafures
have to the fize of the globe is a confirmation of this.
But among the moderns Picard was the firft who exe¬
cuted the talk with any degree of fuccefs. He mea-
fured a degree of the meridian in France about the Apparent
middle of the 17th century, Motions of
Since a meridian, or any other circle on a fphere, t^^eoaVn"
may be conceived to be divided into 360 equal parts, . ^ 1 '^*r
called degrees, and thefe into minutes and feconds, as
explained by the writers on trigonometry, the circum¬
ference of the earth, and thence its diameter, may be
determined by meafuring the length of a degree on the
meridian or any other great circle. To perform this
important problem, there have been various methods
invented by different philofophers of early and later
times 5 one of thefe methods, which unites confider-
able accuracy with great facility, will be readily under-
Hood from fig. 95. where PB and ST reprefent two
mountains or very high buildings, the dillance PS
between which muff be very nicely determined by
longimetry : then, by meafuring the angles RBT and
RTB with an accurate inllrument, their fum taken
from 1800 leaves the angle BRT, which is meafured
alfo by the arc PS j whence PS is known in parts of
the whole circle. Thus, if the angle BTR be 89°
45' 32", the angle TBR 89° 54' 28", and the diltance
PS 23-/5- Englilh miles; then the angle R or arc PS
being equal to x8o°—89° 45' $2"zB"—20',
it will be, as 20' : 6o' or 1° : : 23TT : 69-5- Englilh
miles, length of a degree. Hence the circumference
of the earth is (according to this example) 24912
miles, and its diameter nearly 7930 miles.-—A material
advantage attending this method is, that there is no oc-
calion to meafure the altitudes of the mountains, an
obje6l which can feldom be attained without confider-
able difficulty.
The method which is given above is, it mull be
confeffed, as well as all the other methods which aim
at the meafurement of a degree without having re-
courfe to the heavenly bodies, liable to feme inaccu¬
racy ; for, by reafon of the changes in the Hate of the
atmofphere, dillant terreftrial obje6ts never appear in
their true places; they always feem more or lefs ele¬
vated or dillant, according to the nature of the feafon,
and the time of the day. On this account—and be-
caufe it could not efcape obfervation, that as perfons
changed their fituation on the earth by moving towards
the north or the fouth, the liars and other heavenly
bodies either increafed or decreafed their apparent alti¬
tudes proportionally—the meafurement of a degree
was attempted, even by the earlieff philofophers, by
means of known fixed liars. Every perfon who is ac¬
quainted with plane trigonometry will admit, that the
dillance of two places, north and fouth of each other,
may be accurately meafured by a feries of triangles; for
if we meafure the diftance of any two objects, and take
the angles which each of them make with a third, the
triangle formed by the three obje£is will become
known; fo that the other two fides may be as truly
determined by calculation, as if they had been actu¬
ally meafured. And by making either of thefe fides
the bafe of a new triangle, the diftances of other ob-
je£l$ may be found in the fame manner; and thus by
a feries of triangles, properly connected at their bafes,
we might mealure any part of the circumference of
the earth. And if thefe dillances were reduced to
the north and fouth, or meridian line, and the altitude
of fame liar was meafured at the extremities of the
diltancer
I
Part II.
Apparent
Motions of
theHeaven-
ly Bodies.
ASTRONOMY.
S7
271
Different
meafure-
ments.
diliance, the difference of the altitudes would be equal
to the length of the grand lines in degrees, minutes, &c.
whence the length of a degree would be known. This
method was, we believe, firft praftifed by Eratofthenes
in Egypt; and has been frequently ufed fince with
greater and greater accuracy, in proportion as the in-
ftruments for taking angles became, by gradual im¬
provements, more exa£t and minute.
By this method, or fome others not widely different,
and which it is needlefs here to explain, the length of
a degree has been meafured in different parts of the
earth •, the refults of the mod noted of thefe admea-
furements it may be proper to give.
Snell found the length of a degree by two different
methods : by one method he made it 57064 Paris
toifes, or 342384 feet j and by the other 57057 toifes,
or 342342 feet.
M. Picard, in 1669, found by menfuration from
Amiens to Malvoifin, the quantity of a degree to be
57060 toifes, or 342360 feet ; being nearly an arith¬
metical mean between the numbers of Snell.
Our countryman Norwood, about the year 1635,
(by meafuring between London and York, determined
a degree at 367196 Englifh feet, or 57300 Paris
toifes, or 69 miles 288 yards.
Mufchenbroek, in 1700, with a view of correfting
the errors of Snell, found by particular obfervations
that the degree between Alcmaer and Bergen-op-zoom
contained 57033 toiles.
Meffrs. Maupertuis, Clairaut, Monnier, and others
from France, were fent on a northern expedition, and
be^an their operations in July 1736 5 they found the
length of a degree in Srveden to be 57439 toifes, when
reduced to the level of the fea. About the fame time
Meffrs. Godin, Bouguer, and Condamine, from France,
with fome philofophers from Spain, were fent to South
America, and meafured a degree in the province of
Quito in Peru 5 the medium of their refults gives about
56750 toifes for a degree.
M. de la Caille, being at the Cape of Good Hope
in 1752, found the length of a degree our the meridian
there to be 57037 toifes. In 1755 Father Bofcovich
found the -length of a degree between Rome and Ri¬
mini in Italy to be 56972 toifes.
In 1764, F. Beccaria meafured a degree near Tu¬
rin •, from his meafuremenfhe deduced the length of a
degree there 57024 toifes. At Vienna the length of
a degree was found 57091 toifes.
And in 1766 Meffrs. Mafon and .Dixon meafured a
degree in Maryland and Pennfylvania, North America,
which they determined to be 363763 Engliili feet, or
569047- Paris toifes.
The difference of thefe meafures leads us to conclude
that the earth is not exactly fpherical, but that its axis
which paffes through the poles, is fiiorter than that
which paffes through thq equator. But the obferva¬
tions which have been made to determine the magni¬
tude and figure of the earth, have not hitherto led to
refults completely fatisfadlbry. They have indeed de-
monftrated the compreffion or oblatenefs of the terre-
ftrial fpheroid, but they have left an uncertainty as to
the quantity of that compreffion, extending from about
the 170th, to the 330th part of the radius of the equa¬
tor. Between thefe two quantities, the former of
which is nearly double of the latter, molt of the re¬
fults are placed, but in ffich a manner that thofe bell Apparent
entitled to credit are much nearer to the leaft extreme t^^‘c°“en.
than to the greateff. Sir Ifaac Newton, as is well jy gc,c|ies>
known, fuppofmg the earth to be of uniform denfity, C—y-—
affigned for the compreffion at the poles 7^? nearly a
mean between the two limits juft mentioned ; and it is
probable, that, if the compreffion is lefs than this, it
is owing to the increafe of the denfity toward the
centre. Bofcovich, taking a mean from all the mea¬
fures of degrees, fo as to make the pofitive and nega¬
tive errors equal, found the difference of the axis of
the meridian ~
248"
By comparing the degrees mea¬
fured by Father Leifganic in Germany, with eight
others that have been meafured in different latitudes,
La Lande finds anc^j fuppreffing the degree in
Lapland, which appears to err in excefs, for
the cdmpreflion. La Place makes it j Sejour
3°7
and, laftly, Carouge and La Lande
300
272
Thefe anomalies have induced fome aftronomers, sUpp0fe<i
efpecially M. de la Place, to give up the fpheroidal fi- figure of
gure of the earth altogether, to fuppofe that it is not1*16 eard'-
a folid of revolution, and that its furface is a curve of
double curvature. Mr Playfair, on the other hand,
in an excellent differtation on the fubjedt, publifhed in
the fifth volume of the Edinburgh Tranfadlions, fup-
pofes, that the anomalies may be owing to the differ¬
ent deniities of the ftrata near the furface where the
degrees w’ere meafured, occafioning errors in the inea-
furement.
The pofition of the different places on the earth’s Latitudea
furface is determined by their diftance from the equa-an(^ ^onS^
tor, called their latitude, and from a firft meridian* 11
called their longitude. The latitude is eafily afcer-
tained by obferving the height of the pole : The lon¬
gitude is calculated by obferving fome celeftial pheno¬
menon, as an eclipfe of Jupiter’s fatellites at the fame
inftant in two places fituated in different meridians.
The difference in point of apparent time in the two
places, gives their diftance eaft or weft from each
other, and confequently the difference of their longi¬
tude ; for it is not noon at the fame time in all the dif¬
ferent parts of the earth’s furface. When it is noon
at London, it is only eleven o’clock in all the places
150 weft from London, while it is one o’clock in all
places 150 eaft from London. Every 150 eaft or weft
caufes the difference of an hour. Hence the differ¬
ence in time, when any celellial phenomenon is ob-
ferved, gives us the diftance eaft and weft, or in lon¬
gitude, between the places where it is obferved.
The eclipfes of Jupiter’s fatellites are of the greateft
fervice in determining the longitudes of places on this
earth, aftronomers therefore have been at great pains
to calculate tables for the eclipfes of thefe fatellites by
their primary, for the fatellites themfelves have never
been obferved to eclipfe one another. The conftruc-
tion
tudes how-
found*
S8
Apparent
'Motion; of
■theHeaven-
ly bodies.
Fig. ()<}.
JPhilofophl-
tal Ma¬
gazine, vol.
XV. p. 97.
274
Mr Lowe’s
-method of
finding the
longitude.
ASTRO
tion of fuch tables is indeed much caller for thefe fa-
teliites than of any other celeitial bodies, as their mo¬
tions are much more regular.
'The Englifh tables are calculated for the meridian
of Greenwich, and by thefe it is very eafy to find how
•many degrees of longitude any place is dilfant either
eatt or weft from Greenwich 5 for, let an obferver,
•who has thefe tables, with a good telefcope and a well-
regulated clock at any other place of the earth, ob-
-ferve the beginning or ending of an eclipfe of one of
Jupiter’s fatellites, and note the precife moment of time
that he he faw the fatellite either immerge into, or
•emerge out of, the fhadow, and compare that time
with the time Ihow'n by the tables for Greenwich :
then 15 degrees difterence of longitude being allowed
for every hour’s difference of time, will give the lon¬
gitude of that place from Greenwich ; and if there be
any odd minutes of time, for every minute a quarter of
a degree, eaft or weft, muft be allowed, as the time of
■obfervation is later or earlier than the time fhown by
the tables. Such eclipfes are very convenient for this
purpofe at land, becaufe they happen aimoffc every
day ", but are of no ufe at fea, becaufe the rolling of
the fhip hinders all nice telefcopical obfervatiorys.
To explain this by a figure, let J be Jupiter, K, L,
M, N, his four fatellites in their refpedfive orbits, 1, 2,
3, 4 j and let the earth be at F (fuppofe in November,
although that month is no otherwife material than to
find the earth readily in this fcheme, where it is fhown
in eight different parts of the orbit). Let Qj)e a
place on the meridian of Greenwich, and R a place on
fome other meridian eaftward from Greenwich. Let
a perfon at R obferve the inftantaneous vanifhing of
the firft fatellite K into Jupiter’s fhadow, fuppofe at
three o’clock in the morning 3 but by the tables he
finds the immerfion of that fatellite to be at midnight
at Greenwich 3 he then can immediately determine,
that as there are three hours difference of time between
Qand K, and that R is three hours forwarder in rec¬
koning than Q^it muft be 45 degrees of eaft: longitude
from the meridian of Were this method as practi¬
cable at fea as at land, any failor might almoft as eafi-
ly, and with equal certainty, find the longitude as the
latitude.
From its impracticability, the feaman is obliged to
have recourfe to other celeftial phenomena, and the
moft ufeful are the motions of tbe moon. On this
fubject, we fhall fatisfy ourfelves with inferting the
following obfervations of Mr Lowe, who has pointed
out a very fimple method of afeertaining the lon¬
gitude on land.
Although the method of determining the difference
of longitude at fea from the lunar obfervations has
been accurately laid down by Dr Mafkelyne and other
able nautical aftronomers, it has, however, happened
that feveral writers on longitude and aftronomy have,
in the courfe of the laft twenty years, given rules for
finding the difference of longitude at land from the
moon’s tranfits, either fo erroneous or imperfedt, that
the adoption thereof might do a ferious injury both to
navigation and geography : they have given examples,
but no demonftrations 3 or at leaft fuch obfeure and
imperfect ones, as prove that they had not a clear con¬
ception of the matter.
N O M Y. _ i Part II.
It is for thefe reafons that the following demonftra- Apparent
tion of a rule both eafy and accurate for finding the Motions of
difference of longitude Is now propofed. The data are
the obferved increafe of the moon’s right afeenfion in y ^
pafting from the firft to the fecond meridian, and the
increafe of the fun’s and moon’s right afeenfion in
twelve hours apparent time, which may be had from
the Nautical Almanack.
Dcmovjlration.—Let the circle ABC reprefent the Fig. 97,
equator, P its pole, and APD the firft meridian, as
that of Greenwich. Suppofe that the centres of the
fun, the moon, and a fixed liar, are on that meridian at
the fame moment of time as reprefented at A, and that
they move from thence to the w'eftward wuth their re-
fpedlive velocities, the earth being confidered as at reft.
Then, after twelve hours apparent time, the fun will
be at D, the oppofite point to A, or 1 8o° diftant from
it; but the fixed ftar, moving in appearance over a
greater (pace than 18o° in twelve hours apparent time,
will be at E 3 while the moon, with a motion appa¬
rently (lower than the fun and the ftar, will appear af¬
ter tw’elve hours at the point B, or on a meridian BP.
But ED is the diftance of the fun from the ftar after*
an interval of twelve hours apparent time, and EB the
diftance of the moon, or, in other words, the increafe
of their refpeftive right afeenfions : and fince ED and
EB are known from the Nautical Almanack, if we
fubtradl the firft from the laft, we have DB, equal to
the difference between the increafe of the fun’s and
moon’s right afeenfion in twelve hours apparent time.
Now the difference of longitude between the txvo me¬
ridians AP and BP is the arc A/3 B, equal to A /3 D
lefs the arc DB 3 that is, equal to 18o° lefs the differ¬
ence between the increafe of the fun’s and moon’s right
afeenfion in twelve hours 3 and, fince the increafe of
the moon’s right afeenfion from the time of its pafting
the meridian AP to the time of its pafling BP is
known from obfervation, and equal to EB, wTe can
make the following proportion for finding the differ¬
ence of longitude between any other twTo meridians,
AP and /3 P, from the obferved increafe of the moon’s
right afeenfion {/3.
As EB : A /3 D—DB : : t ft : A (S the difference of
longitude 3 or, in more familiar language, as the in¬
creafe of the moon’s right afeenfion in twelve hours ap¬
parent time is to 180° or iz b. lefs the difference be¬
tween the increafe of the fun’s and moon’s right af¬
eenfion in that time : : fo is any other obferved in¬
creafe of the moon’s right afeenfion between twTo me¬
ridians : to their difference of longitude.
If the increafe of the moon’s right afeenfion in 12
hours w'ere uniform, or fuch that equal parts of it
W’ould be produced in equal times, the above rule
would be ftriftly accurate 3 but as that increafe arifes
from a motion continually accelerated or retarded, aitd
feldom uniform but for a (hort fpace of time, it will
therefore be neceffary to find the mean increafe of the
moon’s right afeenfion when it is at the intermediate
point between A and ft, in order to determine their
difference of longitude with the greateft precifion 3 and
for that purpofe, Taylor’s Tables of Second Difference
are very ufeful.
Example.—April the 8th, 1800, the tranfit of the
moon’s firft limb wras obferved at the royal obfervato-
2
ran II. ASTRONOMY.
89
Apparent ry (A) *, and, allowance being made for the error of
Motions of t}le clock, its right afcenfion was
theHeaven- H M_ Scc_
ly Bodies.
■ —t_ 12 35 18.22
Add the time that the moon’s femi-
diameter took to pafs the meridian o 1 8.38
Right afcenfion of the moon’s centre 12 36 26.6
On a meridian (/3) far to the weft-
ward the tranfit of the moon’s firft limb
was obferved the fame day, and being
reduced to the centre, its right afcen-
iaon was - - - 12 47 56.7
Increafe of right afcenfion between
A and /3 - - - on 30.1
The increafe of the moon’s right af¬
cenfion in 12 hours apparent time per
the Nautical Almanac was - o 26 3
The increafe of the fun’s in the fame
time - - - - 01 49.65
Difference - - - o 24 13.35
And 12 hours minus this difference is rr 11 h. 35 m.
46.65 fee.; therefore, as 26 m. 3 fee. : 11 h. 35 m.
46.65 fee. : : 11 m. 30.1 fee. to 5 h. 7 m. 12 fee. the
correft difference of longitude between A and /3.
By reducing the three terms to feconds, and ufing
logarithms, the operation is much fhortened.
In a book publifhed by Mr Mackay on longitude
about 15 or 16 years ago, there is a rule given, and
alfo an example, for finding the difference of longitude
at land from the tranfits of the moon, but no demon-
ftration. The rule, when divefted of its high-founding
enunciation, runs thus :
As the increafe of the moon’s right afcenfion in 12
hours apparent time : is to 18o° : : fo is any other ob¬
ferved increafe between two meridians : to their differ¬
ence of longitude. It follows from this, that the moon
as well as the fun would, in 1 2 hours apparent time,
pafs over an arc of 180°, although the apparent mo¬
tion of the moon to the weftward in 12 hours, or 18o°
of fpace, be lefs than that of the fun by fix or feven
degrees •, and fo much error would this method pro¬
duce, if the two places differed about 180° in longi¬
tude.
The above example, wrought according to Mac-
kay’s rule, would come out thus :
H. M. Sec.
As 26m. 3fec.: 12I1. :: 11 m. 30.1 fee. to 5 17 53.7
But the correft difference as above is 5 712
Error - - - o 10 41.7
which amounts to more than 2-?°, or 150 miles, in a
difference of longitude little exceeding five hours.
Mr Edward Pigot adopts the very fame rule for de¬
termining the difference of longitude between Green¬
wich and York, and ftates the refult in the Philofo-
yhical Tranfaftions for 1786, p. 417.
Mr Vince has inferted this rule and example in his
Treatife of Praftical Aftronomy •, but we have to re¬
gret that they wTere not accompanied with a ftrift de-
monftration.
The Rev. Mr Wollafton, in the appendix to his
Vol. III. Part I.
Fafciculus S/Jlronomicus, publifhed two or three years Apparent
ago, has given a rule, without demonftration or ex-
ample, for finding the difference of longitude from the j30^ies.
moon’s tranfits, which produces the fame error as -v—
Mackay’s and Pigot’s, although worded differently
from theirs. Mr Wollafton makes the firft term of his
proportion apparent, and the third mean time ; this
renders the refult erroneous. Since the motion of the
fun, moon, and planets are computed for apparent
time, and given fo in the Nautical Almanack, mean
time is not at all requifite for refolving the difference
of longitude either at fea or at land. We fhall there¬
fore endeavour to apply Mr Wollafton’s rule, accord¬
ing to its literal meaning, for finding the difference of
longitude from the above obfervations.
The right afcenfion of the moon’s centre on the me¬
ridian of Greenwich being known, we can eafily de¬
duce the mean and apparent time correfponding to it j
and in like manner the mean and apparent time at the
diftant meridian j3. The apparent and mean time of
the tranfits of the moon’s centre over the meridians of
A and /}, when ftri&ly computed, were as follows :
apparent Time. Mean Time.
H. M. Sec. H. M. Sec.
At A - - ii 26 47.81 II 28 33.5
Ax a ± - 11 37 29.5 11 39 11.4
Time later at/3 than at A o 10 41.69 o 10 37.9
From the increafe of
the moon’s right afcen¬
fion in 12 hours - 26 3
Subtraft the increafe
of the fun’s right afcen¬
fion in that time - 1 49.65
The mopn’s retarda¬
tion in 12 hours - 24 13.35
Then, “ As twice the moon’s retardation in 12
hours : is to 24 hours : : '
“ So is the mean time later at p, than at A : to the
difference of longitude weft from A.”
After doubling 24 m.*!3.35 fee. and alfo 12, which
is totally unneceffary, as the refult would be the fame
if they flood the fingle, we ftate the following propor¬
tion :
As 48 m. 26.7 fee.: 24 h. : : 10 m. 37.9 fee. to 5 h.
15 m. 1.3 fee. the difference of longitude between A
and fi.
But as the third term is improperly reduced to mean
time, we {hall take the apparent time above found,
and then 48 m. 26.7 fee. : 24 h. : : 10 m. 41.69 fee. to
5 h. 17 m. 53.7 fee. *, the fame as refults from Mac¬
kay’s and Pigot’s rules.
We fhall only remark, that 5 h. 17 m. 53.7 fee. is
the apparent time that the moon took in palling from
the meridian of A to the meridian of £ •, but from what
has been demonftrated, the apparent time at p wall be
equal to the difference betw-een the increafe of the fun’s
and moon’s right afcenfion in that interval of apparent
time 5 for DB, or 24 m. 13.35 fec* is the difference
for 12 hours, and therefore by proportion £ 3, or 10 m.
41.69 fee. will be the difference for 5 b. 17 m. 53.7 fee. j
fubtradling the former from the latter, w^e have 5 h.
7 m. 12 fee. the difference of longitude as before, and
M a
9o A S T R
Apparent a clear proof that the authors above mentioned have
th^Hto deduct the apparent time at the diftant
ly Bodies.' P\ace or flation , from the apparent time at Green-
A very important fad! relative to the earth has been
afcertained by aftronomers, namely, that the weight of
bodies does not continue the fame .when carried to dif¬
ferent parts of it. It is impoflible to afcertain this va¬
riation by the balance, becaufe it affefts equally the
bodies weighed and the weight by which we ellimate
its gravity. But the pendulum aft'ords a certain me¬
thod of detecting every fuch change } becaufe the num¬
ber of ofcillations made by a given pendulum in a
given time depends upon the force of gravity. The fmall-
er that force, the fewer vibrations will it make. There¬
fore, if the force of gravity diminilh, the pendulum
O N O M Y. Part Iir.
will move flower j if it increafes, it will ofcillate with Apparent
more celerity. In different pendulums the flowmefs of Motions of
vibration is proportional to the length of the pendulum: t,|'
If a pendulum be lengthened it moves flower, if it be * ~ y j
fhortened it moves fwifter than before. Mr Richer
in a voyage made to Cayenne, found that the pendu¬
lum of his clock did not vibrate fo frequently there, as it
did when at Paris j but that it was neceffary to fhorten
it by about the eleventh part of an inch to make it vi¬
brate in exadf feconds. The nearer the equator a pen¬
dulum is placed it vibrates the flower, the nearer the
pole it is placed it vibrates the fafter. Hence it fol¬
lows that the force of gravity is greateft at the poles,
and that it gradually diminifhes as we approach the
equator, where it is fmallell.
Part III. OF THE REAL MOTIONS OF THE HEAVENLY BODIES.
We have now enumerated and explained the ap¬
parent motions of the heavenly bodies. Nothing can
appear more intricate and perplexed, or more remote
from wdiat we are accuftomed to confider as the fim-
plicity of nature. Hence mankind, have in all ages
been tempted to confider them as merely apparent and
not real; and the objedl of aftronomers has always been
to deteft the real motions of the heavenly bodies from
thofe which they exhibit to the eye of a fpedlator on
the earth. Neither induftry nor addrefs was fpared
to gain this definable end. Hypothefis wras formed
after hypothefis 5 every new fuppofition was a flep to-,
wards the truth ; and at laft the real motions have not
only been afcertained but demonilrated in the moft
fatisfadlory manner. It ihall be our objeft in this part
of our treatife to lay before our readers the refult of
thefe difcovenes.
Chap. I. Of the Rotation of the Earth.
We find that the fun, and thofe planets on which
there are vifible fpots, turn round their axis : for the
ipots move regularly over their difks (b). From hence
we may reafonably conclude, that the other planets on
which we fee no fpots, and the earth, which is likewife
-a planet, have fuch rotations. But being incapable of
leaving the earth, and viewing it at a dillance, and its
rotation being fmooth and uniform, we can neither fee
it move on its axis as we do the planets, nor feel our-
Argument felves affe&ed by its motion. Yet there is one effeft of
for the fuch a motion, which will enable us to judge with cer-
earth’s mo- tainty whether the earth revolves on its axis or not.
tion from yyj globes which do not turn round their axis will be
dal figure Perfe<^ fpheres, on account of the equality of the weight
of bodies on their furfaces ; efpecially of the fluid parts.
But all globes which turn on their axis will be oblate
fpheroids 5 that is, their furfaces will be higher or far¬
ther from the centre in the equatorial than in the po¬
lar regions \ for as the equatorial parts move quickefl,
they wall recede fartheft from the axis of motion, and
enlarge the equatorial diameter. That our earth is
really of this figure, is demonftrable from the unequal
vibrations of a pendulum, and the unequal lengths of
degrees in different latitudes. Since then the earth is
higher at the equator than at the poles, the fea, which
naturally runs dowmvard, or toward the places which
are neareft the centre, w7ould run towards the polar re¬
gions, and leave the equatorial parts dry, if the cen¬
trifugal force of thefe parts, by which the waters were
carried thither, did not keep them from returning.
Tire earth’s equatorial diameter is 36 miles longer than
its axis. _ ,
Bodies near the poles are heavier than thofe towards Weight of
the equator, becaufe they are nearer the earth’s centre, bodies
where the whole force of the earth’s attraction is accu-mcrea^es
mulated. They are alfo heavier, becaufe their centri-^
fugal force is lefs, on account of their diurnal motion1
being flower. For both thefe reafons, bodies carried
from the poles towards the equator gradually lofe
their weight. Experiments prove, that a pendulum
■which vibrates feconds near the poles vibrates flower
near the equator, which fliows that it is lighter or lefs
attrafted there. To make it ofcillate in the fame time,
it is found neceffary to diminifli its length. By com¬
paring the different lengths of pendulums fwinging
feconds at the equator and at London, it is found
that a pendulum muff be hues fliorter at the
equator than at the poles. A line is a twelfth part of
an inch.
If the earth turned round its axis in 84 minutes 43
feconds, the centrifugal force would be equal to the.
power of gravity at the equator } and all bodies there
would entirely lofe their weight. If the earth revolved
quicker, they would all fly off and leave it.
A perfon on the earth can no more be fenfible of its
undifturbed motion on its axis, than one in the cabin
of
(b) This, however, muff be underffood with fome degree of limitation, as will evidently appear from what
has been already faid concerning the variable motion both of the fpots of the fun and planets.
Tart III. A S T R
Real Mo- of a Palp on fmooth water can be fenfible of the (hip’s
tions of when it turns gently and uniformly round. It
^Body's^ ’s therefore no argument againft the earth’s diurnal
; ' motion, that we do not feel it; nor is the apparent
revolutions of the celeftial bodies every day a proof of
the reality of thefe motions y for whether we or they
revolve, the appearance is the very fame. A perfon
looking through the cabin windows of a fhip, as
Itrongly fancies the objefts on land to go round when
the Ihip turns as if they were actually in motion.
Earth’s mo- If we could tranllate ourfelves from planet to planet,
tion proved we that the ftars would appear of the
cel ell i a fa -^ame magnitudes, and ut the fame dillances from each
peanmccs^ other, as they do to us here ; becaufe the width of the
from differ- remote!! planet’s orbit bears no fenfible proportion to
cm planets, the diltance of the flars. But then the heavens would
feem to revolve about very different axes ; and confe-
quently, thofe quiefcent points, which are our poles in
the heavens, would feem to revolve about other points,
which, though apparently in motion as feen from the
earth, would be at reft as feen from any other planet.
Thus the axis of Venus, which lies at right angles to
the axis of the earth, would have its motionlefs poles
in two oppofite points of the heavens lying almoft in
our equinoctial, where the motion appears quickeft,
becaufe it is feemingly performed in the greateft circle :
and the very poles, which are at reft to us, have the
quickeft motion of all as feen from Venus. To Mars
and Jupiter the heavens appear to turn round with
very different velocities on the fame axis, whofe poles
are about 23-J degrees from ours. Were wre on Jupi¬
ter, wre fhould be at firft amazed at the rapid motion of
the heavens 5 the fun and ftars going round in 9 hours
56 minutes. Could wre go from-thenceAo Venus, wre
ftrould be as much furprifed at the flownefs of the hea¬
venly motions *, the fun going but once round in 584
hours, and the ftars in 540. And couM we go from
Venus to the moon, we drould fee the heavens turn
round with a yet fiowrer motion ; the fun in 708 hours,
the ftars in 655. As it is impoffible thefe various cir¬
cumvolutions in fuch different times, and on fuch dif¬
ferent axes, can be real, fo it is unreafonable to fuppofe
the heavens to revolve about' our earth more than it
does about any other planet. When we refleCt on the
vaft diftance of the fixed itars, to wdiich 190,000,000
of miles, the diameter of the earth’s orbit, is but a
point, we are filled with 'amazement at the immenfity
of the diftance. But if we try to frame an idea of
the extreme rapidity with which the ftars muft move,
if they move round the earth in 24 hours, the thought
becomes fo much too big for our imagination, that we
can no more conceive it than we do infinity or eternity.
If the fun was to go round the earth in 24 hours, he
muft travel upwards of 300,000 miles in a minute : but
the ftars being at leaft 400,000 times as far from the
iun as the fun is from us, thofe about the equator muft
move 400,000 times as quick. And all this to ferve
no other purpofe than what can be as fully and much
more fimply obtained by the earth’s turning round
eaftward as on an axis, every 24 hours, caufing there¬
by an apparent diurnal motion of the fun weftward,
and bringing about the alternate returns of day and
278 night.
Another to j-fog common objections avainlt the earth’s
m> lection • • • « J o
aaftvered. motIon on lts axls> they are all eafily anfwered and fet
O N O M Y. 91
afide. That it may turn without being feetl or felt ft-eal Mo¬
by us to do fo, has been already fhown. But fome
are apt to imagine, that if the earth turns eaftward (as Bodies/
it certainly does if it turns at all), a ball fired perpen- u—v—
dicularly upward in the air muft fall confiderably well-
ward of the place it was projected from. The objec¬
tion which at firft feems to have fome weight, will be
found to have none at all, w hen we confider that the
gun and ball partake of the earth’s motion ; and there¬
fore the ball being carried fomard with the air as
quick as the earth and air turn, rouft fall down on the
fame place. A (tone let fall from the top of a main-
maft, if it meets wuth no obftacle, falls on the deck as
near the foot of the maft when the fliip fails as when
it does not. If an inverted bottle full of liquor be
hung up to the ceiling of the cabin, and a fmall hole
be made in the cork, to let the liquor drop through on
the door, the drops will fall juft as far forward on the
door when the ftiip fails as when it is at reft. And
gnats or dies can as eafily dance among one another
in a moving cabin as in a fixed chamber. As for
thofe Scripture expreflions which feem to contradict
the earth’s motion, this general anfwer may be made
to them all, viz. It is plain from many inftances, that
the Scriptures were never intended to inftruCt us in
philofophy or aftronomy 5 and therefore on thofe fub-
jeCts expreflions are not always to be taken in the li¬
teral fenfe, but for the molt part as accommodated to
the common apprehenfions of mankind. Men of fenfe
in all ages, when not treating of the fciences purpofely,
have followed this method : and it would be in vain
to follow' any other in addreffmg ourfelves to the vul¬
gar, or bulk of any community.
Chap. II. Of the Revolution of the Planets round
the Sun.
Th e apparent motions of the planets lead us to con¬
clude that they all move in orbits nearly circular
round the fun, while the fun moves round the earth :
that the orbits of Venus and Mercury are nearer the
fun than the earth ; but the orbits of the other planets
include the earth within them. All the apparent mo¬
tions are reconcilable to this opinion, and lead us to
form it. It removes all the inexplicable intricacy of
their apparent motions.
But the earth itfelf is a planet, and bears a very ex-
aft refemblance to the reft. Shall we fuppofe all the
other planets to revolve round the fun while it alone
remains ftationary ? Or fliall wTe fuppofe that the earth,
like the Other planets, revolves round the fun in the
courfe of a year ? The phenomena in both cafes will
be exaftly the fame, but the motion of the earth will
reduce the whole fyftem to the greateft fimplicity,
whereas the motion of the fun carrying with it the re¬
volving planets would leave the whole complicated and
involved. Various opinions on this fubjeft have been
maintained by aftronomers.
Concerning the opinion of the very firft aftronomers
about the fyftera of nature, w'e are neceffarily as igno¬
rant as we are of thofe aftronomers themfelves. What-
ever opinions are handed down to us, muft be of a vaft-
ly later date than the introduction of aftronomy a-
mong mankind. If we may hazard a conjefture, how¬
ever, wre are inclined to think that the firft opinions
M2 on
«
92 ASTRONOMY.
Real Mo- on this fubject were much more juft than thofe that afforded by the Ptolemaic hypothefis.
held afterwards for many ages. We
tions of the,
Heavenly-
Bodies.
279
Pythagore¬
an fyitem.
were neld afterwards tor many ages. We are told
that Pythagoras maintained the motion of the earth,
which is now univerfally believed, but at that time
appears to have been the opinion of only a few detach¬
ed individuals of Greece. As the Greeks borrowed
many things from the Egyptians, and Pythagoras had
travelled into Egypt and Phenice, it is probable he
might receive an account of this hypothelis from
thence: but whether he did fo or not, we have
now no means of knowing, neither is it of any im¬
portance whether he did or not. Certain it is, how¬
ever-, that this opinion did not prevail in his days, nor
for many ages after. In the 2d century after Chrift,
the very name of the Pythagorean hypothefis wTas fup-
prefled by a fyftem creeled by the famous geographer
and aftronomer Claudius Ptolemaeus. This fyftem,
<- t which commonly goes by the name of the Ptolemaic,
by the PtpTe feems not to have originally invented, but adopted
iemaic. as the prevailing one of that age and perhaps made
it fomewhat more confiftent than it was before. He
fuppofed the earth at reft in the centre of the univerfe.
Round the earth, and the neareft to it of all the hea¬
venly bodies, the moon performed its monthly revolu¬
tions. Next to the moon wras placed the planet Mer¬
cury ; then Venus 5 and above that the fun, Mars, Ju¬
piter, and Saturn, in their proper orbits ; then the
fphere of the fixed ftars j above thefe, two fpheres
of what he called cry/lalline heavens 5 above thefe was
the primum mobile, which, by turning round once in
24 hours, by fome unaccountable means or other, car¬
ried all the reft along with it. This primum mobile was
encompaffed by the empyrean heaven, which wras of a
cubic form, and the feat of angels and bleffed fpirits.
Befides the motions of all the heavens round the earth
once in 24 hours, each planet was fuppofed to have a
particular motion of its own; the moon, for inftance,
once in a month, performed an additional revolution,
the fun in a year, &c. See fig. 98.
It is eafy to fee, that, on this fuppofition, the con-
fufed motions of the planets already deferibed could
never be accounted for. Had they circulated uniformly
round the earth', their apparent motion ought always
to have been equal and uniform, without appearing
either ft&tionary or retrograde in any part of their
courfes. In confequence of this objection, Ptolemy
was obliged to invent a great number of circles, inter¬
fering with each other, which he called epicycles and
eccentrics. Thefe proved a ready and effectual falvo
for all the defedls of his fyftem as, whenever a planet
w-as deviating from the courfe it ought on his plan to
have followed, it was then only moving in an epicycle
or an eccentric, and would in due time fall into its
proper path. As to the natural caufes by which the
planets were diredled to move in thefe epicycles and
eccentrics, it is no wonder that he found himfelf much
at a lofs, and was obliged to have recourfe to divine
power for an explanation, or in other wrords, to own
that his fyftem was unintelligible.
This fyftem continued to be in vogue till-the begin-
rean fyftem ning of the t6th century, when Nicolaus Copernicus,
revived by a native of Thorn (a city of Regal Pruflia), and a man
opermeus. of great abilities, began to try whether a more fatis-
faeftory manner of accounting for the apparent motions
o£ the heavenly bodies could not be obtained than was
281
Ptolemy’s
fyftem in-
fufficient.
282
Pythago
Part III,
He had recoufe Real Mo.
to every author upon the fubject, to fee whether any hadtions ot the
been more confiftent in explaining the irregular mo-
tions of the ftars than the mathematical fchools: but he , ° leS'
received no*fatisfafticn, till he found firft from Cicero, v
that Nicetas the Syracufan had maintained the motion
of the earth and next from Plutarch, that others of
the ancients had been of the fame opinion. From the
fmali hints he could obtain from the ancients, Coperni¬
cus then deduced a moft complete fyftem, capable of
folving every phenomenon in a fatisfaftqry manner.
From him this lyftem hath ever afterwards been called
the Copernican, and is reprefented fig. 99. Here the
fun is fuppofed to be in the centre ; next him revolves
the planet Mercury 5 then Venus ; next, the Earth,
with the Moon : beyond thefe, Mars, Jupiter, and Sa¬
turn and far beyond the orbit of Saturn, he fuppofed
the fixed ftars to be placed, which' formed the bound¬
aries of the vilible creation.
283
Though this hypothefis afforded the only natural and Tychonic
fatisfadlory folution of the phenomena which fo much^ftcm-
perplexed Ptolemy’s fyftem, it met with great oppofi-
tion at firft ; which is not to be wmndered at, confider-
ing the age in which he lived. Even the famous aftro¬
nomer Tycho Brahe could never affent to the earth’s
motion, which w-as the foundation of Copernicus’s
fcheme. He therefore invented another fyftem, w here-IOO»
by he avoided the aferibing of motion to the earth,
and at the fame time got clear of the difficulties with
which Ptolemy was embarraffed. In this fyftem, the
earth was fuppofed the centre of the orbits of the fun
and moon ; but the fun was fuppofed to be the centre
of the orbits of the five planets ; fo that the fun with
all the planets were by Tycho Brahe fuppofed to turn
round the earth, in order to fave the motion of the
earth round its axis once in 24 hours. This fyftem was
never much followed, the fuperiority of the Copernican
fcheme being evident at firft fight.
The fun is fo immenfely bigger and heavier than the
earth, that, if he w-as moved out of his place, not only
the earth, but all the other planets, if they were united
into, one mafs, wmuld be carried along with the fun as
the pebble wmuld be with the mill-ftone. 284
By confidering the law of gravitation, which takes Fr°m the
place throughout the folar fyftem, in another light, it ProPortlon-
w ill be evident that the earth moves round the fun in a
year, and not the fun round the earth. It has beengcc. ’
obferved, that the pow*er of gravity decreafes as the
fquare of the diftance increafes \ and from this it fol¬
low's with mathematical certainty, that wffen two or
more bodies move round another as their centre of mo¬
tion, the fquares of their periodic times will be to one
another in the fame proportion as the cubes of their
diftances from the central, body. This holds precifely
with regard to the planets round the fun, and the fa-
tellites round the planets} the relative diftances of all
which are wTell known. But, if w7e fuppofe the fun to
move round the earth, and compare its period w ith the
moon’s by the above rule, it will be found that the
fun would take no lefs than 173,510 days to move
round the'earth; in which cafe our year would be 475
times as long as it now' is. To this we may add, that
the afpedls of increafe and decreafe of the planets, the
times of their feeming to ftand {fill, and to move dired!
and retrograde, anfwer precifely to the earth’s motion;
but
Part III. A S 1 R O
Real Mo- but not at all to the fun’s without introducing the moft
tions of the abfurd and monftrous fuppofitions, which would deftroy
^Bodies^ harmony, order, and fimplicity,- in the fyflem.
Moreover, if the earth be fuppofed to ftand Hill, and
the ftars to revolve in free fpaces about the earth in 24
honrs, it is certain that the forces by which the ftars
revolve in their orbits are not direfted to the earth, but
to the centres of the feveral orbits ; that is, of the fe-
veral parallel circles which the liars on different fides
of the equator defcribe every day ; and the like infe¬
rences may be drawn from the fuppofed diurnal mo¬
tion of the planets, fince they are never in the equi-
noflial but twnce in their courfes with regard to the Har¬
ry heavens. But, that forces Ihould be directed to no
central body, on w'hich they phyfically depend, but
to innumerable imaginary points in the axis of the
earth produced to the poles of the heavens, is an hypo-
thefis too abfurd to be allowed of by any rational
creature. And it is Hill more abfurd to imagine that
thefe forces Ihould increafe exactly in proportion to
the ditlances from this axis ; for this is an indication
of an increafe to infinity 5 whereas the force of attrac¬
tion is found to decreafe in receding from the fountain
from whence it Hows. But the farther any dar is from
the quiefcent pole, the greater mud be the orbit which
it defcribes •, and yet it appears to go round in the fame
time as the neared dar to the pole does. And if we
take into confideration the twofold motion obferved in
the dars, one diurnal round the axis of the earth in 24
hours, and the other round the axis of the ecliptic in
25,920 years, it would require an explication of fuch
a perplexed compofition of forces, as could by no means
be reconciled with any phyfical theory.
The dronged objedlion that can be made againd
againft the the earth’s motion round the fun is, that in oppofite
earth’s points of the earth’s orbit, its axis, which ahvays keeps
motion an- a para]lel direction, wmuld point to different fixed dars;
which is not found to be facl. But this objection is
eafily removed, by confidering the immenfe didance of
the liars in refpeft of the diameter of the earth’s orbit;
the latter being no more than a point when compared
to the former. If we lay a ruler on the fide of a table,
and along the edge of the ruler view the top of a fpire
at ten miles didance ; then lay the ruler on the oppo¬
fite fide of the table in a parallel fituation to what it had
before, and the fpire wall dill appear along the edge of
the ruler; becaufe our eyes, even when adided by the
bed indruments, are incapable of didinguilhing fo fmall
a change at fo great a didance.
Dr Bradley, our late adronomer-royal, found by a
motion <le- long ferits of the mod accurate obfervations, that there
monftrated js a fntall apparent mqtion of the fixed dars, occafioned
by the aberration of their light; and fo exactly an-
fwering to an annual motion of the earth, as evinces
the fame, even to a mathematical demondration. He
confidered this matter in the following manner : he
imagined CA, fig. 101. to be a ray of light falling per¬
pendicularly upon the line BD; that, if the eye is at
red at A, the object.mud appear in the direftion AC,
whether light be propagated in time or in an indant.
But if the eye is moving from B towards A, and light
is propagated in time, with a velocity that is to the
velocity of the eye as CA to BA; then light mo¬
ving from C to A, whild the eye moves from B to A,
that particle of it by which the objeft will be difeerned
aSs
Objections
fwered.
z86
Earth’s
from the
aberration
of light.
N' O M Y. 93
when the eye comes to A, is at C when the'eye is at Real Mo~
B. Joining the points BC, he fuppofed the line CB tl^”sa^^ie
to be a tube, inclined to the line BD in the angle Bodies.'
DBC, of fuch diameter as to admit but one particle v——y—
of light. Then it wtas eafy to conceive, that the par¬
ticle of light at C, by wTich the objetff mud be feen,
when the eye, as it moves along, arrives at A, wTould
pafs through the tube BC, if it is inclined to BD, in
the angle DBC, and accompanies the eye in its mo¬
tion from B to A ; and that it could not come to the
eye placed behind fuch a tube, if it had any other in¬
clination to the line BD. If, indead of fuppodng CB
fo fmall a tube, we imagine it to be the axis of a lar¬
ger ; then, for the fame reafon, the particle of light at
C would not pafs through the axis, unlefs it is inclined
to BD in the angle CBD. In'like manner, if the eye
moved the contrary wray, from D towards A, with
the fame velocity, then the tube mud be inclined in
the angle BCD. Although, therefore, the true or real
place of an objedd is perpendicular to the line in which
the eye is moving, yet the vifible place will not be fo;
dnee that, no doubt, mud be in the direction of the
tube ; but the difference between the true and appa¬
rent place will be catcris pai;ibus greater -or lefs, ac¬
cording to the different proportion between the velo-
licity of light and that of the eye. So that, if we could
fuppofe that light was propagated in an indant, then
there would be no difference between the real and vi-
dble place of an object, although the eye was in mo¬
tion ; for in that cafe, AC being infinite with refpecl
to AB, the angle ACB, the difference between the
true and vifible place, vanidies. But if light be pro¬
pagated in time, it is evident, from the foregoing con-
fiderations that there will be always a difference be¬
tween the real and vifible place of an objeft, unlefs
the eye is moving either diredly towards or from the
objeft. And in all cafes the fine of the difference be¬
tween the real and vifible place of the obje£f will be to
the fine of the vifible inclination of the objeft to the
line in which the eye is moving, as the velocity of the
eye is to the velocity of light.
He then diows, t;hat if the earth revolve round the
fun annually, and the T’elocity of light be to the velo¬
city of the earth’s motion in its orbit, as 1000 to 1,
that a dar really placed in the very pole ef the ecliptic
would, to an eye carried along with the earth, feem
to change its place continually; and, neglecting the
fmall difference on the account of the earth’s diurnal
revolution on its axis, would feem to defcribe a circle
round that pole every way didant from it 34 ; fo that
its longitude would be varied through all the points of
the ecliptic every year, but its latitude would always
remain the fame. Its right afeendon would alfo change,
and its declination, according to the different duration-
of the fun with refpeft to the equinodlial points, and
its apparent didance from the north pole of the equa¬
tor, would be 7' lefs at the autumnal than at the vernal
equinox. . _ ^
By calculating exactly the quantity of aberration Velocity of
of the fixed dars from their place, he found that light light,
came from the fun to us in 8' 13" ; fo that its velo¬
city is to the velocity of the earth in its orbit as 10.201 sSS
to "l. Errors in '
It mud here be taken notice of, however, that
Nevil Mafkelyne, in attempting to find the parallax offmalj. an-.
SirinSjglesj
94
ASTRONOMY.
Real Mo- Sirius, with a ten-feet leftor, obferved, that by the
Hea-en1/^ ^r^i°n ^le phimmet-line on the pin which fufpend-
Bodies. ec^ an error of io7', 20", and fometimes 30", was
i—committed. The pin was °f an iIlch diameter j and
though he reduced it to of an inch, the error ftill
amounted to 3". All obfervations, therefore, that have
hitherto been made in order to difcover the parallax of
the fixed ilars are to be difregarded.
It is alfo objefted, that the fun feems to change his
place daily, fo as to make a tour round the Harry hea-
Part III.
wered.
290
'Diurnal
motion of
the earth,
ges of the
feafons il-
luftrated
by experi¬
ment.
Fig. 102.
2S9
A nhther
objection
earth’s mo. vens a year* ^ut whether the fun or earth moves,
tion anf- this appearance will be the fame j for when the earth
is in any part of the heavens, the fun will appear in
the oppoixte. And therefore this appearance can be
no objedtion againlt the motion of the earth.
It is well known to every perfon who has failed on
fmooth water, or been carried by a liream in a calm,
that, however fall the veiTel goes, he does not feel its
progreffive motion. The motion of the earth is in¬
comparably more fmooth and uniform than that of a
fliip, or any machine made and moved by human art;
and therefore it is not to be imagined that we can feel
its motion.
The following experiment will give a plain idea of
the diurnal or annual motions of the earth, together
and differ- with the different lengths of days and nights, and all
ent chan- the beautiful variety of feafons, depending on thofe
motions.
Take about feven feet of ftrong wire, and bend it
into a circular form, as abed, which being viewed ob¬
liquely, appears elliptical, as in the figure. Place a
lighted candle on a table ; and having fixed one end of
a filk thread K to the north pole of a fmall terreftrial
globe H, about three inches diameter, caufe another
perfon to hold the wire circle, fo that it may be paral¬
lel to the table, and as high as the flame of the candle
I, wdiich firould be in or near the centre. Then ha¬
ying twifted the thread as towards the left hand, that
by untwifting it may turn the globe round eaftward,
or contrary to the way that the hands of a watch move,
hang the globe by the thread within this circle, al-
moft contiguous to it $ and as the thread untwifts, the
globe (which is enlightened half round by the candle
as the earth is by the fun) will turn round its axis, and
the different places upon it will be carried through the
light and dark hemifpheres, and have the appearance
of a regular fucceflion of days and nights, as our earth
has in reality by fuch a motion. As the globe turns,
move your hand flowly, fo as to carry the globe round
the candle according to the order of the letters abed,
keeping its centre even with the wire circle ; and you
will perceive, that the candle, being ftill perpendicular
to the equator, will enlighten the globe from pole to
pole in its wThole motion round the circle ; and that
every place on the globe goes equally through the
light and the dark, as it turns round by the untwift¬
ing of the thread, and therefore has a perpetual equi¬
nox. The globe'thus turning round, reprefents the
earth turning round its axis : and the motion of the
globe round the candle reprefents the earth’s annual
motion round the fun j and fhows, that if the earth’s
orbit had no inclination to its axis, all the days and
nights of the year would be equally long, and there
would be no different feafons. Hence alfo it appears
why the planets Mars and Jupiter have 9 perpetual
equinox, namely, becaufe their axis is perpendicular to Real Mo-
the plane of their orbit, as the thread round which the of the
globe turns in this experiment is perpendicular to the
plane of the area encloied by the wire.—But now de- 1 ^ ,
fire the perfon who holds the wire to hold it obliquely
in the nofition ABCD, 1 ailing the fide ss juft as much
as he depreffes the fide >j>, that the flame may be ftill
in the plane of the circle j and twilling the thread as
before, that the globe may turn round its axis the fame
way as you carry it round the candle, that is, from
weft to eaft *, let the globe down into the lowermolfc
part of the wire circle at py : and if the circle be pro¬
perly inclined, the candle will thine perpendicularly
on the tropic of Cancer ; and the frigid zone, lying
within the ardlic or north polar circle, will be all in
the light, as in the figure ; and will keep in the light,
let the globe turn round its axis ever fo often. From
the equator to the north polar circle, all the places have
longer days and ftiorter nights 5 but from the equator
to the fouth polar circle, juft the reverie. The fun
does not fet to any part of the north frigid zone, as
Ihown by the candle’s fhining on it, fo that the motion
of the globe can carry no place of that zone into the
dark ; and at the fame time the fouth frigid zone is
involved in darknefs, and the turning of the globe
brings none of its places into the light. If the earth
were to continue in the like part of its orbit, the fun
would never fet to the inhabitants of the north frigid
zone, nor rife to thofe of the fouth. At the equator
it would be always equal day and night; and as places
are gradually more and more diftant from the equator
towards the arclic circle, they would have longer days
and {hotter nights; whilft thofe on the fouth fide of
the equator would have their nights longer than their
days. In this cafe, there would be continual fummer
on the north fide of the equator, and continual winter
on the fouth fide of it.
But as the globe turns round its axis, move your
hand flowly forward, fo as to carry the globe from H
towards E, and the boundary of light and darknefs
will approach towards the north pole, and recede to¬
wards the fouth pole ", the northern places will go
through lefs and lefs of the light, and the fouthern
places through more and more of it; fhowing how’ the
northern days decreafe in length and the fouthern days
increafe, whilft the globe proceeds from H to E,
When the globe is at E, it is at a mean ftate between
the loweft and higheft parts of its orbit ; the candle is
diredlly over the equator, the boundary of light and
darknefs juft reaches to both the poles, and all places
on the globe go equally through the light and dark
hemifpheres, {flowing that the days and nights are then
equal at all places of the earth, the poles only except¬
ed ; for the fun is then fetting to the north pole and
rifing to the fouth pole.
Continue moving the globe forward, and as it goes
through the quarter A, the north pole recedes ftill far¬
ther into the dark hemifphere, and the fouth pole ad¬
vances more into the light, as the globe comes nearer
to 25 : and when it comes there at F, the candle is
directly over the tropic of Capricorn ; the days are at
the ftiorteft and nights at the longeft, in the northern
hemifphere, all the way from the equator to the arflic
circle; and the reverfe in the fouthern hemifphere
from the equator to the antar&ic circle } within which
circles
Part HI.
A S T R
Real Mo- circles it is dark to tlie north frigid zone, and light to
lions of the fouth.
^Bodit's ^ Continue both motions ; and as the globe moves
. through the quarter B, the north pole advances to¬
wards the light, and the fouth pole recedes towards the
dark ; the days lengthen in the northern hemifphere
and fliorten in the fouthern ; and when the globe comes
to G, the candle will be again over the equator (as
when the globe was at E), and the days and nights will
again be equal as formerly •, and the north pole will
be juft coming into the light, the fouth pole going out
of it.
Thus we fee the reafon why the days lengthen and
fhorten from the equator to the polar circles every
year •, why there is fometimes no day or night for
many turnings of the earth, within the polar circles ;
why there is but one day and one night in the whole
year at the poles; and why the days and nights are
equally long all the year round at the equator, which
is always equally cut by the circle bounding light and
darknefs.
The inclination of an axis or orbit is merely relative,
becaufe we compare it with fome other axis or orbit
which we confider as not inclined at all. Thus, our
horizon being level to us, whatever place of the earth
we are upon, we confider it as having no inclination ;
and yet, if we travel 90 degrees from that place, we
{hall then have an horizon perpendicular to the former ;
2y1 but it will ftill be level to us.
Different Bet us now take a view of the earth in its annual
feafons par-courfe round the fun, coniidering its orbit as having no
ticularly inclination ; and its axis as inclining 23-!-degrees from
tip ainet. a j|ne perpen3icular to the plane of its orbit, and keep¬
ing the fame oblique direction in all parts of its annual
courfe *, or, as commonly termed, keeping always pa¬
rallel to itfelf.
Fig. 102. Let a, b, c, d, e, f g, b, be the earth in eight diffe-
i-ent parts of its orbit, equidiftant from one another ;
Nr its axis, N its north pole, j- its fouth pole, and S
the fun nearly in the centre of the earth’s orbit. As
the earth goes round the fun according to the order of
the letters abed, &c. its axis Nr keeps the fame ob¬
liquity, and is ftill parallel to the line MN,r. When
the earth is at a, its north pole inclines towrards the
fun S, and brings all the northern places more into the
light, than at any other time of the year. But when
the earth is at e in the oppofite time of the year, the
north pole declines from the fun, which occafions the
northern places to be more in the dark than in the
light, and the reverfe at the fouthern places \ as is evi¬
dent by the figure wdiich is taken from Dr Long’s
aftronomy. When the earth is either at c or g, its
axis inclines not either to or from the fun, but lies fide-
wife to him, and then the poles are in the boundary of
light and darknels •, and the fun, being diredlly over
the equator, makes equal day and night at all places.
When the earth is a b, it is half-way between the
fummer folftice and harveft equinox when it is at d,
it is half-way from the harveft equinox to the winter
folftice } at f, half-way from the winter folftice to the
fpring equinox ; and at h, halLway from the fpring
equinox to the fummer folftice.
From this oblique view of the earth’s orbit, let us
fuppofe ourfelves to be raifed far above it, and placed
juft over its centre S, looking down upon it from its
95
Real Mo-
O N O M Y.
north pole-, and as the earth’s orbit differs but very _
little from a circle, we (hall have its figure in fuch a ‘l^venly*
view reprefented by the circle ABCDEFG. Let Bodies,
us fuppofe this circle to be divided into 12 equal parts, .. .»
called Jtgns, having their names affixed to them } and 103.
each fign into 30 equal parts, called degrees, number¬
ed 10, 20, 30, as in the outermoft circle of the figure,
which reprefents the great ecliptic in the heavens.
Hie earth is fhown in eight different pofitions in this-
circle ; and in each pofition At. is the equator, F the
tropic of Cancer, the dotted circle the parallel of Lon¬
don, U the arftic or north polar circle, and P the
north pole, where all the meridians or hour-circles
meet. As the earth goes round the fun, the north
pole keeps conftantly towards one part of the heavens,
as it keeps in the figure towards the right-hand fide of
the place.
When the earth is at the beginning of Libra, name¬
ly on the 20th of March, in this figure the fun S as
feen from the earth, appears at the beginning of A-
ries in the oppofite part of the heavens, the north pole
is juft coming into the light, and the fun is vertical to
the equator ; which, together with the tropic of Can¬
cer, parallel of London, and arftic circle, are all
equally cut by the circle bounding light and darknefs,
coinciding with the fix o’clock hour-circle, and there¬
fore the days and nights are equally long at all places :
for every part of the meridian ALTLo comes into the
light at fix in the morning, and, revolving with the
earth according to the order of the hour-letters, goes
into the dark at fix in the evening. There are 24 me¬
ridians or hour-circles drawn on the earth in this figure,
to (how the time of fun-rifing and fetting at different
feafons of the year.
As the earth moves in the ecliptic according to the
order of the letters ABCD, &c. through the figns
Libra, Scorpio, and Sagittarius, the north pole P
comes more and more into the light ; the days increale
as the nights decreafe in length, at all places north of
the equator At, ; which is plain by viewing the earth
at b on the 5th of May, when it is in the 15th degree
of Scorpio, and the fun as feen from the earth appears
in the 15th degree of Taurus. For then the tropic of
Cancer T is in the light from a little after five in the
morning till almoft feven in the evening ; the parallel
of London, from half an hour paft four till half an hour
paft feven 5 the polar circle U, from three till nine ;
and a large tradl round the north pole P has day all
the 24 hours, for many rotations of the earth on its
axis.
When the earth comes to c (fig. 104.) at the be¬
ginning of Capricorn, and the fun as feen from the
earth appears at the beginning of Cancer, on the 21ft of
June, as in this figure, it is in the pofition C in fig.
103 ; and its north pole inclines towards the fun, fo
as to bring all the north frigid zone into the light,
and the northern parallels of latitude more into the
light than the dark from the equator to the polar cir¬
cle : and the more fo as they are farther from the equa¬
tor. The tropic of Cancer is in the light from five in.
the morning till feven at night, the parallel of London
from a quarter before four till a quarter after eight ;
and the polar circle juft touches the dark, fo that the
fun has only the lower half of his diik hid from the in¬
habitants on that circle for a few minutes about midT
sdghtj
96
ASTRONO MY.
Fart III.
Real Mo- night, fuppofmg no inequalities in the horizon, and no
tiOns ol the refra£tions.
Balh-c ^ ^are v^ew t^ie figure ^ enough to (how, that as
, the earth advances from Capricorn towards Aries, and
the fun appears to move from Cancer towards Libra,
the north pole recedes from the light, which caufes
the days to decreafe and the nights to increafe in
length, till the earth comes to the beginning of Aries,
and then they are equal as before j for the boundary of
light and darknefs cuts the equator and all its parallels
equally or in halves. The north pole then goes into the
dark, and continues therein until the earth goes half¬
way round its orbit; or, from the 23d of September
till the 20th of March. In the middle between thefe
times, viz. on the 2zd of December, the north pole is
as far as it can be in the dark, which is 234- degrees,
equal to the inclination of the earth’s axis from a per¬
pendicular to its orbit : and then the northern paral¬
lels are as much in the dark as they were in the light
on the 21 ft of June ; the winter nights being as long
as the fummer days, and the winter days as ftiort as the
fummer nights. Here it mull be noted, that of all
that has been faid of tire northern hemifphere, the con¬
trary muft be underftood of the fouthern •, for on dif¬
ferent ftdes of the equator the feafons are contrary, be¬
came, when the northern hemifphere inclines towards
jp* the fun, the fouthern declines from him.
Effedts of Taking it for granted, then, that the earth revolves
the earth’s rouncJ tlie fun? let us fee what effect that motion has
thea011 ear uPon t^e aPParent motions of the other planets. For
ances^ofthe the better comprehending of thefe motions, however,
planets. we have hitherto fuppofed the earth to Hand ftill in
fome part of its orbit, while they go round the fun in
theirs : but as this is not the cafe, it now remains to
confider the changes which take place in confequence
of the earth’s motion. Were the earth to Hand ftill in
any part of its orbit as at A, the places of conjunftion
both in the fuperior and inferior femicircle, as alfo of
the greateft elongation j and confequently the places
of direft and retrograde motion, and of the ftations of
an inferior planet, would always be in the fame part of
the heavens. Thus, in fig. 105. upon this fuppofition,
the places of Mercury’s ftations would always be the
points P and R, the arc of his motion PR, and of his
retrograde motion RP ; whereas, on account of the
earth’s motion, the places where thefe appearances
happen are continually advancing forward in the eclip¬
tic according to the order of the figns. In fig. 106.
let ABCD be the orbit of the earth *, efg b that of
Mercury , Q the fun *, GKI an arc of the ecliptic ex¬
tended to the fixed ftars. When the earth is at A,
the fun’s geocentric place is at F j and Mercury, in
order to a conjunftion, muft be in the line AF; that
is, in his orbit he muft be at f or h. Suppofe him to
be at / in his inferior femicircle : if the earth flood
ftill at A, his next conjunftion would be when he is in
his fuperior femicircle at h ; the places of his greateft
elongation alfo would be at e and g, and in the eclip¬
tic at E and G : but fuppofing the earth to go on in
its orbit from A to B; the fun’s geocentric'place is now
at K j and Mercury, in order to be in conjunction,
ought to be in the line BK at m. As by the motion
of the earth, the places of Mercury’s conjunctions with
the fun are thus continually carried round in the eclip¬
tic in confequence, fo the places of his utmoft elonga¬
tions muft be carried in confequence. alfo, Thus, tvhen j<eal Mo-
the eav1-' is at A, the places of his greateft elongation ot ^
from the fun are in the ecliptic E and G 5 the motion Jjccpes
of the earth from A to B advances them forward from . .
G to L and from E to I. But the geocentric mo¬
tion of Mercury will beft be feen in fig. 107. Here
wre have part of the extended ecliptic marked <Y’, ? n ,
&c. in the centre of which S reprefents the lun, and
round him are the orbits of Mercury and the earth. The
orbit of Mercury is divided into 11 equal parts, fuch
as he goes through once in eight days \ and the divi-
fions are marked by numeral figures 1, 2, 3, See. Part
of the orbit of the earth is likewife divided into 22
equal arcs, each arc being as much as the earth goes
through in eight days. The points of divifion are
marked with the letters <7, b, c, d, e, f, &c. and fhow,
as many feveral ftations from whence Mercury may be
viewed from the earth. Suppofe then the planet to be
at 1 and the earth at a ; draw a line from <7 to x, and
it (hows Mercury’s geocentric place at A. In eight
days he will be got to 2, and the earth to b ; draw a
line 2 to b, and it fhows his geocentric place at B. In
other eight days he will have proceeded to 3, and the
earth to <r; a line drawn from 3 to c will fhow his geo¬
centric place at C. In this manner, going through
the figure, and drawing lines from the earth at d, e,j,
g, &.c. through 4, 5, 6, 7, &c. we ftiall find his
geocentric places fucceflively at the points D, E,
F, G, &cc. where we may obferve, that from A to
B, and from B to C, the motion is direft ; from C
to D, and from D to E, retrograde. In this figure
22 ftations are marked in the earth’s orbit, from
wTence the planet may be viewed 5 correfponding to
which there ought to be as many in the orbit of Mer¬
cury : and for this purpofe the place of that planet is'
marked at the end of every eight days for two of his
periodical revolutions ; and to denote this, two nume¬
ral figures are placed at each divifion.
The geocentric motion of Venus may be explained
in a fimilar manner } only as the motion of Venus is
much flower than that of Mercury, his conjunctions,
oppofitions, elongations, and ftations, all return much
more frequently than thofe ®f Venus.
To explain the ftationary appearances of the planets,
it muft be remembered, that the diameter of the earth’s
orbit, and even of that of Saturn, are but mere points
in comparifon of the diftance of the fixed ftars j and
therefore, any two lines, abfolutely parallel, though
drawn at the diftance of the diameter of Saturn’s or¬
bit from each other, would, if continued to the fixed
ftars, appear to us to terminate in the fame point. Let,
then, the two circles, fig. 108. reprefent the orbits of
Venus and of the Earth ; let the lines AE, BF, CG,
DH, be parallel to SP, we may neverthelefs affirm,
that if continued to the dirtance of the fixed ftars, they
would all terminate in the fame point with the line SP.
Suppofe, then, Venus at E while the earth is at A,
the vifual ray by which fhe is feen is the line AE.
Suppofe again, that while Venus goes from E to F,
the Earth goes from A to B, the vifual ray by which
Venus is now feen is BF parallel to AE ; and there¬
fore Venus will be all that time ftationary, appearing
in that point of the heaven where SP extended would
terminate : this ftation is at her changing from direCt
to retrograde. Again, fuppofe, when the Earth is at
Bodies.
.293
Perigee
nets ex¬
plained.
294
Differences
in the ap
Partlll. A S T R 0
Real Mo- C, Venus is at G, and tlie vifual line CG) if, while
tions of the the Earth goes from C to D, Venus goes from G to
Heavenly tjiat j]ie js fecn Jn tJle [Jne QJJ parallel to CG,
die will be all that time ftationary, appearing in the
point where a line drawn from S through P would ter¬
minate. This ftation is at her changing-from retro¬
grade to dire£l 5 and both are in her inferior femicir-
cle. An inferior planet, when in conjunftion with the
and apogee fun in its inferior femicircle, is laid to be in perigee,
of the pla- ancj other in apogee, on account of its different
diftances from the earth. Their real diftances from
the earth when in perigee are variable, partly owing
to the eccentricities of their orbits, as well as that of
the earth •, and partly owing to the motions of the dif¬
ferent bodies, by which it happens that they are in pe¬
rigee in difterent parts of their orbits. The leaf! pof-
fible diilance is when the perigee happens when the
earth is in its perihelion, and the planet in its aphe¬
lion.
The difference of diftance between the earth and in¬
ferior planets at different times, makes a confiderable
parent dia- variation in their apparent diameters, which indeed is
meters of ^ very 0'Dfervat,le in all the planets ; and thus they fome-
r ie p .met. tjmes j00k very confiderably larger than at others. This
difference in magnitude in Mercury is nearly at 5^ to
1 j and in Venus, no lefs than 3210 1. A common
fpe&ator, unaflifted by any inftrument, may obferve
an inferior planet alternately approach nearer and near¬
er the fun, until at laft it comes into conjunction with
him, and then to recede farther and farther till it is at
its greateff elongation, which will be firft on one
fide and then on the other : but if we obferve the ap¬
parent change of place of an inferior planet in the
fphere of the heavens, its direct motions, ftations, and
retrogradations, mealuring its diameter frequently with
the micrometer, we {hall find by its decreafe at fome
times and increafe at others, that its diftance from us
is very confiderably varied 5 fo that, taking the whole
of its courfe into confideration, it appears to move in a
very complicated curve. See fig. 109.
295 As the fuperior planets move in a larger orbit than
ces ofthe the earth, they can only be in conjumffion with the
fuperior fun when they are on that fide oppofite to the earth ;
planets ex- as> on the other hand, they are in oppofition to him
plained. when the earth is between the fun and them. They
are in quadrature with him when their geocentric pla¬
ces are 90° dirtant from that of the fun. In order to
underftand their apparent motions, we fliall fuppofe
them to ftand ftill in fome part of their orbit while the
earth makes a complete revolution in hers j in which
cafe, any fuperior planet would then have the follow¬
ing appearances : 1. While the earth is in her moft
diftant femicircle, the motion of the planet will be di-
rett. 2. While the earth is in her neareft femicircle,
the planet will be retrograde. 3* While the earth is
near thofe places of its orbit where a line drawn from
the planet would be a tangent, it would appear to be
ftationary. Thus, in fig. 147. let 0 £ £• </ reprefent the
orbit of the earth ; S the Sun ; EFG an arc of the
orbit of Jupiter ; ABC an arc of the ecliptic proje&ed
on the fphere of the fixed ftars. Suppofe Jupiter to
continue at F, while the earth goes round in her orbit
according to the order of the letters abed. While
the earth is in the femicircle moft diftant from Jupiter,
Vol. III. Part I.
N O M Y. 97
going from a \.o b and from b to c, his motion in the Real Mo-
heaven would appear direft, or from A to B and from
B to C : but while the earth is in its neareft femicir- Bodies;
cle ede, the motion of Jupiter would appear retro-
grade from C to B and from B to A j for a, b, c, d,
may be confidered as fo many different ftations from
whence an inhabitant of the earth would view Jupiter
at different feafons of the year, and a ftraight line
drawn from each of thefe ftations, through F the place
of Jupiter, and continued to the ecliptic, would ftrow
his apparent place there to be fucceffively at A, B, C,
B, A. While the earth is near the points of contaft
a and c, Jupiter would appear ftationary, becaufe the
vifual ray drawn through both planets does not fenfibly
differ from the tangent Fa or Fc. When the earth is
at b, a line drawn from b through S and F to the eclip¬
tic, {hows Jupiter to be in conjunGion with the fun at
B. When the earth is at d, a line drawn from d
through S, continued to the ecliptic, would termi¬
nate in a point oppofite to B; which fliows Jupi¬
ter then to be in oppofition to the fun: and thus
it appears that his motion is direft in the conjunc¬
tion, but retrograde when in oppofition with the
fun.
The direft motion of a fuperior planet is fwifter the
nearer it is to a conjunftion, and flower as it approach¬
es to a quadrature with the fun. Thus, in fig. 11 r.
let 0 be the fun j the little circle round it, the orbit
of the earth, whereof abode fg is the moft diftant fe¬
micircle ; OPCF,an arc of the orbit of Jupiter ; and
ABCDEFG, an arc of the ecliptic in the fphere of
the fixed ftars. If we fuppofe Jupiter to ftand ftill at
P, by the earth’s motion from a to g, he would appear
to move direft from A to G, deferibing the unequal
arcs AB, BC, CD, DE, EF, FG, in equal times.
When the earth is at d, Jupiter is in conjundlion with
the fun at D, and there his direft motion is fwifteft.
When the earth is in that part of her orbit where a
line drawn from Jupiter would touch it, as in the
points e or g, Jupiter is nearly in quadrature with the
fun j and the nearer the earth is to any of thofe points,
the flower is the geocentric motion of Jupiter; for
the arcs CD and DE are greater than BC or EF,
and the arcs BC and EF are greater than AB or
FG. .
The retrograde motion of a fuperior planet is fwrft-
er the nearer it is to an oppofition, and flower as it
approaches to a quadrature with the fun. Thus, let
0, fig. 11 2. be the fun ) the little circle round it the
orbit of the earth, whereof £• A zT / wz« is the neareft
femicircle j OP(T an arc of the orbit of Jupiter 5 NKG
an arc of the ecliptic : If we fuppofe Jupiter to ftand
ftill at P, by the earth’s motion from g to n, he would
appear to move retrograde from G to N, deferibing
the unequal arcs GH, HI, IK, KL, LM, MN, in
in equal times. When the earth is at k, Jupiter ap¬
pears at K, in oppofition to the fun, and there his re¬
trograde motion is fwifteft. When the earth is either
at g or n, the points of contact of the tangents P^ and
Pw, Jupiter is nearly in quadrature with the fun : and
the nearer he is to either of thefe points, the flower is
his retrogradation *, for the arcs IK and KL are great¬
er than HI or LM ; and the arcs HI and LM are
greater than GH or MN. Since the direfl motion is
N fwifteft
g8
Real Mo¬
tions of the
Heavenly
A S T R O N O M Y.
fwiftefl when the earth is at and continues diminifh-
ing till it changes to retrograde, it muft be infenfible
near the time of change : and, in like manner, the re¬
trograde motion being fwifteft when the earth is in k,
and diminishing gradually till it changes to direft,
muft alfo at the time of that change be infenfible *, for
any motion gradually decreafing till it changes into a
contrary one gradually increafing, muft at the time of
the change be altogether infenfible.
The fame changes in the apparent motions of this
planet will alfo take place if rve fuppofe him to go on
flowly in his orbit ; only they wall happen every year
when the earth is in different parts of her orbit, and
confequently at different times of the year. Thus, (fig.
no.) let us fuppofe, that while the earth goes round
her orbit Jupiter goes from F to G, the points of the
earth’s orbit from which Jupiter will now appear to
be ftationary will be a andy; and confequently his
ftations muft be at a time of the year different from
the former. Moreover, the conjundlion of Jupiter
with the fan will now be when the earth is at/, and
his oppofition when it is at e ; for which reafon thefe
alfo will happen at times of the year different from
thofe of the preceding oppofition and conjumftion.
The motion of Saturn is fo flow, that it makes but
little alteration either in the times or places of his con-
jun&ion or oppofition } and no doubt the fame will
take place in a more eminent degree in the Georgium
Sidus } but the motion of Mars is fo much fwifter than
even that of Jupiter, that both the times and places of
his conjunftions and oppofitions are thereby very much
altered.
Fig. 113. exemplifies the geocentric motion of Jupb
ter in a very intelligible manner j where © reprefents
the fun-, the circle 1, 2, 3, 4, the orbit of the earth,
divided into twelve equal arcs for the tw-elve months of
the year ; PQjm arc of the orbit of Jupiter, contain¬
ing as much as he goes through in a year, and divided
in like manner into twelve equal parts, each as much
as he goes through in a month. Now, fuppofe the
earth to be at I when Jupiter is at a, a line drawn
through i and a (hows Jupiter’s place in the celeftial
ecliptic to be at A. In a month’s time the earth will
have moved from I to 2, Jupiter from a to b ; and a
line drawn from 2 to £ will (how his geocentric place
to be in B. In another month, the earth will be in 3,
and Jupiter at C, and confequently his geocentric
place will be at C j and in like manner his place may
be found for the other months at D, E, F, &c. It is
likewife eafy to obferve, that his geocentric motion is
direa: in the arcs AB, BC, CD, DEretrograde in
EF, FG, GH, HI ; and diredl again in IK, KL,
LM, MN. The inequality of his geocentric motion
is likewife apparent from the figure.
A fuperior planet is in apogee when in conjunftion
with the fun, and in perigee when in oppofition ; and
every one of the luperior planets is at its leaft poflible
diftance from the earth where it is in perigee and peri¬
helion at the fame time. Their apparent diameters
are variable, according to their diftances, like thofe of
the inferior planets 5 and this, as might naturally be
expected, is moft remarkable in the planet Mars, who
is neareft us. In his neareft approach, this planet is
25 times larger than when fartheft off, Jupiter twice
and a half, and Saturn once and a half.
Part III.
Real Mo-
Chap. III. Of the Orbits of the Planetsy and theXl™ of the
Laws ,f their Motions.
It would be exceedingly eafy to afcertain the pofi-' '’r~v
tion of the planets for any given time, if their orbits
were circular and uniform. But they exhibit very fen-
fible inequalities in this refpeft, the laws of which are
exceedingly important in aftronomy, as furnifliing the
only clue which can lead us to the theory of the celef¬
tial motions. To afcertain thefe irregularities, and de¬
left their laws, it is neceflary to abftraft from their
apparent motions the effefts produced by the motion
of the earth. In the firft place then, we muft deter¬
mine the nature and dimenfions of the earth’s orbit.
We have feen formerly that the fun apparently
moves round the earth in an ellipfe, having the earth
in the focus. We have only to reverfe the pofition to
obtain the orbit of the earth. It moves round the fun
in an ellipfe, having that luminary in the focus j fo
that its radius veftor defcribes areas proportional to the
times. In general, all the remarks made formerly on
the fuppofed orbit of the fun relative to its eccentrici¬
ty, &c. apply accurately to the real orbit of the
earth.
The figure of the earth’s orbit being thus afcertain-
ed, let us fee how aftronomers have been able to deter¬
mine that of the other planets. Let us take the pla¬
net Mars as an example, which, from the great eccen¬
tricity of its orbit, and its nearnefs to the earth, fur-
niflies an excellent medium for difcovering the laws of
the planetary motions.
The motion of Mars round the fun and his orbit
would be known, if we had at any given time, the
angle formed by its radius veftor, and a fixed ftraight
line paffrng through the centre of the fun, together with
the length of that radius veftor. To fimplify the pro¬
blem, a time is chofen when one of thefe quantities may
be had feparately from the other. This happens at
the oppofitions, when we fee the planet in the fame point
of the ecliptic to which it would be referred by a
fpeftator in the fun. The difference in the velocity
and periodic times of the earth and Mars caufes the
planet to appear when in oppofition in different points
of the ecliptic fucceflively. By comparing together a
great number of fuch oppofitions, the relation which
fubfiftsbetrveen the time and the angular motion of Mars
round the fun, (called heliocentric), may be difcovered.
Different methods prefent themlelves for that purpofe.
But in the prefent cafe the problem is fimplified by con-
fidering that the principal inequalities of Mars return¬
ing in the fame manner at every fidereal revolution,
the whole of them may be expreffed by a rapidly con¬
verging feries of the fines of the angles multiplied by
its mean motion. The relative changes in the length
of the radius veftor, may be determined by comparing
together obfervations made about the quadrature when
the planet being about 90° from the fun, that radius
prefents itfelf under the greateft angle poflible. In the
triangle formed by the ftraight lines which join the cen¬
tres of the earth, the fun, and Mars, the angle at the
earth is obtained by obfervation, that at the fun is af-
certained by the law of Mars’s heliocentric motion.
Hence the radius veftor is deduced in parts of the
earth’s radius veftor. By comparing together a num¬
ber
PartTIT. ASTRONOMY. 99
•Real Mo- ber of fuch radii veftores determined in this manner,
tions of jaw Qf their variations, correfponding to the angles
^Bodles^ which they make with a ftraight line fixed in pofition,
>  ^' ' > rnay be determined. In this manner Kepler determin¬
ed the orbit of Mars, and found it to be an ellipfe
with the fun in the .focus. He inferred that the other
planets moved likewife in ellipfes round the fun, and
this inference has been confirmed by adtual examina-
296 tion.
Heliocen- 'J’q a fpeftator placed in the fun, all the planets
ofthe^la* woulcl aPPcar to defcribe circles annually in the hea-
aets^ P <l" vens •, for though their motions are really elliptical,
the eccentricity is fo fmall, that the difference between
them and true circles is not eafily perceived even on
earth ; and at the fun, whether great or fmall, it would
entirely vamlh.^ Thefe circles, which in fuch a fitua-
tion would appear to be annually defcribed among the
fixed liars, are called the heliocentric circles of the pla¬
nets ; and if we fuppofe the orbits of the planets to be
extended to the extreme bounds of the creation, they
would defcribe among the fixed ftars thole circles juft
mentioned. To a fpe&ator in the fun, the comets,
though moving in the moll eccentric orbits, would alfo
appear to defcribe circles in the heavens: for though
their orbits are in reality very long ellipfes, the planes
of them extended to the heavens would mark a great
circle thereon, whereof the eye would be the centre j
only, as the real motion is in an ellipfis, the body
would appear to move much more flowly in fome part
of the circle than another, and to differ excelfively in
magnitude. To an inhabitant of ’ any planet, how¬
ever, the fun appears to go round in its own heliocen¬
tric circle, or to defcribe in the heavens that fame
curve which the planet would appear to do if feen from
the fun. Thus (fig. 114.), when the earth is at <z, if
we draw a line from a through the fun at S, the point
G, in the fphere of the heavens where the line termi¬
nates, is the place where the fun then appears to an
• inhabitant of the earth. In a month’s time the earth
will be got from a to b ; draw a line then through the
fun, and its extremity at H will point out his apparent
. place at that time. In like manner, if we draw lines
from the earth in the twelve feveral fituations in which
it is reprefented for the twelve months of the year, the
fun’s apparent place wnll be found as above, and fo it
would be found by a fpe&ator placed in Venus or any
other planet.
The geocentric latitude of a fuperior planet may be
underftood from fig. 115. Let AB be the orbit of the
earth, CD that of Mars, both viewed with the eye in
their common feftion continued, by which they ap¬
pear in ftraight lines, Let E and F be oppofite points
of the ecliptic, and fuppofe Mars to be in the fouth
limit at C. If he were at that time viewed from S, the
centre of the fun, he would appear in the fphere of the
heavens at the point H j in which cafe his heliocentric
latitude would be FH : But when viewed in C from
the earth, or from its centre, wdiich in this cafe is fup-
pofed to be the ftation of the fpeftator, he wall appear
to be in different places of the heavens according to
the pofition of the earth. When the earth, for in- Real Mo-
ftance, is at B, the place of Mars will appear to be at ^Heavenly"
g, and his geocentric latitude will be F g. When the gociies.
earth is at A, his apparent place will be in G, arid u—y—J
his geocentric latitude FG : and in like manner, fup-
pofing the earth to be in any other part of its orbit, as
in I or K, it is eafy to fee, that his apparent places,
as well as geocentric latitudes at thofe times, will be
different. ’
The two points where the heliocentric circle of any Nodes of a
planet cuts the ecliptic, are called its nodes ; and that planet,
which the planet paffes through as it goes into north
latitude, is called the afcending node, and is marked
thus •, and the oppofite to this is called the defcendmg
node, and is marked TS- Aline drawn from one node
to the other is called the line of the nodes of the planet,
which is the common feftion of the plane of the eclip¬
tic, and that of the planet produced on each fide to the
fixed ftars. The deviation of the orbit from a circle
is called the eccentricity of the orbit: the point where
it is fartheft diftant from the fun is called its aphelion ;
and where neareft, the perihelion.
The motion of-the planets is fwifteft at the perihelion
when the radius ve£lor is fhorteft : it diniinifhes as the
radius vector increafes, and is at its minimum at the
aphelion. When Kepler compared thefe two quanti¬
ties in the planet Mars, he obierved that the velocity
of the planet was always proportional to the fquare of
the radius veftor, fo that the product of that velocity
multiplied into the fquare of the radius vedlor is a
conftant quantity. This produft is double the area
defcribed by the radius vedftor in the given time.
Hence that area, fuppofing the radius veftor to fet
out from a fixed line, increafes as the time. 7 his Kep¬
ler announced by faying, that the areas defcribed by
the radius ve£lor are proportional to the times. 7 hefe
laws are precifely thofe followed by the earth in her
motion round the fun. Hence Kepler eftablifhed as
the fundamental larvs of the motions of the planets the
two following :
1. The orbits of the planets are ellipfes, having the
fun in their focus.
2. The areas defcribed by the raditis vector of each
planet are proportional to the times of deferibing them.
Thefe laws fuffice for determining the motions of the
planets round the fun : But it is neceffary to know for
each of the planets feven quantities, called the elements
of their elliptical motion. Five of thefe elements re¬
lative to the motion of the ellipfe are, 1. 7’he duration
of the fidereal revolution. 2. Half the greater axis or
the mean diftance of the planet from the fun. 3. The
eccentricity of the orbit. 4. The mean longitude of
the planet at a given time. 5. The longitude of its
perihelion at the fame epoch. The other two elements
relate to the pofition of the orbits. 77iey are, 6. The
longitude of the nodes of the orbit at a given epoch,
or the points where the orbit interfefls the ecliptic.
7. The inclination of the orbit to the plane of the
ecliptic. The following table exhibits a view of thefe
elements.
N 2.
Mercury
JOG
ASTRONOMY,
Part III
Mercury
Venus
Earth
Mars
Jupiter
Saturn
Herfchel
Sidereal revolu¬
tions.
Days.
87.969255
224.700817
565.256384
686.979579
4332.602208
10759.077213
30689.OOOOOO
Mean dift-
ances.
O.387IOO
0-723332
I.OOOOOO
I.523693
5.202792
9-54°724
19.183620
Eccentrici¬
ty in 175©.
Secular variation
in the eccentri¬
city.
o.2055i3j°
0.006885 ;o
0.016814I0
0.093088
0.048077
0.056223
0.046683
000003369
000062905
000045572
000090685
,000134245
.000261553
.000026228
Mean lon¬
gitude in
I75°-
281.3194
51.4963
311.1218
24.4219
4.1201
257.0438
353-9610
Longitu les
of the peri¬
helion in
175°-
81.7401
*4* 9759
309.5790
368.3006
11.5012
97.9466
185.1262
Sidereal and
fecular mo
tion of the
peiihelion.
1735-50
—699.07
3671.63
4834-57
2030.25
4967.64
759-85
Inclina¬
tion of
the orbits
to the
ecliptic
in 1750.
7.7778
3.7701
0.0000
2.0556
1.4636
2.7762
0.8599
Secular
variation
in the in¬
clination
to the
ecliptic.
55.09
13.8 c
0.00
—4.45
-67.40
-47.87
9-38
Longitudes
of the a-
fcendlng
nodes in
I75°-
50-3836
82.7093
0.0000
52-9377
108.8062
123-9327
80.7015
Sidereal and
fecular motion
of the nodes.
—2332.90
—5673.60
0.00
—7027.41
—4509.50
—5781.54
—10608.00
The fign — denotes a retrograde motion.
In this table, drawn up by M. de La Place, the decimal notation is employed ; the circle being divided into 400°, the degree
into 100', the minute into 100", and fo on : we did not alter it, in order to give the reader a fpecimen of this notation, and
becaufe the ufual notation is employed in the following table.
We think it proper to fubjoin here Dr Malkelyne’s view of the planetary fyftem for 1801, Dec. 1.
II.
III.
IV.
V.
VI.
VII.
VIII.
IX.
X.
Apparent
mean dia¬
meters, as
leen from
the earth.
Mean di¬
ameters
as feen
from the
fun.
The Sun
Mercury
Venus
The Earth
The Moon
Mars
Ceres
Pallas
Jupiter
Saturn
Herfchel
3 2' i",5
10
58
31 8
27
1
°>5
39
18
3 54
16"
30
^i2
4>6
10
37
16
Mean di¬
ameters in
Englifli
miles.
Mean diltances
from the fun,
in round num¬
bers of miles.
883246
3224
7687
791 L73
2180
4189
160
80
89170
79042
35112
More accu¬
rate propor¬
tional num¬
bers of the
preceding
mean di-
ftances.
37000000
68000000
95000000
95000000
I440OOOOO
260000000
266000000
49OOOOOOO
900000000
ISOOOOOOOO
Denfities
to that of
‘-water,
I'hich
is 1.
38710
72333
IOOOOO
IOOOOO
152369
273550
279IOO
520279
954072
!908352
Proper
tions of the
quantities
of matter.
9i
5 VT
4t
34
0-3T
333928
0,1654
0,8899
I
0,025
0,0875
312>i
97,76
16,84
Inclinations of
orbits to the
ecliptic in 1780.
7 O o"
3 23 35
000
5 9 3
at a mean.
1 51 o
10 37 56,6
in 1801.
34 5° 40
in 1801.
x 1856
in 1780.
2 29 50
in 1780.
o 46 20
in 1780.
Inclinations of
axes to orbits.
Rotations diurnal,
or round their
own axes.
82° 44' o"
66
88
59
S2
17
22
90 nearly.
60 probably.
25d 1411 8m of
o 23 21
1
29 !7 44 3
o 24 39 22
0 9 55 37
o 10 16 2
Part III.
astronomy.
ios
XL
XII.
XIII.
XIV.
XV.
XVI.
XVII.
XVIII.
The Sun
Mercury
Venus
The Barth
The Moon
Mars
Ceres
Pallas
Jupiter
Saturn
Herfchel
Tropical revolution^.
Sidereal revolutions.
Places of Aphelia,
January 1800.
Secular mo¬
tions of the
Aphelia.
87d 23h i4m 32,7f
224 16 41 27,5
365 5 48 49
686 22 18 27,4
1681 12 9 o
433° H 39 2
10746 19 16 15,5
30637 400
87ci 23h i5m 43>6f
224 16 49 10,6
365 6 9 12
686 23 30 35,6
1703 16 48 o
4332 H 27 IO>8
IO759 I 51 H,2
30737 18 o o
8r 140 20' 50''
10 7 59 1
9 8 40 12
5 2 24 4
10 25 57 15
in 1802.
6 11 8 20
in 1800.
8 29 4 11
in 1800.
11 16 30 31
in 1800.
Eccentrici¬
ties; the
mean dis¬
tances being
100000.
Greateft equa¬
tions of the
centres.
1° 33' 45"
I 21 O
o 19 35
1 51 40
1 34 33
1 50 7
1 29 2
7955-4
498
1681,395
Ht83>7
8140,64
24630
25013,3
53640,42
90804
230 40' o
o 47 20
1 55 30,9
10 40 40
9 20 8
5 3° 38
6 26 42
5 27 16
Longitudes of SL '
or places of
afcendnig nodes
in 1750.
Secular mo¬
tions of nodes.
if 150 20' 43"
2 14 26 18
17 38 38
20 58 40
in 1802.
22 28 57
in 1802.
7 55 32
in 1750.
21 32 22
in 1750.
12 47
in 1788.
1° 12' 10"
o 51 40
o 46 40
o 59 30
° 55 3°
1 44 35
From the above tables it appears that the time of
the revolution of the planets increafes with their di-
ftance from the fun. This induced Kepler to hifpeit
that fome relation exifted between them. After many
attempts continued for 17 years, he at Lift difcovered
that the fquares of the periodic times of the planets are
proportional to the cubes ol the greater axis of their
orbits.
Chap. IV. Of the Orbits of the Comets.
Of all the celeftial bodies, comets have given rife
to the greateft number of fpeculations and conjeftures.
Their itrange appearance has in all ages been a mat¬
ter of terror* to the vulgar, who uniformly have look¬
ed upon them to be evil omens and forerunners 01 war,
peftilence, &c. Others, lefs fuperftitious, fuppofed
them to be meteors raifed in the higher regions of the
air. But we find that fome part of the modern doc-
q trine concerning them had been received into the an-
Suppofed cient Italic and Pythagorean fcbools : for they held
by the an- them to be fo far of the nature of planets, that they had
cients to be their periodical times of appearing j that they were
pianets. out of f ht for a long t;me? while they were carried
aloft at an immenfe diftance from the earth, but be¬
came vifible when they defcended into the lower re¬
gions of the air, when they were nearer to us.
Thefe opinions were probably brought from Egypt,
from whence the Greeks borrowed great part of their
0 learning. However, it feems not to have been gene-
Ariftotle’s rally received } for Ariftotle, who mentions it, allerted
opinion that the heavens were unchangeable, and not liable, to
concerning generat;0n or corruption. Comets, therefore, which
them. believed to be generated when they firft made their
appearance, and deftroyed when they vaniftied from
our fight, he maintained could not be heavenly bodies,
but rather meteors or exhalations raifed into the upper
regions of the atmofpherej where they blazed out for
a while, and difappeared when the matter of which
they were formed was confumed. Seneca, who lived
in the firft century, mentions Apollonius of Myndus,
a very careful obferver of natural caufes, to have been
of the fame fentiments with the moft ancient Greek
pbilofophers with regard to comets. . He himfelf had
feen twTo ; one in the reign of Claudius, the other in
that of Nero ; befides another which he faw while a
boy, before the death of Auguftus. He plainly inti¬
mates, that he thought them above the moon ; and
argues ftrongly againft thofe who fuppofed them, to
be meteors, or held other abfurd opinions concerning
them y declaring his belief that they were not fires
fuddenly kindled, but the eternal produttions of na¬
ture. He points out alfo the only way. to come at a
certainty on this fubjeft, viz. by colle6ling a numbci
of obfervations concerning their appearance, in order
to difcover whether they return periodically or. not.
“ For this purpofe (fays he) one age is not fufficient j
but the time will come when the nature of comets and
their magnitudes wdll be demonftrated, and the routes
they take, fo different from the planets, explained.
Pofterity will then wonder that the preceding ages
ftiould be ignorant of matters fo plain and eafy to be ■
known.”
For a long time this prediction of Seneca feemed
very unlikely to be fulfilled. The great authority
which Ariftotle maintained for many ages, determined
them to be nothing but meteors cafually lighted up
in the air; though they were manifeftly at a great
height, not only above the clouds, but fubjeft to the
diurnal revolution of the earth. In the dark and fu¬
perftitious ages, they were held to be the forerunners of
every kind of calamity, and w^ere fuppofed to have dif- #
ferent degrees of malignity according to the fhape they
affumedj from whence alfo they were differently deno¬
minated. Thus, fome were faid to be bearded, fome
hairy ; fome to reprefont a beam, fword, or fpear;
othera
\
102
Real Mo¬
tions of the
Heavenly
Bodies.
300
Only one
fpecies of
them exifts.
301
Kepler and
Bodin’s o-
pinion of
. fhejn.
302
.Bernouilli’s
opinion
3°3
True doc¬
trine con¬
cerning
them re¬
vived by
Tycho
Brahe.
otliers a target, &c. ; wliereas modem aftronomers ac¬
knowledge only one fpecies of comets, and account for
their different appearances from their different fitua-
1 tions from the fun and earth.
It was not till feme time after people began to
throw off the fetters of fuperftition and ignorance
which had fo long held them, that any rational hypo¬
thecs was formed concerning comets. Kepler in
other refpefts a very great genius, indulged the wall
extravagant conjectures, not only concerning comets
bat the whole fyftera of nature in general. The pla-
nets he imagined to be huge animals who fwam round*
the fun by means of certain fins ading upon the ethe¬
real fluid, as thofe of fiihes do on the water : and agree¬
able to this notion, he imagined the comets to beroon-
ffrous and uncommon animals generated in the celefiial
fpacesj and he explained how the air engendered them
by an animal faculty. A yet more ridiculous opinion
if poffible, was that of John Bodin, a learned man of
fiance in the 16th century^ He maintained that co¬
mets “ are fpirits, which have lived on the earth in¬
numerable ages, and being at laft arrived on the con¬
fines of death, celebrate their laft triumph, or are re¬
called to the firmament like fhining ftars ! This is fol¬
lowed by famine, plague, &c. becaufe the cities and
people deftroy the governors and chiefs who appeafe
the wrath of God.” This opinion (he fays) he borrow¬
ed from the philofopher Democritus, who imagined
them to be the fouls of famous heroes: but that being
irreconcilable with Bodin’s Chriftian fentiments he
was obliged to fuppofe them to be a kind of genii’ or
pints fubjeft to death, like thofe fo much mentioned
in the Mahometan fables. Others, again, have denied
even the exiftence of comets, and maintained that they
were only falfe appearances occafioned by the refraClion
or reflection of light.
The fir ft rational conjeaure we meet* with is that of
James Bernouilli, an Italian aftronomer, who imagined
tnem to be the fatellites of fome very diftant planet,
which was invifible to us on account of its diftance, as
Here alfo the fatellites, unlefs when in a certain part of
their courfe.
Tycho Brahe was the firft who reftored the comets
to their true rank in the creation. Before his time
feveral comets had been obferved with tolerable exaa’
nefs by Regiomontanus, Appian, Fabricius, and others:
jet they all thought them below the moon. But Ty¬
cho, being provided with much better inftruments, let
himfelf with great diligence to obferve the famous
comet of 15775 and from many careful obfervations,
deduced that it had no fenfible diurnal parallax 5 and
therefore was not only far above the regions of our at-
mofphere, but much higher than the moon. But
though few have come fo near the earth as to have
any diurnal parallax, all of them have what may be
called an annual parallax 5 that is, the revolution of
the earth m her orbit caufes their apparent motion to
be very different from what it would be if viewed from
tne fun 5 and this fhows them to be much nearer than
the fixed ftars, which have no fuch parallax. Kepler
the difciple of Tycho, notwithftanding his ridiculous
conjeClure already mentioned, wras very attentive to the
motions of the comets, and found that they did not
move in ftraight lines, as had been fuppoled. He
A S T R O N O M Y.
Part III,
Ihowed that their paths were concave towards the fun, Real Mo.’
^TJupPOied them to move in parabolic trajectories. lions of the
I heir true motion, however, was only difeovered ^Y.6111?
from the obfervations made by Sir Ifaac Newton on B°dleS‘ f
the great comet of 1680. This defeended almoft per- ^7“^
pendicularly towards the fun with a prodigious velo-Their mo-
city} afeending again with the fame velocity retarded fion exa<a-
as it had been before accelerated. It was feen in the^dt'Ti'
mormng by a great number of aftrononiers in different Iftac Nelh
parts.01 Kurope, from the 4th to the 25th of Novem-ton.
ber, in its way toward the fun; and in the evening from
the 12th of December to the 9th of March following
I he many exaft obfervations made on this comet en-
aoled Sir Ifaac Newton to determine that they are a *
kind of planets which move in very eccentric ellipfes.-
and this opinion is now looked upon to be certainly
eltablifhed. It was oppofed, however, by M. de la
Hiie, and fome other 1* rench philofophers ; and it is
evident that the whole difpute now turned on mere
practical obfervations. If the return of any comet could
be predicted, and its periodical time calculated like
that ox a planet, then the doCtrine might be concluded
certainly true, but not otherwife. Dr Halley therefore Dr Halley
et himfelf to collect all the obfervations he could onPreck<ftsa
comets ; and afterwards calculated the periodical times comet’s re“
of 24 of them, on a fuppofition of their being para-tUrn*
boles; but afterwards found that they agreed better
with the fappofifion of their motion being performed
in very eccentric elliptical orbits. On this he calcu-
lateda table of their elements ; from which it was ma-
niteft that they were not comprehended in the zodiac
fome of them making an angle of upwards of 8o° with
the ecliptic.
By computations founded on thefe elements, the Periodical
Doctor concluded that the comet of 1682 was the t'mes
fame which had appeared in 1607 and IC21 • that ;tdifferent
had a period of 75 or ,6 years; and he ventured toSSii
toretel that it would return about the year 1758. The
comet which appeared in 1661 was fuppofed to be the
fame with that of I532» ant^ to have a period of 120
years ; and from the equality of periods, and fimilitude
of appearances, it was concluded that the great comet
of 1680 was the fame which had appeared in 1106 in
the time of Henry I. and the confulate of Lampa-
dius and Oreftes about the year 531, and in the year'
44 B. C. before Julius Caefar was murdered; and
thence concluded that its period was 575 years. Mr
Dunthorne, however, has endeavoured to Ihow from a
MS. in Pembroke-hall library, that the comet of
ir 06 couldnot .be the fame with that of 1680: but
M. de Lande thinks the four appearances related by
Halley ftionger proofs than a fingle obfervation
which might be very faulty.
Since the time of Dr Halley, other aftronomers have
calculated the elements of 25 other comets; all of
which, excepting one of three which appeared in 1750
and which differs but little from that of 1531, 1^07’
and 1682, and it is therefore accounted the lame, difier
very much from each other; fo that we cannot help
concluding them.all. to be different, and that the num-Why^o-
ber of thele bodies is very great. “ It is not, howr-11,615 may
ever, unlikely (fays Dr Long), from the immenfe inter-fometi.J?5?
val between the orbit of S turn and the neareft fixed even m
ftars, that many of them Lave not defeended into the then p?ri-
J planetary helion.
Part III.
ASTRO
Real Mo¬
tions of t!je
Heavenly
Bodies.
30S
Why more
are feen in
the hemi-
fphere to¬
wards the
fun than in
the oppo-
lite.
309.
Great dif¬
ferences in
the eccen¬
tricities of
the orbits
of comets.
31°
Opinions
concerning
their fub-
itance.
planetary regions fince they have been looked upon as
celeflial bodies, and obferved accordingly: befides, it
may often happen, that a body may finifh its whole
period without being obferved by us, on account of the
unfavourable fituation of the earth in her orbit when
the comet is in its perihelion. Thus, if the comet be
either behind or before the fun, or nearly fo, it mull
be above our horizon in the day-time, and confequent-
ly invifible, except the fun Ihould at that time be in a
total eclipfe ; for then the comet might be feen near
the fun, as well as the liars and planets are : and this
cafe is faid to have happened ; for, Seneca relates from
Poffidonius, that a comet was feen when the fun was
eclipfed, which had before been invilible by being near
that luminary.”
A greater number of comets are feen in the hemi-
fphere torvards the fun than in the oppofite ; the reafon
of which wall ealily appear from fig. 116. wherein S
reprefents the fun, E the earth, A E C D the fphere of
the fixed liars : and becaufe comets either do not re-
flefl light enough to be vifible, or emit tails confpi-
cuous enough to attrafl our notice, till they come with¬
in the planetary regions, commonly a good way with¬
in the fphere of Jupiter, let K L M N be a fphere con¬
centric to the fun, at fuch a dillance from him, that
no comet can be feen by us till it come within that
dillance ; through E draw the plane B D perpendicular
to S E, which will divide the fphere C L M N into two
hemifpheres, one of wrhich, B C D, is tow-ard the fun,
the other, DAB, oppofite. Now it is manifell, that
the fpherical portion L M N, which is in the hemi-
fphere BCD towards the fun, is larger than the portion
N K L in the hemifphere oppolite to him ; and confe-
quently a greater number of comets will appear in the
hemifphere BCD than in that marked DAB.
Though the orbits of all comets are very eccentric
ellipfes, there are vail differences among themj excep¬
ting Mercury, there are no great differences among the
planets eitheras to the eccentricity of their orbits, or the
inclination of their planes j but the planes of fome comets
are almoll perpendicular to others, and fome of their
ellipfes are much wider than others. The narrowelt
ellipfis of any comet hitherto obferved was that of
1680. There is alfo a much greater inequality in the
motion of the comets than of the planets j the velocity
of the former being incomparably greater in their peri¬
helion than in their aphelion j but the planets are but
very little accelerated.
Aftronomers are now generally agreed, that comets
are opaque bodies, enlightened by the fun. Hevelius,
in a large work, wherein he gives the opinion of vari¬
ous authors on the fubjefl, mentions fome who were of
the fame fentiments with himfelf, that comets were fo
far tranfparent as to let the light of the fun pafs thro’
them, which formed their tails. Sir Ifaac Newton
was of opinion, that they are quite opaque ; and in
confirmation of this, he obferves, that if a comet be
feen in two parts of its orbit, at equal diftances from
the earth, but at unequal diftances from the fun, it al¬
ways Urines brighteft in that neareft the fun. They
are of very different magnitudes, which may be con-
jeflured from their apparent diameter and brightnefs.
Thus the head of a comet, when of the fame bright¬
nefs and apparent diameter with Saturn, may be fup-
pofed to be nearly about the fame magnitude \yith that
N O M Y. 103
planet ; though this muft be attended with fome un- Real Mo"
certainty, as we know7 not whether the heads of comets tl°ns of the
refiect the fun’s light in the fame manner the planets g0^es ^
do. Their diftance may be known from their paral- ■ ^ .
lax, in the manner related in a fubfequent fedftion. -ir
In this manner he found the diftance of the comet Diftances,
of 1577 to be about 210 femidiameters of the earth, diameters,
or about 840,000 miles diftant from us, its appa- ^j°ts 0Rle
rent diameter being feven minutes j whence he con-computed
eluded, that the true diameter of the comet was to
that of the earth as 3 to 14. “ But ('fays Dr Long)
it was the hemifphere of the comet which was then
meafured.” Hevelius, from the parallax and apparent
diameter of the head of the comet in 1652, computed
its diameter to be to that of the earth as 52 to 100.
By the fame method he found the diameter of the head
of the comet of 1664 to be at one time 12 femidiame¬
ters of the earth, and at another not much more than
5. “ That the head of the comet muft appear lefs the
farther it is from the earth (fays Dr Long) is .obvious;
but befides this apparent change, there is alfo a real
one in the dimenfions of the head of the fame comet;
for, when near the fun, the atmofphere is diminiflied
by the heat raifing more of it into the tail; whereas, at
a greater diftance, the tail is diminiftied and the head
enlarged.” Hevelius computed the diameter of thq
nucleus of the comets of 1661 and 1665 to be only ‘
about a tenth part of that of the earth; and Cyfatus
makes the true diameter of the comet of 1618 to be
about the fame fize. Some comets, however, from
their apparent magnitude and diftance, have been fup-
pofed much larger than the moon, or even equal in
magnitude to fome 6f the primary planets ; and fome 3I3
have imagined, that by an interpofition of thefe bodies Eclipfes
betwixt the earth and fun, we might account for thofe occafioned
darkneffes which cannot be derived from any interpofi- ^ coinets‘
tion of the moon. Such are thofe mentioned by He¬
rodotus, 1. 7. c. 37. and 1. 9. c. 70; likewifethe eclipfe
mentioned by Dion, which happened a little before the
death of Auguftus ; and it is obfervable that Seneca
faw a comet that year. Some have even attempted to
account in this manner for the darknefs which happen¬
ed at our Saviour’s crucifixion ; and indeed it is cer¬
tain, that were a comet in its perigee to come between
the earth and fun, and to be moving the fame way
with the earth, it muft ^caufe a darknefs much more
intenfe, as well as of more confiderable duration, than
what could take place in any lunar eclipfe. ^
Various conjectures have been formed refpefling Conjeclures
the tails of comets ; though it is acknowledged by concerning
all, that they depend on the fun fomehow or other ;t5ieir tails*
and for this plain reafon, that they are always turned
from him ; but in ryhat manner this is accompliftied,
we cannot eafily determine. Apian, Tycho Brahe, and
others, thought the tail was formed by the fun’s rays
tranfmitted through the mucleus of the comet,, which
they fancied tranfparent, and was there refra£led as in
a lens of glafs, fo as to form a beam of light behind
the comet: but this cannot be the cafe, as well becaufe
the figure of a comet’s tail does not arifwer to fuch a
refraction, as that fuch refrafted light would not be
feen by a fpedlator placed fideways to it, unlefs it
fell upon fome fubftance fufficiently denfe to caufe a
reflexion. Defcartes and his followers were of opi-Opinion 0g
nion, that the tail of a comet was owing to the refrac- Defcartej,
tion
io4 ASTRO
Real Mo- tion of its head: but if this were the cafe, the planets and
tions ot ^ie principal fixed liars mull have tails alio ^ for the rays
^Bodies. from them pafs through the fame medium as the_ light
» - ^ ' from the comets. Sir Ifaac Newton was of opinion,
that the tail of a comet is a very thin vapour which
the head fends out by reafon of its heat: that it afcends
from the fun juft as fmoke does from the earth : that
as the afcent of fmoke is caufed by the rarefadlion of
the air wherein it is entangled, caufing fuch air to
afcend and carry the fmoke up with it; fo the fun’s
rays a£ling upon the coma or atmofphere of the co¬
met, do by rarefaction and refraftion heat the fame: that
this heated atmofphere heats, and by heating rarefies,
the ether that is involved therein-, and that the fpecific
gravity with which fuch ether tends to the fun, is fo
diminilhed by its rarefaClion, that it will now afcend
from him by its relative lightnefs, and carry with it the
reflefting particles whereof the tail is compofed. Tho’
the immenfely large tails of fome comets feem to re¬
quire a great quantity of matter to produce them, this
is no objeClion to the foregoing folution : for every
day’s experience Ihows what a great quantity of fmoke
is produced from a very little wood or coal j and New¬
ton has defnonftrated, that a cubic inch of air equally
rarefied with that at the diftance of a femidiameter
from the earth’s furface, would fill all the planetary
regions to the orbit of Saturn and beyond. Mairan
entertained a very different opinion. He fuppofed the
tails of the comets to be formed out of the luminous
matter whfcreof the fun’s atmofphere confifts. This
he fuppofes to extend as far as the orbit of the earth,
and to furnilh matter for the aurora borealis. M. de
la Lande is for joining the two laft opinions together.
Part of the matter which forms the tails of comets he
fuppofes to arife from their own atmofphere rarefied by
heat and pulhed forward by the force of tne light
ftreaming from the fun j and alio that a comet palling
through the fun’s atmofphere is drenched therein, and
carries away fome of it. Mr Rowning objeCls to New¬
ton’s account, that it can hardly be luppofed the thin
vapour of the tail Ihould go before the more folid body
of the comet, when the motion thereof is fometimes fo
extremely fwift, as that of fome of the comets is faid to
be after the rate, as Sir Ifaac Newton calculated the
motion of the comet of 1680 to be, of no lefs than
880,000 miles an hour. He therefore fuppofes the
atmofphere of the comet to extend every way round it
as far as the tail reaches -, and that the part of it which
makes the tail is diftinguilhed from the reft, fo as to
fall thick upon that part of the atmofphere which goes
before the comet in its progrefs along its elliptic orbit.
The greateft obje&ion to this is the immenfe magni¬
tude of the atmofpheres j as it muft now be fuppofed to
account for the vaft lengths of the tails of fome co¬
mets, which have been faid to meafure above 80 mil¬
lions of miles.
The many difeoveries which, fince the time of New¬
ton, Halley, and other celebrated mathematicians,
have been made in eleftricity, having brought in a
new element unknown to former ages, and which
Ihows a vaft power through every part of the creation
with which we are acquainted, it became natural to
imagine that it muft extend alfo into thofe higher re-
o-ions which are altogether inaccefiible to man. The
fgnilarity of the tails of comets to the Aurora Borea-
1
N O M Y. Pan III.
lis, which is commonly looked upon to be an ele&ri- Real Mo-
cal phenomenon, therefore fuggefted an opinion, at
prefent far from being generally difbelieved, that the jj0(jies>
tails of comets are ftreams of eleftric matter. An hy-
pothefis of this kind was publilhed by Dr Hamilton of 315
Dublin in a fmall treatife, entitled, ConjeBures on the ^
Nature of the Aurora Borealis, and on the ‘Tails of Co-
mets. His hypothefis is, that the comets are of ufe toni0n>
bring back the eledlric fluid to the planets, which is
continually difeharged from the higher regions of their
atmofpheres. Having given at length the above-men¬
tioned opinion of i^ir ifaac, “ We find (lays he) in
this account, that Sir Ifaac aferibes the afcent of co¬
mets tails to their being rarer and lighter, and moving
round the fun more fwiftly than the folar atmofphere,
with which he fuppofes them to be furreunded whilft
in the neighbourhood of the fun j he fays alfo, that
whatever pofition (in refpe£l to each other) the head
and tail of a comet then receive, they will keep the
fame afterwards moft freely ; and in another place he
obferves, ‘ That the celeftial fpaces muft be entirely
void of any power of refifting, fince not only the {olid
bodies of the planets and comets, but even the exceed¬
ing thin vapours of which comets' tails are formed,
move through thofe {paces with immenfe velocity, and
yet with the greateft freedom.’ I cannot help think¬
ing that this account is liable to many difficulties and
obje&ions, and that it feems not very confiftent with
itfelf or with the phenomena.
“ I do not know7 that w7e have any proof of the ex¬
igence of a folar atmofphere of any confiderable ex¬
tent, nor are w7e anywhere taught how to guefs at the
limits of it. It is evident that the exiftence of fuch
an atmofphere cannot be proved merely by the afcent
of comets tails from the fun, as that phenomenon may
poflibly arife from fome other caufe. However, let us
fuppofe for the prefent, that the afcent of comets
tails is owing to an atmofphere furrounding the fun ;
and fee how7 the effe£ts arifing from thence will agree
with the phenomena. When a comet comes intp the
folar atmofphere, and is then defeending almoft direft-
ly to the fun, if the vapours which compofe the tail
are raifed up from it by the fuperior denfity and weight
of that atmofphere, they muft rife into thofe parts that
the comet has left, and therefore at that time they may
appear in a diredlion oppofite to the fun. But as foon
as the comet comes near the fun, and moves in a di-
redlion nearly at right angles with the diredlion of its
tail, the vapours which then arife, partaking of the
great velocity of the comet, and being fpecifically
lighter than the medium in which they move, and be¬
ing vaftly expanded through it, muft neceffaiily fuffer
a refiftance immenfely greater tnan what the (mall and
denfe body of the comet meets with, and confequently
cannot poflibly keep up with it, but muh be left be¬
hind, or, as it w7ere, driven backwards by the refift¬
ance of that medium into a line direfted towards the
parts which the comet has left, and therefore can no
longer appear in a direflion oppofite to the fun. And,
in Hke manner, w7hen a comet paffes its perihelion, and
begins to afcend from the fun, it certainly ought to
appear ever after wdth its tail behind it, or in a direc¬
tion pointed towards the fun 5 for if the tail of the co¬
met be fpecifically lighter than the medium in which
it moves with fo great velocity, it muft be juft as im-
poffible
Part III.
A S T R O N O M: Y.
Renl Mo- poffible it fliould move foremoft, as it is that a torch
tions of the move<l fwiftly through the air (hould projeft its flame
Bodiesy anc^ ^mo^e before it. Since therefore we find that the
tm —v—..»< tail of a comet, even when it is afcending from the
fun, moves foremoft, and appears in a direftion nearly
oppofite to the fun, I think we mufh conclude that the
comet and its tail do not move in a medium heavier
and denfer than the matter of which the tail confifts,
and confequently that the conftant afcent of the tail
from the fun mull be owing to fome other caufe. For
that the folar atmofphere Ihould have denfity and
weight fufficient to raife up the vapours. of a comet
from the fun, and yet not be able to give any fenfible
refiftance to thefe vapours in their rapid progrefs
through it, are two things inconfiftent with each
other : And therefore, fince the tail of a comet is
found to move as freely as the body does, w^e ought
rather to conclude, that the celeftial fpaces are void of
all refilling matter, than that they are filled with a fo¬
lar atmofphere, be it ever fo rare.
“ But there is, I think, a further confideration,
which will fliow that the received opinion, as to the
afcent of comets tails, is not agreeable to the pheno¬
mena, and may at the fame time lead us to fome know¬
ledge of the matter of which thefe tails confift j which
I fufpe£l is of a very different nature from what it has
been hitherto fuppofed to be. Sir Ifaac fays, the va¬
pours, of which the tail of a comet confifts, grow hot
by reflefling the rays of the fun, and thereby warm
and rarefy the medium which furrounds them 5 which
mult therefore afcend from the fun, and carry with it
the refledling particles of which the tail is formed j for
he always fpeaks of the tail as fliining by refledfed
light. But one would rather imagine, from the phe¬
nomena, that the matter which forms a comet’s tail has
not the leaft fenfible power of refledfing the rays of
light. For it appears from Sir Ifaac’s obfervation,
which I have quoted already, that the light of the
fmalleft ftars, coming to us through the immenfe thick-
nefs of a comet’s tail, does not fuffer the leaft diminu¬
tion. And yet, if the tail can refledt the light of the
iun fo copioufly as it muft do if its great fplendour be
owing to fuch refledfion, it muft undoubtedly have the
fame effedl on the light of the ftars *, that is, it muft
refledt back the light which comes from the ftars be¬
hind it, and by fo doing muft intercept them from our
fight, confidering its vaft thicknefs, and how exceed¬
ingly flender a ray is that comes from a fmall ftar ; or
if it did not intercept their whole light, it muft at leaft
increafe their twinkling. But we do not find that it
has even this fmall effedt •, for thofe ftars that appear
through the tail are not obferved to twinkle more than
others in their neighbourhood. Since therefore this
fadt is fupported by obfervations, what can be a plain¬
er proof that the matter of a comet’s tail has no power
of refledling the rays of light ? and confequently, that
it muft be a felf-fhining fubftance. But the fame
thing will further appear, from confidering that bodies
refledl and refradt light by one and the fame power $
and therefore if comets tails want the power of refradt-
ing the rays of light, they muft alfo want the power
of refledling them. Now, that they want this re-
fradling power appears from hence : If that great co¬
lumn of tranfparent matter which forms a comet’s tail,
and moves either in a vacuum or in fome medium of a
Vol, III. Part I.
IO5
difterent denfity from its own, had any power of re- Real Mo-
fradting a ray of light coming through it from a ftar t“ns t^ie
to us, that ray muft be turned far out of its way in y
palling over the great diftance between the comet and > —^
the earth ; and therefore we Ihould very fenfibly per¬
ceive the fmalleft refradtion that the light of the ftars
might fuffer in pafling through a comet’s tail. The
confequence of fuch a refradtion muft be very remark¬
able : the ftars that lie near the tail would, in fome
cafes, appear double j for they w'ould appear in their
proper places by their diredt rays, and we fhould fee
their images behind the tail, by means of their rays
which it might refradt to our eyes 5 and thofe ftars
that wrere really behind the tail would difappear in
fome fituations, their rays being turned afide from us
by refradtion. In Ihort, it is eafy to imagine what
ftrange alterations would be made in the apparent pla¬
ces of the fixed ftars by the tails of comets, if they had
a power of refradting their light, which could not fail
to be taken notice of if any fuch ever happened. But
fince altronomers have not mentioned any fuch appa¬
rent changes of place among the ftars, I take it for
granted that the ftars feen through all parts of a co¬
met’s tail appear in their proper places, and with their
ufual colours •, and confequently I infer, that the rays
of light fuffer no refradtion in pafling through a co¬
met’s tail. And thence I conclude (as before), that
the matter of a comet’s tail has not the pow’er of re¬
fradting or refledting the rays of light, and muft there¬
fore be a lucid or felf-lhining fubftance.”
But whatever probability the Dodtor’s conjedture Sir ifaac’s
concerning the materials whereof the tails are formed account de¬
may have in it, his criticifm on Sir liaac New’ton’s ac- fen<le(b
count of them feems not to be juft : for that great phi-
lofopher fuppofes the comets to have an atmofphere pe¬
culiar to themfelves*, and confequently in their neareft
approaches to the fun, both comet and atmoiphere are
immerfed in the atmofphere of that luminary. In this
cafe, the atmofphere of the comet being prodigioufty
heated on the fide next to the fun, and confequently
the equilibrium in it broken, the denfer parts will con¬
tinually pour in from the regions fartheft from the funj
for the fame reafon, the more rarefied part which is be¬
fore will continually fly off oppofite to the fun, be¬
ing difplaced by that which comes from behind ; for
though w'e muft fuppofe the comet and its atmofphere
to be heated on all fides to an extreme degree, yet ftill
that part which is fartheft from the fun will be lefs hot,
and confequently more denfe, than what is neareft to
his body. The confequence of this is, that there muft
be a conftant ftream of denfe atmofphere defcending
towards the fun, and another ftream of rarefied vapours
and atmofphere afcending on the contrary fide; juft as
in a common fire there is a conftant ftream of denfe
air afcending, which puflies up another of rarefied air,
flame, and iinoke. The refiftance of the folar atmo¬
fphere may indeed be very well fuppofed to occafion
the curvature obfervable in the tails of comets, and
their being better defined in the fore part than be-
hind; and this appearance we think Dr Hamilton’s Dr Hamil-
hypothefis is incapable of folving. We grant, that t0R’s hyp°-
there is the utmoft probability that the tails of comets infuf'
are ftreams of eleftric matter; but they who advance ncient‘
a theory ol any kind ought to folve every phenome¬
non, otherwife their theory is infufficient. It wfas in-
O cumbent
io6 A S T R
Real Mo- cumbent on Dr Hamilton, therefore to have explained
^Heavenly6 ^ovv ftream of ele£lric matter comes to be bent
Bodies/ ^nto a curve j and alfo why it is better defined and
L.—.y—brighter on the outer fide of the arch than on the in¬
ner. This, indeed, he attempts in the following man¬
ner : “ But that this curvature was not owing to any
refilling matter appears from hence, that the tail mull:
be bent into a curve, though it met wdth no refiftance
for it could not be a right line, unlefs all its particles
were projected in parallel directions, and with the fame
velogity, and unlefs the comet moved uniformly in a
right line. But the comet moves in a curve, and each
part of the tail is projected in a direction oppofite to
the fun, and at the fame time partakes of the motion
of the comet} fo that the different parts of the tail
mult move on in lines which diverge from each other;
and a line drawn from the head of a comet to the ex¬
tremity of the tail, will be parallel to a line drawn
from the fan to the place where the comet was when
that part of the tail began to afcend, as Sir Ifaac ob-
ferves : and fo all the chords or lines drawn from the
head of the comet to the intermediate parts of the tail,
will be refpeCtively parallel to lines drawn from the
fun to the places where the comet was when thefe
parts of the tail began to afcend. And therefore, fince
thefe chords of the tail will be of different lengths, and
parallel to different lines, they mult make different
angles with a great circle palling through the fun and
comet; and confequently a line palling through their
extremities will be a curve.
“ It is obferved, that the convex fide of the tail
which is turned from the fun is better defined, and
fhines a little brighter, than the concave fide. Sir
[faac accounts for this, by faying, that the vapour on
the convex fide is frelher (that is, has afcended later)
than that on the concave fide ; and yet I cannot fee
how the particles on the convex fide can be thought to
have afcended later than thofe on the concave fide
which may be nearer to the head of the comet. I think
it rather looks as if the tail, in its rapid motion, met''
- with fome fight refiitance jult fufficient to caufe a fmall
condenfation in that fide of it which moves foremolt,
and which would occafion it to appear a little brighter
and better defined than the other fide ; which fight
refiftance may arife from that fubtile ether which is
fuppofed to be difperfed through the celeltial regions,
or from this very electric matter difperfed in the fame
manner, if it be different from the ether.
On the lalt part of this obfervation we mull remark,
that though a fight refiftance in the ethereal medium
would have ferved Sir Ifaac Newton’s turn, it will by
no means ferve Dr Hamilton’s *, for though a ftream
of water or air may be eafily deftroyed or broken by
refiitance, yet a ftream of eledtric matter feems to fet
every obftacle at defiance. If a fliarp needle is placed
on the conduftor of an eledtric machine, and the ma¬
chine fet in motion, we wall perceive a fmall ftream of
ele£tnc matter iffuing from the point; but though we
blow agamft this ftream of fire with the utmoft vio¬
lence, it is impoflible either to move it, or to brighten
it on the fide againlt which we blow. If the qeleltial
fpaces then are full of a fubtile ether capable of thus
affecting a ftream of eleftric matter, we may be fure
that it alfo will refill very violently : and we are then
as much difficulted to account for the projectile mo-
O N o M Y. Part nr.
tion continuing amidft luch violent refiftance for if Real Mo¬
tile ether refills the tail of the comet, it is impoflibletions of the.
to prove that it doth not refill the head alfo. Heavenly
This objection may appear to fome to be but weak- t Bo‘llcs- t
ly founded, as we perceive the eleCtric fluid to be en- Jis""
dowed with fuch extreme fubtility, and to yield to the-EkAbc
impreflion of folid bodies with fuch facility, that we njatter not
eafily imagine k to be of a very paflive nature in all ^ays paf'
cafes. But it is certain, that this fluid only flows it-
felf paflive where it paffes from one body into another,
which it feems very much inclined to do of itfelf. It
will alfo be found, on proper examination of all the
phenomena, that the only way we can manage the elec¬
tric fluid at all is by allowing it to direCt its own mo¬
tions. In all cafes where wx* ourfelves attempt to af-
fume the government of it, it Ihows itfelf the molt un-
traCtable and fiubborn being in nature. But thefe
things come more properly under the article Elec¬
tricity, where they are fully coniidered. Here it is
fufficient to obferve, that a ftream of eleClric matter
refills air, and from the phenomena of eleCiric repul-
fion we are fure that one ftream of eleCtric matter re¬
fills another : from which we may be alfo certain, that
if a ftream of eleCtric matter moves in an aerial fluid,
fuch lluid will refill it •, and we can only judge of the
degree of refiftance it meets with in the heavens from
what we obferve on earth. Here we lee the moll vio¬
lent blalt of air has no effeCt upon a ftream of eleCtric
fluid : in the celeftial regions, either air or fome other
fluid has an effeCt upon it according to Dr Hamilton.
The refiftance of that fluid, therefore, mult be great¬
er than that of the molt violent blalt of air we can
imagine.
As to the DoCtor’s method of accounting for the
curvature of the comet’s tail, it might do very well on
Sir Ilaac Newton’s principles, but cannot do fo on his.
There is no comparifon between tire celerity with which
larefied vapour afcends in our atmofphere, and that
wffiereby the eleCtric fluid is difcharged. The velocity
of the latter feems to equal that of light ; of confe-
quence, fuppofing the velocity of the comet to be
equal to that of the earth in its annual courle, and its
tail equal in length to the diftance of the fun from the
earth, the curvature of the tail could only be to a.
ftraight line as the velocity of the comet in its orbit is
to the velocity of light, which, according to the cal¬
culations of Dr Bradley, is as 10,201 to 1. The ap¬
parent curvature of fuch a comet’s tail, therefore, would
at this rate only be toXot Part °f ks vifible length,
and this would always be imperceptible to us. The projjgjouj
velocity of comets is indeed fometimes inconceivably velocity of
great. Mr Brydone obferved one at Palermo, in July a comet ob-
1770, which in 24 hours defcribed an arch in the hea-1^™^ ^
vens upwards of 50 degrees in length ; according to^jnc ^
which he fuppofes, that if it was as far diftant as the
fun, it mult have moved at the rate of upwards of Co
millions of miles in a day. But this comet was attend¬
ed with no tail, fo that we cannot be certain whether
the curvature of the tails of thefe bodies correfponds
with their velocity or not.
The near approach of fome comets to the fun fub- Vehement
je£ls them to intenfe and inconceivable degrees of heat, heat of the
Newton calculated that the heat of the comet of 1680 comet of
mult have been near 2000 times as great as that of1<580,
red-hot iron. The calculation is founded upon this
" principle.
Part III.
Real Mo- principle, that the heat of the fun falling upon any
tions of the b0(iy at different diftances is reciprocally as the fquares
Heavenly ^ tj10fe JJ^ances j but it may be obferved, that the ef-
■ 0f t]lc heat of the fan upon all bodies near our
earth depends very much on the conftitution of thole
bodies, and of the air that furrounds them. “ The
comet in quellion (fays Dr Long) certainly acquired
a prodigious heat j but I cannot think it came up to
what the calculation makes it : the effedt of the ftrong-
ed burning-glafs that has ever been made ufe of was
the vitrification of moil bodies placed in its focus.
What would be the effedi of a ftill greater heat we can
only conjedture j it would perhaps To difunite the parts
as to make them fly off every way in atoms. This co¬
met, according to Halley, in palling through its fouth-
ern node, came within the length of the fun’s femidia-
meter of the orbit of the earth. Had the earth then
been in the part of her orbit neareft to that node, their
mutual gravitation mull have caufed a change in the
/ plane of the orbit of the earth, and in the length of
our year : he adds, that if fo large a body, with fo
rapid a motion as that of this comet, were to ftrike
again It the earth, a thing by no means impofiible, the
ihock might reduce this beautiful frame to its original
chaos.”
1 We mult not conclude this account without obferving
that Whilton, who, from Flamltead’s meafure of its
apparent diameter, concluded the nucleus of the comet
to be about ten times as big as the moon, or equal to
a fourth part of the earth, attributes the univerfal de¬
luge in the time of Noah to the near approach thereof.
His opinion was, that the earth palling through the at-
mofphere of the comet, attradled therefrom great part
of the water of the flood that the nearnefs of the comet
raifed a great tide in the fubterraneous waters, fo that
the outer cruft of the earth was changed from a fphe-
rical to an oval figure ; that this could not be done
without making fiftbres and cracks in it, through which
the waters forced themfelves, by the hollow7 of the earth
being changed into a lefs capacious form j that along
with the water thus fqueezed up on the furface of the
earth, much llime or mud would rife •, which, together
with the groffer part of the comet’s atmofphere, would,
after the fubfiding of the water, partly into the fiffures
and partly into the lower parts of the earth to form
the fea, cover all over, to a confiderable depth, the
antediluvian earth. Thus he accounts for trees and
bones of animals being found at a very great depth in
the earth. He alfo held that, before the fall, the
earth revolved round the fun in the plane of the eclip¬
tic, keeping always the fame points of its furface to¬
wards the fame fixed liars. By this means, as every
meridian would come to the fun but once in every re¬
volution, a day and a year wTere then the fame : but
that a comet ftriking obliquely upon fome part of the
earth gave it the diurnal rotation *, that the antedilu¬
vian year confifted of 360 days: but that the addition¬
al matter depofited upon the earth from the atmofphere
of the comet at the flood, fo retarded the revolution
thereof round the fun, that it is not now performed in
lefs than 365 days and about a quarter. The fame co¬
met he thought would probably, coming near the earth
when heated in an intenfe degree in its perihelion, be
the inftrumental caufc of that great cataftrophe, the
toy
general conflagration, foretold in the (acred writings Real Mo-
° j r • l a-.- tions of the
and irom ancient tradition. Heavenly
Thefe conjedfures lead us to fpeak fomewhat more jg0(jjes_
particularly concerning the nature of comets, and  ✓—
the purpofes they may poflibly anlvver in the creation. 321
Hevelius, in order to account for the various appear-
ances of th& nucleus already related, fuppofed that &c con_
they wrere compofed of feveral maffes compadled toge- cerning the
ther, wfith a tranfparent fluid interfperfed, but the nature of
apparent changes in the nucleus may be only on thecomets*
furface : comets may be fubjedt to fpots as the planets
are ; and the vaftly different degrees of heat they go
through may occafion great and fudden changes, not
only in their furfahes, but even in their internal frame
and texture. Newton places all thefe apparent changes
to the atmofphere that environs them ; which muft be
very denfe near their furfaces, and have clouds floating
therein. It was his opinion, that the changes mention¬
ed may all be in the clouds, not in the nucleus. This
laft indeed he looked upon to be a body of extreme fo-
lidity, in order to fuftain fuch an intenfe heat as the
comets are fometimes deftincd to undergo j and that,
notwithftanding their running out into the immenfe
regions of fpace, where they were expofed to the molt
intenfe degrees of cold, they wTould hardly be cooled
again on their return to the fun. Indeed, accord¬
ing to his calculation, the comet of 1680 muft be
for ever in a ftate of violent ignition. He hath com¬
puted that a globe of red-hot iron of the fame dimen-
fions with the earth, would fcarce be cool in 50,000
y-. ars. If then the comet be fuppofed to cool 100
times farter then red-hot iron, as its heat wras 2000
times greater, it muft require upwards of a million of
years to cool it. In the Ihort period of 575 years*
therefore, its heat will be in a manner fcarce dimi-
nilhed ; and, of confequence, in its next and every fuc-
ceeding revolution, it muft acquire an increafe of heat:
fo that, fince the creation, having received a proper-1
tional addition in every fucceeding revolution, it muft
now7 be in a ftate of ignition very little inferior to that
of the fun itfelf. Sir Ifaac Newton hath farther con¬
cluded, that this comet mult be conliderably retard¬
ed in every fucceeding revolution by the atmofphere
of the fun within which it enters j and thus muft con¬
tinually come nearer and nearer his body, till at lall
it falls into it. This, he thinks, may be one ufe of the
comets, to furnilh fuel for the fun, which otherwife
would be in danger of wafting from the continual emif-
fion of its light.
He adds, that for the confervation of the w7ater and
moifture of the planets, comets feem abfolutely requi-
lite j from whofe condenfed vapours and exhalation
all the moifture which is fpent in vegetation and pu-
trefraftion, and turned into dry earth, &c. may be
refupplied and recruited j for all vegetables grow7 and
increafe wholly from fluids j and again, as to their
greateft part, turn by putrefa&ion into earth ; an
earthy (lime being perpetually precipitated to the bot¬
tom of putrefying liquors. Hence the quantity of dry
earth muft: continually increafe, and the moifture of the
globe decreafe, and be quite evaporated, if it have not
a continual fupply from fome part or other of the uni-
verfe. “ And I fufpedt (adds our great author), that
the fpirit w7hich makes the fineft, fubtilell, and belt
O 2 part
ASTRONOMY.
io8
tions^o^the .°* 0cir a^r? whicli is abfolutely requifite for
Heavenly t^le anc^ being of all things, comes principally from
Bodies, comets.”
1 , 1 Mr Brydone obferves, that the comets without tails
M 322 ^eem to be of a very different fpecies from thofe
done’s con- which have tails : To the latter» he they appear
je&ures to bear a much lefs refemblance than they do even to
concerning planets. He tells us, that comets with tails have fel-
comets dom been vifible but on their recefs from the fun : that
tails.°Ut tlley afe kindled up, and receive their alarming appear¬
ance, in their near approach to this glorious luminary j
but that thofe without tails are feldom or ever feen
but on their way to the fun ; and he does not recoiled
any whofe return has been tolerably well afcertained.
“ I remember indeed (fays he), a few years ago, a
fmall one, that was faid to have been difcovered by a
telefcope after it had paffed the fun, but never more be¬
came vifible to the naked eye. This affertion is eafily
made, and nobody can contradid it; but it does not
at all appear probable that it fhould have been fo much
lefs luminous after it had paffed the fun than before it
approached him : and I will own to you, when I have
heard that the return of thefe comets had efcaped the
eyes of the moft acute aftronomers, I have been tempt¬
ed to think, that they did not return at all, but were
abforbed in the body of the fun, which their violent
motion towards him feemed to indicate.” He then at¬
tempts to account for the continual emiffion of the fun’s
light without wade, by fuppofing that there are num-
berlefs bodies throughout the univerfe that are attraded
into the body of the fun, w'hich ferve to fupply the
wade of light, and which for fome time remain ob-
fcure and occafion fpots on his furface, till at lad they
are perfedly diffolved and become bright like the red.
This hypothefis may account for the dark fpots becom¬
ing as bright, or even brighter, than the red of the
dilk, but will by no means account for the brighter
fpots becoming dark. Of this comet, too, Mr Bry¬
done remarks, that it was evidently furrounded by an
atmofphere which refraded the light of the fixed ftars,
and feemed to caufed them change their places as the
comet came near them.
A very drange opinion ive find fet forth in a book
entitled “ Obfervations and Conjedures on the Nature
and Properties of Light, and on the Theory of Co¬
mets, by William Cole.” This gentleman fuppofes
that the comets belong to no particular fydem ; but
■were originally projeded in fuch diredions, as would
fucceffively expofe them to the attradion of different
centres, and thus they would defcribe various curves of
the parabolic and the hyperbolic kind. This treatife is
written in anfwer to fome objedions thrown out in Mr
Brvdone’s Tour, againd the motions of the comets by
means ©f the two forces of gravitation and projedion,
which w7ere thought fufficient for that purpofe by Sir
Ifaac Newton : of which we (hall treat as fully as our
limits will allow in the next fedion.
riodicaf analogy between the periodical times of the
See. planets and their didances from the fun, difcovered by
Kepler, takes place alfo in the comets. In confe-
quence of this, the mean didance of a comet from the
fun may be found by comparing its period with the
time of the earth’s revolution round the fun. Thus
the period of the comet that appeared in 1531, 1607,
1682, and 1759, being about 76 years, its mean di-
astronomy.
323
Mr Cole’s
hypothefis.
3M
Of the pe-
times,
of the
comets.
Part nr.
dance from the fun may be found by this proportion : Real Mo-
As 1, the fquare of one year, the earth’s periodical time,t!nns of the
is to 5776 the fquare of 76, the comet’s periodical ^JaJ.en'y
time} fo is 1,000,000, the cube of 100 the earth’s
mean didance from the fun, to 5,776,000,000 the cube
of the comet’s mean didance. ri he cube root of this
lad number is 1794 5 the mean didance itfelf in fuch
parts as the mean didance of the earth from the fun
contains 100. If the perihelion didance of this comet,
58, be taken from 3588 double the mean didance, we
drall have the aphelion didance, 3530, of fuch parts as
the didance of the earth contains 100 j wThich is a little
more than 35 times the didance of the earth from the
fun. By a like method, the aphelion didance of the
cornet of 1680 comes out 138 times the mean didance
of the earth from the fun, luppofing its period to be
575-years: fo that this comet, in its aphelion, goes
more than 14 times the didance from the fun that Sa¬
turn does. Euler computes the orbit of this comet
from three of Flamdead’s obfervations taken near to¬
gether, compared with a fourth taken at fome di¬
dance from the other three, and from thence concludes
the period to be a little more than 170 years. “ It
feems fomething furprifing (fays Dr Long), that,
from the lame obfervations which were ufed by New¬
ton and Halley, he Ihould bring out a period fo very
different from what thefe great men have determined*:
but it is the lefs to be wondered at, if we confider how
fmall a portion of the comet’s orbit lay between the
mod didant places ufed in this computation, or indeed
that could be had for that purpofe ; fo fmall, that the
form of the ellipfis cannot be found with precifion by
this method, except the comet’s places were more ex¬
actly verified than is poffible to be done : and that he
does not pretend to confirm his determination of the
period by pointing out and comparing together any
former appearances of this comet; a method which
Newton recommended as the only one whereby the
periodical times and tranfverfe diameters of the orbits
of the comets can be determined with accuracy.”
The period of the comet in 1744 is much longer than
even that of 1680. Mr Betts, in attempting to compute
the tranfverfe axis of its orbit, found it come out fo
near infinite, that, though the orbit Ihowed itfelf in
this manner to be a very long one, he found it impof-
fible to calculate it without fome obfervations made
after its perihelion. Halley, after he had finilhed hisDrEnHey
tables of comets, found fuch a fimilitude in the elements calculates
of thofe of 1531, 1607, and 1682, that he was indu-the retum
ced to believe them to be returns of the fame comet jnof comct5*
an elliptic orbit : but as there -was luch a difference
in their periodical times and inclinations of their or¬
bits as feemed to make againft this opinion ; and as
the obfervations of the firft of them in 1531 by Appian,
and the fecond in 1607 by Kepler, were not exaft
enough to determine fo nice a point when he firft pub-
lilhed his fynopfis in 1705 ; he only mentioned this as
a thing probable, and recommended it to pefterity to
watch for an appearance of the fame in j 758. After¬
wards, looking over the catalogue of ancient comets,
and finding three others at equal intervals with thofe
now mentioned, he grew more pofitive in his opi¬
nion ; and knowing a method of calculating with eafe
a motion in an elliptic orbit, how eccentric foever it
might be, inftead of the parabolic orbit which he had
given
326
Why the
periodical
return of
comets may
happen at 75 years
Part III. ASTRO
Real Mo- given for the comet of 1682, hefet about adapting the
tions of thepjan 0f ^at orbit to an ellipfis of a given fpace and
He-n.y magnJtude, having the fun in one of its foci, fo as to
y - i tally with the obfervations of that comet made by Flam-
rftead with great accuracy, by the help of a very large
fextant. He likewife corrected the places of the comet
of 1531 from Appian, and thofe of the comet 1607
from Kepler and Longomontanus, by rectifying the
places of the liars they had made ufe of, and found
thofe places agree as well with the motion in fuch
an ellipfis as could be expefted from the manner of ob-
ferving of thefe aftronomers, and the imperfeftions of
their inftruments. The greateft objeClion to this
theory was fome difference in the inclination of the
orbits, and that there was above a year’s difference be¬
tween the two periods. The comet of 1531 was in
its perihelion Augull 24. ; that of 1607, OClober 16.
and that of 1682, September 4. : fo that the firft of
thefe periods was more than 76, the latter not quite
To obviate this, he reminds his readers of
unequal in-an obfervation made by him of the periodical revolu-
tervals. tjon 0f gaturn having at one time been about 13 days
longer than at another time ; occafioned, as he fup-
pofed, by the near approach of Saturn and Jupiter,
and the mutual attraClion and gravitation of thefe twro
planets : and obferves, that in the fummer of the year
1681, the comet in its defcent was for fome time fo
near Jupiter, that its gravitation towards that planet
was one-fiftieth part of its gravitation towards the fun.
This, he concluded, would caufe a change in the in¬
clination of its orbit, and alfo in the velocity of its
motion : for by continuing longer near the planet Ju¬
piter on the fide molt remote from the fun, its velocity
would be more increafed by the joint forces of both
thofe bodies, than it would be diminilhed by them adt-
ing contrarywife, when on the fide next the fun where
its motion was fwifteft. The projectile motion being
thus increafed, its orbit would be enlarged, and its
period lengthened ; fo that he thought it probable it
would not return till after a longer period than 76
years, about the end of the year 1758, or beginning of
I759*
As Halley expreffed his opinion modeftly, though
clearly enough, that this comet would appear again
about the end of 1758, or the beginning of the fol¬
lowing year, M. de la Lande pretends he mull have
been at a lofs to know whether the period he foretold
would have been of 75 or of 76 years ; that he did
not give a decifive prediction, as if it had been the re-
fult of calculation 5 and that, by confidering the affair
in fo loofe a manner as Halley did, there was a good
deal of room for objecting to his reafoning. After
thefe refieCtions, he is very large in his commendation
of the performance of Clairault ; who, he fays, not
only calculated itriCtly the effeCt of the attraction of
Jupiter in 1681 and 1683, when the comet was again
near Jupiter, but did not negleCt the attraction of that
planet when the comet was molt diftant 5 that he con-
fidered the uninterrupted attractions of Jupiter and
Saturn upon the fun and upon the comet, but chiefly
the attractions of Jupiter upon the fun, whereby that
luminary was a little difplaced, and gave different ele¬
ments to the orbit of the comet. By this method he
found the comet would be in its perihelion about the
middle of April j but that, on account of fome fmall
N O M Y. 109
quantities neceffarily negleCted in the method of ap- Real Mo-
proximation made ufe of by him, Mr Clairault t nTaveiil"6
fired to be indulged one month ; and that the comet R0(jjes.
came juft 30 days before the time he had fixed for its u——y-—'
appearance.
That comets may have their motion difturbed by
the planets, efpecially by the two largelt, Jupiter and
Saturn, appears by an inftance juft now mentioned.
They may alfo affeCt one another by their mutual gra¬
vitation when out of the planetary regions j but of this
we can take no account, nor can we eftimate the refift-
ance of the ether through which they pafs 3 and yet
both thefe caufes may have fome influence on the incli¬
nation of their orbits and the length of their periods.
Chap. V. Of the Motions of the Satellites.
The moon is the fatellite which moves round the
earth, and as her apparent and real motions are the
fame, we have already given an account of her ellip¬
tical orbit and irregularities.
Jupiter is attended by four fatellites. If we repre-
fent the femidiameters of Jupiter’s equator by unity,
then the mean diftances of the fatellites from Jupiter,
will be reprefented by the following numbers.
Firft fatellite 5.697300 femidiameters. Orlitsand
Second fatellite 9.065898 diftances of
Third fatellite 14.461628 JuP^er’s
Fourth fatellite 25.436000
The durations of their revolutions are refpeCtively,
i69T37787o6993i day?.
fatellites.
Firft fatellite
Second fatellite
Third fatellite
Fourth fatellite
3.551181016734509
7.154552807541524
16.689019396008634
If we compare the diftances of thefe fatellites with
their periodic times, we obferve the fame relation point¬
ed out by Kepler between the diftances of the planets
from the fun and the duration of their revolutions:
for the fquares of the periodic times of the ' fatellites
are proportional to the cubes of their diftance from
Jupiter’s centre.
The frequent eclipfes of thefe fatellites have ena¬
bled aftronomers to afeertain their motion, with much
more precifion than could have been attained merely
by obferving their diftances from Jupiter. The follow¬
ing points have been afeertained.
The orbit of the firft fatellite is circular, at leaft its
eccentricity is infenfible 3 it coincides nearly with Ju¬
piter’s equator, which is inclined to the orbit of the
planet at an angle of 3.99990.
The ellipticity of the orbit of the fecond fatellite is Irregulari-
alfo infenfible 3 its inclination to Jupiter’s orbit varies, as ties in their
does alfo the pofition of its nodes. Thefe irregulari- mc>tions.
ties are reprefented pretty well, by fuppofing the incli¬
nation of the orbit to the equator of Jupiter 17 30.968",
and that its nodes move retrograde in that plane in a
period of 30 years.
A fmall eccentricity is obferved in the orbit of the
third fatellite. The extremity of its longer axis next
Jupiter, called the perijove, has a direeft motion. The
eccentricity of the orbit has been obferved to vary con-
fiderably. The equation of the centre was at its maxi¬
mum about the end of the 17th century 3 it then a-
mounted -
*10
Real Mo- mounted to about 862'^ it gradually diminiflied, and
1IIeavent],ie*n t^e ^ear ^ was at *ts niinimum, and amounted
Bodies. onty to about 229.y". The inclination of the orbit of
t,—this fatellite to that of Jupiter, and the pofition of its
nodes, are variable. Thefe different variations are re-
prefented pretty nearly, by fuppofing the orbit inclin¬
ed to that of Jupiter, at an angle of about 726", and
giving to the nodes a retrograde motion in the plane of
the equator, completed in the period of 137 years.
The orbit of the fourth latellite is very fenfibly el¬
liptical. V.s perijove has a direft motion, amounting
to about 2112", This orbit is inclined to that of
Jupiter, at an angle of about 147'. It is in con-
lequence of this inclination, that the fourth fatellite
often palfes behind the planet relatively to the fun with¬
out being eclipfed. From the firft difcovery of this
planet, till the year 1760, the inclination of its orbit
appeared conftant: but it has fenfibly increafed fince
that period.
Betides all thefe variations, the fatellites of Jupiter
are fubjeiSied to feveral irregularities, which difturb
their elliptical motion, and render their theory very
complicated. Thefe irregularities are moil confpicuous
in the three firft fatellites.
Their mean motions are fuch, that the mean mo¬
tion of the firft fatellite, together with twice the mean
motion of the third, is nearly equal to thrice the mean
motion of the fecond. The fame relation holds in
their fynodical motions. The mean longitude both fy-
nodical and fidereal of the firft three fatellites, feen
from the centre of Jupiter, is fuch, that the longi¬
tude of the firft, minus thrice that of the fecond, plus
twice that of the third, is nearly equal to the femi-cir-
cumference. This relation is fo very near the truth,
that one is tempted to confider it as rigorous, and to
afcribe the fuppofed errors to the imperfedtion of ob-
iervations. It will hold at leafl for a long time to
come, and fhews us that the three fatellites cannot be
eclipfed at once.
The periods and laws of the principal irregularities
of thefe fatellites are the fame in all. The irregularity of
the firft advances or retards its eclipfes 20" of time
at its maximum. If we compare the changes on this
inequality, with the relative pofitions of the two firft
iatellites, we find that it difappears when thefe two fa¬
tellites, feen from the centre of Jupiter, are in oppofi-
tion at the fame time j that it increafes gradually, and
acquires its maximum when the firft fatellite, at the in-
ftant of oppofition, is 450 more advanced than the fe¬
cond ; that it vanifhes when the firft is 90° before the
fecond. Beyond that point it becomes negative and
retards the eclipfes, and increafes till the two fatellites
are 135 degrees from each other, when it acquires its
negative maximum. Then it diminifties and difap¬
pears when they are 1800 diftant. In the fecond half
of the circumference the very fame laws are obferved
as in the firft. From thefe phenomena it has been
concluded, that there exirts in the motion of the firft
fatellite round Jupiter, an inequality amounting to
1733.6'' at its maximum, and proportional to the fine
of twice the excefs of the mean longitude of the firft
fatellite above that of the fecond ; which excefs is
equal to the difference between the mean fynodical
longitudes of the two fatellites. The period of this
inequality does not amount to 4 days. How comes it
Part III,
then, it will be aiked, to change into a period of 43 7.*7 3 Real Mo-
days, with refpeft to the eclipfes of the firft fatellite ?tlons o{ tlic
Let us fuppofe, that the firft and fecond fatellite fet ^dk-V
out together from their mean oppofition to the fun, > ;
During every revolution of the firft fatellite, in confe-
quence of its mean fynodical motion, it will be in mean
oppofition. Sup pole a fidlitious liar, whofe angular
motion is owing to the excefs of the mean fynodical
motion of the firft fatellite, over that of the fecond,
then twice the difference of the mean fynodical motions
of the two fatellites will in the eclipfes of the firft
be equal to a multiple of the circumference toge¬
ther with the motion of the fi&itious liar. Of courfe the
fine of this laft motion will be proportional to the ine¬
quality of the firft latellite in its eciipfes, and may re-
prefent that inequality. Its period is equal to the dura¬
tion of the revolution of the fi£Htious ftar, which ac¬
cording to the mean motion of the two fatellites is
437*75 days. Thus it is determined with more pre-
cilion than by direft obfervation.
The irregularity of the fecond fatellite follows a law
fimilar to that of the firft; but its fign is always con¬
trary. It accelerates, or retards the eclipfes 932''' in
time when at its maximum. When compared with the
pofition of the two fateilites we perceive that it difappears
when they are in oppofition to the fun at the fame time;
that it retards the time of the eclipfes more and more,
till the two fatellites are diftant from each other 90° at
at the time when they take place ; then the retardation
diminilhes and vanilhes altogether, when the two fatel¬
lites are 1800 from each other at the time of the eclip¬
fes. It then accelerates the eclipfes in the other half
of the circumference precifely as it had retarded them
before. From thefe obfervations it has been concluded
that there exifts in the motion of the fecond fatellite an
irregularity of 3647" at its maximum proportional, (bur
with a contrary fign') to the fine of the excefs of the
mean longitude of the firft fatellite above that of the fe¬
cond, which excefs is equal to the difference of the meai*
fynodical motions of the two fatellites.
If the two fatellites fet out together from their mean
oppofition to the fun ; the fecond fatellite will be in
mean oppofition every time that it completes a fynodi¬
cal revolution. If we fuppofe as before, a ftar whofe
angular motion is equal to the excefs of the mean fy¬
nodical movement of the firft fatellite, or twice that
of the fecond, then the difference of the two fynody;al
movements of the two fatellites will, at the eclipfes of
the fecond, equal a multiple of the circumference to¬
gether with the motion of the fiftitious ftar. Of courfe
the inequality of the fecond during its eclipfe will be
proportional to the fine of the angular motion of that
fiftitious ftar. Hence the reafon that the period and law
of that irregularity are the fame as in the irregularity ot
the firft fatellite.
If the third fatellite produces in the motion of the
fecond an inequality refembling that which the fecond
feems to produce in the motion of the firft, that is tp
fay, proportional to the fine of twice the difference of
the mean longitudes of the fecond and third fatellite j
that new inequality will coincide with that which is
due to the firft fatellite. For in confequence of the re¬
lation which the mean longitude of the three firft fatel¬
lites have to each other, the difference of the mean lon¬
gitudes of the two firft fatellites is equal to the femicir-
cumference
ASTRONOMY.
Part nr.
ASTRONOMY.
111
Real Mo- cumference together with twice the difference of the
tions of the mean longitudes of the fecond and third fatellites, fo that
^Bodies^ t^e ^ne t^ie difference is the fame as the fine of
■ t ' double the fecond difference, but with a contrary fign.
The inequality produced by the third fatellite in the
motion of the fecond, will therefore have the fame fign,
and will follow the fame law as the inequality obferv-
ed in that motion. It is, therefore, very probable that
this inequality is the refult of two inequalities depend¬
ing on the firft and third fatellite. If in the courfe of
ages, the preceding relation between the mean longi¬
tudes of thefe three fatellites fhould ceafe to exift, thefe
two inequalities at prefent compounded, would fepa-
rate, and their refpective values might be difcover-
ed.
The inequality relative to the third fatellite in its
eciipfes, compared with the refpeftive pofitions of the
fecond and third, offers the fame relations with the
inequality of the fecond compared with the ref-
pedlive fituations of the two firft. There exifts then
in the motion ®f the third fatellite, an inequality which
at its maximum amounts to 268". If we fuppofe a ftar
whofe angular motion is equal to the excefs of the mean
fynodical motion of the fecond fatellite, above twice
the mean fynodical motion of the third, the inequa¬
lity of the third fatellite will in its eciipfes be pro¬
portional to the motion of this fiftitious ftar. But
in confequence of the relation which exifts between the
mean longitude of the three fatellites, the fine of this
motion is the fame (except its fign), with that of the
motion of the firft fictitious ftar which we formerly
confidered. Therefore the inequality of the third fa¬
tellite in its eciipfes has the fame period, and follows
the fame laws, with the inequalities of the two firft fa¬
tellites : fuch are the laws of the principal irregularities
12r) of the three firft fatellites of Jupiter.
Satellites Let us now confider the fatellites of Saturn, which
of Saturn, are feven in number. The fatellites of Saturn have
not as yet proved fo ufeful to aftronomy or geography
as thofe of Jupiter; principally becaufe they cannot
be feen unlefs very powerful telefcopes be ufed. Five
oi thofe fatellites were difcovered in the year i68<;, by
Caffim and Huygens, who ufed telefcopes confifting
of two limple lenfes, but upwards of 100 feet in
length; and thofe were called ift, 2d, 3d, &c. rec¬
koning from the planet. Two others were difcover-
by Dr Herfchel in the years 1787 and 1788, and thefe
are fmaller and nearer to the planet, on which account
they ought toffave been called the firft and fecond, at
the fame time that the other five ought to have been
called 3d, 4th, 5^, 6th, and 7th j but, imagining that
this might create feme confufion in the reading of old
allronomical books, the five old fatelhtes have been
fuffered to retain their numerical names, and the twm
new fatellites are now called the 6th and the 7th ;
fo that the 7th is the neareft to the planet, then comes
the 6th, then the ill ; and this is followed by the 2d,
3d, 4th, nd 5th.
1 he inclinations of the orbits of the ift, 2d, 3d,
and 4th fatellites, to the ecliptic, are from 30° to
310. That of the 5th is from 170 to 1S0. Of all the Real Mo-
fa tellites of the folar fyftem, none, except the 5th Qft'om^ofjhe
Saturn, has been obferved to have any foots, from the Bodies."
motion of which the rotation of the fatellite round its 1 -1—t,r
own axis might be determined. Then the 5th fatellite
of Saturn, as Dr Herfchel has difcovered, turns round
its own axis ; and it is remarkable, that, like our
moon, it revolves round its axis exaftly in the fame
time that it revolves round its primary.
The following table ftates the particulars which
have been afeertained with refpett to the fatellites of
Saturn.
The Satellites of Saturn.
Satellites.
Periods.
Dift. in
femi-dia.
ofSaturn,
Dift. in
miles.
App. diam.
of orbits.
Seventh
Sixth
Firft
Second
Third
Fourth
Fifth
d. h. m.
O 22 40 46
1 8 53 9
1 21 l8 27
2 17 41 22
4 12 25 12
15 22 41 13
79 7 48 o
2 s-
3 5
4l
5v
8
18
54
107,000
135,000
170,000
217,000
303.000
704,000
2,050,000
o
1
1
1
2
6
l7
57
14
27
52
18
4
The planet Herfchel, with its fix fatellites, have Satellites
been entirely difcovered by Dr Herfchel. The planet of Herfche£>
itfelf may be feen with almoft any telefcope ; but its
fatellites cannot be perceived without the moft power¬
ful inftruments, and the concurrence of all other fa¬
vourable circumftances. One of thefe fatellites Dr
Herfchel found to revolve round its primary in 8 d.
17 b. 1 m. 19 fee.; the period of another he found to
be 13 d. 11 h. 5 m. 1.5 fee. The apparent dift mce of
the former from the planet is 33"; that of the lecond
44,,£. Their orbits are nearly perpendicular to the
plane of the ecliptic.
The other four fatellites were difcovered a confider-
able time after, and of courfe Dr Herfchel has had lefs
time to make obfervations upon them. They are al¬
together very minute objefts ; fo that the following
particulars muft be confidered as being not accurate
but probable. “ Admitting the diftance of the inte¬
rior fatellite to be 2S"-Sf its periodical revolution will
be 5 d. 2 1 h. 25 m.
_ “ If the intermediate fatellite be placed at an equal
diftance between the two old fatellites, or at S^"-57t
its period will be 10 d. 23 h. 4 m. The neareft ex¬
terior fatellite is about double the diftance of the
fartheft old one ; its periodical time will therefore be
about 38 d. 1 h. 49 m. The moft diftant fatellite is
full four times as far from the planet as the old fecond
fatellite; it will therefore take at leaft 107 d. 16 h.
40 m. to complete one revolution. All thefe fatellites
perform their revolutions in their orbits contrary to
the order of the figns; that is, their real motion is re¬
trograde.”
Part
I 12
Theory of
Univerfal
Gravita¬
tion.
ASTRONOMY.
Part IV. OF THE THEORY OF UNIVERSAL GRAVITATION.
Part IY.
Theory of
Univerfal
Gravita¬
tion.
Having in the laft two parts of this treatife given
an account of the apparent and real motions of the
heavenly bodies, it only remains for us to compare
thefe motions with the laws eltablilhed by mathema¬
ticians, in order to afcertain the forces that animate
the folar fyftem, and to acquire notions of the general
principle of gravitation on which they depend. To de-
velope this part of the fubjeft properly, three particu¬
lars claim our attention. We mull in the- firft place
lay down the la .vs of motion as eftablilhed by mathe¬
maticians 5 in the fecond place, we mult apply thefe
laws to the heavenly bodies, which wall furnilh us
with the theory of gravitation j and, in the third place,
we mull apply this cheory to the planetary fyftem, and
demonftrate that the whole motions of the heavenly
bodies are explicable by that theory, and merely cafes of
it. Thefe particulars ftiall be the fubjeft of the three
following chapters.
Chap. I. Of the Laws of Motion.
The laws of motion, by which all matter is regula¬
ted, and to which it is fubjedl notwithftanding the
variety of phenomena which it continually exhibits,
conftitute the firft principles of mechanical philofophy.
They will claim a feparate place hereafter in this work,
under the title of dynamics j but feme notions of
them are requifite in order to underftand the theory of
gravitation. We lhall fatisfy ourfelves in this place
331 with the following ftiort fketch.
Motion. a body appears to us to move when it changes its
fituation with refpeft to other bodies which we con-
fider as at reft. Thus in a veffel failing down a river,
bodies are faid to be in motion tvhen they correfpond
fucceflively to different parts of the veffel. But this
motion is merely relative. The veffel itfelf is moving
along the furface of the river, which turns round the
axis of the earth, while the centre of the earth itfelf
is carried round the fun, and the fun with all its at¬
tendant planets is moving through fpace. This renders
it neceffary to refer the motion of a body to the parts
of fpace, which is confidered as boundlefs, immove¬
able, and penetrable. A body then is laid to be in
motion when it correfponds fucceflively to different
332 parts of fpace.
Moving Matter, as far as we know, is equally indifferent
iorces. to motion or reft. When in motion it moves for ever
unlefs ftopt by fome caufe, and when at reft it remains
fo, unlefs put in motion by fome caufe. The caufe
•which puts matter in motion is called a force. The
nature of moving forces is altogether unknown, but we
333 can meafure their effe&s.
Compofi- Whenever a force a61s upon matter it puts it in mo-
forcef tion, ifno other force prevent this effedl \ the ftraight line
which the body deferibes, is called the direftion of the
force. Two forces may a£l upon matter at the fame
time. If their direflion be the fame, they increafe the
motion^ if their direftion be oppofite they defiroy each
other; and the motion is nothing if the two forces be
1
equal; it is merely the excefs of the one force above the
other if the motions be unequal. If the direftions of the
two forces make wfith each other any angle whatever,
the refulting motion will be in a dire&ion between the
two. And it has been demonftrated, that if lines be
taken to reprefent the dire&ion and amount of the
forces, if thefe lines be converted into a paralellogram
by drawing parallels to them j the diagonal of that
paralellogram will reprefent the direftion and quantity
of the refulting motion. This is called the compolition
of forces.
For two forces thus afting together, we may fubfti-
tute their refult, and vice verfa. Hence we may de-
compofe a force into two others, parallel to two axes
fituated in the fame plane, and perpendicular to each
other.
Thus finding that a body A, fig. 117. has mov¬
ed from A to C, tve may imagine either that the
body has been impelled by a Angle force in the direc¬
tion of A C, and proportionate to the length of A C,
or that it has been impelled by twro forces at once, viz.
by one in the direftion of A D, and proportionate to
the length of A D •, and by another force in the direc¬
tion of A B or D C, and proportionate to A B or D C.
Therefore, if tw7o fides of any triangle (as AD and
DC) reprefent both the quantities and the diredtions
of tw'O forces ailing from a given point, then the third
fide (as AC) of the triangle will reprefent both the
quantity and the direction of a third force, which ail¬
ing from the fame point, will be equivalent to the other
tw7o, and vice verfa.
Thus alfo in fig. 118. finding that the body A
has moved along the line A F from A to F in a
certain time ; we may imagine, ift, that the body has
been impelled by a Angle force in the diredfion and
quantity reprefented by A F j or adly, that it has been
impelled by trvo forces, viz. the one reprefented by
A D, and the other reprefented by A E j or thirdly,
that it has been impelled by three forces, viz. thofe
reprefented by AD, A B, and A C ; or laftly, that it
has been impelled by any other number of forces in
any diredlions j provided all thefe forces be equivalent
to the Angle force which is reprefented by A F.
This fuppofition of a body having been impelled by
two or more forces to perform a certain courfe j or, on
the contrary, the fuppofition that a body has been im¬
pelled by a Angle force, when the body is adlually
known to have been impelled by ieveral forces, which
are, however, equivalent to that Angle force ; has been
called the compofition and reiolution of forces.
The knowledge of thefe principles gives mathemati- Refoiutio»
cians an eafy method of obtaining the refult of any of forces,
number of forces w'hatever adting on a body. For
every particular force may be refolved into three
'others, parallel to three axes given in pofition, and per¬
pendicular to each other. It is obvious, that all the
forces parallel to the fame axis are equivalent to a
fingle force, equal to the lum of all thoie which adt in
one diredlion, diminifhed by the lum of thofe which
adi
335
Velocity.
Part IV.
Theory of aa In the oppofite dlreaion. Thus the body will be
Grlvita- ^ed 0n ^ ,three forces perpendicular to each other :
tion. ^ the diieftion of thefe forces be reprefented by the
 Tides of a parallelepiped, the refulting force will be re¬
prefented by the diagonal of that parallelepiped.
1 ae indifference of a material body to motion or
reft, and its perfeverance in either ftate when put into
it, is called the vis inertia; of matter. This property is
confidered as the firft law of motion. Hence/ when¬
ever the ftate of a body changes, we aferibe the change
to the adfion of fome caufe : hence the motion of a
body when not altered by the aftion of fome new force,
muft be uniform and in a ftraight line.
. f n luch uniform motions the fpace pafled over is pro¬
portional to the time : but the time employed to de-
Icribe a given fpacc will be longer or fhorter according
to the greatnefs of the moving force. This difference
in the time of traverfing the fame fpace gives us the
notion of velocity, which in uniform motions is the ra¬
tio between the fpace and the time employed in tra¬
vel fing it. As fpace and time are heterogeneous quan¬
tities, they cannot indeed be compared together ; it is
the ratio between the numbers reprefenting each that
conftitutes velocity. A unity of time, a fecond for in-
flance, is chofen, and in like manner a unity of fpace,
as a foot. I hus, if one body move over 20 feet in one
fecond, and another only 10, then the velocity of the
firft is double that of the fecond ; for the ratio between
to and 1 is twice as great as the ratio of 10 to 1.
When the fpace, time, and velocity, are reprefented by
numbers, we have the fpace equal to the velocity mul¬
tiplied by the time, and the time equal to the fpace di¬
vided by the time.
I he force by whi^h a body is moved is proportional
to the velocity, and therefore is meafured by the velo¬
city. This has been difpufed by fome philofophers
but has been diffidently eftablifhed. We fliall confi-
dei it, theiefore, as a matter of fad, referring the read¬
er for a difeuffion of the fubjed to the article Dy¬
namics.
When a body is put in motion by forces which not
only ad at firft, but which continue to ad uniformly,
it will deferibe a curve line, the nature of which de¬
pends upon ^ the forces which occafion the motion.
Gravitation is an inftance of a force which ads in this
manner. Let us confider it a little. It appears to ad
in the fame manner in a body at reft and in motion.
A body abandoned to its adion acquires a very fmall
velocity the firrt inftant; the fecond inftant it acquires
a new velocity equal, to what it had the firft inftant;
and thus its. velocity increafes every inftant in propor-
t,/nut°ctJhe dme' SuPPofe a right-angled triangle, one
o; the Tides of which reprefents the time, and the other
the velocity. The fludion of the furface of the tri¬
angle being equal to the fludion of the time multiplied
by that of the velocity, will reprefent the fludion of
tne fpace. Hence the whole triangle will reprefent
the ipace defenbed in a given time. But the triangle
increafing as the fquare of either of its fides, it is ob¬
vious, that in the accelerated motion produced by gra¬
vitation the velocities increafe with the times, and
the heights from which a body falls from reft increafe
as the fquares of the times or of the velocities. Hence
if we denote by 1 the fpace through which a body falls
the firft fecond it will fall 4 in 2", 9 in 3", and fo on ;
astronomy.
Accelerat¬
ing force'.
I I
fo that every fecond it will deferibe fpaces increafing Theory ot
as the odd numbers I, 3, 5, 7, &c. This important Univerial
point will perhaps be rendered more intelligible by the Gra.vlta"
following diagram. ’ , U'n' ,
Let AB, fig. 119. reprefent the time during which a
body, is defeending, and let BC reprefent the velocity
acquired at the end of that time. Complete the tri¬
angle ABC, and the parallelogram A BCD. Alfo
fuppofe the time to be divided into innumerable par¬
ticles, ei, wi, nip, po, §cc. and draw ej", ih, mn, &c. all
parallel to the bale BC. T hen, fince the velocity of
the defeending body has been gradually increafing from
the commencement of the motion, and BC reprefents
the ultimate velocity 5 therefore the parallel lines ef,
tk, mn, &c. will reprefent the velocities at the ends of
the refpedlive times Ac, Az, Km, &c. Moreover,
fince the velocity during an indefinitely fmall particle
of time, may be confidered as uniform ; therefore the
right line ef will be as the velocity of the body in the
indefinitely fmall particle of time ei; He will be as the
velocity in the particle of time im, and fo forth. Now
the fpace pafled over in any time with any velocity is
as the velocity multiplied by the time ; Viz. as the
redlangle under that time and velocity ; hence the fpace
pafled over in the time ei with the velocity ef, will be
as the redlangle if; the fpace pafled over in the time
im with the velocity ik, will be as the reftangle mh;
the fpace pafled over in the time mp with the velocity
mn, M ill be as the re&angle pn, and fo on. Therefore
the fpace pafled over in the lum of all thofe times, M’ill
be as the redlangle pn, and fo on. Therefore the fpace
pafled over in the firm of all thofe times, will be as the
fum. ef all .thofe reftangles. But fince the particles
of time are infinitely fmall, the fum of all the reftangles
will be equal to the triangle ABC. Now fince the fpace
paffed over by a moving body in the time AB Math a
uniform, velocity B.C, is as the reft angle ABCD, (viz.
as the time multiplied by the velocity) and this re<51-
angle is equal to twice the triangle ABC (Eucl. p.31.
B. I.) therefore the fpace pafled over in a given time
by a body falling from reft, is equal to half the fpace
pafled over in the fame time with an uniform velocity,
equal to that Mffiich is acquired by the defeending bo¬
dy at the end of its fall. 6
. Since the fpace run over by a falling body in the
time reprefented by AB, fig. 120. with the velocity BC
is as the triangle ABC, and the fpace run over in
any other time AD, and velocity DE is reprefented by
the triangle ADE j thofe fpaces muft be as the fquares
of the times AB AD ; for the fimilar triangles ABC,
and ADE, are as the fquares of their homologous fides,
viz. ABC is to ADE as the fquare of AB is to the
fquare of AD, (Eucl. p. 29. B. VI.)
When a body is placed upon an inclined plane the
lo.rce of gravity which urges that body downwards, ads
with a power fo much lefs, than if the body defeended
freely and perpendicularly downwards, as the elevation
of the plane is lefs than its length.
The fpace which is deferibed by a body defeending
freely from reft towards the earth, is to the fpace which
it will defenbe upon the furface of an inclined plane in
the lame time as the length of the plane is to its eleva¬
tion, or as radius is to the fine of the plane’s inclina-
tion to the horizon.
If upon the elevation BC, fig. 121. of the plane BD
P
■L as
114 ASTRO
Theory of as a diameter, the femicircle BEGC be defcrlbed, the
Gr'vita'11 Part t^e inclined plane, which is cut off by the
femicircle, is that part of the plane over which a body
> will defcend, in the fame time that another body will
defcend freely and perpendicularly along the diameter
of the circle, viz. from B to C, which is the altitude
of the plane, or fine of its inclination to the horizon.
The time of a body’s defcending along the whole
length of an inclined plane, is to the time of its de¬
fcending freely and perpendicularly along the altitude
of the plane, as,the length of the plane is to its alti¬
tude 5 or as the whole force of gravity is to that part
of it which a61s upon the plane.
* A body by defcending from a certain height to the
fame horizontal line, will acquire the fame velocity
whether the defcent be made perpendicularly, or ob¬
liquely, over an inclined plane, or over many fucceffive
inclined planes, or laftly over a curve furface.
From tliefe propofitions, which have been fufficient-
ly effablilhed by mathematicians, it follows, that in the
circle ABC (fig. 12 2.), a body will fall along the dia¬
meter from A to B, or along the chords CB, DB, in
exactly the fame line by the aftion of gravity.
When a body is projected in any line whatever not
perpendicular to the earth’s furface, it does not conti¬
nue in that line, but continually deviates from it, de-
fcribing a curve, of which the piimary line of direc¬
tion is a tangent. The motipn of the body relative to
this line is uniform. But if vertical lines be drawn
from this tangent to the curve, it will be perceived
that its velocity is uniformly accelerated in the direc¬
tion of thefe verticals. They are proportional to the
fquares of the correfponding parts of the tangent. This
property fhows us that the curve in which the body
^ projected moves is a parabola.
Of the pen- The ofcillations of the pendulum are -regulated
tlulum. likewife by the fame lawr of gravitation. The funda¬
mental propofitions refpe&ing pendulums are the fol-
pendulum be moved to any diftance from its
natural and perpendicular dire£lion, and there be let
go, it will defcend towards the perpendicular, then it
will afcend on the oppofite fide nearly as far from the
perpendicular, as the place whence it began to defcend 5
after which it wall again defcend towards the perpen¬
dicular, and thus it will keep moving backwards and
forwards for a confiderable time 5 and it would conti¬
nue to move in that manner for ever, w^ere it not for
the refiftance of the air, and the fri&ion at the point of
fufpenfion, which always prevent its afcending to the
fame height as that from which it laftly began to de¬
fcend.
The velocity of a pendulum in its loweft point is as
the chord of the arch which it has defcribed in its de¬
fcent. z
The very fmall vibrations of the fame pendulum
are performed in times nearly equal *, but the vibra¬
tions through longer and unequal arches are perform¬
ed in times fenfibly different.
As the diameter of a circle is to its circumference, fo
is the time of a heavy body’s defcent from reft through
half the length of a pendulum to the time of one of the
fmalleft vibrations of that pendulum.
It is from thefe propofitions, and the experiments
made with pendulums, that the fpace defcribcd by a
lowing
If a
N O M Y.
Part IV
body falling from reft by the action of gravity has been Theory of
afcertained. Univerial
The late Mr John Whitehurft, an ingenious mem-
ber of the Royal Society, feems to have contrived and .
performed the leaft exceptionable experiments rela¬
tively to this iubjecl. T he refult of his experiments
{hews, that the length of the pendulum which vibrates
feconds in London, at 113 feet above the level of the
fea, in the temperature of 6o° of Fahrenheit’s thermo¬
meter, and when the barometer is at 30 inches', is 39,
1196 inches j wTience it follows that the fpace which
is paffed over by bodies defcending perpendicularly, in
the firft fecond of time, is 16,087 feet* This length
of a fecond pendulum is certainly not mathematically
exa£l, yet it may be confidered as inch for all common
purpofes ; for it is not likely to differ from the truth by
more than ToWth pai't an inch.
By thefe propofitions, alfo, the variations of gravity
in different parts of -the earth’s iurface and on the tops
of mountains has been afcertained. Newton alfo has
fhoxvn, by means of the pendulum, that gravity does
not depend upon the furface nor figure of a body. 338
The motion of bodies round a centre affords another Of central
well known inftance of a conftant force. As the meAorccs'
tion of matter left to itfelf is uniform and reflilinear,
it is obvious that a body moving in the circumference
of a curve, muff: have a continual tendency to fly off at
a tangent. This tendency is called a centrifugal force,
while every force direfted towards a centre is called a
central or centripetal force. In circular motions the
central force is equal, and direflly contrary, to the
centrifugal force. It bends conftantly, to bring the
body towards the centre, and in a very fliort interval of
time, its effecft is meafured by the verfed fine of the
fmall arch defcribed.
Let A (fig. 123.) be the centre of a force. Let a
body in B be moving in the diredlion of the ftraight
line BC, in wTiich line it would continue to move if
undiffurbed; but being attracted by the centripetal
force towards A, the body muff: neceffarily depart from
this line BC j and being drawn into the curve line BD,
muff pafs between the lines AB and BC. It is evi¬
dent, therefore, that the body in B being gradually
turned off from the ftraight line BC, it will at firft be
convex towards that line, and concave towards A. And
that the curve will always continue to have this conca¬
vity towards A, may thus appear : In the line BC,
near to B, take any point, as E, from which the line
EFG may be fo drawn as to touch the curve line BD
in fome point, as F. Now, when the body is come to
F, if the centripetal power were immediately to be
fufpended, the bbdy would no longer continue to move
in a curve line, but, being left to itfelf, wmuld forth¬
with reaffume a ftraight courfe, and that ftraight courfe
would be in the line FG j for that line is in the direc¬
tion of the body’s motion of the point F. But the
centripetal force continuing its energy, the body wall
be gradually drawn from this line FG fo as to keep in
the line FD, and make that line, near the point F, to
be concave towards the point A 5 and in this manner
the body may be followed in its courfe throughout the
line BD, and every part of that line be ftiown to be
concave towards the point A.
Again, the point A (fig. 124.) being the centre of
a centripetal force, let a body at B fet out in the di-
re&ion
PartlV. ASTRO
Theory of region of the ftraight line EC, perpendicular to the
line AB. It will be eafily conceived, that there is no
other point in the line BC fo near to A as the point
B 3 that AB is the Ihorteft of all the lines which can
be drawn from A to any part of the line BC ; all others,
as AD or AE, being longer than AB. Hence it fol¬
lows, that the body fetting out from it, if it moved in
the line BC, would recede more and more from the
point A. Now, as the operation of a centripetal force
is to draw a body towards the centre of that force, if
fuch a force adt upon a refting body, it muft- necef-
farily put that body fo into motion as to caufe it move
towards the centre of the force : if the body were of
itfelf moving towards that centre, it would accelerate
that motion, and caufe it to move fafter down 3 but if
the body were in fuch a motion that it would of itfelf
recede from the centre, it is not neceffary that the ac¬
tion of a centripetal power Ihould make it immediately
approach the centre from which it would otherwife
have receded ; the centripetal force is not wdthout ef-
fe£l: if it caufe the body to recede more flowly from
that centre than otherwife it would have done. Thus,
the fmallefl: centripetal pow'er, if it ad on the body,
will force it out of the line BC, and caufe it to pafs
in a bent line between BC and the point A, as has
been already explained. When the body, for inftance,
has advanced to the line AD, the effed of the centri¬
petal force difcovers itfelf by having removed the body
out of the line BC, and brought it to crofs the line
AD fomewdiere between A and D, fuppofe at F. Now,
AD being longer than AB, AF may alfo be longer
than AB. The centripetal power may indeed be fo
flrong, that AF lhall be fhorter than AB 3 or it may
be fo evenly balanced with the progreffive motion of
the body that AF and AB (hall be juft equal; in
which cafe the body would defcribe a circle about the
centre A 3 this centre of the force being alfo the centre
of the circle.
If now the body, inftead of fetting out in the line
BC perpendicular to AB, had fet out in another line
BG more inclined towards the line AB, moving in
the curve line BH 3 then, as the body, if it w-e'-e to
continue its motion in the line BG, would for fome
time approach the centre A, the centripetal force
would caufe it to make greater advances towards that
centre : But if the body were to fet out in the line
BI, reclined the other way from the perpendicular BC,
and were to be drawn by the centripetal force into the
curve line BK 3 the body, notwithftanding any cen¬
tripetal force, would for fome time recede from the
centre 3 fince fome part at lead of the curve line BK
lies between the line BI and the perpendicular BC.
Let us next fuppofe a centripetal power direfted to¬
ward the point A (fig. 09.', to a£l: on a body in B,
which is moving in the diretftion of the ftraight line
BC, the line BC reclining off from AB. If from A
the ftraight lines AD,-AE, AF, are drawn to the line
CB, prolonged beyond B to G, it appears that AD is
inclined to the line GC more obliquely than AB,
AE more obliquely than AD, and AF than AE 3
or to fpeak more correaiy, the angle under ADG is
lefs than that under ABG, that under AEG is lefs
than ADG, and AFG lefs than' AEG. Now fup-
pofe the body to move in the curve line BHIK, it is
likewife evident that the line BHIK being concave
N O M Y»
1*5
towards A and convex towards BC, it is more and Theory of
more turned off from that line; fo that in the point H,
the line AK will be more obliquely inclined to the
curve line BHIK than the fame line AHD is inclined
to BC at the point D ; at the point I the inclination
of the line AI to the curve line will be more diffe¬
rent from the inclination of the (ame line AIE to the
line BC at the point IE 3 and in the points K and F
the difference of inclination will be ftill greater 5 and
in' both, the inclination at the curve will be lefs ob¬
lique than at the ftraight line BC. But the ftraight.
line AB is lefs obliquely inclined to BG than AD is
inclined towards DG : therefore, although the line
AH be lefs obliquely inclined towards the curve HB
than the fame line AHD is inclined towards DG,
yet it is poftible, that the inclination at H may be
more oblique than the inclination at B. The inclina¬
tion at H may indeed be lefs oblique than the other,
or they may be both the fame. This depends upon
the degree of ftrength wherewith the centripetal force
exerts itfelf during the paffage of the body from B to
H : and in like manner the inclinations at 1 and K
depend entirely on the degree of ftrength wherewith
the centripetal force a£!s on the body in its paffage
from H to K : if the centripetal force be weak enough,
the lines AH and AI drawn from the centre A to
the body at El and at I, (hall be more obliquely in¬
clined to the curve than the line AB is inclined to¬
wards BG. The centripetal force may be of fuch a
ftrength as to render all thefe inclinations equal 3 or if
Wronger, the inclination at I and K will be lefs ob¬
lique than at B 3 and Sir Ifaac New ton has particu¬
larly (hown, that if the centripetal pow’er decreafes af¬
ter a certain manner without the increafe of diftance,
a body may defcribe fuch a curve line, that all the
lines drawn from the centre to the body (hall be equal¬
ly inclined to that curve line.
We muft further remark, that if the centripetalRevotution
power, while the body increafes its diftance from the0i a ' oily
centre, retain fufficient ftrength to make the linesround a
drawn from the centre to the body to become at
length lefs oblique to the curve 5 then, if this diminu-1
tion of the obliquity continue, till at laft the line
drawn from the centre to the body (hall ceafe to be
obliquely inclined to the curve, and become perpendi¬
cular thereto 3 from this inftant the body (hall no
longer recede from the centre, but in its following mo¬
tion (hall again defcend, and defcribe a curve in all
refpefls like that which it has defcribed already, pro¬
vided the centripetal power, everywhere at the fame
diftance from the body, afts with (the fame ftrength.
This return of the body may be proved by the follow¬
ing propofition : That if tl^e body in any place, fup¬
pofe at I, were to be (topped, and thrown diredtly
backward with the velocity wherewith it w^as moving
forward in that point I, then the body, by the aftion
of the centripetal force upon it, would move back
again over the path IHB, in which it had before ad¬
vanced forward, and would arrive again at the point B
m the fame fpace of time as was taken up in its paffage
from B to I ; the velocity of the body at' its return
from the point B being the fame as that wherewith it
firft fet out from that point.
The truth of this propofition may be illuftrated m
the following manner. Suppofe, in fig. no. that a
B 2 - body
339
I iff
ASTRO
Theory of body were carried after tbe following manner through
Univerial t]le flgure ABCDEF, compofed of the ftraight
Hrtes AB, BC, CD, DE, EF: let the body then firft
be fuppofed to receive an impulfe to fome point within
the concavity of the figure, as G. Now, as this bodv,
when once moving in the tlraight line AB, will con¬
tinue to move on in this line as long as it ihall be left
to itfelf; but being difturbed at the point B by the
impulfe given it, it will be turned out of this line AB
into fome other ftraight line, wherein it will afterwards
continue to move as long as it fhall be left to itfelf;
therefore, let this impulfe have ftrength fufficient to
turn the body into the line BC j then let the body
move on undifturbed from B to C : but at C let it re¬
ceive another impulfe pointed alfo towards G, and of
fufficient ftrength to turn the body into the line CD 5
at D let a third impulfe turn it into the line DE ; and
at E let another turn it into EF. Now, if the bodv,
while moving on in the line EF, be flopped and turn¬
ed back again with the fame velocity with which it
was moving forward, then by the repetition of the
former impulfe at E, the body will be turned into the
line E D, and move in it from E to D with the fame
velocity as that wherewith it was moving forward in
this line : then by a repetition of the impulfe at D,
when the body fhall have returned to that point, it will
be turned into the line DC •, and by the repetition of
the former impulfes at C and at B, the body will be
brought back again into the line BA, with the velo¬
city wherewith it firft moved in that line.
To illuftrate this ftill farther, let D£ and FE be con¬
tinued beyond E. In DEthus continued, take at plea-
fure the length EH, and let HI be fo drawn as to be
equidiftant from the line GE •, then, from the fecond
law of motion, it follows, that after the impulfe on the
body on E, it will move through the fpace El in the
fame time it would have employed in moving from E
to H with the velocity it had in the line DE. In
FE prolonged, take EK equal to El and draw KL
equidiftant from GE. Then, becaufe tire body is
thrown back in the line FE, with the fame velocity
with which it went forward in that line, if, when the
body was turned to E, it were ' permitted to go
ftraight on, it would pafs through EK in the fame
time as it took up in palling through El, when it went
forward in the line EF. But if, at the body’s return
to the point E, fuch an impulfe direfted toward the
point D were to be given it as w7as fufficient to turn it
into the line DE, it is plain that this impulfe muft be
equal to that which originally turned the body out of
the line DE into EF •, and that the velocity wfith
which the body wfill return into the line ED is the
fame as that wherewith it moved before through this
line from D to E. Becaufe EK is equal to El, and
KL and HI being each equidiftant from GE, are by
confequence equidiftant from each other •, it follows,
that the twm triangular figures IEH and KEL, are
altogether like and equal to each other. EK there¬
fore being equal to El, and EL equal to KH, and
KL equal to fdL, it is plain, that the body, after its
return to E, being turned out of the line FE into ED
by an impulfe adling upon it in E after the manner
above mentioned, it will receive fuch a velocity by
this impulfe as will carry it through EL in the fame
time it would have taken to go through EK, if it had
N O M Y. Part IV.
palled through it undifturbed. It has already been Theory of
obferved, that the time in which the body would pafs Univerfal
over EK, with the velocity wherewfith it returns, is Gr^v,ta-
equal to the time it took up in going forwrard from E ■ tl°n* ■■
to I j that is, to the time in which it wmuld have gone
through EH with the velocity wherewith it moved
from D to E j therefore the time in which the body
will pafs from E to L, after its return into the line
ED, is the fame as would have been taken up by the
body in paffing through the line EH wfith the velocity
wherewfith it firft moved in the line DE. Since, there¬
fore, EL and EH are equal, the body returns into
the line DE with the velocity which it had before in
that line.—Again, w7e may affirm, that the fecond
impulfe in E is equal to the firft ; for, as the impulffi
in E, whereby the body was turned out of the line
DE into the line EF, is of fuch ftrength, that if the
body had been at reft when this impulle had afted up¬
on it, it would have communicated as much motion
to it, as would have been fufficient to carry it through
a length equal to HI, in the time wherein the body
would have paffed from E to H, or in the time
wherein it palled from E to I. In the fame manner,
on the return of the body, the impulfe in E, whereby
it is turned out of the line FE into ED, is of fuch
ftrength, that if it had afted on the body at reft, it
would have caufed it move through a length equal to
KL in the fame time as the body wmuld employ in
paffing through EK with the velocity wherewith it re¬
turns in the line FE : therefore the fecond impulfe,
had it afled on the body at reft, ivould have caufed it
to move through a length equal to KL, in the fame
fpace of time as would have been taken up by the body
in paffing through a length equal to HI wmre the firft
impulfe to aft on the body while at reft •, that is, the
effefts of the firft and fecond impulfe on the body wffien
at reft would be the fame •, for KL and HI are equal :
confequently the fecond impulfe is equal to the firft.
Thus, if the body be returned through FE with the
velocity wherewith it moved forward, it has been
Ihown howr, by the repetition of the impulfe wdiich
afted on it in E, the body will return again into the
line DE with the velocity which it had before in that
line. By the fame method of reafoning it may be
proved, that wffien the body is returned back to D,
the impulfe which before afied on that point will
throw the body into the line DC with the velocity
wffiich it firft had in that line ; and the other impulfes
being fucceffively repeated, the body will at length be
brought back again into the line BA with the velocity
wherewith it fet out in that line.—-Thus thefe impul¬
fes, by afting over again in an inverted order all their
operations on the body, bring it back again through
the path in wffiich it had proceeded forward ; and this
obtains equally whatever be the number of ftraight
lines wffiereof this curve figure is compofed. Now, by
a method of reafoning of which Sir Ifaac Newton
made much ufe, and wffiich he introduced into geo¬
metry, thereby greatly enriching that fcience, we
might make a tranfition from this figure, compofed of
a number of ftraight lines, to a figure of one continued
curvature, and from a number of feparate impulfes re¬
peated at diftindf intervals to a continued centripetal
force, and ftiow, that becaufe what has been here ad¬
vanced holds univerfally true whatever be the num,
ber
Part IV. ASTRONOMY.
Theory of ber of ftraight lines whereof the curve figure ACF is
Umverfal compofed, and however frequently the impulfes at the
Gtionta" angles figure are repeated j therefore the fame
< will ftiil remain true although this figure (hould be
converted into one of a continued curvature 5 and
thefe diftinft impulfes (hould be changed into a conti¬
nual centripetal force.
This being allowed, fuppofe the body in K to have
the line AK no longer obliquely inclined to its mo¬
tion. In this cafe, if the body be turned back in the
manner we have been confidering, it mud be directed
back perpendicularly to AK : but if it had proceeded
forward, it would likewife have moved in a direftion
perpendicular to AK : confequently, whether it move
from this point K backward or forward, it mud de-
fcribe the fame kind of courfe. Therefore, fince by
being turned back it will go over again the line KIHB,
if It be permitted to go forward, the line KL, which
it diall defcribe,- will be altogether fimilar to the line
KHB.
In like manner we may determine the nature of the
motion, if the line wherein the body fets out be in¬
clined, as in fig. 127. down toward the line BA drawn
between the body and the centre. If the centripetal
power fo much increafes in drength as the body ap¬
proaches, that it can bend the path In which the body
moves to that degree as to caufe all the lines, AH,
AI, AK, to remain no lefs oblique to the motion of
the body than AB is oblique to BC, the body (hall
continually more and more approach the centre. But
if the centripetal power increafes in fo much lefs a
degree as to permit the line drawn from the centre to
the body, as it accompanies the body in its motion, at
length to become more and more eredl to the curve
wherein the body moves, and in the end, fuppofe at K,
to become perpendicular to it ; from that time the bo¬
dy (hall rife again. This is evident from w’hat has
been faid above j becaufe, for the very fame reafon, here
alfo, the body will proceed from the point K to defcribe
a line altogether fimilar to that in which it has moved
from B to K. Thus.it happens as in the pendulum,
which, all the time it approaches a perpendicular pofi-
tion towards the horizon, defcends more and more 5
but as foon as it is come into that fituation, it imme¬
diately rifes again by the fame degrees as it defcended
before : fo here the body more and more approaches
the centre all the time it is moving from B to K ; but
thenceforward it rifes from the centre again by the
fame degrees as it approached before.
If, as in fig. 127. the line BC be perpendicular to
AB ; then, as has already been obferved, the centri¬
petal power may be fo balanced with the progreflive
motion of the body, that it may keep moving round
the centre A confiantly at the fame diftance ; as the
body does when whirled about any point to which it
is tied by a firing. If the centripetal power be too
weak to produce this efledl, the motion of the body
will prefently become oblique to the line drawn from
itfeif to the centre j but if it be ftronger, the body
mufi confiantly keep moving in a curve to which a line
drawn from it to the body is perpendicular.
It the centripetal power change rvith the change of
diftance, in fuch a manner that the body, after its mo¬
tion has become oblique to the line drawn from itfeif
to the centre, lhall again become perpendicular there¬
to j then the body (hall, in its fubfequent motion, re- Ti.eoiy of
turn again to the diftance of AB, and from that di- Umraual
fiance take a courfe fimilar to the former: and thus, Grt^ta_
if the body move in a fpace void of all refiftance, wftiich . 1
has been all along fuppofed, it will continue in a per¬
petual motion about the centre, defeending and afeend-
ing from it alternately. If the body, fetting out from
B (fig. 126.) in the line EC perpendicular to ABr
defcribe the line BDE, wftiich in D (hall be ob¬
lique to the line AD, but in E (hall again become
ere£t to AE, drawn from the body in E to the centre
A) then from this point E the body lhall defcribe the
line EFG entirely fimilar to BDE, and at G (hall be
at the fame diftance as it was at B ; and the line AG
(hall be ere£t to the body’s motion. Therefore the
body (hall proceed to defcribe from G the line GHI
altogether fimilar to the line GFE, and at I it will have-
the fame diftance from the centre as it had at E 5 and
alfo have the line AI ere<ft: to its motion : fo that its
fubfequent motion muft be in the line IKL fimilar to
I KG, and the diftance AL equal to AG. Thus
the body will go on in a perpetual round without cea-
fing, alternately enlarging and contratting its diliance-
from the centre.
If it fo happen that the point E fall upon the line
BA, continued beyond A j their the point G will fall
upon B, 1 on E, and E alio on B j fo that the body
will in this cafe defcribe a fimple curve line round the
centre A, like the line BDEF in fig. 126. in which
it will revolve from P to E, and from E to B, with¬
out end. If AE in fig. 126. (hould happen to be per¬
pendicular to AB, in this cafe alfo a fimple line will
be deferibed ; for the point G will fall on the line BA
prolonged beyond A; the point I on the line AE pro¬
longed beyond A • and the point L on B j fo that the
body will defcribe a line like the curve line BEGI in
fig. 128. in wftrich the oppofite points B and G are
equally diftant from A 5 and the oppofite points E and
L are alfo equally diftant from the fame point A. In
other cafes the body will have a courfe of a more com¬
plicated nature.
Thus it muft be apparent how a body, while it is
confiantly attradfed towards the centre, may notwith-
(landing by its progreflive motion keep itfeif from
falling dowm to the centre, deferibing about it an end-
lefs circuit, fometimes approaching and fometimes re¬
ceding from it. Hitherto, however, w’e have fuppo¬
fed, that the centripetal power is everywhere of equal
ftrength at the fame diftance from the centre : and
this is indeed the cafe with that power which keeps the
planets in their orbits j but a body may be kept on in
a perpetual circuit round a centre, although the cen¬
tripetal power be kept moving in any curve line what¬
ever, that (hall have its concavity turned everywhere
towards the centre of the force. To illuftrate this, we
(hall in the firft place propofe the cafe of a body mo¬
ving the incurvated figure ABCDE (fig. 129.), which
is compofed of the ftraight lines, AB, BC, CD, DE
and A E 5 the motion being carried on in the follow¬
ing manner. Let the body firft: move in the line A B
with any uniform velocity. When it is arrived at the
point B, let it receive an impulfe dire&ed towards any
point F taken within the figure ; and let the impulfe
be of fuch a ftrength as to turn the body out of the line
AB into the line BC; The body after this impulfej.
while.
ri8
Theory of while left to itfelf, will continue moving in the line
Gravlta- '^t ^ ^et t^e receive another impulie di-
tion. refled towards the fame point F, of fuch a ftrength as
^—vto turn it from the line CB into CD. At D, let the
body, by another impuife, direfled likewife towards the
point F, be turned out of the line CD into DE. At
E, let another impuife, direfled likewife towards the
point F, turn the body from the line DE into EA :
and thus the body wall, by means of thefe impulfes, be
carried through the whole figure ABCDE.
Again, when the body is come to the point A, if
it there receive another impuife directed like the reft to
the point F, and of fuch a degree of ftrength as to
turn it into the line AB, wherein it firft moved ; the
body will then return into this line with the fame velo¬
city it had originally. To underftand this, let AB
be prolonged beyond B at pleafure, fuppofe to G j and
from G let GH be drawn; which, if produced, ftiould
always continue equidiftant from BF, i. e. let GH be
drawn parallel to BF, in the time, then, in which the
body wrould have moved from B to G, had it not re¬
ceived a new impuife in B ; by the means of that im¬
puife it will have acquired a velocity which will carry
it from B to H. After the fame manner, if Cl be
taken equal to BH, and IK be drawn parallel to CF,
the body will have moved from C to K, with the ve¬
locity which it has in the line CD, in the fame time it
would have employed in moving from C to I with the
velocity it had in the line BC. Therefore, fince Cl
and BH are equal, the body wall move through CK
in the fame time as it would have taken up in moving
from B to G with the velocity wherewith it moyed
through the line AB. Again, DL being taken equal
to CK, and LM drawn parallel to DF, the body will,
for the fame reafon as before, move through DM
wuth the velocity wTich it has in the line DE, in the
fame time it would employ in moving through BG
with its original velocity. Laftly, if EN be taken
equal to DM, and NO be drawn parallel to EF ; like-
wife, if AP be taken equal to EO, and PQJdc drawn
parallel to AF; then the body, with the velocity
wherewith it runs into the line AB, will pafs through
AO. in the time it would have employed in pafling
through BG with its original velocity. Now as all
* this follows dire&ly from what has been delivered con¬
cerning oblique impulfes impreffed upon bodies in mo¬
tion ; fo we muft here obferve farther, that it can be
proved by geometry, that AQjwill always be equal to
BG j which being granted, it follows, that the body has
returned into the line AB with the fame velocity which
it had when it firft moved in that line; for the velocity
with which it returns into the line AB will carry it
over the line AQJn the fame time as would have been
taken up in its paffing over an equal line BG with the
original velocity.
The conclufion naturally deduced from the above
reafoning is, that by means of a centripetal and pro-
340 jeftile force, a body mav be carried round any fixed
A body point as a curve figure which {ball be concave towards
maybe it, as that marked ABC, fig. 130. and when it is re¬
moved in turned to that point from whence it fet out, it (hall re-
E.eardTx-cover again the velocity with wdhich it departed from
tion by that point. It is not indeed always neceflary that it
mean> of fhould return again into its firft conrfe, for the curve
centripetal may have fome fuch figure as ABCDBE in
Part IV.
%•_ 131- In this curve line, if the body fet out from Theory 0f
B in the diredlion BF, and moved through the line tlniverfal
BCD till it returned to B ; here the body would not GrT’ita'
enter again into the line BCD, becaufe the two parts
BD and BC of the curve line make an angle at the
point B : fo that the centripetal power, which at the
point B would turn the body from the line BF into the
curve, will not be able to turn it into the line BC from
the direction in which it returns to the point B. A
forcible impulie muft be given the body in the point B
to produce that effe£E If, at the point B, whence the
body fets out, the curve line return into itfelf, as in
fig. 130. then the body, upon its arrival again at B,
may return into its former courfe, and thus make an
endlefs circuit about the centre.
The force requifite to carry a body in any curve line Caillation
propofed, is to be deduced from the curvature which of the force
the figure has in any part of it. Sir liaac Newton has r godne to
laid down the following propofition as a foundation forcarr^ a ^°"
difcovering this, viz. that if a line be drawn from fome curve Ime.
fixed point to the body, and remaining by one ex¬
treme united to that point, it be carried round along
with the body ; then if the power whereby the body is
kept in its courfe be always pointed to this fixed point
as a centre, this line will move over equal fpaces in
equal portions of time. Suppofe a body were moving
through the curve line ABCD (fig. 132.), and paffed
over the arches AB, BC, CD in equal portions of
time; then if a point, as E, can be found, from
whence the line EA being drawn to the body in ac¬
companying it in its motion, it fliall make the fpaCes
EAB, EBC, and ECD, over which it paffes, equal
where the times are equal ; then is the body kept in
this line by a power always pointed to E as a centre.
To prove this, fuppofe a body fet out from the point
A, fig- 133. to move in the ftraight line AB j and
after it had moved for fome time in that line, it were
to receive an impuife directed to fome point, as C. LtS
it receive that impuife at D, and thereby be turned in¬
to the line DE ; and let the body after this impuife,
take the fame time in pafling from D to E that is em¬
ployed in pafling from A to D. Then the ftraight
lines CA, CD, and CE being drawn, the triangular
fpaces CAD and CDE are proved to be equal in the
following manner. Let EF be drawn parallel to CD.
Then it follows, from the fecond law of motion, that
fince the body was moving in the line AB when it re¬
ceived the impuife in the dire&ion DC, it will have mo¬
ved after that impuife through the line DE in the fame
time as it would have moved through DF, provided it
had received no difturbance in D. But the time of the
body’s moving from D to E is fuppofed to be equal to
the time of its moving through AD ; therefore the
time which the body would have employed in moving
through DF, had it not been difturbed in D, is equal
to the time wherein it moved through AD : confe-
quently DF is equal in length to AD 5 for if the bo¬
dy had gone on to move through the line AB without
interruption, it would have moved through all the parts
of it with the fame velocity, and have paffed over equal
parts of that line in equal portions of time. Now CF be¬
ing drawn, fince AD and DF are equal, the triangular
fpace CDF is equal to the triangular fpace CAD. Fur¬
ther, the line EF being parallel to CD, it follows from
the 37th propofition of Euclid’s firft book, that the tri.
ASTRONOMY.
Part IV. A S T R
Theory of angle CED Is equal to the triangle CFD : therefore
Umverfal t]le triangle CED is equal to the triangle CAD.
Gt1ona" . In 1^e >manner> ^ the body receive at E another
t ■—, impulfe direfted toward the point C, and be turned
by that impulfe into the line EG $ if it move after¬
wards from E to G, in the lame fpace of time as was
taken up by its motion from D to E, or from A to
D } then CG being drawn, the triangle CEG is equal
to CDE. A third impulfe at G, diredled as the two
former to C, whereby the body fhall be turned into
the line GH, will have alfo the like effect wuth the
reft. If the body move over GH in the fame time as
it took up in moving over EG, the triangle CGH
will be equal to the triangle CEG. Laftly, if the
body at H be turned by a frefti impulfe directed to¬
wards C into the line HI, and at I by another impulfe
direfted alfo to C be turned into the line IK j and if
the body moke over each of the lines HI and IK in
the fame time as it employed in moving over each of
the preceding lines AD, DE, EG, and GH : then
each of the triangles CHI and C1K will be equal to
each of the preceding. Likewife, as the time in
which the body moves over ADE is equal to the time
of its moving over EGH, and to the time of its mo¬
ving over HIK •, the fpace CADE will be equal to the
fpace CEGH and to the fpace CHIK. In the fame
manner, as the time in tviuch the body moved over
AD EG is equal to the time of its moving over
GH1K, fo the 4pace CADEG tvill be equal to the
fpace CGHIK. From this principle Sir Ifaac New¬
ton demonftrates the above-mentioned propofition, by
making the tranfition from this incurvated figure com-
pofed of ftraight lines, to a figure of continued cur-
vation ; and by (bowing, that fince equal fpaces are de-
fcribed in equal times in this prefent figure compofed
of ftraight lines, the fame relation between the fpaces
defcribed, and the times of their defcription, will alfo
have place in a figure of one continued curvature. He
alfo deduces from this propofition the reverfe of it j
and proves, that whenever equal fpaces are continual¬
ly defcribed, the body is acted upon by a centripetal force
343 directed to the centre at which the fpaces terminate.
Compari- As the eflect of a central force in a very fmall inter-
fionot the val of time is meafured by the verfed fine of the fmall
force 'with arcla defcr!bed» we ma7 eafily compare the centrifugal
gravitation. for.ce produced by the rotation of the earth with gravi¬
tation. At the equator, a body in confequence of the
rotation of the earth defcribes an arch of 15" of the cir¬
cumference of the earth, In G of time. The radius of
the equator is about 19634778 French feet; the ver¬
fed fine of w’hich is 0.0389704 feet. At the equator
a body falls 11.23585 French feet in a fecond. The
centrifugal force is to gravity as 0.0389704 to x 1 23585,
or nearly as 1 to 288.3. The centrifugal force diminifti-
es gravity, and bodies only fall in confequence of the
excels of the laft above the firft. If the whole force
whole effect would be evident, wrere there no rotation,
be called gravity ; then at the equator the centrifugal
force is about of gravity. If the earth revolved
1 7 times fafter than it does, the arch defcribed in a fe-
coud would be 1 7 times greater, and its verfed fine 289
times longer; the centrifugal force wmuld then be equal
(o gravity, and at the equator, bodies would ceafe to
have any weight.
O N O M Y. 119
In general the expreffion of a uniformly accelerating Theory of
force, adding conllantly towards the fame point, is Univ. al
equal to twice the fpace which it caufes the body to <^rt^ta’
deferibe, divided by the fquare of the time. Every > y - >
accelerating force may be fuppofed conftant for a very
imall interval of time, and adding in the fame direc¬
tion. The fpace defcribed by a body moving in a cir¬
cle in confequence of the central force, is the verfed
fine of the fmall arch defcribed ; and this veiled fine
is very nearly equal to the fquare of the arch divided
by radius. ri he expreflion of the accelerating force
is then the.fquare of the arch deferibed, divided by the
fquare of the time, and by radius. The arch divided
by the time gives the velocity. Hence the centripetal
qnd centrifugal forces are equal to the fquare of the
velocity divided by radius.
We have feeh that gravity is equal to the fquare of
the acquired velocity divided by twice the fpace gone
through. Of courfe the centrifugal force is equal to
gravity, if the velocity of the revolving body be that
which it would acquire by falling from a height equal
to half the radius of the circumference defcribed. The
velocities of different revolving bodies are as the circum-
.ferences which they deferibe divided by the time of
their revolution. Thefe circumferences are as their
radii. T he fquares of the velocity of courfe are as the
fquares of the radii divided by the fquares of the times.
Hence centrifugal forces are to each other as the radii
of the circumferences defcribed divided by the fquares of
the times of the revolutions. Hence in different paral¬
lels of latitude, the centrifugal forces produced by the
rotation of the earth are proportional to the radii of
thefe parallels.
Thefe remarks will give the reader an idea of the
law's of motion. For a more particular inveftigation
he muft have recourfe to thofe articles that treat par¬
ticularly of Dynamics.
Chap. II. Of Univerfal Gravitatmi.
The principles of dynamics being underftood, let
us make ufe of them to examine the motions of
the heavenly bodies, in order to detect the general
law's which produce and regulate thefe motions.
We have feen that the planets and comets move in piane4f! re_
ellipfes round the fun, and that the areas defcribed by volve round
their radii vedtors are proportional to the time. The the funJ
principles of dynamics laid down 'in the lart chapter,
inform us that this could not happen unlefs each of
thefe bodies were conftantly adted on by a force turn¬
ing them from the ftraight line in the diredlion
of the centre of thefe radii vedlors. Hence it fol¬
low's, that the planets are conftantly adted upon by a
force which urges them towards the fun as a centre.
Let us fuppofe that, the planets revolve round the ;n c^e_
fun in circles, which is not very far from the truth, quence of 3
In that cafe, the fquares of their velocities are proper-lorce re~
tional to the fquares of the radii of their orbits, divid- fidinp in
ed by the fquares of the times of their revolution. Butthe lun”
by the law's of Kepler, the fquares of the times are as
the cubes of the radii of the orbits of the planet, or of
thediftance. Therefore, the fquares of the velocity are
reciprocally as thefe radii. Perhaps this reafoning will
be better underftood by employing fymbols. Let t ~
the
. 345
This force
inverfely as
the fquare
of the di-
flance.
320 A S T R
i ’ieory the time, v =r the velocity, and r ~ the radius, we have
Univerfal
Gravita- J3ut therefore, fubftituting- r3 in the
tion. r ' °
firft formula, we have v*== but therefore
• ;-3 r3 r
we have or d' always reciprocally proportional
to r. We have feen formerly that the central forces
of different forces revolving in a circle, are as the
fquares of the velocity divided by the radii of their or¬
bits. Therefore, the tendency of the planets to the
fun, then, are reciprocally as the fquares of the radii of
their orbits, or their diftance from the fun. This will
be better underitood if w7e exprefs it by fymbols. We
have i>*==—. Let c denote the central force, c-==l~\
' r r
for v% fublfitute its equivalent —, and we have £•== —.
r ' rx
It is true that the orbits of the planets are not ex¬
actly circular 5 but as the law of the fquares of the
times, proportional to the cubes of the diltances, is in¬
dependent of the eccentricity of the planetary orbits,
it is natural to fuppofe, that it would exift, even
though the eccentricity were deftroyed. The law,
therefore, that the tendency to the fun is inverfely as
the fquare of the diftance, is clearly indicated by this
ratio.
Analogy leads us to fuppofe, that this law, which
extends from one planet to another, holds alfo w'ith
refpefl to the fame planet in all its different diftances
from the fun. That this is actually the cafe, follows
with certainty from the elliptical orbits of the planets.
When the planet is in its perihelion, its velocity is a
maximum, and its tendency to feparate from the fun
in confequence of this velocity overcoming the ten¬
dency towards the fun, the radius ve&or increafes in
length, and forms obtufe angles writh the direftion of
the planet. Hence it oppofes, and of courfe, tends to
diminilh the velocity, till the planet reaches its aphe¬
lion. Then the radius veflor becomes perpendicular
to the curve, the velocity is at its minimum; and the
tendency to feparate from the fun being lels than the
tendency towards the fun, the planet approaches to¬
wards it, defcribing the fecond part of its elliptical or¬
bit. In that part, the tendency to the fun increafes
the velocity of the planet, as in the former part it had
diminilhed it: the planet accordingly comes to its pe¬
rihelion with a maximum of velocity. Now the cur¬
vature of the ellipfe being the fame at the perihelion
and aphelion, the radii of the equicurve circles will be
the fame, and, of courfe, the centrifugal forces in thefe
two points wull be to each other as the fquares of the
velocity. The fe£lors defcribed in the fame times be-
ing equal, the velocities at the aphelion and perihelion
are reciprocally as the correfponding diftances of the
planet from the fun. Of courfe, the fquares of the
velocities are reciprocally as the fquares of thefe di¬
ftances, or at the perihelion and aphelion the centrifu¬
gal forces are equal to the tendency of the planet to¬
wards the fun. Therefore this tendency is inverfely
, as the fquare of the diftance of the planet from the
Tendency hin. .
the fame We fee then, in general, that all the planets tend
in ali the towards the fun, with a force inverfely as the fquare
planets, 2
347
O N 0 M Y. Part IV,
of their diftance. Newton demonftrated, that this Theory 0f
force would caufe them, if proje&ed with a given ve¬
locity, to defcribe ellipfes round the fun as a centre.
He demonftrated farther, that this tendency is the '
fame in all the planets, varying only according to their
diftances. Hence it follows, that if they were all at
reft, and placed at the fame diftance from the fun,
they would all, in confequence of this tendency, fail
into the fun at the fame inftant } the fame refult mult
be applied alfo to the comets, for in them alfo the
fqua'res of the times are undoubtedly proportional to
the cubes of their diftance from the fun.
The fatellites tend equally to the fun with the pla- andlfatel.
nets around which they revolve. Were not the moon''tcs>
under the influence of this tendency, inftead of delcrib-
ing a circle round the earth, it would foon abandon it
altogether. Unlefs the fatellites of Jupiter and the
moon tended towards the fun, irregularities would
be perceptible in their orbits, which they do not exhi¬
bit. The planets, comets, and fatellites, then, all
tend to the fun in confequence of the aftion of the
fame force. While the fatellites move round their
planet, the entire fyftem of planet and fatellites is car¬
ried round the fun, and retained in their orbits by the
fame force. Of courfe, the motion of the fatellites
round the planet, is merely the fame as if the planet
were altogether at reft, and* not afted upon by any fo¬
reign body. _ < * ' 348
1 huswe have been led, without affuming anyhypothe- Hence the
fis, by the neceffary confequence of the laws of the cele- fun’s centre
ftial movements, to confider the centre of the fun as the attra^
focus of a force, which extends itfelf indefinitely through 'L'tK ;v'‘
fpace, diminifhing inverfely as the fquares of the di¬
ftance, and which attraBs all bodies within the fphere
of its aclivity. Each of Kepler’s law^ points out a pro-*
perty of this attractive force. The law of the areas pro¬
portional to the times, informs us, that the force is di¬
rected towards the fun j the elliptical figure of the
planets proves to us, that its intenfity diminifhes as the
fquare of the diftance augments; and the law7 of the
fquares of the times proportional to the cubes of the
diftance, informs us, that the tendency, or gravitation
of all the planets to the fun is the fame, provided the
diftances were the fame. We may call this force fo-
lar attraBion, fuppoling for the fake of a diftinCt con¬
ception, that it is a force refiding in the fun.
The tendency or gravitation of the fatellites to- Satellites
wards their planets, is a neceffary confequence of the tend to
areas defcribed by their radii veCtors being proportion-
alto the times j that this gravitation is inverfely asmariet'
the fquare of their diftance, is indicated by the ellip-
ticity of their orbits. This ellipticity, indeed, being
fcarcely apparent in moft of the fatellites of Jupiter,
Saturn, and Herfchel, W'ould leave fome uncertainty,
did not the third law7, namely, the fquares of the times
being inverfely as the cubes of their diftance, demon-
ftrate, that from one fatellite to another, the tendency
to the planet is inverfely as the fquare of the diftance.
This proof, indeed, is wanting with refpeCt to our Moon’s
moon j but the defied may be fupplied by the follow-ten<*ency
ing ronfiderations. Gravity, or the weight by which
a body tends towards the earth, extends itfelf to the vitatio^
top of the higheft mountains, aud the very trifling di¬
minution which it experiences at that height, cannot
permit us to doubt, that it would ftill be lenfible at a
confidctably
Part IV.
ASTRONOMY.
121
Theory of confiderably greater diftance from the earth’s centre.
Umverfal js not n3tural to extend it as far as the moon, and
tlon^" t0 ^uPP°^e t^at force which retains that fatellite in
f ^ / its orbit, is its gravitation towards the earth, juft as it
is the folar attraction which retains the planets in their
orbits ? The forces at leaft feem to be of the fame na¬
ture ; they both aft upon every particle of bodies, and
caufe them to move at the fame rate •, for the folar at¬
traction afts equally upon all bodies placed at the fame
diftance from the fun, juft as gravitation caufes all bo¬
dies to fall from the fame height with the fame velo¬
city. A body projefted horizontally, falls upon the
earth at fome diftance after defcribing a curve fenfibly
parabolic. It would fall at a greater diftance, if the
‘force of projeftion were more confiderable ; and, if
projefted with a certain velocity, it would not fall back
at all, but revolve round the earth like a fatellite. To
make it move in the orbit of the moon, it would be
neceflary only to give it the fame height and the fame
projefting force. But what demonftrates the identity
of gravitation and of the force which retains the moon
in its orbit is, that if we fuppofe gravity to diminilh
inverfely as the fquare of the diftance from the centre
of the earth, at the diftance of the moon it will be
precifely equal t® the moon’s tendency to the earth.
Let A in fig. 134. reprefent the earth, B the moon,
BCD the moon’s orbit; which differs little from a cir¬
cle of which A is the centre. If the moon in B were
left to itfelf to move with the velocity it has in the
point B, it would leave the orbit, and proceed ftraight
forward in the line BE which touches the orbit in B.
Suppofe the moon would upon this condition move
Irom B to E in the fpace of one minute of time : By
3SI the aftion of the earth upon the moon, wdiereby it is
Her motion retained in its orbit, the moon will really be found at
particularly the end of this minute in the point F, from whence a
explained, ftraight line drawn to A ftiall make the fpace BFA in
the circle equal to the triangular fpace BE A j fo that
the moon in the time wherein it would have moved
from B to E, if left to itfelf, has been impelled to¬
wards the earth from E to F. And when the time of
the moon’s palling from B to F is fmall, as here it is
only one minute, the diftance between E and F fcarce
differs from the fpace through which the moon would
defccnd in the fame time if it were to fall direftly down
from B toward A without any other motion. AB,
the diftance of the moon from the earth, is about 60 of
the femidiameters of the latter ; and the moon com¬
pletes her revolution round the earth in about 27 days
7 hours and 43 minutes: therefore the fpace EF will
here be found by computation to be about i6£ feet.
Confequently, if the power by which the moon is re¬
tained in its orbit be near the furface of the earth
greater than at the diftance of the moon in the dupli-
■152 cate ProPorti<m of that diftance, the number of feet a
Calculation body wmuld defcend near the furface of the earth, by
of the vein-the aftion of this power upon it, in one minute, would
mtyboV‘tll~be eflual to tlie number 16-g- multiplied twice into the
£J'S 1CS‘ number 60; that is, to 58050. But how fall bodies
fall near the furface of the earth may be known by
the pendulum ; and by the exafteft experiments, they
are found to defcend the fpace of 16 j feet in one fe-
cond ; and the (paces defcribed by falling bodies be¬
ing in the duplicate proportion of the times of their
fall, the number of feet a body would defcribe in its
Vol. III. Part I.
fall near the furface of the earth in one minute of time Theory of
will be equal to 165 twice multiplied by 60 ; the fame Umverfal
as would be caufed by the power wdiich afts upon the
moon. _.
In this computation the earth is fuppofed to be at
reft : but it would have been more exaft to have fup-Earth and
pofed it to move, as well as the moon, about theirmoon m°y«
common centre of gravity ; as will be eafily underftood about tlieir
from what has been already faid concerning the motion Cfcntre of
of the fun and primary planets about their common gravity,
centre of gravity. The aftion of the fun upon the
moon is alfo here neglefted ; and Sir Ifaac Newton
(hows, if you take in both thele confiderations, the
prefent computation wull beft agree to a fomewTat
greater diftance of the moon and earth, viz. to 6o|
femidiameters of the latter, which diftance is more con¬
formable to aftronomical obfervations : and thefe com¬
putations afford an additional proof that the aftion of
the earth obferves the fame proportion to the diftance
which is here contended for.
We fee then that the force which retains the moon
in its orbit is gravitation, or that force which caufes
heavy bodies to fall to the ground. This comparifon
between gravity and the lunar tendency to the earth
(hows us, that, in our calculations, we ought to meafure
diftance from the centre of gravity of the fun and of
the planets; for this is obvioully the cafe with the
earth, and its tendency to the fun is precifely the fame
with that of the other planets.
I he fun and the planets which have fatellites, pof- Planets
felling, as we have feen, an attraftive force inverfely asreaauPon
the fquare of the diftance, one is tempted to give thethe fun’
fame property to the other planets alfo. The fphericity
common to all thefe bodies, indicates clearly, that their
particles are retained round their centre of gravity, by
a force which at equal diftances attrafts them equally
to that centre. But this important point is not left to
analogical reafoning. We have feen, that if the pla¬
nets and comets were placed at equal diftances from
the fun, their gravitation towards it would be pro¬
portional to their maffes. But it may be confidered as
a general matter of faft, to which there is no excep¬
tion, that aftion and reaftion are equal and contrarv.
Of courfe all thefe bodies reaft upon the fun, and at-
traB it in proportion to their mafs, and confequently
poffefs an attraftive force proportional to their mafs,
and inverfely as the fquare of their diftance. The fa¬
tellites alfo, in confequence of the fame principle, at-
traft the planets and the fun according to the fame
law. [ his attrafting force is then common to all the
heavenly bodies.
This force does not difturb the elliptical motion of
the planets round the fun, when we conlider only their
mutual aftion. For the relative movement of a fyftem
of bodies does not change by giving them a common
motion. Neither is the elliptical motion of the fatel¬
lites difturbed by the revolution of the planets round
the fun, for the very fame realbn.
The attraftive force does not belong to thefe bodjes
only as wholes; but it belongs to every particle of
matter of which each of them is compofed. If the fun
afted oidy upon the centre of the earth, without at¬
trafting every one of the particles of which it is com¬
pofed individually, there would refult ttWes incom¬
parably greater, and very different from thofe that wx
Q*,, obferve.
12 2
Univerfdf 0^^erve• . Sefides, every body on the earth gravitates
Gravita- towar^s its centre, in proportion to its raafs. It reacts
tion. courfe upon the earth, and attracts it in the fame
w-y—ratio. Unlefs that were the cafe, or if any part of
the earth, however fmall, did not attraft the other part
- as it is attrafted by it, the centre of gravity of the earth
would be moved in fpace, in confequence of gravitation;
3-- which is impoffible.
General All-thefe phenomena, compared with the laws of mo-
law of gra-tion, lead us to this grand conclufion : All the parti¬
cles of matter mutually attraEi each other^ in proportion
to their mq/fes, and inverfely as the fquares of their di-
fances. cdhXzik umverfalgravitation, and was
the difcovery which crowned the happy induftry, the
confummate Ikill, and the unrivalled fagacity of New¬
ton.
In univerfal gravitation, we readily percei\*e a caufe
of the irregularities and difturbances perceptible in
the planetary motions. For as the planets and comets
aft upon each other, they ought to deviate a little from
that exaft ellipticity, which they would follow if they
obeyed only the aftion of the fun. The fatellites, dif-
turbed equally by their mutual attraftion, and by that
of the fun, mult deviate alfo from thefe laws. We fee
alfo, that the particles of which each heavenly body is
compofed, provided they be at liberty to move, ought
to form themfelves into a fphere, and that the refult of
their mutual aftion at the furface of this fphere ought
to produce all the phenomena of gravity. We fee alfo,
that the rotation of the heavenly bodies round an axis
ought to alter this fphericity fomewhat by flattening
them at the poles, and that the refult of their mutual
aftion not palling exaftly through their centres of gra¬
vity, ought to produce in their axis of rotation mo¬
tions fimilar to thofe which we perceive. We fee alfo,
that the particles of the ocean, unequally attrafted by
the fun and moon, ought to have an ofcillation fimilar
to the tides. But it will be neceffary to confider the
effefts of gravitation more particularly.^ in order to
fhow that it is eftablifhed in the complete!!: manner by
all the. phenomena. This lhall be the fubjeft of the
next chapter.
Chap. III. Of the Effects of Gravitation.
Vv e fhall in this chapter confider, in the firfl: place,
feveral points which could only be afcertained by the
afliftance of gravitation, and afterwards examine the
feveral fubjefts hinted at towards the conclufion of the
' fall chapter.
Sect. I. Of the Majfes of the Planets.
It would appear, at firft view, impoflible to afcer-
tain the refpeftive maffes of the fun and planets, and
to calculate the velocity with which heavy bodies fall
towards each when at a given diftance from their cen¬
tres ; yet thefe points may be determined from the theo-
ry of gravitation without much difficulty.
_ .35^ It follows from the theorems relative to centrifup-al
of the Yen1- &rce.s> given in the firlt chapter of this part, that the
fities of the gravitation of a fatellite towards its planet is to the
piauets. gravitation of the earth towards the fun as the mean
diflance of the fatellite from its primary, divided by
the fquare of the time of its fidereal revolution, or the
sjiean diftance of the earth from the fun divided by the
astronomy.
tion.
Part IV.
fquare of a fidereal year. To bring thefe gravitations Theory of
to the fame diftance from the bodies which produce Univeifal
them, we muft multiply them refpeftively by the fquares Gravita-
of the radii of the orbits which are delcribed : and, as v
at equal diftancesthe maffes are proportional to the at-
traftions, the mafs of the earth is to that of the fun as
the cube of the mean radius of the orbit of the fatel¬
lite,. divided by the iquare of the time of its fidereal
motion, is to the cube of the mean diftance of the
earth from the fun, divided by the fquare of the fide¬
real year.
Let us apply this refult to Jupiter. The mean di¬
ftance of his 4th fatellite fubtends an angle of 1
decimal feconds. Seen at the mean diftance of the
earth from the lun, it would appear under an angle of
7964y75 decimal feconds. The radius of the circle
contains 636619".8 decimal feconds. Therefore the
mean radii of the orbit of Jupiter’s 4th fatellite and of
the earth’s orbit are to each other as thefe two num¬
bers. 1 he time of the fidereal revolution of the 4th
fatellite is 16.6890 days j the fidereal year is 365.2564
days. Thefe data give us —^ for the mafs of
1066.08
Jupiter, that of the fun being reprefented by 1. It is
neceffary to add unity to the denominator of this frac¬
tion, becauie the force which retains Jupiter in his
orbit is the fum of the attraftions of Jupiter and the
fun. The mafs of Jupiter is then   -. The mafs
1067.08
of Saturn and Herfchel may be calculated in the fame
manner. rI hat of the earth is belt determined by the
following method :
If w e take the mean diftance of the earth from the
fun for unity, the arch deferibed by the earth in a fe-
cond of time wall be the ratio of the circumference to
the radius divided by the number of feconds in a fide¬
real year. If w^e divide the Iquare of that arch by the
diameter, we obtain —for its verfed fine, which
is the defleftion of the earth towards the fun in a fe-
cond. But on that parallel of the earth’s furface the
fquare of the fine of whofe latitude is y, a body falls
in a fecond 16J feet. To reduce this attraftion to the
mean diftance of the earth from the fun, we muft di¬
vide the number by the feet contained in that diftance;
but the radius of the earth at the above mentioned pa¬
rallel is 19614648 French feet. If we divide this num¬
ber by the tangent of the folar parallax, we obtain
the mean radius of the earth’s orbit expreffed in feet.
The effeft of the attraftion of the earth at a di¬
ftance equal to the mean radius of its orbit, is equal to
19614648 mult‘P^e(* by tbe cube of the tangent of
the folar parallax = . Hence th<? maffes
of the fun and earth are to each other as the numbers
i47956o-5 and 4.486113 ; therefore the mafs of the
that of the fun being unity.
earth
529809’
M. de la Place calculated the maffes of Mars and
Venus from the fecular diminution of the obliquity of
the ecliptic, and from the mean acceleration of the
moon’s motion. I he mafs of Mercury he obtained
from its volume, fuppofing the denfities of that planet
and
ASTRO
Part IV.
Theory of and of the earth reciprocally as their mean diftance
^ravita* ^rom t^e ^un> a rule w^ich holds, with refpeft to the
7r‘m ‘i' earth, Jupiter, and Saturn. The following table exhi¬
bits the maffes of the different planets, that of the
fun being unity :
tion.
3S7
Table of
the maffes.
Mercury
Venus
Earth
Mars
Jupiter
Saturn
Herfchel
20258x0
1
"P3T3T
329809
1
1846082
1
1067.09
1
3359-40
i
358
Of their
ffenfities.
359
/ I95°4
The denfities of bodies are proportional to their
maffes divided by their bulks ; and, when bodies are
nearly fpherical, their bulks are as the cubes of their
femidiameters, of courfe the denfities in that cafe are
as the maffes divided by the cubes of the femidiame¬
ters. For greater exaftnels, we muft take that femi-
diameter of a planet which correfponds to the parallel,
the fquare of the fine of which is equal to -f, and which
is equal to the third of the fum of the radius of the
pole, and twice the radius of the equator. This me¬
thod gives us the denfities of the principal planets
as follows, that of the fun being unity :
Earth 3-93933
Jupiter 0.86014
Saturn ©.49512
Herfchel 1.13797.
Of gravity To have the intenfity of gravitation at the furface of
at their the fun and planets, let us confider, that, if Jupiter and
ut aces. Jijg eart]1 were exa(q.]y fpherical, and deftitute of their
rotatory motion, gravitation at their equators would
be proportional to the maffes of thefe bodies divided
by the fquares of their diameters. But at the mean
diftance of the fun from the earth, the diameters of the
equators of Jupiter and of the earth are to each other
as the numbers 626.26 and 54.5. If then we repre-
fent the weight of a body at the earth’s equator by 1,
the fame body, if tranfported to the equator of Jupi¬
ter, would weigh 2.509. But the difference of the
centrifugal forces on the furface of the earth and
Jupiter renders it neceffary to diminifh this laft num¬
ber by about The lame body at the furface of the
fun would weigh 27.65.
Sect. II. Of the Perturbations in the Elliptical Orbit of
the Planets.
If the planets were influenced only by the fun,
they would defcribe ellipfes round that luminary : but
they aft upon one another, and from thefe various at-
traftions there refult difturbances in their elliptical mo¬
tions, difcoverable by obfervation, and which it is ne-
cefiary to determine, in order to be able to conflruft
accurate tables of the planetary motions. The rigor¬
ous solution of this problem is above the reach of the
N O M Y. 123
mathematical analyfis 5 mathematicians have been obli- Theory of
ged to fatisfy themfelves with approximations. Univerfal
The difturbances in the elliptical motions of the pla- 7t-on
nets may be divided into two claffes. The firft clafs
affefts the elements of the elliptical motion : they in- 360
creafe very flowly, and have been called fecular ine- Secular and
qualities. The other clafs depends upon the configu- fnequalT*
ration of the planets, either with refpeft to each other, ties,
or with refpeft to their nodes and perihelions, and are
renewed every time that the relative fituation of the
planets becomes the fame. They are called periodical
inequalities, to diftinguilh them from the fecular, whole
periods are much longer and altogether independent of
the mutual configuration of the planets. Before pro¬
ceeding farther, we beg leave to introduce the follow¬
ing quotation from Dr Pemberton, becaufe it will
convey fome notion of thefe difturbances in a very fa¬
miliar manner to our readers.
“The only inequalities which have been obferved com¬
mon to all the planets are, the motion of the aphelion
and the nodes. The tranfverfe axis of each orbit does
not remain always fixed, but moves about the fun with
a very flow progreffive motion 5 nor do the planets
keep conftantly in the fame planes, but change them
and the lines by which thefe planes interfeft each other
by infenfible degrees. The firft of thefe inequalities. Motion of
which is the motion of the aphelion, may be accounted h*16 afhe-
for, by fuppofing the gravitation of the planets to_ ll0'lacc°un-
wards the fun to differ a little farther from the fore- C °r’
mentioned reciprocal duplicate proportion of the di-
ftances 5 but the fecond, which is the motion of the
nodes, cannot be accounted for by any power direfted
towards the fun 5 for no fuch power can give it any la¬
teral impulfe to divert it from the plane of its motion
into any new plane, but of neceflity muft be derived
from fome other centre. Where that power is lodged,
remains to be difcovered. Now it is proved, as ftiall
afterwards be explained, that the three primary planets
Saturn, Jupiter, and the Earth, which have fatellites
revolving about them, are endowed with a power of
caufing bodies, in particular thofe fatellites, to gravi¬
tate towards them with a force which is reciprocally in
the duplicate proportion of their diftances ; and the
planets are, in all refpefts in which they come under
our confideration, fo fimilar and alike, that there is no
reafon to queftion but they have all the fame proper¬
ty, though it be fufficient for the prefent purpofe to
have it proved of Jupiter and Saturn only ; for thefe
planets contain much greater quantities of matter than
the reft, and proportionally exceed the others in
power. But the influence of thefe two planets being
allowed, it is evident how the planets come to fliift
their places continually 5 for each of the planets mov¬
ing in a different plane, the aftion of Jupiter and Sa¬
turn upon the reft will be oblique to the planes of
their motion, and therefore will gradually draw them
into new ones. The fame aftion of thefe two planets
upon the reft will likewife caufe a progreflive motion •
and therefore will gradually draw them into new ones!
I he fame aftion of thefe two planets upon the reft
will likewife caufe a progreffive motion of the aphe¬
lion ; fo that there will be no neceftity for having re-
courfe to the other caufe for this motion, which was
before hinted at, viz. the gravitation of the planets
toward the fun differing from the exaft duplicate pro-
Qj portion
124
Theory of
Univerfal
Gr ‘ vita-
tion.
A S T R
portion of tlieir didances. And, in the laft place, the
action of Jupiter and Saturn upon each other will pro¬
duce in their motions the fame inequalities as their
joint action produces upon the reft. All this is effect¬
ed in the fame manner as the fun produces the fame
kind of inequalities and many others in the motion of
the moon and other fecondary planets; and there¬
fore wall be beft apprehended by what is faid after¬
wards. Thofe other irregularities in the motion of
the fecondary planets have place likewife here, but are
too minute to be obfervable, becaufe they are produced
and rectified alternately, for the moft part in the time
of a Angle revolution ; w'hereas the motion of the
aphelion and nodes which increafe continually, become
Saturn"arU' fenftble after a long feries of years. Yet fome of thefe
influence ot;^er inequalities are difcernible in Jupiter and Sa-
each other’s turn 5 in Saturn chiefly: for when Jupiter, who moves
motions. fafter than Saturn, approaches to a conjunclion with
him, his aftion upon the latter will a little retard the
motion of that planet; and by the reciprocal adtion
of Saturn, he will himfelf be accelerated. After con-
jundtion, Jupiter will again accelerate Saturn, and be
likewife retarded in the fame degree as before the firft
was retarded and the latter accelerated. Whatever
inequalities befides are produced in the motion of Sa¬
turn by the adtion of Jupiter upon that planet, will
be fufficiently redlified by placing the focus of Saturn’s
ellipfis, which ftiould otherwife be in the fun, in the
common centre of gravity of the fun and Jupiter.
And all the inequalities of Jupiter’s motions, caufed
by the adlion of Saturn upon him, are much lefs con-
fiderable than the irregularities of Saturn’s motion.
This one principle, therefore, of the planets having a
power as well as the fun to caufe bodies gravitate to-
xvards them, wdiich is proved by the motion of the fe¬
condary planets to obtain in fadl, explains all the irre¬
gularities relating to the planetary motions ever obferv-
ed by aftronomers (c).
“ Sir Ifaac Newton after this proceeds to make an
improvement in aftronomy, by applying this theory to
the farther corredlion of their motions. For as we
have here obferved the planets to poffefs a principle of
gravitation as well as the fun ; fo it will be, explained
at large hereafter, that the third law of motion, which
makes adlion and readlion equal, is to be applied in
this cafe, and that the fun does not only attradl each
planet, but is alfo itfelf attradled by them j the force
wherewith the planet is adled on, bearing to the force
wherewith the fun itfelf is adled upon at the fame
time, the proportion which the quantity of matter in
the fun bears to the quantity of matter in the planet.
From the adlion of the fun and planet being thus mu¬
tual, Sir Ifaac Newton proves that the fun and planet
will deferibe about their common centre of gravity
fimilar ellipfes; and then, that the tranfverfe axis of the
him and the which w’ould be deferibed about the fun at reft
” ■' in the fame time, the fame proportion as the quantity
363
Me hod of
corr cl
the plane¬
tary mo¬
tions.
364
Sun moves
round the
common
centre of
gravity of
O N O M Y. Partly.
of folid matter in the fun and planet together bears to Theory of
the firft ot two mean proportionals between this quan- Tniverial
tlty and the quantity of matter in the fun only. G|,^ta*
“ It will be aiked, perhaps, how this corredlion can _f
be admitted, when the caufe of the motions of the
planets was before found, by fuppofing them to be the
centre of the power which adled upon them ? for, ac¬
cording to the prelent corredlion, this power appears
rather to be diredled to the common centre of gravity.
But whereas the fun was at firft concluded to be the
centre to which the power adling on the planets w7as
diredled, becaufe the fpaces deferibed in equal times
round the fun were found to be equal j fo Sir Ifaac
Newton proves, that if the fun and planet move round
their common centre of gravity, yet, to an eye placed
in the planet, the fpaces which will appear to be de¬
feribed about the fun will have the fame relation to the
times of their defeription as the real fpaces wTould if
the fun were at reft. I further afiferted, that, fup¬
pofing the planets to move round the fun at reft, and
to be attradled by a power which Ihould everywhere
adl with degrees of ftrength reciprocally in the dupli¬
cate proportions of their dillances ; then the periods
of the planets muft obferve the fame'relations to their
diftances as aftronomeis have found them to do. But
here it muft not be fuppofed, that the obiervations of
aftronomers abfolutely agree without any the leaft dif¬
ference : and the prefent corredlion will not caufe a
deviation from any one aftronomer’s obfervations fo
much as they difter from one another; for in Jupiter,
where this corredlion is greateft, it hardly amounts to
the 3000th part of the whole axis. ^65
“ Upon this head, I think it not improper to men-Argument
tion a refledlion made by our excellent author upon againft the
thefe fmall inequalities in the planets motions, which eterri’ty °f
contains in it a very ftrong philofophical argument
againft the eternity of the world. It is this, that thefe
inequalities muft continually increafe by flow degrees,
till they render at length the prefent frame of nature
unfit for the purpofes it nowr ferves. And a more con¬
vincing proof cannot be defired againft the prefent
conftitution’s having exifted from eternity than this,
that a certain period of years v. ill bring it to an end.
I am aware, that this thought of our author has been
reprefented even as impious, and as no lefs than calling
a refledlion upon the wifdom of the Author of nature
for framing a perifhable work. But I think fo bold
an aflertion ought to have been made with fingular
caution : for if this remark upon the increafing irre¬
gularities in the heavenly motions be true in fadt, as it
really is, the imputation muft return upon the afler-
tor, that this does not detradl from the divine wifdom.
Certainly we cannot pretend to know all the omnifei-
ent Creator’s purpofes in making thisjworld, and there¬
fore cannot pretend to determine how long he defigned
it.fhould laft ; and it is fufheient if it endure the time
defigned by the Author. The body of every animal
ftiows
the world.
(c) Profeifor J. Robifon, however, informs us in his paper on the Georgium Sidus (Edinburgh Philofophical
Tranfadlions, Vol. I. ), That all the irregularities in the planetary motions cannot be accounted for from the
laws of gravitation j for w’hich reafon he was obliged to fuppofe the exiftence of planets beyond the orbit of
Saturn, even before the difeovery of the Georgium Sidus. M. de la Lande alfo has obferved fome unaccountable
inequalities in the motion of Saturn for more than 30 years part.
Part IV.
Theory of fliows the unlimited wlfdom of the Author no lefs, nay,
Univeifni jn many j-efpedls more, than the larger frame of na¬
ture : and yet we fee they are all defigned to lafl but
a fmall fpace of time.”
366 Sir Ifaac Newton had no fooner difcovered the uni-
Defie<fhon verfality and reciprocity of the deflexions of the pla-
nets^o^ a" nets anC^ ':^e ^un’ t^ian a^° fufpeXed that they were
wards each continually defleXed towards each other. He imme-
other. diately obtained a general notion of what ftiould be
the more general refults of fuch a mutual aXion. They
may be conceived in this way.
Let S (fig. 135.) reprefent the fun, Ethe earth, and I
Jupiter, deicribing concentric orbits round the centre of
the fyflem. Make IS : EArzEP : SI*. Then, if
367 IS be taken to reprefent the defleXion of the fun to-
Genecal re-warcj Jupiter, EA will reprefent the defleXion of the
il 'ir t0 Jupiter. Draw EB equal and parallel to SI,
tbn. and complete the parallelogram EBAD. ED will re¬
prefent the difturbing force of Jupiter. It may be re-
folvent into EF, perpendicular to ES, and EG in the
direXion of SE. By the firfl: of thefe the earth’s an¬
gular motion round the fun is affeXed, and by the fe-
cond its defleXion toward him is diminiftred or increa-
fed.
In confequence of this firfl; part of the difturbing
force, the angular motion is increafed, while the earth
approaches from quadrature to conjunXion with Jupi¬
ter (which is the cafe reprefented in the figure), and is
diminiflied from the time that Jupiter is in oppofition
till the earth is again in quadrature, weftward of his
oppofition. The earth is then accelerated till Jupiter
is in conjunXion wfith the fun ; after which it is retard¬
ed till the earth is again in quadrature.
The earth’s tendency to the fun is diminifhed while
Jupiter is in the neighbourhood of his oppofition or
conjunXion, and increafed while he is in the neighbour¬
hood of his ftationary pofitions. Jupiter being about
1000 times lefs than the fun, and 5 times more remote,
IS muft be confidered as reprefenting TTi^_th of the
earth’s defleXion to the fun, and the forces ED and
EG are to be meafured on this fcale.
In confequence of this change in the earth’s tenden¬
cy to the fun, the aphelion fometimes advances by the
diminution, and fometimes retreats by the augmenta¬
tion. It advances when Jupiter chances to be in oppo¬
fition when the earth is in its aphelion ; becaufe this di¬
minution of its defleXion towards the fun makes it later
before its path is brought from forming an obtufe angle
with the radius vector, to form a right angle with it.
Becaufe the earth’s tendency to the fun is, on the whole,
more diminiflied by the difturbing force of Jupiter than
it is increafed, the aphelion of the earth’s orbit advances
on the whole.
In like manner the aphelia of the inferior planets ad¬
vance by the difturbing forces of the fuperior : but the
aphelion of a fuperior planet retreats ■, for thefe reafons,
and becaufe Jupiter and Saturn are larger and more
powerful than the inferior planets, the aphelia of them
all advance while that of Saturn retreats.
In confequence of the fame difturbing forces, the
node of the difturbed planet retreats on the orbit of
the difturbing planet; therefore they all retreat on
the ecliptic, except that of Jupiter, which advances by
retreating on the orbit of Saturn, from which it fuf-
(ers. the greateft difturbance. This is owing to the
ASTRONOMY.
125
particular pofition of the nodes and the inclinations of Theory o£
the orbits. _ _ Univerfal
The inclination of a planetary orbit increafes while Grta;Qaa'
the planet approaches the node, and diminilhes while ^ v ‘ <
the planet retires from it. 368
M. de la Place has completed this deduXion of the 4 Peculia-
planetary inequalities, by explaining a peculiarity in the rit7 exJ.
motions of Jupiter and Saturn, which has long employ-
ed the attention of aftronomers. The accelerations and 0f jUpiter
retardations of the planetary motions depend, as has and Saturm
been Ihowm, on their configurations, or the relative quar¬
ters of the heavens in which they are. Thofe of Mer¬
cury, Venus, the Earth, and Mars, arifing from their
mutual defleXions 5 and their more remarkable deflec¬
tions to the great planets Jupiter and Saturn, nearly
compenfate each other, and no traces of them remain
after a fewr revolutions : but the pofitions of the aphe¬
lia of Saturn and Jupiter are fuch, that the retardations
of Saturn fenfibly exceed the accelerations, and the ano-
maliftic period of Saturn increafes almoft a day every
century •, on the contrary, that of Jupiter diminifhes.
M. de la Place fhows, that this proceeds from the pofi¬
tion of the aphelia, and the almoft perfeX commenfura-
bility of their revolutions} five revolutions of Jupiter
making 21,675 days, wdiile two revolutions of Saturn
make 21,538, differing only 137 days.
Suppofing this relation to be exadt, the theory {hews,
that the mutual aXion of thefe planets muft produce
mutual accelerations and retardations of their mean mo¬
tions, and afcertains the periods and limits of the fecu-
lar equations thence arifing. Thefe periods include fe-
veral centuries. Again, becaufe this relation is not pre-
cife, but the odd days nearly divide the periods already-
found, there muft arife an equation of this fecular equa¬
tion, of which the period is immenfely longer, and the
maximum very minute. He fhews that this retardation
of Saturn is now at its maximum, and is diminiftiing
again, and will, in the courfe of years, change to an
acceleration.
This inveftigation of the fmall inequalities is the moft
intricate problem in piechanical philofophy, and has
been completed only by very flow degrees, by the ar¬
duous efforts of the greateft mathematicians, of whom
M. de la Grange is the moft eminent. Some of his ge¬
neral refults are very remarkable.
He demonftrates, that fince the planets move in one
direXion, in orbits nearly circular, no mutual difturb-
ances make any permanent change in the mean diftan-
ces and mean periods of the planets, and that the perio¬
dic changes are confined within very narrow limits, ofcfllafion
The orbits can never deviate fenfibly from circles. None of the pla-
of them ever has been or wfill be a comet moving in a netary fyf-
very eccentric orbit. The ecliptic will never coincide tem•
with the equator, not change its inclination above twTo
degrees. In ftiort, the folar planetary fyftem ofcillates,
as it were, round a medium itate, from wfliich it never
fwerves very far.
This theory of the planetary inequalities, founded on
the univerfal law of mutual defleXion, has given to our
tables a precifion, and a coincidence with obfervation,
that furpaffes all expeXation, and infures the legitimacy
of the theory. The inequalities are moft fenfible in the
motions of Jupiter and Saturn ; and thefe prefent them-
felves in fuch a complicated ftate, and their periods are
fo long, that ages v;ere neceffary for difccvering them
126
Th 'ory of
Univerfal
Gravita¬
tion.
37°
Authenti¬
city of the
Indian a-
ilronpiny:
■Origin of
the aftrolo-
gical divi-
fion of the
.heavens.
by mere obfervation. In this refpeft, therefore, the
theory has outftripped the obfervations on which it is
founded. It is very remarkable, that the periods which
t the Indians aflign to thefe two planets, and which ap¬
peared fo inaccurate that they hurt the credit of the
fcience of thofe ancient ailronomers, are now found pre-
cifely fuch as muft have obtained about three thoufand
years before the Chriftian era 5 and thus they give an
authenticity to that ancient aftronomy. The periods
which any nation of aftronomers affign to thofe two pla¬
nets would afford no contemptible mean for determin¬
ing the age in which it was obferved.
The following circumftance pointed out by La Place
is remarkable: Suppofe Jupiter and Saturn in conjundtion
in the firft degree of Aries; twenty years after, the con-
jundtion will happen in Sagittarius; and after other
twenty years, in Leo. It will continue in thefethree figns
for 200 years. In the next 200 it will happen in Taurus,
Capricornus, and Virgo ; in the next 200 years, it will
happen in Gemini, Aquarius, and Libra ; and in the next
200 years, it will happen in Cancer, Pifces, and Scor¬
pio : then all begins again in Aries. It is probable
that thefe remarkable periods of the oppofitions of Ju¬
piter and Saturn, progreflive for 40 years, and ofcilla-
ting during 160 more, occafioned the aftrological divi-
lion of the heavens into the four tngons^ of fire, air,
earth, and water. Thefe relations of the figns, which
compofe a trigon, point out the repetitions of the chief
irregularities of the folar fyffem.
M. de la Place obferves (in 1796), that the pla¬
net Herfchel gives evident marks of the adlion of the
reft ; and that when thefe are computed and taken into
the account of its bygone motions, they put it beyond
doubt that it was feen by Flamftead in 1*690, by Mayer
in 1756, and by Monnier in 1769.
Sect. III. Of the Difurhances in the Elliptical Motion
of the Comets.
Before the time of Sir Ifaac Newton it was fuppofed
that they moved in ftraight lines: and Defcartes, find¬
ing that fuch a motion would interfere with his vortices,
372 removed them entirely out of the folar fyftem. Sir
neralty iT' ^ac ^Tewton> however, diftindlly proves from aftrono-
vmbleyuntilmical obfervation, that the comets pafs through the
they come planetary regions, and are generally invifible at a fmal-
nearer than ler diftance than that of Jupiter. Hence, finding that
Jupiter. were evidently within the fphere of the fun’s ac¬
tion, he concludes, that they muft neceffarily move
about the fun as the planets do : and he proves, that
the power of the fun being reciprocally in the dupli¬
cate proportion of the diftance, every body atted upon
by him muft either fall dire&ly down, or move about
him in one of the conic fe&ions; viz. either the ellipfis
parabola, or hyperbola. If a body which defcends to¬
wards the fun as low as the orbit of any planet, move
with a fwifter motion than the planet, it will defcribe
an orbit of a more oblong figure than that of the pla¬
net, and have at leaft a longer axis. The velocity of
the body may be fo great, that it fliall move in a para¬
bola, fo that having once palled the fun, it lhall afcend
for ever without returning, though the fun will ftill
continue in the focus of that parabola 5 and with a ve¬
locity ftill greater, they will move in an hyperbola. It
is, however, moft probable, that the comets move in
yery eccentric ellipfes, fuch as is reprefented in fig. 136.
ASTRONOMY.
Part IV.
where S reprefents the fun, C the comet, and ABDE Theory of
its orbit; wherein the diftance of S and D far exceeds Univerfal
that of S and A. Hence thoie bodies are fometimes
found at a moderate diftance from the fun, and appear < ^ ‘ t
within the planetary regions j at other times they
afcend to vaft diftances, tar beyond the orbit of Saturn,
and thus become invifible.
That the comets do move in this manner is pro-, 373
ved by our author from computations built upon the ■ „™t°rlc
obferyations made by many aftronomers. Thefe com-ellipfes.
putations were made by Sir Ifaac Newton himfelf up¬
on the comet which appeared toward the latter end of
the year 1680 and beginning of 1681, and the fame
were profecuted more at large by Dr Halley upon this
and other comets. They depend on this principle, that
the eccentricity of th ■ orbits of the comets is fo great,
that 'f they are r„..Ty elliptical, yet that part of them
which comes under our view approaches fo near to a
parabola that they may be taken for fuch without any
fenfible error, as in the foregoing figure the parabola
FAG, in the lower part of it about A, differs very little 374
from the ellipfis DEAB $ on which foundation Sir I-How to
faac teaches a method of finding the parabola in which calculate
any comet moves, by three obfervations made upon itt r6 m0t*0'*
in that part of its orbit where it agrees neareft with a pa- ° a t0:ne *
rabola: and this theory is confirmed by aftronomical ob¬
fervations'j for the places of the comets may thus be com¬
puted as exaffly as thofe of the primary planets. Our
author afterwards Ihows how to make ufe of any fmall
deviation from the parabola which may be obferved, to
determine whether the orbits of the comets be elliptical
or not j and thus to know whether or not the fame co¬
met returns at different feafons. On examining by this
rule the comet of 1680, he found its orbit to agree
more exa&ly with an ellipfis than a parabola, though the
ellipfis be fo very eccentric, that it cannot perfoim its
revolution in 500 years. On this Dr Halley obferved,
that mention is made in hiftory of a comet with a fimi-
lar large tail, which appeared three feveral times bo-
fore. The firft was before the death of Julius Ctefar ;
and each appearance happened at the interval of 575
years, the lafl coinciding with the year 1680. He
therefore calculated the motion of this comet to be in
fuch an eccentric orbit, that it could not return in lefs
than 575 years : which computation agrees yet more
perfectly with the obfervations made on this comet than
any parabolic orbit will do. To compare together dif¬
ferent appearances of the fame comet, is indeed the only
method of difcovering with certainty the form of its or¬
bit j for it is impoffible to difcover the form of one fo
exceedingly eccentric from obfervations taken in a fmall
part of it. Sir Ifaac Newton therefore propofes to com¬
pare the orbits, on the fuppofition that they are parabo¬
lical, of fuch comets as appear at different times; for if
we find the fame orbit defcribed by a comet at diffe¬
rent times, in all probability it will be the fame comet
that defcribes it. Here he remarks from Dr Halley,
that the fame orbit very nearly agrees to two appear¬
ances of a comet about the fpace of 75 years diftance ;
fo that if thefe two appearances were really of the fame
comet, the tranfverfe axis of its orbit would be x 8 times
that of the axis of the earth’s orbit ; and therefore,
when at its greateft diftance from the fun, this comet
would be removed not lefs than 35 times the mean di¬
ftance of the earth from the fame luminary.
The
Part IV.
A S T R
375
They are
Theory of The comets may be conflderably aiTeaed by tbe
Umverlal pianetSi The very important phenomenon of the re¬
turn of the comet of 1682, which was to decide
whether they were revolving planets defcribing ellipfes,
or bodies which come but once into the planetary re-
affedted by glOUS’ and then r^tire ever, caufed the allrono-
the planets mers to conbder this matter with great care. Halley
had rtiown, in a rough way, that this comet muft have
been conflderably affe&ed by Jupiter. Their motion
near the aphelion mull be very How, that a very fmall
change of velocity or diredlion, while in the planetary
regions, muft conflderably aflfedl; ther periods. Halley
thought that the action of Jupiter might change it half
a year.. M. Clairaut, by coniidering the difturbing forces
of Jupiter and Saturn through the whole revolution,
fhowed that the period then running would exceed the
former nearly two years (618 days), and afligned the
middle of April 1759 f°r the time of its perihelion. It
really paffed its perihelion on the 12th of March. This
was a wonderful preci/ion, when we refleft that the co¬
met had been feen but a very few days in its former
apparitions.
A comet obferved by Mr Profperin and others in
1771 llas greatly puzzled the aftronomers. Its motions
appear to have been extremely irregular, and it certainly
came fo near Jupiter, that his momentary influence was
at leaft equal to the fun’s. It has not been recognifed
fmce. that time, although there is a great probability
that it is continually among the planets.
Confe7<S r ^ 18 by n° meanS that, in the courfe
quenceofa °f a c°met may dually meet one of the pla-
comet and nets. I he effeft of fuch a concourfe mult be dread-
planet ful ; a change of the axis of diurnal rotation mult
meeting. refult fiom it, and the fea muft defert its former
bed and overflow the.new equatorial regions. The
Ihock and the deluge mult deltroy all the works of man,
and molt of the race. The remainder, reduced to mi-*
lery, mult long Itruggle for exiltence, and all remem¬
brance of former arts and events mult be loft, and every
thing muft be invented anew. There are not wanting
traces of fuch devaftations in this globe : ftrata and
things are now found on mountain tops which were cer¬
tainly at the bottom of the ocean in former times ; re¬
mains of tropical animals and plants are now duo- Up in
the circumpolar regions. &
Sect. IV. Of the Irregularities in the Moon's Motion.
The moon is adted on at once by the fun and the
earth : but her motion round the earth is only difturb-
ed by the difference of the fun’s aftion on thefe two
bodies. If the fun were at an infinite diftance it
would aft upon them both equally and in a parallel
direction ; of courfe, their relative motion would not
be difturbed. But its diftance though very great, when
compared with that of the moon, cannot be confider-
ed as infinite. The moon is alternately nearer and
farther from the fun than the earth, and the ftraight
line which joins the centre of the lun and moon forms
angles more or lefs acute with the radius veftor of
the earth Of courfe the fun arts unequally, and in
di ferent diredhons, upon the earth and moon ; and from
O N O M Y.
though the moon if undifturbed by the fun had moved
in a circle concentrical to the earth, and in the plane
of the earth’s motion ; others depend on the elliptical
figure and oblique fituation of the moon’s orbit. One
of the former is, that the moon does not deferibe equal
fpaces in equal times, but is continually accelerated as
ftie paffes from the quarter to the new or full, and is
retarded again by the like degrees in returning from
the new and full to the next quarter: but here we
confider not fo much the abfolute as the apparent
motions of the moon with refpebt to us. Thele two
may be diftinguifhed in the following manner : Let
_S in fig.. 137. reprefent the fun, A the earth moving
in its orbit BC, DEfG the moon’s orbit, and H the
place of the moon in her orbit. Suppofe the earth to
have moved from A to I. Becaufe it has been fhown
that the moon partakes of all the progreffive motion
of the earth, and likewife that the fun attra&s both
the earth and moon equally when they are at the fame
diftance from it, or that the mean a&ion of the fun
upon the moon is equal to its aftion upon the earth 5
we muft therefore confider the moon as carrying about
with it tne moon s orbit: fo that when the earth is
removed from A.to I, the moon’s orbit fliall likewife
be removed from its former fituation into that denoted
by KLMN. But now the earth being in I, if the
moon were found in O, fo that 01 fhould be parallel
tn HA, though the moon would really have moved
from H to O, yet it would not have appeared to a
fpedlator upon the earth to have moved at all, becaufe
the earth has moved as much as itfelf; fo that the.
moon would ftill appear in the fame place with refpeft
to the fixed ftars. But if the moon be obferved in Pp
it will then appear to have moved, its apparent motion
being meafured by the angle under OIP. And if the
angle under PIS be lefs than the angle under HAS,
the moon will have approached nearer its conjundHon
with, the fun. Now, to explain particularly the ine¬
quality of the moon’s motion already mentioned, let S
in fig. 138. reprefent the fun, A the earth, BCDE the
moon’s orbit, C the place of the moon when in the
latter quarter. Here it will be nearly at the fame di¬
ftance from the fun as the earth is. In this cafe
therefore., they will be both equally attraded, the earth
in the diredion AS, and the moon in that of CS.
Whence, as the earth, in moving round the fun, is con¬
tinually defending towards it, fo the moon in this
fituation muft in any equal portion of time defeend as
much ; and therefore the pofition of the line AC in
refped of AS, and the change which the moon’s
motion produces in the angle CAS, will not be altered
by the lun : but as foon as the moon is advanced from
the quarter, towards the new or conjundion, fuppofe to
G, the adion of the fun upon it will have a different
effed. Were the fun’s adion upon the moon here to
be applied in the diredion GH parallel to AS, if its
adion on the moon were equal to its adion on the
earth, no change would be wrought by the fun on the
apparent motion of the moon round the earth. But
the moon receiving a greater impulfe in G than the
earth receives in A, were the fun to ad in the direc
127
Theory of
Univerfal
Gravita¬
tion.
377. .
Inequalities
of the
moon’s mo»
tion ex¬
plained.
that diverfity of adion there oup-h toTfi’lr v receives in A, were the fun to ad in the direc¬
larities in the lunar motions depending- on th !°r' lt: would accelerate the defenption of
tive fituation of the fon and moon S ^ ^ ^ Pa \ ^ 3nSle to
Some of thefe inequalities, however, would take place, fStdlfw^ of^e
ftuity/
128
ASTRONOMY,
Part IV.
Theory of quity of its dire&ion to that in which the earth at-
Umverfal tra(c^s t|le mo0iU For the moon by this means is
drawn by two forces oblique to one another j one
- drawing from G towards A, the other from G towards
II ; therefore the moon mult neceffarily be impelled
toward D. Again, becaufe the fun does not aft in
the direction GH parallel to SA, but in the direftion
G3 oblique to it, the fun’s aftion on the moon will,
by reafon of this obliquity, farther contribute to the
moon’s acceleration. Suppofe the earth, in any (hurt
fpace of time, would have moved from A to I, if not
attrafted by the fun, the point I being in the ftraight
line CE, which touches the earth’s orbit in A. Sup¬
pofe the moon in the fame time would have moved in
her orbit from G to K, and befides have partook of
all the progreffive motion of the earth. Then, if KL
be drawn parallel to AI, and taken equal to it, the
moon, if not attrafted to the fun, would be found in
L. But the earth, by the fun’s aftion, is removed
from I. Suppofe it were moved down to M in the
line IMN parallel to SA, and if the moon w^ere at¬
trafted but as much, and in the fame direftion as the
earth is here fuppofed to be attrafted, lo as to have
defcended during the fame time in the line LO paral¬
lel alfo to AS, down as far as P, till LP were equal to
IM, the angle under PMN would be equal to that un¬
der LIN; that is, the moon wull appear advanced as
much farther forward than if neither it nor the earth
had been fubjeft to the fun’s aftion. But this is on the
fuppofition that the aftions of the fun upon the earth
and moon are equal; whereas the moon being afted
upon more than the earth, did the fun’s aftion draw the
moon in the line LO parallel to AS, it would draw it
down fo far as to make LP greater than IM, whereby
the angle under PMN will be rendered greater than
that under LIN. But, moreover, as the fun draws
the earth in a direftion oblique to IN, the earth will
be found in its orbit fomewhat fhort of the point M.
However, the moon is attrafted by the fun ftill more
out of the line LO than the earth is out of the line
IN 5 therefore this obliquity of the fun’s aftion will
yet farther diminifh the angle under PMN. Thus the
moon at the point G receives an impulfe from the fun
whereby her motion is accelerated ; and the fun pro¬
ducing this effeft in every place between the quarter
and the conjunftion, the moon will move from the
quarter with a motion continually more and more ac¬
celerated ; and therefore, by acquiring from time to
time an additional degree of velocity in its orbit, the
.fpaces which are defcribed in equal times by the line
drawn from the earth to the moon will not be every¬
where equal, but thofe toward the conjunftion will
be greater than thofe toward the quarter. But in
the moon’s paffage from the conjunftion D to the
next quarter, the fun’s aftion will again retard the
moon, till, at the next quarter at E, it be reftored to
the firft velocity which it had in C. When the moon
moves from E to the full, or oppofition to the fun in
B, it is again accelerated } the deficiency of the fun’s
aftion on the moon from what it has upon the earth
producing here the fame effeft as before the excefs of
its aftion.
Let u£ now confider Jthe moon in Q.as moving from
'E towards B. Here, if Ihe were attrafted by the fun
in a direftion parallel to AS, yet being afted on lefs
l
Gravita¬
tion.
than the earth, as the latter defcends towards the fun, Theory 0f
the moon wull in fome mealure be left behind. There- Umverfal
fore, QF being drawn parallel to SB, a fpeftator on
the earth would fee the moon move as if attrafted  
from the point Q^in the direftion QF, with a degree
of force equal to that whereby the fun’s aftion on the
moon falls ihort of its aftion on the earth. But the
obliquity of the fun’s aftion has here alfo an effeft.
In the time the earth would have moved from A to I
without the influence of the fun, let the moon have
moved in its orbit from Qjo R. Drawing, therefore,
RT parallel and equal to AI, the moon, by the mo¬
tion of its orbit, if not attrafted by the fun, muft be
found in T : and therefore, if attrafted in a direftion
parallel to SA, would be in the line TV parallel to
AS ; fuppofe in W. But the moon in QJoeing far¬
ther off the fun than the earth, it will be lefs attrafted }
that is, TW will be lefs than IM ; and if the line SM
be prolonged towards X, the angle under XMW will
be lefs than X1T. Thus, by the fun’s aftion, the
moon’s paffage from the quarter to the full would be
accelerated, if the fun wrere to aft on the earth and
moon in a direftion parallel to AS} and the obliquity
of the fun’s aftion wull ftill increafe this acceleration :
For the aftion of the fun on the moon is oblique to the
line SA the whole time of the moon’s paffage from
to T, and will carry her out of the line TV towards
the earth. Here we fuppofe the time of the moon’s
paffage from Qj:o T fo fhort, that it fttall not pafs. be¬
yond the line SA. The earth will alfo come a little
fhort of the line IN, as was already mentioned ; and
from thefe caufes the angle under XMW will be ftill
farther leffened. 1 he moon, in pafling from the oppo¬
fition B to the next quarter, will be retarded again by
the fame degrees as it was accelerated before its appulfe
to the oppofition} and thus the moon, by the fun’s
aftion upon it, is twice accelerated and twice reftored
to its firft velocity every circuit it makes round the
earth ; and this inequality of the moon’s motion about
the earth is called by aftrdnomers its variation.^ 37S
The next effeft of the fun upon the moon is, that
it gives the orbit of the latter in the quarters f greater
degree of curvature than it would _ receive from the different
earth alone : and, on the contrary, in the conjunftion parts of the
and oppofition the orbit is lefs inflefted. When the m00n’s 0J’-
moon is in the conjunftion with the fun ,at D, the lat¬
ter attraftting her more forcibly than it does the earth,
the moon is by that means impelled lefs to the earth
than otherwife it would be, and thus the orbit is lefs in-
curvated ; for the power by w hich the moon is impel¬
led towards the earth being that by which it is infleft¬
ed from a reftilinear courfe, the lefs that power is, the
lefs it will be inflefted. Again, when the moon is in
the oppofition in B farther removed from the fun than
the earth is, it follows, then, that though the earth
and moon are both continually defcending toward the
fun, that is, are drawn by the fun towards itfelf out
of the place they w'ould otherwife move into, yet the
moon defcends with lefs velocity than the earth : info-
much that, in any given fpace of time from its paffing
the point of oppofition, it will have lefs approached the
earth than otherwife it would have done •, that is, its
orbit, in refpeft to the earth, will approach nearer to
a ftraight line. Laftly, when the motion is in the quar¬
ter in F, and equally diftant from the fun as the earth,
379
Moon
attracted
by it
Part IV. ASTRO
Theory of It was before obferved, that they would both defcend
oTavka 1 W*t^1 e<^ual velocity towards the fun, fo as to make no
ST* change in the angle FAS; but the length of the line
t . . FA mull neceffarily be Ihortened. Therefore the
moon, in moving from F toward the conjundlion with
the fun, will be impelled more toward the earth by the
fun’s adtion than it would have been by the earth alone,
if neither the earth nor the moon had been adted upon
by the fun : fo that, by this additional impulfe, the
orbit is rendered more curve than it otherwife fliould
be. 1 he fame effedl will alfo be produced in the other
quarter.
A third effedl: of the fun’s adfion, and which fol¬
lows from that juft now explained, is, that though the
moon undifturbed by the fun might move in a circle,
having the earth for its centre, by the fun’s adlion, if
the earth were to be in the very middle or centre of
the moon’s orbit, yet the moon would be nearer the
earth at the ne*v and full than in the quarters. This
ertTheearth may at aPPear fomewhat difficult to be underftood,
when leak f^at the moon (hould come neareft to the earth when
it is leaft attradled by it; yet, upon a little confidera-
tion, it will evidently appear to flow from that very
caufe, becaufe her orbit, in the conjundlion and oppo-
fttion, is rendered lefs curve •, for the lefs curve the or¬
bit is, the lefs will the moon have defcended from the
place it would move into without the adlion of the
earth. Now, if the moon were to move from any
place without further difturbance from that adlion, fince
it would proceed on the line touching the orbit in that
place, it would continually recede from the earth ; and
therefore, if the power of the earth upon the moon
be fufficient to retain it at the fame diftance, this di¬
minution of that power will caufe the diftance to in-
creafe,. though in a lefs degree. But, on the other
hand, in the quarters, the moon being preffed in a lefs
degree towards the earth than by the earth’s Angle
adlion, will be made to approach it: fo that, in palling
from the conjundtion or oppofltion to the quarters, the
moon afcends from the earth j and in palling from the
quarters to the oppoAtion or conjundlion, it defcends
again, becoming nearer in thefe laft mentioned places
than in the other.
All the inequalities we have mentioned are different
in degree as the fun is more or lefs diftant from the
earth ; being greateft when the earth is in its perihe¬
lion, and fmalleft when it is in its aphelion : for in the
quarters, the nearer the moon is to the fun the greater
is the addition to the earth’s adlion upon it by the
power of the fun ; and, in the conjundlion and oppoA¬
tion, the difference between the fun’s adlion upon the
earth and upon the moon is likewife fo much the great¬
er. This difference in the diftance between the earth
and the fun produces a further effedl upon the moon’s
motion ; cauftng her orbit to dilate when lefs remote
from the fun, and become greater than when at a
farther dillance For it is proved by Sir Ifaac New-
lon, that the adlion of the fun by which it diminilhes
i ne earth s power over the moon in the conjundlion pr
oppoAtion, is about twice as great as the additiorf to
the earth’s adlion by the fun in the quarters ; fo that
upon the uhole, the power of the earth on the moon
is diminilhed by the fun, and therefore is moll dimi-
nilhed when that adlion is ilrongeft : but as the earth,
by its approach to the fun, has its influence leffened’
Vox.. IH. Part I. ’
N O M Y.
129
380
Klaufe of
j lie dilata-
| ion of the
p oon’s or-
t.
the moon, being lefs attradled, will gradually recede Theory cf
 *.1. _  1 _ _ i T . ..T * * a . /"*. r .3 T7ni\rp» T
O     ?       J ~ *
from the earth ; and as the earth, in its recefs from the Univerfel
- - - Gravita-
fun, recovers by degrees its former power, the orbit of ^
the moon muft again contradl. Two confequences 1 .
follow from hence, viz. that the moon will be more re¬
mote from the earth when the latter is neareft the fun,
and alfo will take up a longer time in performing its
revolution through the dilated orbit than through the
more contradled.
Thefe irregularities would be produced if the moon
without being adled upon unequally by the fun, fliould
defcribe a perfedl circle about the earth, and in the
plane of its motion ; but though neither of thefe cir-
cumftances take place, yet the above-mentioned ine¬
qualities occur only with fome little variation with re¬
gard to the degree of them ; but fome others are ob-»
ferved to take place from the moon’s motion being
performed in the manner already defcribed : For, as
the moon defcribes an ellipAs, having the earth in ond
of its foci, this curve will be fubjedled to various
changes, neither preferving conftantly the fame Agure
nor pofltion 5 and becaufe the plane of this ellipAs is
not the fame with that of the earth’s orbit, it thence
follows, that the former will continually change ; fo
that neither the inclination of the two planes towards
each other, nor the line in which they interfedl, will
remain for any length of time unaltered. 381
As the moon does not move in the fame plane wuth A<^*on °f
the earth, the fun is but feldom in the plane of hertheiim,
1  1 caufesthe
orbit, viz. only when the line made by the common pUnfof the
interfedlion of the tw^o planes, if produced, will pafs moon’s or-
through the fun. Thus, let S in Ag. 139. denote
the fun, the earth, APB the plane of the earth’sc^ari£e‘
orbit, CDF.F the moon’s orbit •, the part CDE being
raifed above, and the part CFE depreffed under the
former. Here the line CE, in which the two planes
interfedl each other, being continued, paffes through
the fun in S. When this happens, the adlion of the
fun is diredled in the plane of the moon’s orbit, and
cannot draw her out of this plane, as w-ill evident¬
ly appear from an infpedlion of the Agure ; but in
other cafes the obliquity of the fun’s adlion to the
plane of the orbit will caufe this plane continually to
change.
Let us now fuppofe, in the Arft place, the line in
which the two planes interfedl each other to be per¬
pendicular to the line which joins the earth and fun.
Let T, in Ag. 140, 141, 142, 143. reprefent the
earth ; S the fun •, the plane of the fcheme the plane
of the earth’s orbit, in which both the fun and earth
are placed. Let AC be perpendicular to ST, which
joins the earth and fun ; and let the line AC be that
in which the plane of the moon’s orbit interfedls the
orbit of the earth. On the centre T defcribe in the
plane of the earth’s motion the circle ABCD 5 and
in the plane of the moon’s orbit defcribe the circle
AECF j one half of which, AEC, will be elevated
above the plane of this fcheme, and the other half,
AFC, as much depreffed below it. Suppofe then the
moon to fet out from the point A in Ag. 127. in the
diredlion of the plane AEC. Here (he will be conti¬
nually drawn out of this plane by the adlion of the
fun j for thes plane AEC, if extended, will not pafs
through the fun, but above it; fo that the fun by
drawing the moon diredlly toward itfelf, will force it
R continually
Ijo
Theory of continually more and more from that plane towards the
Gra'v'ta-- P^ane °f earth’s motion in which itfelf is, caufing
tion. ^ to defcribe the line AKGHI, which will be convex
c—to the plane AEG, and concave to the plane of the
earth’s motion. But here this power of the fun, which
is faid to draw the moon toward the plane of the earth’s
motion, muft be underftood principally of as much on¬
ly of the fun’s adtion upon the moon as it exceeds the
aftion of the fame upon the earth : For fuppofe the
laft-mentioned figure to be viewed by the eye placed
in the plane of that fcheme, and in the line CTA, on
the fide A, it will appear as the ftraight line DTE in
fig. 126. and the plane AECF as another ftraight line
EE, and the curve line AKGHI under the form of
the line TKGHI. Now it is plain, that the earth
and moon being both attrafted by the fun, if the fun’s
aftion upon both was equally ftrong, the earth T, and
with it the plane AECF, or the line FTE, would be
carried towards the fun with as great velocity as the
moon, and therefore the moon not drawn out of it by
the fun’s aftion, except only from the fmall obliquity
of diredlion of this aftion upon the moon to that of the
fun’s aflion upon the earth, wdiich arifes from the
moon being out of the plane of the earth’s motion, and
is not confiderable : but the aftion of the fun upon the
moon being greater than upon the earth all the time
the moon is nearer to the fun than the earth is, it will
be drawn from the plane AEG, or the line TE, by
that excefs, and made to defcribe the curve line AGI
or TGI. But it is the cuftom of aftronomers, inftead
of conftdering the moon as moving in fuch a curve line,
to refer its motion continually to the plane which
touches the true line wherein it moves at the point
where at any time the moon is. Thus, when the moon
is in the point A, its motion is conftdered as being in
the plane AEG, in whofe direfiion it then attempts to
move ; and when in the point K, fig. 144. its motion
is referred to the plane which paffes through the earth
and touches the line AKGHI in the point K. Thus
the moon, in palling from A to I, will continually
change the plane of her motion in the manner we ftiall
now more particularly explain.
Let the plane which touches the line AKI in the
point K, fig. 141. interfeft the plane of the earth’s
orbit in the line LTM. Then, becaufe the line AKI
is concave to the plane ABC, it falls wholly between
that plane and the plane which touches it in K 5 fo
that the plane MKL will cut the plane AEG before
it meets the plane of the earth’s motion, fuppofe in the
line YT, and the point A will fall between K and L.
With a radius equal to TY or TL defcribe the femi-
circle LYM. Now, to a fpeftator on the earth, the
moon when in A wall appear to move in the circle
AECF ; and when in K, will appear to be moving in
the femicircle LYM. The earth’s motion is perform¬
ed in the plane of this fcheme ; and to a fpedator on
the earth the fun will always appear to move in that
plane. We may therefore refer the apparent motion
of the fun to the circle ABCD defcribed in this plane
about the earth. But the points where this circle in
which the fun feems to move, interfecting the circle in
c which the moon is feen at anytime to move, are called
Nodes of t^le n°des ^ moon’s orbit at that time. When
the moon’s the moon is feen moving in the circle AECD, the
orbit. points A and C are the nodes of the orbit j when fhe
Part IV.
appears in the femicircle LYM, then L and M are Theory 0f
the nodes. It will now appear, from what has been Univerfal
faid, that while the moon has moved from A to K, GJ-o^U'
one of the nodes has been carried from A to L, and ^ ^
the other as much from to C to M. But the motion
from A to L and from C to M is backward in regard
to the motion of the moon, which is the other way
from A to K, and from thence toward C. Again,
the angle which the plane wherein the moon at any
time appears makes with the plane of the earth’s mo¬
tion, is called the inclination of the moon’s orbit at
that time : we ftiall now therefore proceed to flrow, T .
that this inclination of the orbit, when the moon is inofher or!*1
K, is lefs than when fhe was in A ; or, that the plane bit.
LYM, which touches the line of the moon’s motion
in K, makes a lefs angle with the plane of the earth’s
motion, or with the circle ABCD, than the plane
AEG makes vrith the fame. The femicircle LYM
interfe&s the fcmicircle AEG in Y, and the arch AY
is lefs than LY, and both together lefs than half a cir¬
cle. But it is demonftrated by fpheric geometry, that
when a triangle is made as here, by three arches of
circles AL, AY, and ^ L, the angle under YAB
without the triangle is greater than the angle YLA
within, if the two arches AY, YL, taken together,
do not amount to a femicircle. If the two arches
make a complete femicircle, the two angles will be
equal ; but if the two arches taken together exceed a
femicircle, the inner angle YLA is greater than the
other. Here then the two arches AY and LY toge¬
ther being lefs than a femicircle, the angle under ALY
is lefs than the angle under BAE. But from the doc¬
trine of the fphere it is alfo 'evident, that the angle
under ALY is equal to that in which the plane of the
circle LYKM, that is, the plane which touches the
line AKGHI in K, is inclined to the plane of the
earth’s motion ABC ; and the angle under BAE is
equal to that in which the plane AEG is inclined to
the fame plane. Therefore the inclination of the for¬
mer plane is lefs than that of the latter. Suppofe,
now, the moon to be advanced to the point G in
fig. 142. and in this point to be diftant from its node
a quarter part of the whole circle 5 or, in other words,
to be in the mid-way between its two nodes. In this
cafe the nodes will have receded yet more, and the in¬
clination of the orbit be ftill more diminiftied ; for
fuppofe the line AKGHI to be touched in the point
G by a plane palling through the earth T, let the in-
terfeftion of this plane with the plane of the earth’s
motion be the line WTO, and the line TP its inter-
feftion with the plane LKM. In this plane let the
circle NGO be defcribed with the femidiameter TP
or NT cutting the other circle LKM in P. Now,
the line AKGI is convex to the plane LKM which
touches it in K j and therefore the plane NGO, which
touches it in G, will interfeft the other touching plane
between G and K, that is, the point P will fall be¬
tween thefe two points, and the plane continued to
the plane of the earth’s motion will pafs beyond L ;
fo that the points N and O, or the places of the nodes
when the moon is in G, will be farther from A and C
than L and M 5 that is, will have moved farther back¬
ward. Befides, the inclination of the plane NGO to
the plane of the earth’s motion ABC is lefs than the in¬
clination of the plane LKM to the fame } for here alfo
the
ASTRONOMY
Tart IV. ASTRO
Theory of the two arches LP and NP, taken together, are lefs
Gravita- than a femicirclc’ each of them being lefs than a qua-
tion. drant, as appears, becaufe GN, the diftance of the
'r* v"' / nioon in Gr irom its node N, is here fuppofed to be a
quarter part of a circle. After the moon is palfed
beyond G, the cafe is altered j for then thefe arches
will be greater than quarters of a circle ; by which
means the inclination will be again increafed, though
the nodes Hill go on to move the fame way. Suppofe
the moon in H (fig. 143.), and that the plane which
touches the line AKGI in H interfefts the plane of
the^ earth’s motion in the line QJR, and the plane
NtA) in the line TV, and befides, that the circle
QHR be defcribed in that plane : then, for the fame
reafon as before, the point V will fall between H and
G, and the plane RVQjvill pafs beyond the laft plane
OVN, caufing the points Qjmd K to fall farther from
A and C than N and O. But the arches NV, VQare
each greater than the quarter of a circle 5 confequent-
ly the angle under BQy will be greater than that un¬
der BNV. Laftly, when the moon is by this attrac¬
tion of the fun drawn at length into the "plane of the
earth’s orbit, the node will have receded yet more, and
the inclination be fo much increafed, as to become
fomewhat inore than at firft : for the line AKGHI
being convex to all the planes which touch it, the part
HI wall wholly fall between the plane QVR and the
plane ABC ; fo that the point 1 will fall between B
and R ; and, drawing ITW, the point W will be
farther removed from A than But it is evident,
that the plane which pafles through the earth T and
touches the line AGI in the point I, wall cut the plane
of the earth’s motion ABCD in the time ITW, mid
be inclined to the fame in the angle under HIB ; fo
that tne node which was firft in A, after having palled
into L, and comes at laft in the point W\ as
the node which was at firft in C has palfed from thence
fucceftively through the points M, O, and R, to I.
But the angle HIB, which is now the inclination of
the orbit to the plane of the ecliptic, is manifeftly not
lefs than the angle under ECB or EAB, but rather
fomething greater. Thus the moon, while it palfes
irom the plane of the earth’s motion in the quarter,
tin it comes again into the fame plane, has the nodes
or. its orbit continually moved backward, and the in¬
clination of it at firft diminilhed till it comes to G in
bg. 128. which is near to its conjunftion with the fun,
but afterwards is increafed again almoft by the fame
degrees, till upon the moon’s arrival again to the plane
ot the earth’s motion, the inclination of the orbit is
reftored to fomething more than its firft magnitude,
though the difference is not very great, becaufe the
points I and C are not far diftant from each other.
In like manner, if the moon had departed from the
at C’ ^ have defcribed the curve line
C AVV in fig. 140. between the planes AFC and ADC,
winch would be convex to the former planes and con¬
cave, to tie latter; lo that here alfo the nodes would
continually recede, and the inclination of the orbit
gradually dimimlh more and more, till the moon arri¬
ved near .its oppofition to the fun in X; but from that
time the inclination fiiould again increafe till it become
a little greater than at firft. This will eafily appear by
confidering, that% as the aftion of the fun upon the
moon, by exceeding its adtion upon the earth, drew
N 0 M Y.
it out of the plane AEC towards the fun, while the
moon paffed from A to I ; fo during its paffage from
C to W, the moon being all that time farther from the
fun than the earth, it will be attracted lefs ; and the
earth, together with the plane AECF, will as it were
be drawn from the moon, in fuch a manner, that the
path the moon defcribes (hall appear from the earth as
it did in the former cafe by the moon, being drawn
away.
Such are the changes which the nodes and inclina¬
tion of the moon’s orbit undergo when the nodes are
in the quarters ; but when the nodes by their motion,
and the motion of the fun together, come to be fituated
between the quarter and conjundlion or oppofition,
their motion and the change made in the inclination
of the orbit are fomewhat different.-—Let AGH, in
fig. 145* be a circle defcribed in the plane of the
earth’s motion, having the earth in T for its centre, A
the point oppofite to the fun, and G a fourth part of
the circle diftant from A. Let the nodes of the
moon’s orbit be fituated in the line BTD, and B the
node falling between A, the place where the moon,
would be in the full, and G the place where (lie would
be in the quarter. Suppofe BEDF to be the plane in
which the moon attempts to move when it proceeds
from the point B : then, becaufe the moon in B is more
diftant from the fun than the earth, it will be lefs at¬
tracted by the lun, and will not defcend towards the
fun fo fall as the earth, confequently it will quit the
plane BEDF, which is fuppofed to accompany the
earth, and defcribe the line BIK convex to it, till fuch
time as it comes to the point K, where it will be in
the quarter; but from thenceforth being more attract¬
ed than the earth, the moon will change its courfe,
and the following part of the path it defcribes will be
concave towards the plane BED or BGD, and conti¬
nue concave to the plane BGD till it croffes that plane
i'V L juft as in the preceding cafe. Now, to (liow
that the nodes, while the moon is palling from B to
K, will proceed forward, or move the fame way with
the moon, and at the fame time the inclination of the
orbit will increafe when the moon is in the point I, let
the line MIN pafs through the earth T, and touch the
path of the moon in I, cutting the plane of the earth’s
motion in the line MTN, and the line BED in TO.
Becaufe the line BIK is convex to the plane BED,
which touches it in B, the plane NIM muft crofs the*
plane DEB before it meets the plane CGB ; and
therefore the point M will fall from G towards B; and
the node of the moon’s orbit being tranflated from B
towards M is moved forward.
Again, the angle under OMG, which the plane
MON makes with the plane BGC, is greater than the
angle ORG, which the plane BOD makes with the
fame. This appears from what has been already de-
monftrated, becaufe the arches BO and OM are each
of them lels than the quarter of a circle ; and there¬
fore, taken both together, are lefs than a femicircle.
But further, wdien the moon is come to the point K in
its quarter, the nodes will be advanced yet farther for¬
ward, and the inclination of the orbit alfo more aug¬
mented. Hitherto we have referred the moon’s mo¬
tion to that plane which, paffing through the earth,
touches the path of the moon in the point where the
moon is, as we have already laid that the cuftom of
R 3 aftronomers
*3*
Theory of
Univerfal
Gravita¬
tion.
3S4
Motion of
the nodes
explained.
132 ASTRO
Theory of aftronomers is. Bat in the point K no fuch plane can
Gravita^ ^oun^ : on t^le contrary, feeing the line of the
tjon moon’s motion on one fide the point K is convex to
U—y——/ the plane BED, and on the other fide concave to the
fame, fo that no plane can pafs through the points T
and K, but will cut the line -BKL in that point ;
therefore, inftead of fuch a touching plane, we mull
make ufe of PKQ^which is equivalent, and with which
the line BKL (hall make a lefs angle than wuth any
other plane ; for this does as it were touch the line
BK in the point K, fince it cuts it in fuch a manner
that no other plane can be drawn fo as to pafs between
the line BK and the plane PKQ^ But now it is evi¬
dent, that the point P, or the node, is removed from
M towards G, that is, has moved yet farther forward 5
and it is likewife as manifell, that the angle under
KPG, or the inclination of the moon’s orbit in the
point K, is greater than the angle under IMG, for the
reafon already given.
After the moon has paffed the quarter, her plane
being concave to the plane AGCH, the nodes will
recede as before till Ihe arrives at the point L 5 which
{hows, that, confidering the whole time of the moon’s
pafiing from B to L, at the end of that time the nodes
Ihall be found to have receded, or to be placed more
backward, when the moon is in L than when it was
in B ; for the moon takes a longer time in palling
from K to L than in paffing from B to K; and there¬
fore the nodes continue to recede a longer time than
they moved forwards j fo that their recefs mull fur-
mount their advance. In the fame manner, while the
moon is in its paflage from K to L, the inclination of
the orbit (hall diminilh till the moon come to the point
in which it is one quarter part of a circle dillant from
its node, fuppofe in the point R *, and from that time
the inclination will again increafe. Since, therefore,
the inclination of the orbit increafes while the moon
is palling from B to K, and diminilhes itfelf again only
while the moon is paffing from K to R, then augments
again while the moon paffes from B to L ; it thence
comes to be much more increafed than diminilhed, and
thus will be dillinguilhably greater when the moon
comes to L than when it fets out from B. In like
manner,.wdien the moon is paffing from L on the other
fide the plane AGCH, the node will advance forward
as long as the moon is between the point L and the
next quarter but afterwards it will recede till the
moon come to pals the plane AGCH again, in the
point V between B and A : and becaufe the time be¬
tween the moon’s paffing from L to the next quarter
is lefs than the time between that quarter and the
moon’s coming to the point V, the node wull have re¬
ceded more than it has advanced ; fo that the point
V wall be nearer to A than L is to C. So alfo the in¬
clination of the orbit, when the moon is in V, wall be
greater than when Ihe was in L ; for this inclination
increafes all the time the moon is betwuxt L and the
next quarter, decreafing only w'hen fhe is paffing from
this quarter to the mid-way between the trvo nodes,
and from thence increafes again during the wffiole paf-
fage through the other half of the way to the next
node.
In this manner we fee, that at every period of the
moon the .nodes wull have receded, and thereby have
approached towards a conjundlion with the fun; but
Univerfal
Gravita¬
tion.
N O M Y. Part IV,
this will be much forwarded by the motion of the Theory 0£
earth, or the apparent motion of the fun himfelf. In
the laft Icheme the fun will appear to have moved from
S tow ards W. Let us fuppofe it had appeared to have
moved from S to W while the moon’s node has re¬
ceded from B to V ; then drawing the line WTX, the
arch VX will reprefent the dillance of the line draw n
betw-een the nodes from the fun when the moon is in
V ; whereas the arch BA reprefented that dillance
when the moon was in B. This vifible motion of the
fun is much greater than that of the node j for the
fun appears to revolve quite round in one year, while
the node is near nineteen in making its revolution.
We have alfo feen that when the moon wTas in the
quadrature, the inclination of her orbit decreafed till
Hie came to the conjundtion or oppofition, according
to the node it fet out from ; but that afterwards it
again increafed till it became at the next node rather
greater than at the former. When the node is once
removed from the quarter nearer to a conjundlion with
the fun, the inclination of the moon’s orbit, when Ihe
comes into the node, is more fenfibly greater than it
wras in the node preceding •, the inclination of the or¬
bit by this means more and more increafing till the
nodes come into conjundlion with the fun : at which
time it has been Ihowm that the latter has no power to
change the plane of her orbit. As foon, however, as
the nodes are got out of conjundlion towards the other
quarters, they begin to recede as before ; but the in¬
clination of the orbit in the appulfe of the moon to
each fucceeding node is lefs than at the preceding, till
the nodes come again into the quarters. This will
appear as follows : Let A, in fig. 146. reprefent one
of the moon’s nodes placed between the point of op¬
pofition B and the quarter C. Let the plane ADE
pafs through the earth T, and touch the path of the
moon in A. Let the line AFGH be the path of the
moon in her paflage from A to H, where fire crofles
again the plane of the earth’s motion. This line will
be convex towards the plane ADE, till the moon
comes to G, where fire is in the quarter j and after
this, between G and H, the fame line will be concave
towards this plane. All the time this line is convex
towards the plane ADE, the nodes wull recede ; and,
on the contrary, move forward when the line is con¬
cave towards that plane. But the moon is longer in
paffing from A to G, and therefore the nodes go back¬
ward farther than they proceed ; and therefore, on the
whole, when the moon has arrived at H, the nodeswill
have receded, that is, the point LI will fall between B
and E. The inclination of the orbit will decreafe till the
moon is arrived at the point F in the middle between
A and H. Through the paflage between F and G
the inclination wall increafe, but decreafe again in the
remaining part of the paflage from G to LI, and con-
fequently at H mull be lefs than at A. Similar ef¬
fects, both with refpe£l to the nodes and inclination of
the orbit, will take place in the following paflage of
the moon on the other fide of the plane ABEC from
H, till it comes over that plane again in I.
Thus the inclination of the orbit is greateft when
the line drawn between the moon’s nodes will pafs
through the fun, and leaft when this line lies in the
quarters} efpecially if the moon at the fame time be
in conjunflion with the fun, or in the oppofition. In
the
1
Part IV. ASTRO
Theory of the firfl of thefe cafes the nodes have no motion-, in
Uuiverfal a^i others, the nodes will each month have receded
Gravita- anj retrograde motion will be greateft when the
. tI^n‘ nodes are in the quarters, for in that cafe they w-ill
have no progreffive motion during the whole month ;
but in all other cafes they at fome times go forw-ard,
viz. w-henever the moon is between either of the quar¬
ters and the node which is lefs diflant from that quar-
385 ter than the fourth part of a circle.
Irregulari- We have now'only to explain thofe irregularities ox
ties arifing iunar motion wrhich arife from her motion in an
moon’s mo ellipfis. From what has been already faid it appears,
tToTin an that the earth a£fs on the moon in the reciprocal du-
ellipfis. plicate proportion of the diftance } therefore the moon,
if undisturbed by the fun, would move round the earth
in a true ellipfis, and a line drawn from the earth to
the fun would pafs over equal fpaces in equal times.
We have, however, already Ihown, that this equality is
difturbed by the fun, and likewife how the figure of
. the orbit is changed each month ; that the moon is
nearer the earth at the new and full, and more re¬
mote in the quarters than it would be without the fun.
We mud, however, pafs by thofe monthly changes, and
confider the eflfedt which the fun will have in the diffe¬
rent fituations of the axis of the orbit in refpeft of
that luminary. This aftion varies the force wherewith
the moon is drawn towards the earth. In the quarters
the force of the earth is diredlly increafed by the fun,
but diminilhed at the new and full 5 and in the inter¬
mediate places the influence of the earth is fometimes
lelfened, fometimes afiifted, by the adtion of that lumi¬
nary. In thefe intermediate places, however, between
the quarters and the conjunction or oppofition, the
fun’s attion is fo oblique to that of the earth on the
moon, as to produce that alternate acceleration and re¬
tardation of her motion fo often mentioned. But be-
fides this effedt, the power by which the moon attradls
the earth towards itfelf, will not be at full liberty to
aft with the fame force as if the fun afted not at all.
on the moon ; and this effeft of the fun’s aftion,
whereby it corroborates or weakens the aftion of the
earth, is here only to be confidered -, and by means of
this influence it comes to pafs, that the power by which
the moon is impelled towards the earth is not perfeftly
in the reciprocal duplicate proportion of the difiance,
and of confequence the moon -will not defcribe a per-
feft ellipfis. One particular in which the lunar orbit
will differ from a perfeft elliptic figure, confifts in the
places where the motion of the moon is perpendicular
to the line drawn from itfelf to the earth. In an ellip¬
fis, after the moon fliould have fet out in the direftion
perpendicular to this line, drawn from itfelf to the
earth, and at its greateft diftance from the earth, its
motion would again become perpendicular to this line
drawn between itfelf and the earth, and the moon be
at its neareft diftance from the earth, when it fhould
have performed half its period : after having performed
> the other half period of its motion, it would again be¬
come perpendicular to the forementioned line, and the
moon return to the place whence it fet out, and have
recovered again its greateft diftance. But the moon
in its real motion, after fetting out as before, fome¬
times makes more than half a revolution before its mo¬
tion comes again to be perpendicular to the line drawn
from itfelf to the earth, and the moon is at its neareft
N O M Y. 133
diftance, and then performs more than another half of Theory of
an entire revolution before its motion can a fecond time
recover its perpendicular direftion to the line drawn tjon> -
from the moon to the earth, and the former arrive y——
again at its greateft diftance from the earth. At other
times the moon will defcend to her neareft diftance be¬
fore flie has made half a revolution, and recover again
its greateft diftance before it has made an entire revolu- 386
tion. The place •where the moon is at its greateft: di- Apogeon
fiance is called the moon's apogeon, and the place of her an^
neareft diftance her perigeon ; and this change of place,
where the mocr. comes fucceflively to its greateft di¬
ftance from the earth, is called the motion of the apogeon.
The manner in which this motion of the apogeon is
caufed by the fun, comes now- to be explained.
Sir Ifaac Newton has fhown, that if the moon were
attrafted toward the earth by a compofition of two
powers, one of which was reciprocally in the dupli¬
cate proportion of the diftance from the eaith, and the
other reciprocally in the triplicate proportion of the
fame diftance ; then, though the line defcribed by the
moon would not be in reality an ellipfis, yet the moon’s
motion might be perfeftly explained by an ellipfis whole
axis Ihould be made to move round the earth : this
motion being in confequence, as aftronomers exprefs
themfelves, that is, the fame way as the moon itfelf
moves, if the moon be attrafted by the fum of the two 0
powers 5 but the axis muft move in antecedence, or j^0q0n in-
the contrary way, if the moon be afted upon by theanteced-
difference of thefe forces. We have already explained ence and
what is meant by duplicate proportion, namely, thatconte_
if three magnitudes, as A, B, and C, are fo related that j ex
the fecond B bears the fame proportion to the third C1 383
as the firft A bears to the fecond B -, then the proper-Triplicate
tion of the firft A to the third C is the duplicate of proportion
the proportion of the firft A to the fecond B. iqowexplained,
if a fourth magnitude as D be aflumed, to which C
{hall bear the fame proportion as A bears to B, and B
to C ; then the proportion of A to D is the triplicate
of the proportion of A to B.
Let now T (fig. 147, 148.) denote the earth, and jvi0ti0n 0f
fuppofe the moon in the point A its apogeon or the moon’s-
greateft diftance from the earth, moving in the direc - apogeon
tion AF perpendicular to AB, and afted upon fromc^et;erm^“
the earth by two fuch forces as already mentioned. By nC^'
that power alone, which is reciprocally in the duplicate
proportion of the diftance, if the moon fet out with a
proper degree of velocity, the ellipfis AMB may be
defcribed : but if the moon be afted upon by the fum
of the forementioned pow’ers, and her velocity in the
point A be augmented in a certain proportion ; or if
that velocity be diminifhed in a certain proportion *>*5ee^7-
and the moon be afted upon by the difference of thofe pr,nc^
powers 5 in both thefe cafes the line AE, which fhally,;<j, book i,
be defcribed by the moon, {hall thus be determined.prop-44.
Let the point M be that into which the moon would co1'0^ 2-
have arrived in any given point of time, had it moved
in the ellipfis AMB ; draw7 MT and likewife CTD
in fuch a manner that the angle ATM ftiall bear the
fame proportion to the angle under ATC as the velo¬
city with which the ellipfis muft have been defcribed
bears to the difference between this velocity and that
with which the moon muft fet out from the point
A, in order to chfcribe the path AE. Let the
angle ATC be taken towards the moon, as in fig. 133.-
*34 ASTRO
I'ZZd if thf moon be by the fum of the powers;
Univerfal i i *•'    * ^ j
Gravita- __ e contrary way (as in fig. 134.) if by their difft-
tion. rr'1 1 " ’ a -n 1
renee. J hen let the line AB be moved into the pofi-
—■ tlonT CO, and the ellipfis AMB into the fituation
CND, fo that the point M be tranllated to Lj then
the point L fhall fall upon the path of the moon AE.
Now the angular motion of the line AT, whereby it is
removed into the fituation CT, reprefents the motion
of the apogeon j by the means of which the motion of
the moon might be fully explained by the ellipfis AMB
it the a&ion of the fun upon it was direfled to tlm
centre of the earth, and reciprocally it; the triplicate
.proportion of the moon’s diftance from it 5 but that
not being fo, the motion of the apogeon will not pro¬
ceed in the regular manner now deferibed. It is
however, to.be obferved here, that in the firft of the’
’ wo preceding cafes, where the apogeon moves for-
- ward, the whole centripetal power'increafes fafter
with the.decreafe of diftance, than if the entire power
were reciprocally in the duplicate proportion of the di-
itance j becaufe one part only is already in that pro¬
portion, and the other part, which is added to this to
make up the whole power, increafes fafter wuth the
decreafe of diftance. On the other hand, when the
centripetal power is the difference between thefe two
bodies, it increafes lefs wdth the decreafe of the di¬
ftance, than if it were Amply in the reciprocal duplicate
proportion of the diftance. Therefore, if we choofe
to explain the moon’s motion by an ellipfis, which may
be done without any fenfible error, w’e may colleft in
general, that wdien the powder by wrhich the moon is
attracted to the earth, by varying the diftance, in-
,ieafes in a greater than the duplicate proportion of
ihe diftance diminifhed, a motion in confecjuence mult
be aferibed to the apogeon j but that when the attrac¬
tion increales in a fmaller proportion than that juft
mentioned, the apogeon muft have given to it a mo¬
tion in antecedence. It is then obferved by Sir Ifaac
Newton, that the former of thefe cafes obtains wThen
the moon is in the conjun£lion and oppofition, and the
latter w-hen ihe is in the quarters j fo that in the for¬
mer the apogeon moves according to the order of the
ftgns ; in the other, the contrary way. But, as has
been already mentioned, the difturbance given to the
aftion of the earth by the fun in the conjundfion and
oppofition, being near twice as great as in the quarters,
the apogeon.wall advance wnth a greater velocity than
recede, and in the compafs of a whole revolution of the
moon will be carried in confequence.
in the mo r Sir. {hows’ in tIie next Place> that when the
bon of the llne AB coincides with the line that joins the fun and
apogeon. earth, the progreflive motion of the apogeon, wdien
the moon is in conjunffion ox oppofition, exceeds the
retrograde, in the quadratures, more than in any other
fituation of the line AB. On the contrary, when the
line AB makes right angles with that which joins the
ed.rth and fun, the retrograde motion wall be more con-
fiderable, nay, is found fo great as to exceed the pro-
greffive 5 fo that in this cafe the apogeon, in the com¬
pels 01 an entiie revolution of the moon, is carried in
antecedence. \ et from the confiderations already men¬
tioned, the progreflive motion exceeds the other 5 f0
.na^, on the W’hole, the motion ot the apogeon is in
confequence. The line AB alfo changes its fituation
with that which joins the earth and fun by fuch flow
n o m t. ran tv.
degrees, that the inequalities of the motion of the Theory 0f
390.
Inequality
^ ' .. ~ ux uic morion or tne iiieoryof
apogeon anfing from this laft confideration, are much Univerfal
greater than what anfe from the other. Gravitai
This unfteady motion of the apogeon gives rife to , tion-
another inequality in the motion of the moon herfelf,
io that it cannot at all times be explained by the fame Occafions
eliipiis. for whenever the apogeon moves in confe-another in'
quence, the motion of the luminary muft be referred e.(lualit-v m
to an orbit more eccentric than what the moon would tricS
de.cnbe, ft the .whole power by which the moon was the moon’s
acted upon in its palling from the apogeon changedorbit-
according to the reciprocal duplicate proportion of its
diftance from the earth, and by that means the moon
did delcribe an immoveable ellipfis : and when the apo¬
geon moves in antecedence, the moon’s motion muft:
be referred to an orbit lefs eccentric. In the former
of the two figures laft referred to, the true place of the
moon L falls without the orbit AMB, to which its
motion is referred : whence the orbit ALE truly de-
lenbed by the moon, is lefs incurvated in the point A
than is the orbit AMB ; therefore this orbit is more
oblong, and differs farther from a circle than the ellip¬
fis would, whofe curvature in A were equal to that of
the line ALB : that is, the proportion of the diftance
of the earth T from the centre of the ellipfis to its
axis, will be greater in AMB than in the other: but
that other is the ellipfis which the moon would deferibe
it the power ading upon it in the point A were alter¬
ed m the reciprocal duplicate proportion of the di¬
ftance ; and confequently the moon being drawn more
forcibly toward the earth, it will defeend nearer to it.
On the other hand, when the apogeon recedes, the
power a&ing on the moon increafes with the decreafe
o diftance, in lefs than the duplicate proportion of the
diftance ; and therefore the moon is lefs impelled to¬
wards^ the earth, and will not defeend fo low. Now.
fuppofe, in. the former of thefe figures, that the apo-
gcon A is in the fituation where it is approaching to-
wards the conjun&ion or oppofition of the fun ; in this
cale its progreflive motion will be more and more ac¬
celerated. Here fuppofe the moon, after having de¬
fended from A through the orbit AE as far as F
wnere it is come to its neareft diftance from the earth*
aicends again up the line EG. As the motion of the
apogeon is here more and more accelerated, it is plain
that the caufe of its motion muft alfo be on the in¬
crease $ that is, the power by which the moon is drawn
to the earth, will decreafe with the increafe of the
moon’s diftance in her afeent from F, in a greater pro¬
portion than that wherewith it is- increafed with the
decreafe of diftance in the moon’s defeent to it. Con-
fequently the moon will afeend to a greater diftance
than AT from whence it is defended ; therefore the
proportion of the greateft diftance of the moon to the
leaft is,increafed. But farther, when the moon aaain
defends, the powder will increafe yet farther with the
decreafe of diftance than in the laft af ent it increafed
with the augmentation of diftance. The moon there¬
fore muft defend nearer to the earth than it did before
and the proportion of the greatert diftance to the leaft
be yet more increafed. Thus, as long as the apogeon
is advancing to the conjunaion or oppofition, the pro¬
portion of the greateft diftance of the moon from the
earth to the leaft will continually increafe 5 and the el¬
liptical orbit to which the moon’s motion is referred
will
Tart IV.
A S T R
Theory of
Univerfal
Gravita¬
tion.
. 392
Computa¬
tion of the
lunarine-
^ualitic*.
393
The fecu-
lar equa¬
tion of the
moon’s
mean di-
ftance.
will become more and more eccentric. As foon, how¬
ever, as the apogeon is part the conjunction or oppo-
lition rvith the fun, its progredive motion abates, and
* with it the proportion of the greateft dilfance of the
moon from the earth to the leaft will alfo diminifh : and
when the apogeon becomes retrograde, the diminution
of this proportion will be ftill farther continued, until
the apogeon comes into the quarter; from thence this
proportion, and the eccentricity of the orbit, wall in-
creafe again. Thus the orbit of the moon is molt
eccentric when the apogeon is in conjunction with the
fun, or in oppofition to it, and leaft of all when the
apogeon is in the quarters. Thefe changes in the
nodes, the inclination of the orbit to the plane of the
earth’s motion, in the apogeon and in the eccentricity,
are varied like the other inequalities in the motion of
the moon, by the different diftance of the earth from
the fun being greateft when their caufe is greateft :
that is, when the earth is neareft the fun. Sir Ifaac
Newton has computed the very quantity of many of
the moon’s inequalities. That acceleration of the
moon’s motion which is called the variation, when
greateft, removes the luminary out of the place in
which it would otherwife be founds fomewhat more
than half a degree. If the moon, without difturbance
from the fun, would have deferibed a circle concentri-
cal to the earth, his a&ion will caufe her approach
nearer in the conjunction and oppofition than in the
quarters, nearly in the proportion of 69 to 70. It
has already been mentioned, that the nodes perform
their period in almoit 19 years. This has been found
by obfervation 5 and the computations of Sir Ifaac
aftigned to them the fame period. The inclina¬
tion of the moon’s orbit, when leaft, is an angle
about one-eighteenth of that which conftitutes a right
angle 5 and the difference between the greateft and
leaft inclination, is about one-eighteenth of the leaft
inclination, according to our author’s computation :
which is alfo agreeable to the general obfervations of
aftronomers.
There is one empirical equation of the moon’s mo¬
tion which the companion of ancient and modern eclip-
les obliges the aftronomers to employ, without being
able to deduce it, like»the reft, a priori, from the theory
of an univerfal force inverfely proportional to the fquare
of the diftance. It has therefore been confidered as a
Humbling block in the Newtonian philofophy. This
is what is called the fecular equation of the moon's mean
motion. The mean motion is deduced from a compari-
fon of diftant obfervations. The time between them,
being divided by the number of intervening revolutions,
gives the average time of one revolution, or the mean
lunar period. When the ancient Chaldean obfervations
are compared with thole of Hipparchus, we obtain a
certain period ; when thofe of Hipparchus are compa¬
red with fome in the 9th century, we obtain a period
fomewhat Ihorter ; wh n the laft are compared with
thole ot Fycho Brahe, we obtain one ftill Ihorter; and
when Brahe's are compared with thofe of our day, we
obtain the (horteft period of all—and thus the moon’s
mean motion appears to accelerate continually ; and the
accelerations appear to be in the duplicate ratio of the
times. 1 he acceleration for the century which ended
in I 700 is about 9 feconds of a degree ; that is to fay,
the whole motion of the moon during the 17th centu-
O N O M Y. 135
ry muft be increafed 9 feconds, in order to obtain its Theory of
motion during the 18th; and as much muft be taken ’ " r '
from it, or added to the computed longitude, to obtain
its motion during the 16th; and the double of this muft
be taken from the motion during the 16th, to obtain
its motion during the 15th, &c. Or it will be iufficient.
to calculate the moon’s mean longitude for any time
paft or to come by the fecular motion which obtains in
the prefent century, and then to add to this longitude
the produft of 9 feconds, multiplied by the fquare of
the number of centuries which intervene. Thus having
found the mean longitude for the year 1200, add 9 fe¬
conds, multiplied by 36, for fix centuries. By this me¬
thod we fiiall make our calculation agree with the moft
ancient and all intermediate obfervations. If we ne-
gleft this correftion, we (hall differ more than a de¬
gree from the Chaldean obfervation of the moon’s
place in the heavens.
The mathematicians having fucceeded fo completely
in deducing all the obferved inequalities of the plane¬
tary motions, from the fingle principle, that the de-
flefting forces diminilhed in the inverfe duplicate ratio
of the diftances, were fretted by this exception, the
reality of which they could not conteft. Many opi¬
nions were formed about its caufe. Some have at¬
tempted to deduce it from the aftion of the planets on
the moon ; others have deduced it from the oblate
form of the earth, and the tranllation of the ocean by
the tides; others have fuppofed it owing to the refift-
ance of the ether in the celeftial fpaces ; and others
have imagined that the aftion of the defledting force
requires time for its propagation to a diftance : But
their deductions have been proved unfatisfadtory, and'
have by no means the precifion and evidence that have
been attained in the other queftions of phyfical aftro-
nomy. At laft M. de la Place, of the Royal Acade¬
my of Sciences at Paris, has happily fucceeded, and de¬
duced the fecular equation of the inqon from the New¬
tonian law of planetary defledtion. It is produced in
the following manner. ,
Suppofe the moon revolving round the earth, undi- Deduced
fturbed by any defledtion toward the fun, and that the dom the
time of her revolution is exadtly aicertained. Now let Newtonian
the influence of the fun be added. This diminilhes her
tendency to the earth in oppofition and conjunction, flea ion. ^
and increafes it in the quadratures : but the diminutions
exceed the augmentations both in quantity and dura¬
tion ; and the excels is equivalent to T4-gth of her ten¬
dency to the earth. Therefore this diminilhed tenden¬
cy cannot retain the moon in the fame orbit; fhe muft
retire farther from the earth, and deferihe an orbit which
is lefs incurvated by i-fgB1 part; and flie muft employ
a longer time in a revolution. The period therefore
which we obferve, is not that which would have obtain¬
ed had the moon been influenced by the earth alone.
We Ihould not have known that her natural period was
increafed, had the dillurbing influence of the fun re¬
mained unchanged ; but this varies in the inverfe -tri¬
plicate ratio of the earth’s diftance from the fun, and is
therefore greater in our winter, when the earth is nearer
to the fun. This is the fource of the annual equation,
by which the lunar period in January is made to exceed'
that in July nearly 24 minutes. The angular velocity
of the moon is diminifhed in general and this nu¬
merical coefficient varies in the inverfe ratio of the cube
■136
Theory^of 0f tlie earth’s diftance from the fun. If we expand this
Giavita^ *nvcr^e cube of the earth’s diitance into a feries arran-
tion. ged according to the fines and cofines of the earth’s
-v——' mean motion, making the earth’s mean diftance unity,
we {hall find that the feries contains a term equal to
of the fquare of the eccentricity of the earth’s orbit.
Therefore the expreffion of the diminution of the moon’s
angular velocity contains a term equal to T47 of this ve¬
locity, multiplied by 4 of the fquare of the earth’s ec¬
centricity ; or equal to the produdl of the fquare of the
eccentricity, multiplied by the moon’s angular velocity,
and divided by 119,33 (t of Did this eccentri¬
city remain conftant, this produft would alfo be con-
flant, and would ftill be confounded with the general
diminution, making a conflant part of it : but the ec¬
centricity of the earth’s orbit is known to diminilh, and
its diminution is the refult of the univerfality of the
Newtonian law of the planetary defleftions. Although
this diminution is exceedingly fmall, its effeft on the lu¬
nar motion becomes fenfible by accumulation in the
courfe of ages. The eccentricity diminifiiing, the dimi¬
nution of the moon’s angular motion muft alio diminiih,
that is, the angular motion muft increafe.
During the 18th century, the fquare of the earth’s
eccentricity has diminifhed 0,0000015325, the mean
diftance from the fun being =r 1. This has increafed the
angular motion of themoon in thattime 0,00000001285.
As this augmentation is gradual, we muft multiply the
angular motion during the century by the half of this
quantity, in order to obtain its accumulated effedft. This
will be found to be 9" very nearly, which exceeds that
deduced from a moft careful comparifon of the motion
of the laft two centuries, only by a fraction of a fe-
cond.
As long as the diminution of the fquare of the eccen¬
tricity of the earth’s orbit can be fuppofed proportion¬
al to the time, this effeft will be as the fquares of the
times. When this theory is compared with obferva-
tions, the coincidence is wonderful indeed. The effedl
on the moon’s motion is periodical, as the change of the
folar eccentricity is, and its period includes millions of
years. Its effedl on the moon’s longitude will amount
to feveral degrees before the fecular acceleration change
to a retardation.
' Thofe who are not familiar with the difquifitions of
modern analyfis, may conceive this queftion in the fol¬
lowing manner.
Let the length of a lunar period be computed for the
earth’s diftance from the fun for every day of the year.
Add them into one fum, and divide this by their num¬
ber, the quotient will be the mean lunar period. This
will be found to be greater than the arithmetical me¬
dium between the greateft and the leaft. Then fuppofe
the eccentricity of the earth’s orbit to be greater, and
make the fame computation. The average period will
be found ftill greater, while the medium between the
greateft and leaft periods will hardly differ from the
former. Something very like this may be obferved
without any calculation, in a cafe very fimilar. The
angular velocity of the fun is inverfely as the fquare of
his diftance. Look into the folar tables, and the great¬
eft diurnal motion will be found 3673", and the leaft
3433/;. The mean of thefe is 3553", but the medium
of the whole is 3548''. Nowt make a fimilar obfervation
in tables of the motion of the. planet Mars, whofe ec-
Part IV*
centricity is much greater. We {hall find that the me- Theory of
dium betwr-'u the greateft and leaft exceeds the true Unive>fal
medium of all in a much greater proportion. Gravita-
It has been fuppoled by fome philofophers that the > ^n'
moon was originally a comet, which pafimg very near
the earth, had been made to revolve round her by the
force of attraclion. But if w^e calculate ever fo far
backwards, we ftill find the moon revolving round the
earth as the planets round the fun, which could not be
the cafe if this opinion w^ere true. Hence it follows,
that neither the moon nor any of the fatellites have
ever been comets.
Sect. V. Of Irregularities in the Satellites of
Jupiter.
The fubferviency of the eclipfes of Jupiter’s fatel¬
lites to geography and navigation had occalioned their
motions to be very carefully obferved, ever fince thefe
ufes of them were firft fuggefted by Galileo ; and their
theory is as far advanced as that of the primary pla¬
nets. It has peculiar difficulties. Being very near to
Jupiter, the great deviation of his figure from perfedl
fphericity makes the relation between their diftances
from his centre and their gravitations towrard it vaftly
complicated. But this only excited the mathematici¬
ans lb much the more to improve their analyfis ; and
they faw, in this little fyftem of Jupiter and his attend¬
ants, an epitome of the folar fyftem, where the great
rapidity of the motions muft bring about in a Ihort time
every variety of configuration or relative pofition, and
thus give us an example of thofe mutual difturbances
of the primary planets, which require thoufands of
years for the difcovery of their periods and limits. We
have derived fome very remarkable and ufeful pieces
of information from this inveftigation •, and have been
led to the difcovery of the eternal durability of the
folar fyftem, a thing which Newton greatly doubt¬
ed of.
Mr Pound had cbferved long ago, that the irregu¬
larities of the three interior fatellites wrere repeated in
a period of 437 days j and this obfervation is found to
be juft to this day.
Days H. M.
247 revolutions of the firft occupy 437 3 44
123 feccnd 437 3 42
61 third 437 3 36
26 fourth 435 14 16
This naturally led mathematicians to examine their mo¬
tions, and fee in what manner their relative pofitions
or configurations, as they are called, correfponded to
this period ; and it is found, that the mean longitude
of the firft fatellite, minus thrice the mean longitude
of the fecond, plus twice the mean longitude of the
third, always made 180 degrees. This requires that
the mean motion of the firft, added to twice that of
the third, {hall be equal to thrice the mean motion of
the fecond. This correfpondence of the mean motions
is of itfelf a fingular thing, and the odds againft its
probability feems infinitely great j and when w e add
to this the particular pofitions of the fatellites in any
one moment, which is neceffary far the above conflant
relation of their longitudes, the improbability of the
coincidence, as a thing quite fortuitous, becomes infi¬
nitely greater. Doubts were firft entertained of the
coincidence,
ASTRONOMY.
Part IV. ASTRO
Theory of coincidence, becaufe it was not indeed accurate to a
fecond. The refult of the inveftigation is curious.
When we follow out the confequences of mutual gra¬
vitation, we find, that although neither the primitive
motions of projection, nor the points of the orbit from
which the fatellites were projefted, were precifely fuch
as fuited thefe obferved relations of their revolutions
and their contemporaneous longitudes j yet if they dif¬
fered from them only by very minute quantities, the
mutual gravitations of the fatellites would in time bring
them into thofe pofitions, and thofe ftates of mean mo¬
tion, that would induce the obferved relations 5 and
when they are once induced they will be continued for
ever. There will indeed be a fmall equation, depend¬
ing on the degree of unfuitablenefs of the firft motions
and pofitions} and this caufes the whole fyftem to of-
cillate, as it were, a little, and but a very little way
on each fide of this exaCl and permanent ftate. The
permanency of thefe relations will not be deftroyed by
any fecular equations arifing from external caufes j fuch
as the aCtion of the fourth fatellite, or of the fun, or of
a refifting medium •, becaufe their mutual aCtions will
diitribute this equation as it did the original error.
For a full difeuffton of this curious but difficult
fubjeCt, we refer the reader to the differtations of La
Grange and La Place, and to the tables lately pub-
lifhed by Delambre. Thefe mathematicians have Ihown,
that if the mafs of Jupiter be reprefented by unity, that
of his fatellites will be reprefented by the following
numbers.
.395
Saturn’s
ring.
Firft fatellite
Second fatellite
Third fatellite
Fourth fatellite
0.0000172011
0.0000237103
0.00008721 28
0.0000544681
Sect. VI. Of Saturn's Ring.
The moft important addition (in a philofophical
view) which has been made to allronomical fcience fince
the difeovery of the aberration of light and the nuta¬
tion of the earth’s axis, Is that of the rotation of Saturn’s
ring. The ring itfelf is an objeCt quite peculiar 5 and
when it was difeovered that all the bodies which had
any immediate connexion with a planet gravitated to¬
ward that planet, it became an interefting queftion to
afeertain what was the nature of this ring ? What fup-
ports this immenfe arch of heavy matter without its
reding on the planet ? What maintains it in perpetual
concentricity with the body of Saturn, and keeps its
furface in one invariable pofition ?
The theory of univerfal gravitation tells us what
things are poffible in the folar fyftem •, and our conjec¬
tures about the nature of this ring muft always be re¬
gulated by the circumftance of its gravitation to the
planet. Philofophers had at firft fuppofed it to be a
luminous atmofphere, thrown out into that form by the
great centrifugal force arifing from a rotation : but its
well-defined edge, and, in particular, its being two very
narrow rings, extremely near each other, yet perfeftly
feparate, rendered this opinion of its conftitution more
improbable.
Difeovery F)r Herfchel’s difeovery of brighter fpots on its fur-
of Dr Her- face, and that thofe fpots were permanent during the
fchel rela- wh0]e time of his obfervation, feem to make it more
ting to it. .pj-Qbable that the parts of the ring have a folid con-
Vol. III. Part I.
N O M Y. 137
nexion. Mr Herfchel has difeovered, by the help of Tll50ry.t,t
thofe fpots, that the ring turns round its axis, and that Unxveriai
this axis is alfo the axis of Saturn’s rotation. The time
of rotation is 1 oh. 32^'. But the other circumftances
are not narrated with the precifion fufficient for an ac¬
curate comparifon with the theory of gravity. He in¬
forms us, that the radii of the four edges of the ring are
590, 751, 774, 830, of a certain fcale, and that the
angle fubtended by the ring at the mean diftance from
the earth is 46J-". Therefore its elongation is 23J-".
The elongation of the fecond Caffinian fatellite is 56",
and its revolution is 2d. 17b. 44'. This flrould give,
by the third law of Kepler, 17b. 10' for the revolution
of the outer edge of the ring, or rather of an atom of
that edge, in order that it may maintain itfelf in equili-
brio. The fame calculation applied to the outer edge
of the inner ring gives about 13b. 36'; and rve obtain
llh. 16' for the inner edge of this ring. Such varie¬
ties are inconfiftent with the permanent appearance of a
fpot. We may fuppofe the ring to be a luminous fluid
or vapour, each particle of which maintains its fituation
by the law' of planetary revolution. In fuch a flate, it
would confift of concentric ftrata, revolving more flowly
as they wTere more remote from the planet, like the con¬
centric ftrata of a vortex, and therefore having a relative
motion incompatible with the permanency of any fpot.
Befides, the rotation obferved by Herfchel is too rapid
even for the innermoft part of the ring. We think
therefore that it confifts of cohering matter, and of con-
fiderable tenacity, at leaft equal to that of a very clam¬
my fluid, luch as melted glafs.
We can tell the figure which a fluid ring muft have,
fo that it may maintain its form by the mutual gravita¬
tion of its particles to each other, and their gravitation
to the planet. Suppofe it cut by a meridian. It may
be in equilibrio if the feftion is an ellipfe, of which the
longer axis is directed to the centre of the planet, and
very fmall in comparifon 'with its diftance from the
centre of the planet, and having the revolution of its
middle round Saturn, fuch as agree with the Keplerean
lawn Thefe circumftances are not very confiftent with
the dimenfions of Saturn’s inner rinp. The diftance
O
between the middle of its breadth and the centre of Sa¬
turn is 670, and its breadth is 161', nearly one-fourth
of the diftance from the centre of Saturn. De la Place'
fays, that the revolution of the inner ring obferved by
Herfchel is very nearly that required by Kepler’s huv :
but we cannot fee the grounds of this affertion. The
above comparifon with the fecond Caffinian fatellite
Ihows the contrary. The elongation of that fatellite
is taken from Bradley’s obfervations, as is alfo its pe¬
riodic time. A ring of detached particles revolving
in loh. 32^ muft be of much fmaller diameter than
even the inner edge of Saturn’s ring. Indeed the quan¬
tity of matter in it might be fuch as to increafe the gra¬
vitation confiderably 5 but this would be feen by its
difturbing the feventh and fixth fatellites, which are
exceedingly near it. We cannot help thinking there- its proba-
fore that it confifts of matter w’hich has very confider- ble confif-
able tenacity. An equatorial zone of matter, tenacious tency
like melted glafs, and whirled brifldy round, might be
thrown off, and, retaining its great velocity, wrould
ftretch out while whirling, enlarging in diametey and
diminiftung in thicknefs or breadth, or both, till the
centrifugal force wras balanced by the united force of
S gravity
1.38
ASTRONOMY.
Theory of gravity and tenacity. We find tliat the equilibrium
Gravita*1 not fenhbly dillurbed by confiderable devia¬
tion, tions, fuch as equal breadth, or even want of fiatnefs.
V—Such inequalities appear on the ring at that time of its
difparition, when its edge is turned to the fun or to us.
The appearances of its different fides are then confider-
ably different.
Such a ring or rings muff have an ofcillatory motion
round the centre of Saturn, in confequence of their
mutual a61ion, and the aftion of the fun, and their
own irregularities: but there will be A certain po-
iition which they have a tendency to maintain, and
to which they will be brought back, after deviating
from it, by the ellipticity of Saturn, which is verv
great. The fun will occafion a nutation of Saturn’s
axis and a preceflion of his equinoxes, and this will
drag along with it both the rings and the neighbouring
fatellites.
The atmofphere which furrounds a whirling planet
cannot have all its parts circulating according to the
third law of Kepler. The mutual attrition of the pla¬
net, and of the different ftrata, arifing from their diffe¬
rent velocities, muff accelerate the flowly moving ftrata,
and retard the rapid, till all acquire a velocity propor¬
tional to their diftance from the axis of rotation ; and
this will be fuch that the momentum of rotation of the
planet and its atmofphere remains always the fame. It
will fwell out at the equator, and fink at the poles, till
the centrifugal force at the equator balances the height
of a fuperficial particle. The greateft ratio which the
equatorial diameter can acquire to the polar axis is that
of four to three, unlefs a cohefive force keeps the par¬
ticles united, fo that it conllitutes a liquid, and not an
elaftic fluid like air ; and an elaftic fluid cannot form an
atmofphere bounded in its dimenfions, unlefs there be a
certain rarity which takes away all elafticity. If the
equator Iwells beyond the dimenfion which makes the
gravitation balance the centrifugal force, it muft imme¬
diately diffipate.
If we fuppofe that the atmofphere has extended to
this limit, and then condenfes by cold, or any chemical
or other caufe different from gravity, its rotation ne-
ceflarily augments, preferring its former momentum,
and the limit will approach the axis •, becaufe a greater
tand origin, velocity produces a greater centrifugal force, and re¬
quires a greater gravitation to balance it. Such an at¬
mofphere may therefore defert, in fucceflion, zones of
its own matter in the plane of its equator, and leave
them revolving in the form of rings. It is not unlikely
that the rings of Saturn may have been furnifhed in this
very way \ and the zones, Raving acquired a common
velocity in their different ftrata, will preferve it ; and
they are fufceptible of irregularities arifing from local
caufes at the time of their feparation, which may afford
permanent fpots.
Sect. VII. Of the yhmofpheres of the Planets.
By atmofphere is meant a rare, tranfparent, compref-
fible, and elaftic fluid furrounding a body. It is fup-
pofed that all the heavenly bodies poffefs atmofpheres.
The atmofphere of the earth is familiar to all its inha¬
bitants. Obfervation points out the atmofpheres of
the fun and of Jupiter ; but that of the other planets
is fcarcely perceptible.
The atmofphere becomes rarer in proportion to its
tion.
Part IV,
diftance from the body to which it belongs, in confe- Theory of
quence of its elafticity, which, caufes it to dilate the Univ«fal
more the lefs it is compreffed. If its moft remote parts Gravita*
were ftill poffeffed of elafticity, they would feparate -
indefinitely, and the whole would be fcattered through
fpace. To prevent this effe& it is neceffary that the
elafticity fhould diminifh at a greater rate than the
compreffing force, and that when it reaches a certain
degree of rarity its elafticity fhould vanifh altogether.
All the atmofpheric ftrata muft gradually acquire the
fame rotatory motion with the bodies to which they
belong in confequence of the continual friction to
which their different parts muft be fubjefled, which
will gradually accelerate or retard the different parts
till a common motion is produced. In all thefe
changes, and indeed in all thofe which the atmofphere
undergoes, the fum of the products of the particles of
the body and of its atmofphere multiplied by the areas
deferibed round their common centres of gravity by
their radii veftors projected in the plane of the equa¬
tor continue always the fame, the times being the fame.
It we fuppofe then, by any caufe whatever, the height
of the atmofphere is dimini died, and a portion of it
condenfes on the furface of the planet 5 the confe¬
quence will be, that the rotatory motion of the planet
and of its atmofphere will be accelerated. For the
radii veftors of the areas deferibed by the particles of
the primitive atmofphere becoming fhorter, the fum of
the produfts of all thefe particles by the correfponding
areas cannot remain the fame unlefs the rotatory mo¬
tion augment.
At the upper furface of the atmofphere the fluid is
retained only by its weight. Its figure is fuch that the
diredlion refulting from the combination of the centri¬
fugal forces and the attradling forces is perpendicular
to it. It is flattened at the poles, and more convex at
the equator. But this flattening has its limits. When
a maximum the axis of the poles is to that at the equa¬
tor as 2 to 3.
At the equator the atmofphere can only extend to
the place where the centrifugal force and gravitation
exaftly balance each other ; for if it pais that limit,
it will be diflxpated altogether. Hence it follows that
the folar atmofphere does not extend as far as Mercury ;
confequently it is not the caufe of the zodiacal light
which appears to extend even beyond the earth’s orbit.
The place where the centrifugal force and gravita¬
tion balance each other is fo much the nearer a body
the more rapid its rotatory motion is. If we fuppofe
the atmofphere to extend to that limit, and then to con-
denfe by cooling, &c. at the furface of the planet the
rotatory motion will increafe in rapidity in proportion
to this condenfation, and the limit of the height of the
atmofphere will conftantly approach the planet. The
atmofphere would of courfe abandon fucceffively zones
of fluid in the plane of the equator, which would con¬
tinue to circulate round the body. We have ftiown in
the laft fedlion that Saturn’s ring may pwe its origin
to this caufe.
WTe may add alfo, that the aftion of another bo-Probable
dy may c'onfiderably change the conflitution of this reafbn why
atmofphere. Thus, fuppofing that the moon hadwe
originally an atmofphere, the limit will be that di- abou/the
fiance from the moon where the centrifugal force, ari-moon.
fing from the moon’s rotation, added to the gravita¬
tion
Tort IV.
ASTRO
400
tlaufe of
Theory of tion to tlie earth, balances the gravitation to the moon.
Univerfal jf the m0on be TTyth of the earth, this ,limit will be
about -Jth of the moon’s diltance from the earth. If
at this diftance the elafticity of the atmofphere is
not annihilated by its rarefaction, it will be all taken
olf by the earth, and accumulate round it. This
may be the reafon why w’e fee no atmofphere about the
moon.
Sect. VII. Of the Tides.
The caufe of the tides was difcovered by Kepler,
the tides who, in iris lvtrod 11Bion to the Phyfcs of the Heavens,
d'feoveied tllus explains it : “ The orb of the attrafting power
J 1 ’ which is in the moon, is extended as far as the earth j
and draws the waters under the torrid zone, afling
upon places where it is vertical, infennbly on confined
feas and bays, but fenfibly on the ocean, whofe beds are
large, and where the waters have the liberty of recipro¬
cation, that is, of rifing and falling.” And in the 70th.
page of Ins Lunar Hf ronomy—“ But the caufe of the
tides of the fea appears to be the bodies of the fun and
moon drawing the waters of the fea.” This hint be¬
ing given, the immortal Sir Ifaac Newton improved it,
and wrote fo amply on the fubjeCI, as to make the
theory of the tides in a manner quite his own, by dif-
covering the caufe of their rifing on the fide of the
earth oppofite to the moon. For Kepler believed that
• ' the prefence of the moon occafioned an impulfe which
caufed another in her abfence.
It has been already obferved, that the power of gra¬
vity diminifhes as the fquare of the diftance increafes j
and therefore the waters at Z on the fide of the earth
Fig. 149. ABCDEFGH next the moon M, are more attradbed
than the central parts of the earth O by the moon, and
the central parts are more attracted by her than the wa¬
ters on the oppofite fide of the earth at n : and therefore
the diftance between the earth’s centre and the waters
on its furface under and oppofite to the moon will be
increafed. For, let there be three bodies at H, O, and
I) : if they are all equally attracted by the body M,
they will all move equally fall towards it, their mutual
diftances from each other continuing the fame. If the
attraftion of M is unequal, then that body which is
molt Itrongly attracted W'ill move fafteft, and this wall
increafe its diftance from the other body. Therefore,
by the law7 of gravitation, M will attraCt H more
ftrongly than it does O, by which the diftance between
H and O will be increafed ; and a fpeCtator on O wfill
perceive H rifing higher toward Z. In like manner,
O being more ftrongly attracted than D, it will move
farther towards M than I) does : confequently, the di¬
ftance between O and D will be increafed ; and a fpec-
tator on O, not perceiving his own motion, w7ill fee D
receding farther from him towards n ; all effeCts and
appearances being the fame, whether D recedes from
O, or O from 1).
Suppofe now there is a number of bodies, as A, B,
N O M Y. 139
C, D, E, F, G, H, placed round O, fo as to form a flex- Theory of
ible or fluid ring : then, as the wrhole is attraClcd to-
wards M, the parts at H and D will have their dl- Eon ~
fiance from O increafed •, whilft the parts at B and F ■ r —^ <
being nearly at the fame diftance from M as O is, thefe
parts will not recede from one another •, but rather, by
the oblique attraClion of M, they will approach nearer
to O. Hence the fluid ring will form itfelf into an
ellipfe ZIBLnKFNZ, w'hofe larger axis «GZ pro¬
duced will pafs through M, and its lliorter axis EOF
will terminate in B and F. Let the ring be filled with
fluid particles, fo as to form a fphere round O ; then,
as the wThole moves towards M, the fluid fphere being
lengthened at Z and n, will aflume an oblong or oval
form. If M is the moon, O the earth’s centre, ABC
DEFGH the fea covering the earth’s furface, it is evi¬
dent, by the above reafoning, that whilft the earth by
its gravity falls towards the moon, the water direClly
below her at B will fwell and rife gradually towards
her ; alfo the water at D wfill recede from the centre
[ftriflly fpeaking, the centre recedes from D], and
rife on the oppofite fide of the earth j whilft the water
at B and F is deprefled, and falls below- the former le¬
vel. Hence as the earth turns round its axis from the
moon to the moon again in 24! hours, there will be
two tides of flood and tw7o of ebb in that time, as wre
find by experience. ^0I
As this explanation of the ebbing and flowing of the Why the
fea is deduced from the earth’s conftantly falling to- tf^es arc
wards the moon by the pow'er of gravity, fome may at ^lui
find a difficulty in conceiving how this is poffible, when
the moon is full, or in oppofition to the fun j fince the
earth revolves about the fun, and muft continually fall
towards it, and therefore cannot fall contrary ways at
the fame time : or if the earth is conftantly falling to¬
wards the moon, they muft come together at laft. To
remove this difficulty, let it be confidered, that it is not
the centre of the earth that defcribes the annual orbit
round the fun, but the (e) common centre of gravity
of the earth and moon together; and that whilft the
earth is moving round the fun, it alfo defcribes a circle
round that centre of gravity ; going as many times
round it in one revolution about the fun as there are
lunations or courfes of the moon round the earth in a
year : and therefore the earth is conftantly falling to¬
wards the moon from a tangent to the circle it defcribes
round the faid common centre of gravity. Let M be Fig. ico.
the moon, TW part of the moon’s orbit, and C the
centre of gravity of the earth and moon; whilft the
moon goes round her orbit, the centre of the earth de¬
fcribes the circle dg e round C, to which circle gab
is a tangent j and therefore when the moon has gone
from M to a little paft W, the earth has moved from
g to e; and in that time has fallen towards the moon,
from the tangent at a to e: and fo on, round the whole
circle.
The fun’s influence in- raifing the tides is but fmall
Si' in
(e) 'This centre is as much nearer the earth’s centre than the moon’s as the earth is heavier, or contains a
greater quantity of matter thanjffie moon, namely, about 40 times. If both bodies were fufpended on it, they
would hang m equilibria. So that dividing 2^0,000 miles, the moon’s diftance from the earth’s centre, by 40,
the excels ot the earth s wreight above the moon’s, the quotient will be 6000 miles, which is the diftance of the
common centre oi gravity ot the earth and moon from the earth's centre.
140
A S T R
403
IVliy they
are not
higheft
■when the
moon is in
the meri¬
dian.
Theory of in comparifon of the moon’s j for though the earth’s
Umverial aiameje,- bears a confiderable proportion to its diftance
from the moon, it is next to nothing when compared
to its diftance from the fun. And therefore the dift'er-
402 ence of the fun’s attraftion on the Tides of the earth
Influence °func[er and oppofite to him, is much lefs than the differ-
raiiing ence t^e moon,s attraction on the Tides of the earth
tides. under and oppofite to her 5 and therefore the moon mult
raife the tides much higher than they can be raifed by
the fun.
On this theory, the tides ought to be higheft direCf-
ly under and oppofite to the moon ; that is, when the
moon is due north and fouth. But we find, that in
open Teas, where the wrater flowTs freely, the moon M
is generally paft the north and fouth meridian, as at />,
when it is high water at Z and at n. The reafon is
obvious : for though the moon’s attraction w’as to ceafe
altogether when fhe was paft the meridian, yet the mo¬
tion of afeent communicated to the water before that
time would make it continue to rife for fome time af¬
ter ; much more muft it do fo when the attraction is
only diminiftied 5 as a little impulfe given to a moving
ball will caufe it ftill to move farther than otherwife it
could have done ; and as experience ftiows that the
day is hotter about three in the afternoon, than when
the fun is on the meridian, becaufe of the increafe made
to the heat already imparted.
The tides anfwer not always to the fame diftance of
the moon from the meridian at the fame places ; but
are varioufly affeCted by the aCtion of the fun, wdiich
brings them on fooner when the moon is in her firft
and third quarters, and keeps them back later wrhen The
is in her fecond and fourth : becaufe, in the former
cafe, the tide raifed by the fun alone would be earlier
than the tide raifed by the moon : and, in the latter
cafe, later.
The moon goes round the earth in an elliptic orbit j
and therefore, in every lunar month, ihe approaches
nearer to the earth than her mean diftance, and recedes
farther from it. When fhe is neareft, Tne attrafts
ftrongeft, and fo raifes the tides moft : the contrary
happens when ftie is fartheft, becaufe of her wreaker at-
tradion. When both luminaries are in the equator,
and the moon in perigee, or at her leaf! diftance from
the earth, fhe raifes the tides higheft of all, efpecially
at her conjunction and oppofition ; both becaufe the
equatorial parts have the greateft centrifugal force from
their deferibing the largeft circle, and from the concur¬
ring aClions of the fun and moon. At the change, the
attractive forces of the fun and moon being united,
they diminifh the gravity of the wraters under the moon,
and their gravity on the oppofite fide is diminiftied by
means of a greater centrifugal force. At the full,
whilft the moon raifes the tide under and oppofite to
her, the f un, aCting in the fame line, raifes the tide un¬
der and oppofite to him; whence their conjoint effect is
the fame as at the change; and, in both cafes, occafion
what we call the Spring 'Tides. But at the quarters the
fun’s aCHon on the wraters at O and H diminiihes the
effeft of the moon’s aCtion on the waters at Z and N;
fo that they rife a little under and oppofite to the fun
at O and H, and fall as much under and oppofite to
the moon at Z and N; making what we call the Neap
Tides, becaufe the fun and moon then aft crofs-wife to
each other. But thefe tides happen not till ibme time
O N O M Y. Part IV.
after ; becaufe in this, as in other cafes, the aCtions do Theory of
not produce the greateft effeCt when they are at the tTniverfal
ftrongeft:, but fome time aftCrward. Gnmta-
The fun being nearer the earth in winter than in
fummer, is of courfe nearer to it in February and Oc¬
tober than in March and September ; and therefore
the greateft tides happen not till Ibme time after the
autumnal equinox, and return a little before the ver¬
nal.
The fea, being thus put in motion, would continue
to ebb and flow for feveral times, even though the fun 1
and moon were annihilated, or their influence ftiould
ceafe ; as, if a bafon of water were agitated, the wra-
ter would continue to move for fome time after the
balon was left to ftand ftill; or like a pendulum,
which, having been put in motion by the hand, con¬
tinues to make feveral vibrations without any new im¬
pulfe.
When the moon is in the equator, the tides are
equally high in both parts of the lunar day, or time of
the moon’s revolving from the meridian to the meridian
again, which is 24 hours 50 minutes. But as the
moon declines from the equator towards either pole,
the tides are alternately higher and lowrer at places ha¬
ving north or fouth latitude. For one of the higheft
elevations, which is that under the moon, follows her
towards the pole to which ftie is neafeft, and the other
declines towards the oppofite pole ; each elevation de¬
feribing parallels as far diftant from the equator, on
oppofite Tides, as the moon declines from it to either
fide ; and confequently the parallels deferibed by thefe
elevations of the water are twice as'many degrees from
one another as the moon is from the equator ; increa-
fing their diftance as the moon increafes her declina¬
tion, till it be at the greateft, when the faid parallels
aie, at a mean ftate, 47 degrees from one another : and
on that day, the tides are moft unequal in their heights.
As the moon returns towards the equator, the parallels
deferibed by the oppofite elevations approach towards
each other, until the moon comes to the equator, and
then they coincide. As the moon declines towards the
oppolite pole, at equal diftances, each elevation de-
feribes the fame parallel in the other part of the lunar
day, which its oppofite elevation deferibed before.
Whilft the moon has north declination, the greateft
tides in the northern hemifphere are when ftie is above
the horizon ; and the reverfe whilft her declination is
fouth. Let NESQ^be the earth, NSC its axis, EQFig. 151,
the equator, T 25 the tropic of Cancer, t the tro- I52> IS>
pic of Capricorn, a b the ardftic circle, the antarbfic,
N the north pole, S the fouth pole, M the moon, F
and G the two eminences of water, whofe loweft parts
are, at a and d, at N and S, and at b and c, always 90
degrees from the higheft. Now, when the moon is in
her greateft Tiorth declination at M, the higheft eleva¬
tion G under her is on the tropic of Cancer T 25,
and the oppofite elevation F on the tropic of Capri¬
corn t Vj ; and thefe twTo elevations deferibe the tropics
by the earth’s diurnal rotation. All places in the
northern hemifphere ENQJiave the higheft tides when
they come into the pofition b 25 Q^, under the moon ;
and the loweft tides when the earth’s diurnal rotation
carries them into the pofition a TE, on the fide oppo¬
fite to the moon ; the reverfe happens at the fame time
in the fouthern hemifphere ESQ. as is evident to fight.
The
Part IV. ASTRO
Theory of The axis of the tides a C d had now its poles a and d
Gravita-1 al^a7s 9° degrees from the higheft elevations)
tion. ■ ':ile ar,-^^c and antarflic circles j and therefore it is
-v—i ' plain, that at thefe circles there is but one tide of
flood, and one of ebb, in the lunar day. For, when
the point a revolves half round to b \w 12 lunar hours,
it has a tide of flood j but when it comes to the fame
point a again in 12 hours more, it has the loweft ebb.
In feven days aftenvard, the moon M comes to the
equino&ial circle, and is over the equator EQ^, when
both elevations defcribe the equator 5 and in both he-
mifpheres, at equal diftances from the equator, the
tides are equally high in both parts of the lunar day.
I he whole phenomena being reverfed, when the moon
has louth declination, to what they were when her de¬
clination was north, require no farther defcription.
In the three laft-mentioned figures, the earth is or-
thographically projedled on the plane of the meridian 5
but in order to c-lefcribe a particular phenomenon, we
now projefl it on the plane of the ecliptic. Let
Eg- I5I- HZON be the ear,th and fea, FED the equator, T
the tropic of Cancer, C the ardfic circle, P the north
pole, and the curves, 1, 2, 3, &c. 24 meridians or
hour circles, interfering each other in the poles :
AGM is the moon’s orbit, S the fun, M the moon, Z
the water elevated under the moon, and N the oppoflte
equal elevation. As the loweft parts of the water are
always 90 degrees from the higheft, when the moon is
in either of the tropics (as at M), the elevation Z is on
the tropic of Capricorn, and theoppofite elevation N on
the tropic of Cancer; the low-water circle HCO touch¬
es the polar circles at C ; and the high-water circle
ETP 6 goes over the poles at P, and divides every pa¬
rallel of latitude into two equal fegments. In this cafe,
the tides upon every parallel are alternately higher and
lower; but they return in equal times: the point T,
ior example, on the tropic of Cancer, (where the depth
of the tide is reprefented by the breadth of the dark
fhade) has the ihallower tide of flood at T than rvhen it
revolves half round from thence to 6, according to the
order of the numeral figures ; but it revolves as foon
from 6 to T as it did from T to 6. When the moon
is in the equinoctial, the elevations Z and N are tranf-
ferred to the equator at O and H, and the high and
low-water circles are got into each other’s former pla¬
ces ; in which cafe the tides return in unequal times,
but are equally high in both parts of the lunar day; for
a place at 1 (under D) revolving as formerly, goes
fooner from 1 to 11 (under F) than from 11 to i,be-
caufe the parallel it deferibes is cut into unequal fer¬
ments by the high-water circle HCO : but the points
1 and 11 being equidiftant from the pole of the tides
at C, which is direftly under the pole of the moon’s
orbit MG A, the elevations are equally high in both
404 parts of the day.
Tides turn And thus it appears, that as the tides are governed
of tluT aX1S m°on’ they muft turn on t1le axis on the moon’s
moon’s or- °rbit’ which is inclined 23v degrees to the earth’s axis
hit. at a mean ftate : and therefore the poles of the tides
muft be fo many degrees from the poles of the earth,
or in oppofite points of the polar circles, going round
thefe circles in every lunar day. It is true, that ac¬
cording to fig. 13 3.. when the moon is vertical to the
equator ECQ^the poles of the tides feem to fall in
with the poles of the world N and S : but when we
tion.
N O M Y. I42
confider that FGH is under the moon’s orbit, it will Theory of
appear, that when the moon is over H, in the tropic Univeriai
of Capricorn, the north pole of the tides (which can Gravi,:a*
be no more than 90 degrees from under the moon)
muft be at C in the arClic circle, not at P the north
pole of the earth ; and as the moon afeends from H to
G in her orbit, the north pole of the tides muft ftiift
from c to ci in the arctic circle, and the fouth poles as
much in the antarsftic.
it is not to be doubted, but that the earth’s quick
rotation brings the poles of the tides nearer to the poles
of the world than they would be if the earth were at
reft, and the moon revolved about it only once a
month ; for otherwife the tides would be more unequal
in their heights and times of their returns, than we find
they are. Eut how near the earth’s rotation may
bring the poles of its axis and thofe of the tides toge¬
ther, or how far the preceding tides may affeft thofe
which followq fo as to make them keep up nearly to
the lame heights and times of ebbing and flowing, is a
problem more fit to be folved by obfervation than by
theory.
Thofe who have opportunity to make obfervations,
and choofe to fatisfy themfelves whether the tides are
really affedfed in the above manner by the different po-
fitions of the moon, efpecially as to the unequal times-
of their return, may take this general rule for know¬
ing when they ought to be fo affe&ed. When the
earth’s axis inclines to the moon, the northern tides, if
not retarded in their paffage through ftioals and chan¬
nels, nor affedled by the winds, ought to be greateft
when the moon is above the horizon, leaft when Ihe is
below it, and quite the reverfe when the earth’s axis
declines from her; but in both cafes, at equal inter¬
vals of time. When the earth’s axis inclines lidewife
to the moon, both tides are equally high, but they
happen at unequal intervals of time. In every lunation
the earth’s axis inclines once to the moon, once from
her, and twice fidewife to her, as it does to the fun
every year ; becaufe the moon goes round the ecliptic
every month, and the fun but once in a year. In fum-
mer, the earth’s axis inclines towards the moon wdien
new 1 and therefore the day-tides in the north ought to
be higheft, and night-tides loweft, about the change :
at the full, the reverfe. At the quarters, they ought
to be equally high, but unequal in their returns : be¬
caufe the earth’s axis then inclines fidewife to the
moon. In wdnter, the phenomena are the fame at full
moon as. in fummer at new. In autumn the earth’s
axis inclines fidewife to the moon wEen new and full •
therefore the tides ought to be equally high and une¬
ven in their returns at thefe times. At the firft quar¬
ter, the tides of flood fhould be leaft when the moon
is above the horizon, greateft when flie is below it;
and the reverfe at her third quarter. In fpring, the
phenomena of the firft quarter anfwer to thofe of the
third quarter in autumn ; and vice verfa. The nearer
any tide is to either of the feafons, the more the tides^
partake of the phenomena of thefe feafons ; and in the
middle between any two of them the tides are at a
mean ftate between thofe of both.
In open Teas, the tides rife but to very fmall heights
m proportion to what they do in wide-mouthed rivers,
opening in the direftion of the ftream of tide. For in
channels growing narrower gradually, the water is ac¬
cumulated
—
T42
Theory of
Univerfal
Gravita¬
tion.
4°5
Irregulari¬
ties ot' tides
accounted
for.
406
Preceffion
of the equi.
nodlial
points, See.
407
Obferva-
tions of
Newton
and others
on this fub-
jtft.
ASTRO
cumulated by tbe oppcutlon of the contracting bank ;
like a gentle wind, little felt on an open plain, but
llrong andbrilk in a llreet j efpecially if the wider end
of the llreet be next the plain, and in the way of the
wind.
The tides are fo retarded in their paffage through
different Ihoals and channels, and otherwile to variouf-
ly affected by linking again!! capes and headlands,
that to different places they happen at all diltances of
the moon from the meridian, confequently at all hours
cf the lunar day. The tide propagated by the moon
in the German ocean, when Ihe is three hours pall the
meridian, takes 12 hours to come from thence to
London bridge, where it arrives by the time that a
new tide is railed in the ocean. And therefore, when
the moon has north declination, and we Ihould expedl
the tide at London to be greatell when the moon is
above the horizon, we find it is leail 5 and the contra¬
ry when Hie has fouth declination. At feveral places
it is high wrater three hours before the moon comes to
the meridian ; but that tide which the moon pulhes as
it were before her, is only the tide oppolite to that
which wfas raifed by her when Ihe was nine hours pall
the oppolite meridian.
There are no tides in lakes, becaufe they are gene¬
rally fo imall, that when the moon is vertical fire at-
trafts every part of them alike, and therefore by ren¬
dering all the water equally light, no part of it can be
raifed higher than another. The Mediterranean and
Baltic feas have very fmall elevations, becaufe the in¬
lets by which they communicate with the ocean are
fo narrow, that they cannot, in fo fhort a time, receive
'or difeharge enough to raife or link their furfaces fen-
libly.
For a more complete difeuffron of this important
fubjedl, we refer the reader to the article Tide.
Sect. IX. Of the Precejfon of the Equinoxes, and the
Nutation of the Earth's six is.
It now remains to confider the preceffion of the equi-
nodlial points, with its equations, arifing from the nuta¬
tion of the earth’s axis as a phylical phenomenon, and
to endeavour to account for it upon thofe mechanical
principles which have fo happily explained all the other
phenomena of the celellial motions.
This did not efcape the penetrating eye of Sir Ifaac
Newton ; and he quickly found it be a confequence,
and the molt beautiful proof, of the univerfal gravitation
of all matter to all matter •, and there is no part of his
immortal work where his fagacity and fertility of re-
fource Ihine more confpicuoully than in this inveltiga-
tion. It mult be acknowledged, however, that New¬
ton’s inveftigation is only a Ihrewd guefs, founded on
affumptions, of which it would be extremely difficult to
demonllrate either the truth or falfity, and which requir¬
ed the genius of a Newton to pick out in fuch a com¬
plication of abltrufe circumitances. The fubjeht has
occupied the attention of the firll mathematicians of
Europe fince his time ; and is Hill conndered as the
molt curious and difficult of all mechanical problems.
1 he molt elaborate and accurate differtations on the
preceffion of the equinoxes are thofe of Sylvabella and
Walmefly, in the Philofophical Tranfaftions, publilhed
about the year 17 54 j that of Thomas Simplon, publilh-
fid in his Mifcellaneous Tracts j that of Father Frifius,
2
N O M Y. Part IV
in the Memoirs of the Berlin Academy, and afterwards, Theory ot'
with great improvements, in his Cofmographia'; that of Univerfal
Euler in the Memoirs of Berlin j that of D’Aleixibert in
a feparate differtation; and that of De la Grange on the
Libration of the Moon, which obtained the prize in
the Academy of Paris in 1769. We think the differta¬
tion of Father Frifius the molt perfpicuous of them all,
being conduced in the method of geometrical analyfisj
whereas molt of the others proceed in the fiuxionary
and fymbolic method, wdiich is frequently deficient in
diltindt notions of the quantities under confideration,
and therefore does not give us the fame perfpicuous
convidtion of the truth of the relults. In a work like
ours, it is impoffible to do jultice to the problem, with¬
out entering into a detail which would be thought ex¬
tremely difproportioned to the fubjedt by the genera¬
lity of our readers. Yet thofe who have the neceffary
preparation of mathematical knowledge, and wiffi to un¬
derhand the fubjedt fully, will find enough here to give
them a very diltindt notion of it; and in the article Ro¬
tation, they will find the fundamental theorems, which
will enable them to carry on the inveltigation. We Ih.all
firlt give a fhort Iketch of Newton’s inveftigation, which
is of the molt palpable and popular kind, and is highly „
valuable, not only for its ingenuity, but alfo becaule it
will give our unlearned readers diftindt and fatisfadlory
conceptions of the chief circumftances of the whole phe¬
nomena. ^ 4oS
Let S (fig. 154.) be the fun, E the earth, and M the Sketch of
moon, moving in the orbit NMCDtf, which cuts the Newton’s
plane of the ecliptic in the line of the nodes N», and
has one half raifed above it, as reprefented in the figure,tl0n ° 1"
the other half being hid below the ecliptic. Sup-
pofe this orbit folded down ; it will coincide with the
ecliptic in the circle Nmcdn. Let EX reprefent the
axis of this orbit, perpendicular to its plane, and there¬
fore inclined to the ecliptic. Since the moon gravitates
to the fun in the diredtion MS, which is all above the
ecliptic, it is plain that this gravitation has a tendency
to draw the moon towards the ecliptic. Suppofe this
force to be fuch that it would draw the moon down
from M to i in the time that Ihe would have moved
from M to /, in the tangent to her orbit. By the com¬
bination of thefe motions, the moon wdll defert her or¬
bit, and deferibe the line Mr, which makes the diagonal
of the parallelogram; and if no farther adjion of the fun
be fuppofed, Ihe will deferibe another orbit M^/z', lying
between the orbit MCD« and the ecliptic, and Ihe will
come to the ecliptic, and pafs through it in a point n’,
nearer to M than n is, which was the former place of her
defeending node. By this change of orbit, the line EX
will no longer be perpendicular to it; but there will be
another line E.r, which will now be perpendicular to
the new orbit. Alfo the moon, moving from M to r,
does not move as if Ihe had come from the afeending
node N, but from a point N lying beyond it; and the
line of the nodes of the orbit in this new pofition is
N' Alfo the angle MNV« is lefs than the angle
MNw.
Thus the nodes fliift their places in a direfition op-
pofite to that of her motion, or move to the wTeftwrard;
the axis of the orbit changes its pofition, and the orbit
itfelf changes its inclination to the ecliptic. Thefe
momentary changes are different in different parts of
the orbit, according to the pofition of the line of the
nodes.
tion.
Pan iv. Astro
Theory Of nodes. Sometimes the inclination of the orbit is in-
Lraviu ^reaf^’ and fometin\es the nodes move to the eaftward.
iiitt, m general, the inclination increafes from the time
r —11 lat t ie noc^es are in the line of fyzigee, till they get in¬
to quadrature, after which it diminifhes till the nodes
aie again in fyzigee. The nodes advance only while
laey are in tlie octants after the quadratures, and while
the moon paffes from quadrature to the node, and they
recede in all other fituations. Therefore the recefs ex¬
ceeds the advance in every revolution of the moon round
tne eaith, and, on the whole, they recede.
What has been faid of one moon, would be true of
each of a continued ring of moons furrounding the
earth, and they would thus compofe a flexible ring,
which would never be flat, but waved, according to the
difference (both in kind and degree) of the diilurbing
forces afling on its different parts. But fuppofe thefe
moons to cohere, and to form a rigid and flat ring, no¬
thing would remain in this ring but the excefs of the con¬
trary tendencies of its different parts. Its axis would be
perpendicular to its plane, and its pofition in any moment
will be the mean pofition of all the axes of the orbits of
each part of the flexible ring ; therefore the nodes of
this rigid ring will continually recede, except when the
plane of the ring paffes through the fun, that is, wffen
tne nodes are in fyzigee j and (fays Newton) the mo-
tion o. thefe nodes will be the fame with the mean mo¬
tion of the nodes of the orbit of one moon. The in¬
clination of this ring to the ecliptic will be equal to
tae mean inclination of the moon’s orbit during any one
revolution which has the fame fituation of the nodes
It will therefore be leaf! of all when the nodes are hi
quadrature, and will increafe till they are in fyziVee
and then dimjmfh till they are again in quadrature^ ’
Suppofe this ring to contradf in dimenfions, the dif
turbing forces will diminifh in the fame proportion and
in this proportion will all their effedts diminifh Sup
pofe its motion of revolution to accelerate, or the time
of a revolution to diminifh j the linear effefts of the dif-
turbmg forces being as the fquares of the times of their
action, and their angular eftedfs as the times, thofe er
rors muft diminifh alfo on this account 5 and w-e can
compute what thofe errors will be for any diameter of
the ring, and for any period of its revolution. We can
tell, therefore, what would be the motion of the nodes
the change of inclination, and deviation of the axis of a
ring which would touch the furface of the eaith ’ and
revolved m 24 hours ; nay, vee can tell what thefe mo
tions would be, fliould this ring adhere to the earth!
J hey muft be much lefs than if the ring were detached •
for the difturbing forces of the ring muft drag alone
wit., !t the whole globe of the earth. The quantity
of motion which the difturbing forces would have pro¬
duced m the ring alone, will now (fays Newton) be
produced in the whole mafs ; and therefore the velocity
Tr R Vn-,TUn m S 38 the quantit? of matter is great-
• But fti11 a.11 thts can be computed. 8
is ncH fT6 ^ lfUCh 3 °n the earth : for tlle ear^
is not a fphere, but an elliptical fpheroid. Sir Ifaac
oft!'f rTP le^for<lengaged iw a computation of the effbas
of he difturbing force, and has exhibited a moil beautiful
ample of mathematical mveftigation. He firft afferts
that the earth rn„Ji be an elliptical fpheroid, whofe po¬
lar axis is to its equatorial diameter as 229 to
( N O M Y. I4.
Then he demonftrates, that if the fine of the Inclma- Theory of
tmn of the equator be called tt, and if l be the num- Univerfal
ber of days (fidereal) in a year, the annual motion of Gravita~
_____ tion.
3 V I TV'
He then
a detached ring will be 36o°X
fliows that the effefl of the difturbing force on this
ring is to its efteft on the matter of the fame rincr, dif-
tnbuted in the form of an elliptical ftratum (but ftill
detached) as 5 to 2 ; therefore the motion of the nodes
will be 36o°x^—I‘CT7~~’ or l6' 16" 24'" annually. He
then proceeds to ftiow, that the quantity of motion in
tne fphere is to that in an equatorial ring revolving in
the lame time, as the matter in the fphere to the mat¬
ter in the ring, and as three times the fquare of a qua-
drantal arch to two fquares of a diameter, jointly .
1 hen he fhows, that the quantity of matter in the ter-
rcftml fphere is to that in the protuberant matter c*f
the fpheroid, as 52900 to 461 (fuppofing all homoge¬
neous). from thefe premiles it follows, that the mo¬
tion of 16' 16" 24"', muft: be diminilhed in the ratio of
a07/7/-0 A00’ whi(:h reduces it: to 9'' 07'" annually.
And tins (he fays) is the preceffion of the equinoxes,
occafioned by the adfion of the fun •, and the reft of
the yo^7', which is the obferved preceflion, is owin«-
to the adfion of the moon, nearly five times greater
than that of the fun. This appeared a great difficulty •
for the phenomena of the tides ihow that it cannot much
exceed twice the fun’s force.
,eftcd “gmuityof this procefs,Hisdeteh-
‘ y oes'1_is>ceei5rated ^nd candid commentator, ID a- min at ion
nie; “crnouilii, fay (in his Differtation on the Tides t^ie ^orni
which fhared the prize of the French Academy with r':d d?c;n~
M-Lsurmand Euler), that Newton faw through a veUearThl
what others could hardlv ^ e"
wha, others could hardly difeover wilh'amicrorcope “Smed
i the meridian fun. His determination
2 30.
in the light °f —-  —.c. uerermination
ot the form and dimenfions of the earth, which is the nn’
foundation of the whole procefs, is not offered as any¬
thing better than a probable guefs, in re difficillima ; and
by M‘LaurinnCC dem°uftrated with geometrical rigour
His next principle, that the motion of the nodes of
e ngid ring is equal to the mean motion of the nodes
ot the moon, .has been moft critically difeuffed bv the
hrft mathematicians, as a thing which could neither be
proved nor refuted. Frifius has at leaft fhown it to be a
mntake, and that the motion of the nodes of the ring- is
double the mean motion of the nodes of a fingle moon ■
and that Newton’s own principles ffiould have produced
a preceffion of 1feconds annually, which removes the
difficulty formerly mentioned.
His third affimption, that the quantity of motion
of the ring muft be fliared with the included fphere
w-as acquiefced m by all his commentators, till D' Alem ’
bert and Eule^ in 1749, ffiowed that it was not the
quantity of motion round an axis of rotation 'which re
mained the fame but the quantity of momentum or ro¬
tatory effort d he quantity of motion is the produff
Irom tY/r-C’e ' that is. ^ «s diftance
from the axis 3 while its momentum, or power of Pro
to u”? ri?tatl0n1’ .,s -/he fquare of that diftance, and i,
bv th f 7 tah1.ng ^he fum of each particle multiplied
by the fquare of its diftance from the axis. Since the
fiartlr
144
Theory of
Univerfal
Gravita¬
tion.
410
Examina¬
tion of the
phenome¬
non of pre-
ceffion on
mechanical
principles.
ASTRONOMY.
Part IV.
earth differs fo little from a perfeft fphere, this makes
no fenfible difterence in the refult. It will increafe iNew-
ton’s ppeceffion about three-fourths of a fecond.
We proceed now to the examination of this pheno¬
menon upon the fundamental principles of mechanics.
Becaufe the mutual gravitation of the particles of
matter in the folar fyilem is in the inverfe ratio of the
fquares of the diltance, it follows, that the gravitations
of the different parts of the earth to the fun or to the
moon are unequal. The nearer particles gravitate more
than thofe that are more remote.
Let PQ^/>E (fig. 155.), be a meridional fedlion of the
terreftrial fphere, and PO p y the feflion of the infcribed
■fphere. Let CS be a line in the plane of the ecliptic
palling through the fun, fo that the angle ECS is the
fun’s declination. Let NCM be a plane palling through
the centre of the earth at right angles to the plane of
the meridian PQ^/* E j NCM wfill therefore be the plane
of illumination.
In confequence of the unequal gravitation of the mat¬
ter of the earth to the fun, every particle, fuch as B, is
afted on by a difturbing force parallel to CS, and pro¬
portional to BD, the diftance of the particle from the
plane of illumination } and this force is to the gravi¬
tation of the central particle to the fun, as three times
BD is to CS, the diltance of the earth from the fun.
Let AB a be a plane palling through the particle.B,
parallel to the plane EQof the equator. .This fedtron
of the earth will be a circle, of which A <7 is a diameter,
and Qj? will be the diameter of its fedtion with the in¬
fcribed fphere. T hefe will be two concentric circles,
and the ring by which the fedtion of the fpheroid ex¬
ceeds the fedtion of the fphere will have AQ^for its
breadth ; P/> is the axis of figure.
Let EC be reprefented by the fymbol - a
b
p—b1 *
c ~\~b
OC or PC
EO their difference,
CL - - - -
QL
The periphery of a circle to radius I
The dilturbing force at the diltance I
from the plane NCM
The fine of declination ECS
The cofine of ECS
d
xd1
f
It is evident, that with refpedt to the infcribed fphere,
the dilturbing forces are completely compenfated, for
.every particle has a correfponding particle in the ad¬
joining quadrant, which is afted on by an equal and
oppofite force. But this is not the cafe with, the pro¬
tuberant matter which makes up the fpheroid. The
fegments NS r n and MT t in are more adted on than
the fegments NT tn and MS jot; and thus there is
produced a tendency to a converfion of the whole
earth, round an axis paffing through the centre C,
perpendicular to the plane PQ^ E. We lhall diftin-
guilh this motion from all others to which the fphe¬
roid may be fubjedf, by the name Libration. The
axis of this libration is always perpendicular to that
diameter of the equator over which the fun is, or to
that meridian in which he is.
Prob. I. To determine the momentum of libration
correfponding to any pofition of the earth refpedting
the fun, that is, to determine the accumulated energy Theory oi
of the ditturbing forces on all the protuberant matter
of the fpheroid. _ _ _ non.
Let B and b be two particles in the ring formed by u——j
the revolution of AQ^ and fo fituated that they are at
equal diftances from the plane NM : but on oppofite
fides of it. Draw BD, bd, perpendicular to NM, and
FLG perpendicular to LI.
Then, becaufe the momentum, or power of produ¬
cing rotation, is as the force and as the dirtance of its
line of dire&ion from the axis of rotation, jointly, the
combined momentum of the particles B and b, will be
/.BD.DC—-/.£</.<&, (for the particles B and b, are ur¬
ged in contrary dire&ions). But the momentum of
B is/.BF.DC+/.FD.DC, and that of b is/AG.^C—-
fdGJC ; and the combined momentum is/.BF.D^—
/.FD.DC +</C,=2/BF.LF—2/LT.TC.
Becaufe ot and 11 are the fine and cofine of the angle
ECS or LCT, we have LT=ot.CL, and CT—n.CL,
and LF=ot,BL, and BF=/?.BL. This gives the mo¬
mentum — 2/ot n BL3—CL1.
The breadth AQ.of the protuberant ring being very
fmall, wTe may fuppofe, wfithout any fenfible erior, that
all the matter of the line AQjs collefted in the point
Qj and, in like manner, that the matter of the whole
jJjjg is collefled in the circurrderence of its inner circle,
and that B and b now reprefent, not fingle particles,
but the collefted matter of lines fuch as AQ^ which
terminate at B and b. The combined momentum of two
fuch lines will therefore be 2 ot w/AQTL3—CL3. .
Let the circumference of each parallel of latitude be
divided into a great number of indefinitely fmall and
equal parts. The number of fuch parts in the circum¬
ference, of which is the diameter will be n-QL.
To each pair of thefe there belongs a momentum 2 mjif
•AQvBL3 CL3. The fum of all the fquares of BL,
wdiich can be taken round the circle, is one half of as
many fquares of the radius CL : for BL is the fine of
an arch, and the fum of. its fquare and the fquare of
its correfponding cofine is equal to the fquare of ths
radius. Therefore the fum of all the fquares of the
fines, together with the fum of all the fquares of the
cofines, is equal to the fum of the fame number of
fquares of the radius •, and the fum of the fquares of
the fines is equal to the fum of the fquares of the cor-
. refponding cofines : therefore the fum of the fquares of
the radius is double of either fum. Thexefore^n QL
.£LJ__^ri.QL>QL2. In like manner the fum of the
number n-QL of CL3j will be = rrQL.CL3. Thefe
fums, taken for the femicircle, are in-QL'QL3, and
in-QL-CL1, orn-QL'iQL*. and n-QL^CL1: there¬
fore the momentum of the whole ring will be 2 ot
•AQTlL.n'tiQL—4CL1) : for the momentum of the
ring isthe combined momenta of a number of pairs,
and this number is -Jn-QL.
By the ellipfe we have OC : QL=EO : AQ^and
AQ=rQL —QL ^; therefore the momentum of
the ring is 2 ot nf ^-QL’n (^QI-2—y CL3), = m nf ^
QLn (TQL3—CL1) : but QL1:^1—therefore
J
. A S
Part IV.
T R O
iheoryof T^-ri pr i_ 1/
Univerfal ^Q1J‘ ^
-X\ —\b'
b1—3^*
,d
tlierefore the momentum of the ring is m n f—wQ?1—r2)
(b*—3rl\ rd (b*—^ISx14- a.r4 \ ^ d
(—H =mnha (—)■ =»"'/r4n
( b*—4// x1-\-^xA). If we now fuppofe another paral¬
lel extremely near to A a, as reprelented by the dotted
line, the diftance L / between them being x, we lhall
have the fluxion of the momentum of the fpheroid
m nf—IT (i4x—^b‘lxzx-\-2>x*x\ which the fluent is
m This expreffes the mo¬
mentum of the zone EA a contained between the
equator and the parallel of latitude A a. Now let x
become — and wre fhall obtain the momentum of the
hemifpheroid =;« «/—rn (£J—4^J + t^S)> and that
of the fpheroid =zmnf-n (b*—±bs -\-±-bs)-=:~m nfd
nb*. ' 15 •
This formula does not exprefs any motion, but only
a preffure tending to produce motion, and particularly
tending to produce a libration by its aftion on the co¬
hering matter of the earth, which is affedted as a num¬
ber of levers. It is fimilar to the common mechanical
formula w.d, where w means a weight, and d its di¬
ftance from the fulcrum of the lever.
It is worthy of remark, that the momentum of this
protuberant matter is juft j- of what it would be if it
were all colledted at the point O of the equator : for
the matter in the fpheroid is to that in the infcribed
fphere as a* to and the contents of the infcribed
fphere is -f nb3. Therefore c1 : a2—b2z=y nb3 ; 4 nb3
a2—b2
a2
, which is the quantity of
protuberant mat-"
ter.
We may, without fenfible error, fuppofe
— id; then the protuberant matter wall be If
all this were placed at O, the momentum would be in
db^OH-HC, =^771 nfdb*, becaufe OH*HC=r 7n n b2
now 4 is 5 times ~/r.
Alfo, becaufe the fum of all the redlangles OITHC
round the equator is half of as many fquares of OC, it
follows that the momentum of the protuberant matter
placed in a ring round the equator of the fphere, or
fpheroid, is one half of what it would be if colledted in
the point G or E j whence it follows that the momen¬
tum of the protuberant matter in its natural place is
two-fifths of what it would be if it were difpofed in an
equatorial ring. It was in this manner that Sir Ifaac
Newton was enabled to compare the effedl of the fun’s
adlion on the protuberant matter of the earth, with his
tftedl on a rigid ring of moons. T he preceding in-
veftigation of the momentum is nearly the farfie with
his, and appears to us greatly preferable in point of
perfpicuity to the fluxionary folutions given by later
authors. I hefe indeed have the appearance of greater
accuracy, becaufe they do not fuppofe all the protube¬
rant matter to be condenled on the furface of the in¬
fcribed fphere : nor were we under the neceffity of do¬
ing this j only it would have led to verv complicared
Vol. III. Part L '
N O M Y.
exprefiions had wre fuppofed the matter in each line
AQ^colle&ed in its centre of ofcillation or gyration.
We made a compenfation for the error introduced by
this, which may amount to of the whole, and
ihould not be neglected, by taking d as equal to
■b2
The confequence is, that
J45
Theory of
Univerfai
Gravita¬
tion.
"2 ^ in ft ead of "
2a
a-\-b
our formula is the fame with that of the later authors.
Thus far Sir Ifaac Newton proceeded with mathe¬
matical rigour; but in the application he made two
affumptions, or, as he calls them hypothefes, which
have been found to be unwarranted. The firft w'as,
that when the ring of protuberant matter is connefted
with the infcribed fphere, and fubje&ed to the a£lion
of the difturbing force, the fame quantity of motion is
produced in the whole mafs as in the ring alone. The
fecond was, that the motion of the nodes of a rigid ring
of moons is the fame with the mean motion of the
nodes of a folitary moon. But w-e are now able to de-
monftrate, that it is not the quantity of motion, but of
momentum, which remains the fame, and that the
nodes of a rigid ring move tw ice as fall as thofe of a
Angle particle. We proceed therefore to, 411
Prob. II. To determine the deviation of the axis, Effe<fts °f
and the retrograde motion of the nodes which refulttlie !lbra"
from this libratory momentum of the earth’s protube-
rant matter. ^ tlie garth’s
But here we muft refer our readers to feme funda-protuhe-
mental propofitions of rotatory motions which are de-rant mat"
monftrated in the article Rotation. ter’
If a rigid body is turning round an axis A, pafling
through its centre of gravity with the angular velocity
a, anu receives an impulfe which alone would caufe it
to turn round an axis B, alfo palling through its cen¬
tre of gravity, with the angular velocity b, the body
will now turn round a third axis C, pafling through
its centre of gravity, and lying in the plane of the axis
A and B, and the fine of the inclination of this third
axis to the axis A will be to the fine of the inclination
to the axis B as the velocity b to the velocity a.
When a rigid body is made to turn round any axis
by the aflion of an external force, the quantity of mo¬
mentum produced (that is, the fum of the produfts of
every particle by its velocity and by its diftance from
the axis) is equal to the momentum or fimilar produft
of the moving force or forces.
If an oblate fpheroid, whofe equatorial diameter is a
and polar diameter b, be made to librate round an equa¬
torial diameter, and the velocity of that point of the
equator which is fartheft from the axis of libration be
v, the momentum of the fpheroid is --na2b2v.
lS
The two laft are to be found in every elementary
book of mechanics.
Let AN a7i (fig. 156.) be the plane of the earth’s equa¬
tor, cutting the ecliptic CNK n in the line of the nodes
or equinoftial points N n. Let OAS be the feftion of
the earth by a meridian paffing through the fun, fo
that the line OCS is in the ecliptic, and CA is an arch
of an hour-circle or meridian, meafuring the fun’s de¬
clination. The fun not being in the plane of the equa¬
tor, there is, by prop. 1. a force tending to produce a
libration round an axis ZO s at right angles to the dia¬
meter A a of that meridian in which the fun is 'fituated,
T and
146 A S T R
1 lu-o!} of an<i the raomentutti of all the difturbing forces is
Gravita- m™fdn ^4- The produft of any force by the mo¬
tion. ment t of its adlion expreffes the momentary increment
l-——V-——' of velocity ; therefore the momentary velocity, or the
velocity of libration granted in the time t is rn nf d
T\h*t. This is the abfolute velocity of a point at the
diftance I from*the axis, or it is the fpace which would
be uniformly defcribed in the moment /, with the velo¬
city which the point has acquired at the end of that
moment. It is double the fpace adtually defcribed by
the libration during that moment; becaufe this has
been an uniformly accelerated motion, in confequence
or the continued and uniform a£lion of the momentum
during this time. 7 his muft be carefully attended to,
and the negledt of it has occafioned very faulty folu-
tions of this problem.
Let v be the velocity produced in the point A, the
moil remote from the axis of libration. The momen¬
tum excited or produced in the fpberoid is 4$ na'brv
(as above), and this muft be equal to the momentum of
the moving force, or to -jL mnfd'Rl^t; therefore we
O N O M Y.
Part IV.
obtain v.
■rj-mn f dfll*t
, . • £*
that is, v—tn n fd t — ox ve-
J a1
•
ry nearly m nfdt, becaufe I very nearly. Al-
fo, becaufe the produft of the velocity and tmie gives
the fpace uniformly defcribed in that time, the fpace de-
fcxibed by A in its libration round Z a is m vfd/*, and
the angular velocity is ,.
a
^ Let r be the momentary angle of diurnal rotation.
The arch A r, defcribed by the point A of the equa¬
tor in this moment t will therefore be a r, that is, a
and the velocity of the point A is •
velocity of rotation is 4—
and the angular
Here then is a body (fig. 157.) turning round an axis
OP, perpendicular to the plane of the equator zos, and
therefore fituated in the plane ZP z ; and it turns round
this axis with the angular velocity — a-* It has received
t
an impiufe, by which alone it wnuld librate round the
axis Z $$, with the angular velocity
a
therefore turn round neither axis, but round a third
axis OP', pafling through O, and lying in the plane
ZP 2;, in wdiich the other two are fituated, and
the fine Pn of its inclination to the axis of libration
Z % will be to the fine Vp of its inclination to the axis
no c . r m nf dt
UP or rotation as — to   
t a
Now A, in fig. 156. is the fummit of the equator both
of libration and rotation : m nfdd is the fpace de¬
fcribed by its libration in the time t; and a r is the
fpace or arch A r (fig. 156.) defcribed in the fame time
by its rotation : therefore, taking A r to A c (perpen¬
dicular to the plane of the equator of rotation, and ly¬
ing in the equator of libration), as a r to m nfd P*and Theory of
completing the parallelogram Ar me, A m will GravltJ1
be the compound motion of A, and a r \ m n d ft1 tion.
rn nf d t* . s—-v——i
— 1 : ■> which will be the tangent of the angle
in A r, or of the change of pofition of the equator.
But the axes of rotation are perpendicular to their
equator ; and therefore the angle of deviation xu is
equal to this angle r A tn. This appears from fig. c.:
for n I" : Vp—Q'p : P^>,—OP : tan. POP 3 and it is
evident that a r : m nf d t* mn f d~i
t a
as is requi¬
red by the compofition of rotations.
In confequence of this change of pofition, the plane
of the equator, no longer cuts the plane of the ecliptic
in the line Isi n. The plane of the newT equator cuts the
former equator in the line AO, and the part AN of the
former equator lies between the ecliptic and the new
equator AN', while the part A« of the former equator
is above the new one A«'j therefore the new node N',
from which the point A wras moving, is removed to the
weftward, or farther from A 3 and the new node to
which A is approaching, is alfo moved weftward,ornear-
er to A3 and this happens in every pofition of A. The
nodes therefore or equinoflial points, continually fliift to
the weftward, or in a contrary direftion to the rotation of
the earth 3 and the axis of rotation always deviates to the
eaft fide of the meridian which pafles through the fun.
This account of the motions is extremely difterent
from what a perfon ftiould naturally expeft. If the
earth were placed in the fummer folftice, with refpeft
to us who inhabit its northern hemifphere, and had no
rotation round its axis, the equator would begin to ap¬
proach the ecliptic, and the axis would become more
upright 3 and this would go on with a motion conti¬
nually accelerating, till the equator coincided with the
ecliptic. It would not flop here, but go as far on the
other fide, till its motion were extinguiftied by the oppo-
fing forces; and it would return to its former pofition,
and again begin to approach the ecliptic, playing up
and down like the arm of a balance. On this account
this motion is very properly termed libration: but this
very flow1 libration, compounded with the incomparably
fwifter motion of diurnal rotation, produces a third mo¬
tion extremely different from both. At firft the north
pole of the earth inclines forward toward the fun 3 after
a long courfe of years it wall incline to the left hand, as
viewed from the fun, and be much more inclined to the
ecliptic, and the plane of the equator will pafs through
the fun. The fouth pole will come into view, and
the north pole will begin to decline from the fun 3 and
this will go on (the inclination of the equator dimi-
niftiing all the while) till, after a courfe of years, the
north pole wall be turned quite away from the fun, and
the inclination of the equator will be reftored to its
original quantity. After this the phenomena will have
another period fimilar to the former, but the axis wull
now deviate to the right hand. And thus, although
both the earth and fun ftiould not move from their
places, the inhabitants of the earth would have a com¬
plete fucceflion of the feafons accomplifhed in a period
of many centuries. This would be prettily illuftrated
by an iron ring poifed very nicely on a ca^ like the card
of
Part IV. ASTRO
Theory of of a mariner’s compafs, having its centre of gravity co-
*Gravka' incIdinS with the Point °f ‘he cap, fo that it may whirl
' round in any pofition. As this is extremely difficult
i to execute, the cap may be pierced a little deeper,
which will caufe the ring to maintain a horizontal pofi¬
tion with a very fmall force. When the ring is whirl¬
ing very fteadily, and pretty brilkly, in the direftion
of the hours of a watch-dial, hold a ftrong magnet above
the middle of the nearer femicircle (above the 6 hour
point) at the difiance of three or four inches. We
(hall immediately obferve the ring rife from the 9 hour
point, and fink at the 3 hour point, and gradually ac¬
quire a motion of preceffion and nutation, fuch as has
been defcribed.
If the earth be now put in motion round the fun, or
the fun round the earth, motions of libration and de¬
viation wall Hill obtain, and the fucceffion of their dif¬
ferent phafes, if we may fo call them, will be perfe&ly
analogous to the above ftatement. But the quantity
of deviation, and change of inclination, will now be
prodigioufly diminiffied, becaufe the rapid change of
the fun’s pofition quickly diminifhes the difturbing for¬
ces, annihilates them by bringing the fun into the plane
of the equator, and brings oppofite forces into a£Hon. .
We fee in general that the deviation of the axis is
always at right angles to the plane palling through the
fun, and that the axis, inftead ©f being raifed from the
ecliptic, or brought nearer to it, as the libration w^ould
occafion, deviates fidewife; and the equator, inftead of
being raifed or deprefled round its call and weft points,
is twilled fidewnle round the north and fouth points $
or at leaft things have this appearance : but w^e mull
now attend to this circumftance more minutely.
The compofition of rotation Ihow's us that this
change of the axis of diurnal rotation is by no means a
tranflation of the former axis (which we may fuppofe
to be the axis of figure) into a new pofition, in which
it again becomes the axis of diurnal motion ; nor does
the equator of figure, that is, the moll prominent fec-
tion of the terreftrial fpheroid, change its pofition, and
in this ,new pofition continue to be the equator of ro¬
tation. This was indeed fuppofed by Sir Ifaac New¬
ton j and this fuppofition naturally refulted from the
train of reafoning wffiich he adopted. It w^as ftri&ly
true of a fingle moon, or of the imaginary orbit attach¬
ed to it j and therefore Newton fuppofed that the whole
earth did in this manner deviate from its former pofi¬
tion, ftill, however, turning round its axis of figure.
In this he has been followed by Walmelly, Simpfon, and
moll of his commentators. D’Alembert w^as the firft
vffio entertained any fufpidon that this might not be
certain; and both he and Euler at laft fhowed that the
new axis of rotation was really a new line in the body
of the earth, and that its axis and equator of figure did
not remain the axis and equator of rotation. They af-
certained the pofition of the real axis by means of a moll
intricate analyfis, which obfeured the connexion of the
different pofitions of the axis with each other, and gave
us only a kind of momentary information. Father Frifius
turned his thoughts to this problem, and fortunately
difcoyeied the compofition of rotations as a general
principle of mechanical philofophy. Few things of
this kind have efcaped the penetrating eyes of Sir Ifaac
Newton. Even this principle had been glanced at by
nim. He affirms it in exprefs terms with refpedl to
N O M Y. 147
a body that is perfectly fpherical (cor. 22. prop. 66. Theory cT
B. I.) But it was referved for Frilius to demonftrate Univerfal
it to be true of bodies of any figure, and thus to enrich
mechanical fcience with a principle which gives fimple .
and elegant folutions of the moft difficult problems.
But here a very formidable objeftion naturally offers
itfelf. If the axis of the diurnal motion of the heavens
is not the axis of the earth’s fpheroidal figure, but an
imaginary line in it, round which even the axis of figure
muft revolve j and if this axis of diurnal rotation has fo
greatly changed its pofition, that it now points at a
ftar at leaft 12 degrees diftant from the pole obferved
by Timochares, how comes it that the equator has the
very fame fituation on the furface of the earth that it
had in ancient times ? No fenfible change has been ob¬
ferved in the latitudes of places.
The anfwer is very fimple and fatisfaftory : Suppofe
that in 12 hours the axis of rotation has changed from
the pofition PR (fig. 158.) to pr, fo that the north pole,
inftead of being at P, which we may fuppofe to be a par¬
ticular mountain, is now at />. In this 12 hours the
mountain P, by its rotation round p r has acquired the
pofition At the end of the next 12 hours, the axis
of rotation has got the pofition srg, and the axis of figure
has got the pofition pand the mountain P is now at
p. Thus, on the noon of the following day, the axis
of figure PR is in the fituation which the real axis of
rotation occupied at the intervening midnight. Thi^
goes on continually, and the axis of figure follows the
pofition of the axis of rotation, and is never further re¬
moved from it than the deviation of 12 hours, which
does not exceed ^oth part of one fecond, a quantity
altogether imperceptible. Therefore the axis of figure
will always fenfibly coincide with the axis of rotation,
and no change can be produced in the latitudes of places
on the furface of the earth.
We have hitherto confidered this problem in the moft Applied-
general manner; let us now apply the knowledge wetionofthis
have gotten of the deviation of the axis or of the mo-reafoniri?
mentary aftion of the difturbing force to the explan a-^^U^e°fn
tion of the phenomena ; that is, let us fee what precef-"
lion and what nutation will be accumulated after any
given time of action. v
For this purpofe we muft afeertain the precife devia¬
tion which, the difturbing forces are competent to pro¬
duce. This wre can do by comparing the momentum of
libration with the gravitation of the earth to the fun,
and this with the force which would retain a body on
the equator while the earth turns round its axis.'
The gravitation of the earth to the fun is in the pro¬
portion of the fun’s quantity of matter M direftly, and
to the fquare of the diftance A inverfely, and may there¬
fore be expreffed by the fymbol The difturbing
force at the diftance 1 from the place of illumination
is to the gravitation of the earth’s centre to the fun as
3 to A, (A being meafured on the fame fcale which
meafures the diftance from the plane of illumination).
1 herefore will be the difturbing force jf of our for¬
mula.
. Let P he the centrifugal force of a particle at the
diftance. I from the axis of rotation ; and let t and T
be the times of rotation and of annual revolution, viz.
^ 3 fidereal
148
A S
M
Theory of
Univerfai fidereal day and year. Then />.
Gravita-
/*'
'
we derive
Ai'
But fince r
T R O
A-:~. Hence
was the angu-
N O M Y.
Part IV*
iin. B
2 1 ‘
fin. obi. eel.
Various The equator EAC, by taking the pofition BAD,
modes of recedes from the ecliptic in the coiure of the folftices
application. CL, and CD is the change of obliquity or the nu¬
tation. For let'CL be the folflitial colure of BAD,
and c l the folftitial colure of EAC. Then we have
fin. B : fin. E fin. LD : fin. Ic ; and therefore the
difference of the arches LD and / c will be the meafure
of the difference of the angles B and E, But when
tion.
lar velocity of rotation, and confequently 1 x 'r the
fpace deferibed, and —the velocity ; and fince the
centrifugal force is as the fquare of the velocity divided
by the radius, (this being the meafure of the generated
velocity, w'hich is the proper meafure of any accele-
Izxrz vz 2 r *
rating force), we have/> — ;—>—-?-> and/* ~~—
Cx/1 tz ?
t1’
X Now the formula fm n d— exprelfed the fine
i a
of the angle. This being extremely fmall, the fine may
be confidered as equal to the arc which meafures the
angle. Now, fubftitute for it the value now found, viz.
3 ra A . . .
—— v —, and we obtain the angle of deviation vo~'r
fZ ^ 'J’Z 0
d
, and this is the fimplefl form in which it
can appear. But it is convenient, for other reafons, to
exprefs it a little differently: d is nearly equal to -
/A
and this is the
. 3 A az—bz
therefore w = r X n~ 
21 «a
form in which we fhall now employ it.
■3 t*  b*
The fmall angle r~—nin~—-—is the angle in which
the new equator cuts the former one. It is different at
different times, as appears from the variable part ?7i 7;,
the product of the fine and cofine of the fun’s declina¬
tion. It will be a maximum when the declination is
in the folftice, for m n increafes all the wray to 450, and
the declination never exceeds 234-. It increafes,therefore
from the equinox to the folflice, and then diminifhes.
Let-ESL (fig. 159.) be the ecliptic, EAC the equa¬
tor, BAD the new pofition which it acquires by the
momentary adlion of the fun, cutting the former in the
, -n . T. • 3 /* az—bz
angle BAE ~ r ~r.m n——.
& 2 P <A
BE is indefinitely fmall, CD may be taken for the dif- Theory of
ference of LD and /c, thsy being ultimately in the Univerfai
ratio of equality. Therefore CD meafures the change GiavlU"
of the. obliquity of the ecliptic, or the nutation of the 1
axis with refpeef to the ecliptic.
I ne real deviation of the axis is the fame with the
change in the pofition of the equator, P/> being the
meafure of the angle E AB. But this not being ahvays
made in a plane perpendicular to the ecliptic, the
change of obliquity generally differs from the change
in the pofition of the axis. Thus, when the fun is m
the folifice, the momentary change of the pofition of
the equator is the greateff poffible j but being made
at right angles to the plane in which the obliquity
of the ecliptic is computed, it makes no change what¬
ever in the obliquity, but the greateif poflible change
in the precefiion.
In order to find CD the change of obliquity, obferve
that in the triangle CAD, R : fin. AC, or R : cof.
AErzfin. A : fin. CD, r=A : CD (becaufe A and
CD are exceedingly fmall). Therefore the change of ob¬
liquity (which is the thing commonly meant by nuta¬
tion) CD~Axcof. AE, —r\—kmn, cof. AE'—
2 P 2I*
kx fin. declin. Xcof. declin. Xc°f- R* afeenf.
But it is more convenient for the purpofes of aftro-
nomical computation to make ufe of the fun’s longitude
SE. Therefore make
The fun’s longitude ES
Sine of fun’s long.
Cofine
Sine obliq. eclipt.
Cofine obliq.
\/i-—xz —
23I =
25
X
y
p
q
In the fpherical triangle EAS, right-angled at A
(becaufe'AS is the fun’s declination perpendicular to
the equator), we have R : fin. ES=fin. E : fin. AS,
and fin. AS=:/)V. Alfo R : cof. ASzzcof. AE : cof.
ES, and cof. ES or y—cof. AS Xcof. AE. There¬
fore />yy —fin. AS cof. AS X cof. AE, —mn X cof. AE.
3 A
Therefore the momentary nutation CD—rx
Let S be the fun’s
place in the ecliptic, and AS the fun’s declination, the
meridian AS being perpendicular to the equator. Let
-—r—be E The angle BAE is then rr r m n. In
a 2 P
the fpherical triangle BAE wre have fin. B : fin. AE=
fin. A : fin. BE, or —A : BE, becaufe very fmall
angles and arches are as their fines. Therefore BE,
which is the momentary precefiion of the equino&ial
. T A ^in' • 3 P .
point E, is equal to A — = r X k tn n
fin. R. afeenf.
We muft recoiled!: that this angle is a certain frac¬
tion of the momentary diurnal rotation. It is more
convenient to confider it as a fradlion of the fun’s an¬
nual motion, that fo we may diredlly compare his mo¬
tion on the ecliptic with the preceflion and nutation
correfponding to his fituation in the heavens. This
change is ealily made, by augmenting the fradlion in
the ratio of the fun’s angular motion to the motion of
T
rotation, or multiplying the fradlion by — j therefore
• O t
the momentary nutation will be r~^kpxy.
In this va¬
lue
7p is a conflant quantity, and the momentary nu¬
tation is proportional to .vy, or to the produdt of the
fine and cofine of the fun’s longitude, or to the fine of
twice the fun’s longitude } for xy is equal to half the
fine of twice %.
If therefore we multiply this fradlion by the fun’s
momentary angular motion, which w7e may fuppofe with
abundant accuracy, proportional to 2, we obtain the
fiuxion of the nutation, the fluent of which will ex-
Part IV. ' A S T R ,
Theory of prefs the whole nutation while the fun defcribes the
Univerfal % 0f ecliptic, beginning at the vernal equi-
tion. nox. Therefore, in place of y put and in place
L" ’ x
O N O M Y. 149
.the equinoxes while the fun moves from the vernal Theory of
equinox along the arch z of the ecliptic. Gravita^
3^7 'tioT'
l, and we have the fluxion of the nuta-
of 2; put
V I —V
tion for the moment when the fun’s longitude is z,
and the fluent will be the whole nutation. The fluxion
of which the
refulting from this procefs is - x x.
fluent is
4T
2T
This is the whole change produ¬
ced on the obliquity of the ecliptic while the fun moves
along the arch ss ecliptic, reckoned from the vernal
equinox. When this arch is 90°, x is 1. and there¬
fore ^ — is the nutation produced while the fun moves
41 .
from the equinox to the folftice.
The momentary change of the axis and plane of the
equator (which is the meafure of the changing force)
3 ^.
414
Tire real
and mo¬
mentary
change
greateft at
thefolftices, The momentary change of the obliquity of the eclip-
and at the 7.tkp
tic is ■ ,./ x X.
is ^—^mn
2 I
equinoxes
nothing.
2T
. ^ t h p
The whole change of obliquity is W-x:*
Hence we fee that the force and the real momentary
change of pofition are greatefl: at the folftices, and di-
minifh to nothing at the equinoxes.
The momentary change of obliquity is greatefl; at the
oftants, being proportional to v a? or to xy.
The whole accumulated change of obliquity is
greatefl; at the folftices, the obliquity itfelf being then
fmalleft.
We muft in like manner find the accumulated quan-
ot precel- tjty 0f precefflon after a given time, that is, the
fir.n in o 1 n T7 C r • °
arcn rsii, tor a nmte time.
We have ER : CD—fin. EA : fin. CA (or cof.
EA) —tan. EA : I, and EB : ER —i : fin. B. There¬
fore EB : CDzztan. EA : fin. B. But tan. EA—
cof. Ex tan. ES, rr cof. E X -—If—
' coi. long. y/j 
-/>, and CD m EB :
4i5
Quantity
fion in a
given time
CD =
Therefore EB :
fin. obliq. eclip.
tan.long. 0
lue found in N° 4c, viz.
q x
V I X*
If we now fubftitute for CD its va-
3( kp
2 T
x x, we obtain EBzr
X —~=~> ^ie °f the preceffion of the
2 1 4/1 —x%
equinoxes occafioned by the adlion of the fun. The
fluent of the variable part
— x y, of vdiich
v/1 —■xz
the fluent is evidently a fegment of a circle whofe arch
-x V1
is 2; and fine x, that is, —
and the
In this expreftion, which confifts of two parts,
and y- ^—x 1 — x2^, the firft is incomparably
greater than the fecond, which never exceeds 1", and is
always compenfated in the fucceeding quadrant. The
2,
7thq
 ic
4*'
and
preceflion occafioned by the fun will be
from this expreflion we fee that the preceflion increafes
uniformly, or at leaft increafes at the fame rate with
* h o .
the fun’s longitude z, becaufe the quantity ■ ■ - is con-
4 1
ftant.
In order to make ufe of thefe formulae, which are Mode of
now reduced to very great fimplicity, it is necelfary toufing the
determine the values of the two conftant quantities
'Xthp'ithci
- -777-5 w^hich we ftiall call N and P, as factors of
4r 4I ’
the nutation and preceflion
and T is 366%. k is ——
416
Now t is one fidereal day,
—, which according to
Sir Ifaac Newton is
2312—230
/> and q
whole preceflion, while the fun defcribes the arch z,
/J ^ f     \
is TpXrfl 2—v v/i—v2 J. This is the preceflion of
231" 115
are the fine and cofine of 230 28', viz. 0,39822 and
0,91729.
1'hefe data give Nj=r and P rr —1— of
141030 01224
which the logarithms are 4.85069 and 5.21308, viz.
the arithmetical complements of 5.14931 and 4.78692. t '
Let us, for an example of the ufe of this inveftiga- Example 0f
tion, compute the preceflion of the equinoxes when the utility
the fun has moved from the vernal equinox to the fum-oDhe in-
mer folftice, fo that z is 90°, or 324000". veftigation-
Log 3240oo/'=zz - - 5-5io55
Log p - - . 5.21308
Log 5",292 - - • - 0.72363
The preceflion therefore in a quarter of a year is
5,292 feconds ; and, fince it increafes uniformly, it is
21",168 annually.
We muft now recolleft the affumptions on which a,-]'418
this computation proceeds. The earth is fuppofed totions on
be homogeneous, and the ratio of its equatorial diame-which the
ter to its polar axis is fuppofed to be that of 231 toc?mPuta-
230. If the earth be more or lefs protuberant at thetloI\pro~
equator, the preceflion will be greater or lefs in thera-CCC S’
tio of this protuberance. The meafures wfliich have
been taken of the degrees of the meridian are very in-
confiftent among thernfelves; and although a compari-
fon of them all indicates a fmaller protuberancy, nearly
-jLr inftead of fyT, their differences are too great to
leave much confidence in this method. But if this
figure be thought more probable, the preceflion will be
reduced to about 17" annually. But even though the
figure of the earth were accurately determined, we have
no authority to fay that it is homogeneous. If it be
denfer towards the centre, the momentum of the protu¬
berant matter will not be fo great as if it wrnre equally
denfe with the inferior parts, and the preceflion will be
diminiftied on this account. Did we knowTthe propor¬
tion of the matter in the moon to that in the fun, we
could
*50 A S T R
Unlveri'af Cou^ ea^^7 determine tKe proportion of the whole ob-
Gravita- ^rv®d annual preceffion of which is produced by
tion. lhe ^un,s a&ion. But we have no unexceptionable data
for determining this ; and we are rather obliged to in¬
fer it from the effedt which Ihe produces in difturbing
the regularity of the preceflion, as will be confidered
immediately. So far, therefore, as we have yet pro¬
ceeded in this inveftigation, the refult is very uncertain.
We have only afcertained unqueftionably the law which
is obferved in the folar preceflion. It is probable,
however, that this preceflion is not very different from
20" annually ; for the phenomena of the tides (how the
difturbing force of the fun to be very nearly A of the
„difturbing force of the moon. Now 20" is 4- of co"
the moon’s “ut ^et l15 now Proceed to confider the effect of the
aftion on rnoon’s adtion on the protuberant matter of the earth ;
the protu- and as vre are ignorant of her quantity of matter, and
berant mat.confequently of her influence in fimilar circumftances
earth/ e w‘t^1 t^ie ^un’ vve fuppofe that the difturbing force
of the moon is to that of the fun as wz to 1. Then
{cater is pa rib us) the preceflion will be to the folar pre-
ceffion ar in the ratio of the force and of the time of its
adlion jointly. Let t and T therefore reprefent a pe¬
riodical month and year, and the lunar preceflion will
. mvt .
oe = -Tp-. Ihis preceflion muft be reckoned on the
plane of the lunar orbit, in the fame manner as the fo¬
lar preceflion is reckoned on the ecliptic. We muft
alfo obferve, that -7^- reprefents the lunar preceflion
only on the fuppofition that the earth’s equator is in¬
clined to the lunar orbit in an angle of 234 degrees.
This is indeed the mean inclination ; but it is fometimes
increafed to above 28°, and fometimes reduced to 180.
Now in the value of the folar preceflion the cofine of
the obliquity was employed. Therefore whatever is
the angle E contained between the equator and the lu¬
nar orbit, the preceflion will be — ^
F Col. 234-0,
and it muft be reckoned on the lunar orbit.
Now let (fig. 160.) be the immoveable plane of
the ecliptic, <YlED=£iF the equator in its firft Situation,
before it has been deranged by the adlion of the moon,
AGRDBH the equator in its new pofition, after the
momentary adlion of the moon. Let EGNFH be the
moon’s orbit, of which N is the afcending node, and
the angle N—50 8' 46".
4*0
Lunar pre¬
ceflion in a
month re¬
duced to
the eclip¬
tic.
Let N<Y> the long, of the node be - *
Sine N'T1 - - - x
Cofine N'T* - - - y
Sine ‘T =r 234 . . . a
Cofine 'Y1 - - . h
Sine N~5.8.46 - - - c
Cofine N - - - - d
Circumference to radius i,=6,2 8 - e
Force of the moon - - m
Solar preceflion (fuppofedrr 144" by obferva-
tion) - _ jj.
Revolution of <1 /
Revolution of0=3664 - - T
Revolution ofN = i8 years 7 months - n
In order to reduce the lunar preceflion to the eclip¬
tic, we muft recolledl that the equator will have the
O N O M Y. Part IY.
fame inclination at the end of every half revolution of Theory of
tm fun or of the moon, that is, when they pafs through Univerfal
the equator, becaufe the'fum of all the momentary Gra.vita-
changes of its pofition begins again each revolution.. t'°n'
1 herefore if we negleft the motion of the node during V
one month, which is only 14 degrees, and can produce
but an mfenfible change, it is plain that the moon pro¬
duces, m one half revolution, that is, while fhe moves
froni H to G, the greateft difference that fhe can in the
pofition of the equator. The point D, therefore, half
way from G to H, is that in which the moveable equator
cuts the primitive equator, and DE and DF are each go°.
But S being the folftitial point, S is alfo 90°. There¬
fore DS=qp E. Therefore, in the triangle DGE, we
have fin. ED : fin. G = fin. EG : fin. D, = EG : D.
Therefore D = EG x fin, G, = EG x fin. E nearly!
Again, in the triangle A we have fin. A : fin. ^ D
(or cof. pf> E) = fin. D : fin. T1 A, =D : <y> A. There-
vi 7r t Sin. E • Cof. E • Cof. fy1 E
T Sin. cy> • Cof. ryi. '
This is the lunar preceflion produced in the courfe
of one month, eftimated on the ecliptic, not conftant
like the folar preceflion, but varying wflth the inclination
or the angle E or F, which varies both by a change in
the angle N, and alfo by a change in the pofition of N
on the ecliptic.
We muft find in like manner the nutation SR pro-Nutttion in
duced in the fame time, reckoned on the colure of the the fame
f'olftices RL. We have R: fin. DS=D: RS, andhme,
RS=D • fin. DS, = D • fin. ^ E. But D = EG • fin.E
Therefore RS = ED • fin. E • fin. v E, E
T • Cof. cy*
Xfin. E x fin.fy* E. In thisexpreflion we muft fubftitute
the angle N, which may be confidered as conftant during
the month, and the longitude <Y’ N, which is alfo near¬
ly conftant, by obferving that fin. E : fin.ty'N=fin.N :
fin.ry>E. Therefore T? s -^^g-in. N • Sm. or N- Cof. E.
T Col. <y>
But we muft exterminate the angle E, becaufe it changes
by the change of the'pofition of N. Now, in the tri¬
angle qpEN we have cof. E=cof.«Y>N‘fin. N'fin.«y> 
cof. N-cof. <yi, —yea—db. And becaufe the'angle E
is neceffarily obtufe, the perpendicular will fall without
the triangle, the cofine of E will be negative, and we
fhall have cof. Y. — bd—acy. Therefore the nutation
c 1 *11 1 ni7S't cx(bd—acy ,
for one month will be rr — x —^^ —, the node
being fuppofed all the while in N.
Thefe two expreflions of the monthly preceflion andma/be
nutation may be confidered as momentary parts of the confidered
moon’s a6tion, correfponding to a certain pofition ofas m°meru
the node and inclination of the equator, or, as the^-j *3arts
fluxions of the whole variable preceflion and nutation, moon’s ac-
wlrile the node continually changes its place, and in thetion.
fpace of 18 years makes a complete tour of the heavens.
We muft, therefore, take the motion of the node as thepre^p10u
fluent of comparifon, or we muft compare the fluxions and nuta-
of the node’s motion with the fluxions of the precefliontion con:i-
and nutation ; therefore, let the longitude of the nodepared*
be and its monthly change = z ; we fliall then have
t:
Part IV.
Theory of
Univerfal t: n~ z : e, and t
Gravita-
nz
nx
ASTRO
Let T be rr i.
^ *Vi—
in order that n may be 18,6, and fubftitute for t its
value in the fluxion of the nutation, by putting a/ i—
in place of y. By this fubftitution we obtain t?i7vn~
N O M Y.
has made a half revolution, we have amSo0, whofe
verfed fine is 2, and the verfed fine of 2z, or 360°, is
— o j therefore, after half a revolution of the node,
the nutation becomes
Vi tv n c
151
Theory of
Univerfal
Gravita¬
tion.
lb d. If,
in
this
ex-
(
d b
a c x
2
\/1—x*
^—d b \/ !■
§ 77 )• _But when x is —• 0, the nutation muft be =r 0,
becaufe it is from the pofition in the ecjuino.^fial points
that all our deviations are reckoned, and it is from this
point that the periods of the lunar aiffion recommence.
But if we make x xzz 0 m this expreflion, the term
preflion, we fuppofed «z—24, and sr =: 144", we fhall find
the nutation to be iQj-1'.
Now the obferved nutation is about 187. This re¬
quires /n to be 2-j~, and But it is evident,
that no aftronomer can pretend to warrant the accuracy
of his obfervations of the nutation within i".
(F/ut Simpfon s Fluxions, The find the lunar preceflion during half a revolution
.acxx*'). The fluent of this is
')
a c xz
-^(db X verfed
vamfhes, and the term —..db\/1 x~ becomes
= —^b; therefore our fluent has a conftant part +db;
and the complete fluent is 771tvti~(db
eb\
a cxx\
—~ 1. \Now this is equal to 771 tv n
fine, z cX verfed fine 22;): For the verfed fine
°l 53 18 eclual to ( \—cof. and the fquare of
the fine of an arch is 4 the verfed fine of twice that
arch.
1 his, then, is the whole nutation while the moon’s
amending node moves from the vernal equinox to the
longitude <v> N=*. It is the expreflion of a certain
number of feconds, becaufe tv, one of its faffors, is the
folar preceflion in feconds 4and all the other factors are
numbers, or fraffions of the radius 1 j even c is exprefled
in terms of the radius r.
The fluxion of the preceflion, or the monthly precef-
fion, is to that of the nutation as the cotangent of
is to the fine of <v>. This alfo appears by°confidering‘
fig. 159. P/> meafures the angle A, or change of pofition
of the equator 5 but the preceflion itfelf, reckoned on the
ecliptic, is meafured by Po, and the nutation by />o; and
the fluxion of the preceflion is equal to the fluxion of
nutation x bllt ^ E = ~r; tw
: This, muftiplied into
for
fine <Y1
CQt.cY>E ad-\- be V1—.y*
fine
c x
the fluxion of the nutation, gives - a~ ^ j_
^ d c—a bd.ty x for the monthly pre¬
ceflion. The fluent of this 7^JL^a dx b z ^ (b* 
dc x a b c* z— \ a b cx x\/~i—xx or it is equal
771 TV 71 (
t0 ^T7v ~}*c')ab*J\-{px — ax) d c z—4 a b cx
fine 2 zj.
J.et us now exprefs this in numbers: When the node
of the node, obferve, that then z becomes — -, and the
2
fine of z and of zz vanifii, dx becomes 1—cx, and the pre¬
ceflion becomes^f-"(^-4c*),=—and
the preceflion in 18 years is ttittti i—\cx.
We fee, by comparing the nutation and preceflion
db ^7 ^or n^ne years> that they aye as — to 1—4 c* nearly
as 1 to 174* This gives 313" of preceflion, correfpond-
ing to 18'', the oblerved nutation, which is about 35"
of preceflion annually produced by the moon.
And thus we fee that the inequality produced by
the moon in the preceflion of the equinoxes, and, more
particularly, the nutation occafioned by the variable ob¬
liquity of her orbit, enables us to judge of her fliare in
the whole phenomenon ; and therefore informs us of her
difturbing force, and therefore of her quantity of mat¬
ter. This phenomenon, and thofe of the tides, are the
only fadfs which enable us to judge of this matter : and
this is one of the circumflances which has caufed this
problem to occupy fo much attention. Dr Bradley,
by a nice comparifon of his obfervations with the ma¬
thematical theory, as it is called, furnilhed him by Mr
Machin, found that the equation of preceflion comput¬
ed by that theory was too great, and that the theory
would agree better with the obfervations, if an ellipfe
were fubftituted for Mr Machin’S little circle. He
thought that the fhorter axis of this ellipfe, lying in the
colure of the foiflices, fliould not exceed 16". Nothing
can more clearly fliow the aftonifhing accuracy of
Bradley’s obfervations than this remark : for it refults
from the theory, that the pole muft really deferibe an
ellipfe, having its Ihorter axis in the folftitial colure, and
the ratio of the axes muft be that of 18 to 16,8; for
the mean preceflion during a half revolution of the
. 424
Gives the
difturbing
force and
matter of
the moon.
, • 771 TV 717 CX\
node is - - ^ \d ,—- j j and Therefore for the longi-
tude *, it will be ; wI)en th!s is ta.
ken from the true preceflion for that longitude, it
leaves the equation of preceflion {bx dM dc'
a b e\K J
fine z — \abc fine 2 z j ; therefore when the node is
in the folftice, and the equation greateft, we have it =
m tvti c d , l4i
~abe~ /* We here negleft the fecond term
as infignificant.
This.
152
ASTRONOMY.
Part IV.
Theory of
Univerfal
Gravita¬
tion.
4Z5
Greateft
equation of
|>receffion.
This greateli equation or precellion is to   ,
the nutation of IS", as b*—a1 to 2 ab ; that is, as ra¬
dius to the tangent of twice the obliquity of the eclip¬
tic. This gives the greatelt equation of preceffion
16",8, not differing half a fecond from Bradley’s ob-
fervations.
Thus have tve attempted to give fome account of this
curious and important phenomenon. It is curious, be-
caufe it affedls the whole celeilial motions in a very in¬
tricate manner, and received no explanation from the
more obvious application of mechanical principles, which
fo happily accounted for all the other appearances. It
is one of the moft illuftrious proofs of Sir Ifaac New¬
ton’s fcgacity and penetration, which catched at a very
remote analogy between this phenomenon and the li-
bration of the moon’s orbit. It is highly important to
the progrefs of pradtical and ufeful ailronomy, becaufe
it has enabled us to compute tables of fuch accuracy,
that they can be ufed with confidence for determining
the longitude of a fhip at fea. This alone fixes its im¬
portance : but it is flill more important to the philofo-
pher, affording the moll inconteflable proof of the uni¬
verfal and mutual gravitation of all matter to all mat¬
ter. It left nothing in the folar fyflem unexplained
from the theory of gravity but the acceleration of the
moon’s mean motion •, and this has at laft been added
to the lift of our acquifitions by M. de la Place.
toties (tnimos veterum torfere Sophorum,
Splice que fcholas frujlra rauco cet'tamine vex ant,
Obvia confpicimus, nube pellente Matheji,
Jam dubios nulla caligine preegravat error
^ueis fuperum penetrare domos, atque ardua cceh
Scandere fubhftiis genii concejjit acumen.
Nec fas eft proprius mortali attingere divos.
Halley.
Sect. X. Of the Libration of the Moon.
The only phenomena which ftill remain to be ex¬
plained are the libration of the moon and the motion
of the nodes of her equator. The moon in confe-
quence of her rotation round her axis is a little flat¬
tened towards the poles ; but the attraction of the earth
muft have lengthened the axis of the moon diredled to¬
wards that planet. If the moon -were homogeneous
and fluid, fhe would aflume the form of an ellipfoid,
whofe fhorter axis would pafs through her poles of ro¬
tation ; the longer axis would be diredled towards the
earth, and in the plane of the moon’s equator j and the
mean axis, fituated in the fame plane, would be per¬
pendicular to the two others. The excefs of the long¬
er over the fhorter would be quadruple the excefs of
the mean axis over the fhorter, and would amount to
about —^—, the fhorter axis being reprefented by
29711 0
unity.
It is eafy to fee, that if the longer axis of the moon Theory of
deviate a little from the direction of the radius vedtor,
which joins together the centres of the earth and moon, J t;on> "
the attradfion of the earth will tend to bring it towards y—.j
that radius juft as gravity tends to biing a pendu¬
lum towards the vertical pofition. If the rotation of
the fatellite had been at firft fufficiently rapid to over¬
come this tendency, the time of a rotation would not
have been equal to that of a revolution round the earth,
and their difference would have difeovered to us fuc-
ceffively all the points of the moon’s furface. But the
angular motions of rotation and revolution having
been at firft but very little different, the force with
which the longer axis feparated from the radius vec¬
tor was not fufficient to overcome the tendency toward
the radius vedlor occafioned by the attradlion of the
earth. This laft tendency, therefore, has rendered the
two motions rigidly equal. And, as a pendulum dri¬
ven from the vertical diredlion by a very fmall force
conftantly returns to it, making fmall ofcillations on
each fide, in like manner the longer axis of the moon
ought to ofcillate on each fide of the radius vedlor of her
orbit. The libration of the moon then depends upon
the fmall difference which originally fubfifted be¬
tween the angular motions of the moon’s rotation and
revolution.
Thus we fee, that the theory of gravitation explains
the equality which fubfifts between the mean rotation
and revolution of the moon. It is only neceffary to
fuppofe, that the original difference between them was
fmall. In that cafe the attraction of the earth would
loon reduce them to a ftate of equality.
The fingular coincidence of the nodes of the moon’s
equator, with thofe of its orbit, is alfo owing to the
attradlion of the earth. This was firft demonftrat-
ed by La Grange. The planes of the equator and
of the orbit of the moon, and the plane which paffes
through its centre, parallel to the ecliptic, have al¬
ways nearly the fame interfedlion. The fecular move¬
ments of the ecliptic neither alter the coincidence of
the nodes of thefe three planes, nor their mean incli¬
nation, which the attradlion of the earth keeps always
the fame.
We have now examined all the phenomena of the
heavenly bodies, and have found that they are all ex¬
plicable on the theory of gravitation, and indeed ne¬
ceffary confequences of that theory, ft he exadl coin¬
cidence of all the phenomena muft be confidered as a
complete demonftration of the truth of the theory •, and
indeed places it beyond the reach of every pofiible ob-
jedlion. With refpedl to the nature of this force call¬
ed gravitation, nothing whatever is known, nor is it
likely that any thing ever will be known, ft'he dif-
cuffion being evidently above the reach of the human
faculties, all the different theories wftnch have been
publifhed, explaining it by ethers, &x. have only ferved
to fliow the weaknefs of human reafon, when it attempts
to leave the plain path of experience, and indulge in
fancy and conjedlure.
APPENDIX.
Appendix. ASTRONOMY,
Of Calcula-
‘i^Eciip- APPENDIX.
les, &c.
In the preceding article we have endeavoured to
give as full a view as poflible of aftronomy ; avoiding,
at the fame time, the introduclicn of minute details
upon thofe fubjedls which are not clfential, that the
readers attention might not be drhlra&ed and diverted
from objects of primary importance. But for the fake
of thofe perfons who may with to indulge their tafte
for praftical aftronomy, we have thought proper to
fubjoin an appendix ; in winch we (hall give, in the
firlt place, the rules for calculating eclipfes, and in
the fecond, a defeription of the moft important aftro-
nomical inftruments.
I. Method of calculating Eclipfes.
The method of conftrudting tables for the calcu¬
lation of eclipfes will be underftood from the follow¬
ing obfervations.
The motions of the fun and moon are obferved to
be continually accelerated from the apogee to the pe¬
rigee, and as gradually retarded from the perigee to the
apogee ; being ilow^eft of all when the mean anomaly
is nothing, and fwifteft of ail when it is fix figns.
When the luminary is in its apogee or perigee, its
place is the fame as it would be if its motion were
equable in all parts of its orbit. The fuppofed equable
motions are called mean; the unequable are juftly called
the true.
The mean place of the fun or moon is always for¬
warder than the true place, whilfic the luminary is mov¬
ing from its apogee to its perigee: and the true
place is always forwarder than the mean, whilft the lu¬
minary is moving from its perigee to its apogee.' In
the former cafe, the anomaly is always lefs than fix
figns •, and in the latter cafe, more.
It has been found, by a long feries of obfervations,
that the fun goes through the ecliptic, from the vernal
equinox to the fame equinox again, in 365 days 5
hours 48 minutes 55 feconds j from the firft ftar of
Aries to the fame ftar again, in 365 days 6 hours 9
minutes 24 feconds; and from his apogee to the fame
again, in 365 d ys 6 hours 14 minutes o feconds.—
The firft of thefe is called thefolaryear; the fecond the
fdereal year; and the third the anomaliflicyear. So
that the folar year is 20 minutes 29 feconds fhorter
than the fidereal 5 and the fidereal year is four minutes
36 feconds fhorter than the anomaliftic. Hence it ap¬
pears, that the equinotftial point, or inter feet ion of the
ecliptic and equator at the beginning of Aries, goes
backward with refpect to the fixed ftars, and that the
fun’s apogee goes forward.
It is alfo obferved, that the moon goes through her
orbit, from any given fixed ftar to the fame ftar again,
in 27 days 7 hours 43 minutes 4 feconds at a mean rate 5
from her apogee to her apogee again, in 27 days 13
hours 18 minutes 43 feconds •, and from the fun to the
fun again, in 29 days 12 hours 44 minutes 3TI5- feconds.
This ihows that the moon’s apogee moves forward in
the ecliptic, and that at a much quicker rate than the
fun’s apogee does: fince the moon is 5 hours 55 mi¬
nutes 39 feconds longer in revolving from her apogee
to her apogee-again, than from any ftar to the fame
ftar again.
The moon’s orbit croffes the ecliptic in twT0 oppo-
Vol. III. Part I.
fite points, which are called her nodes: and it is ob¬
ferved, that ihe revolves fooner from any node to the
node again, than from any ftar to the ftar again, by 2
hours 38 minutes 27 feconds j which fliows that her
nodes move backward, or contrary to the order of figns
in the ecliptic.
The time in which the moon revolves from the fun
to the fun again (or from change to change) is called
a lunation ; which, according to Dr Pound’s mean
meafures, would always confift of 29 days 12 hours
44 minutes 3 feconds 2 thirds 58 fourths, if the mo¬
tions of the fun and moon wrere always equable. Hence
12 mean lunations contain 354 days 8 hours 48 mi¬
nutes'36 feconds 35 thirds 40 fourths, which is 10 days
2r hours 11 minutes 23 feconds 24 thirds 20 fourths
lefs than the length of a common Julian year, confift-
ing of 365 days 6 hours; and 13 mean lunations con¬
tain 383 days 21 hours 32 minutes 39 feconds 38
thirds 38 fourths, which exceeds the length of a com¬
mon Julian year, by 18 days 15 hours 32 minutes 39
feconds 38 thirds 38 fourths.
The mean time of new moon being found for any
given year and month, as fuppofe for March 1700
old ftyle, if this mean new moon falls later than the
nth day of March, then 12 mean lunations added
to the time of this mean new moon will give the time
of the mean new moon in March 1701, after having
thrown off 365 days. But when the mean new moon
happens to be before the 1 ith of March, we muff add
13 mean lunations, in order to have the time of mean
new moon in March the year following ; always taking
care to fubtraift; 365 days in common years, and 366
days in leap years, from the fum of this addition.
Thus, A. D. 1700, old ftyle, the time of mean
new moon in March was the 8th day, at 16 hours ir
minutes 25 feconds after the noon of that day (viz. at
11 minutes 25 feconds pall; four in the morning of the
9th day), according to common reckoning. To this
we muft add 13 mean lunations, or 383 days 21 hours
32 minutes 39 feconds 38 thirds 38 fourths, and the
fum will be 392 days 13 hours 44 minutes 4 feconds
38 thirds 38 fourths : from which fubtradi 365 days,
becaufe the year 1701 is a common year, and there will
remain 27 days 13 hours 44 minutes 4 feconds 38
thirds 38 fourths for the time of mean new moon in
March, A. D. 1701.
Carrying on this addition and fubtradlion till A. D.
1703, we find the time of mean new moon in March
that year to be on the 6th day, at 7 hours 21 mi¬
nutes 17 feconds 49 thirds 46 fourths pall, noon; to
which add 13 mean lunations, and the fum will be 390
days 4 hours 53 minutes 57 feconds 28 thirds 20
fourths; from which fubtracl 366 days, becaufe the
year 1704 is a leap-year, and there will remain 24
days 4 hours 53 minutes 57 feconds 28 thirds 20
fourths, for the time of mean new moon in March
A. D. 1704.
In this manner wTas the firft of the following tables
conftrudled to feconds, thirds, and fourths; and then
wrote out to the neareft feconds. The reafon why we
chofe to begin the year with March, was to avoid the
inconvenience of adding a day to the tabular time in
leap-years after February, or fubtradfting a day there-
4J from
x53
Of Calcula¬
ting Eclip-
fts, &c.
154 A S T R
Of Calcula- from in January and February in thofe years ; to which
tUf?s al! ta^^es this kind are fubjeft, which begin the year
Y—■> lvith January, in calculating the times of new or*full
moons.
The mean anomalies of the fun and moon, and the
fun’s mean motion from the afeending node of the
moon’s orbit, are fet down in Table III. from i to 13
mean lunations. Thefe numbers, for 13 lunations, be¬
ing added to the radical anomalies of the fun and
moon, and to the fun’s mean diftance from the afeend¬
ing node, at the time of mean new moon in March
1700 (Table I.), will give their mean anomalies, and
the fun’s mean diftance from the node, at the time of
mean new moon in March 1701, and being added fol¬
ia lunations to thofe for 1701, give them for the time
of mean new moon in March 1702. And fo on as far
as you pleafe to continue the table (which is here car¬
ried on to the year j8oo), always throwing off 12
figns when their fum exceeds 12, and fetting down the
remainder as the proper quantity.
If the number belonging to A. I). 1700 (in Table I.)
be fubtrafted from thofe belonging to 1800, we lhall
have their whole differences in too complete Julian
years •, which accordingly we find to be 4 days 8 hours
10 minutes 52 feconds 15 thirds 40 fourths, with re-
fpefl to the time of mean new moon. Thefe being ad¬
ded together 60 times (always taking care to throw off
a whole lunation when the days exceed 29^) make up
60 centuries, or 6000 years, as in 'Table VI. which
w-as carried on to feconds, thirds, and fourths j and
then wrote out to the neareft feconds. In the fame
manner were the refpedtive anomalies and the fun’s
diftance from the node found, for thefe centurial years j
and then (for want of room) wrote out only to the
neareft minutes, which is fufficient in w-hole centuries.
Ey means of thefe two tables, we may find the time of
any mean new moon in March, together ivith the ano¬
malies of the fun and moon, and the fun’s diftance from
the node at thefe times, within the limits of 6000 years
either before or after any given year in the 18th cen¬
tury ; and the mean time of any new or full moon in
any given month after March, by means of the third
and fourth tables, within the fame limits, as fliown in
the precepts for calculation.
Thus it would be a very eafy matter to calculate the
time of any newr or full moon, if the fun and moon
moved equably in all parts of their orbits. But we
have already ftiown, that their places are never the fame
as they would be by equable motions, except when
they are in apogee or perigee ; which is, when their
mean anomalies are either nothing or fix figns : and
that their mean places are always forwarder than their
true places, whilft the anomaly is lefs than fix figns ;
and their two places are forwarder than the mean,
whilft the anomaly is more.
Hence it is evident, that whilft the fun’s anomaly is
lefs than fix figns, the moon will overtake him, or be
©ppofite to him, fooner than fhe could if his motion
w’ere equable ; and later whilft his anomaly is more
than fix figns. The greateft difference that can pof-
iibly happen ‘between the mean and true time of new
or full moon, on account of the inequality of the fun’s
motion, is 3 hours 48 minutes 28 feconds : and that
is, when the fun’s anomaly is either 3 figns 1 degree,
or 8 figns 29 degrees) fooner in the firft cafe, and
later in the lalh—-In all other figns and degrees of
O N O MY. Appendix.
anomaly, the difference is gradually lefs, and vanifhes Of Cakuk-
when the anomaly is either nothing or fix figns. ting Eclip-
I he fun is in his apogee on the 30th of June, and in , les> &:c- .
his perigee on the 30th of December, in the prefent ^ V
age : fo that he is nearer the earth in our winter than
in our fummer.—The proportional difference of di¬
ftance, deduced from the difference of the fun’s appa¬
rent diameter at thefe times, is as 983 to 1017.
The moon’s orbit is dilated in winter, and contradf-
ed in fummer) therefore the lunations are longer in
winter than in fummer. The greateft difference is
found to be 22 minutes 29 feconds ) the lunations in-
creafing gradually in length whilft the fun is moving
from his apogee to his perigee, and decreafing in length
whilft he is moving from his perigee to his apogee. On
this account, the moon will be later every time in co¬
ming to her conjunction with the fun, or being in op-
pofition to him, from December till June, and fooner
from June till December, than if her orbit had conti¬
nued of the fame fize all the year round.
As both thefe differences depend on the fun’s ano¬
maly, they may be fitly put together into one table,
and called T/je annual or firjl equation of the mean to
the true fyzigy, (See Table VII.) This equational dif¬
ference is to be iubtrafted from the time of the mean
fyzigy when the fun’s anomaly is lefs than fix figns,
and added wThen the anomaly is more.—At the greateft
it is 4 hours xo minutes 57 feconds, viz. 3 hours 48
minutes 28 feconds, on account of the fun’s unequal
motion, and 22 minutes 29 feconds, on account of the
dilatation of the moon’s orbit.
1 his compound equation would be fufficient for re¬
ducing the mean time of new or full moon to the true
time thereof, if the moon’s vorbit were of a circular
form, and her motion quite equable in it. But the
moon’s orbit is more elliptical than the fun’s, and her
motion in it is fo much the more unequal. The diffe¬
rence is fo great, that flie is fometimes in conjunction
wuth the fun, or in oppofition to him, fooner by 9 hours
47 minutes 54 feconds, than ffie would be if her mo¬
tion were equable ) and at other times as much later.
The former happens when her mean anomaly is 9 figns
4 degrees, and the latter when it is 2 figns 26 de¬
grees. See Table IX.
At different diftances of the fun from the moon’s
apogee, the figure of the moon’s orbit becomes diffe¬
rent. It is longeft of all, or moft eccentric, when the
fun is in the fame fign and degree either with the moon’s
apogee or perigee ) ffiorteft of all, or leaft eccentric,
when the fun’s diftance from the moon’s apogee is ei¬
ther three figns or nine figns) and at a mean ftate
when the diftance is either 1 fign 15 degrees, 4 figns
15 degrees, 7 figns 15. degrees, or 10 figns 15 degrees.
When the moon’s orbit is at its greateft eccentricity,
her apogeal diftance from the earth’s centre is to her
perigeal diftance therefrom, as 1067 is to 933 ) when
leaft eccentric, as 1043 is to 937 5 and when at the
mean ftate, as 1055 1:0 945*
But the fun’s diftance from the moon’s apogee is
equal to the quantity of the moon’s mean anomaly at
the time of new moon, and by the addition of 6 figns
it becomes equal in quantity to the moon’s mean ano¬
maly at the time of full moon. Therefore, a table
may be conftruCled fo as to anfwer to all the various
inequalities depending on the different eccentricities of
the moon’s orbit, in the fyzigies, and called fhe fe-
, SQTtfi
t
I
Appendix. A S T R
Of Calcula-coru/ equation t>f the mean to the true fyxigy. (See Ta-
-f^P-ble IX.): and the moon’s anomaly, when equated by
i, ■ Table VIII. may be made the proper argument for
taking out this fecond equation of time ; which muft
be added to the former equated time, when the moon’s
anomaly is lefs than fix figns, and fubtrafted w7hen the
anomaly is more.
There are feveral other inequalities in the moon’s
motion, which fometimes bring on the true fyzigy a
little fooner, and at other times keep it back a little
later, than it would otherwife be; but they are fo fmall,
that they may be all omitted except two; the former
of which (fee Table X.) depends on the difference be¬
tween $he anomalies of the fun and moon in the fyzi-
gies, and the latter (fee Table XL) depends on the fun’s
diftance from the moon’s nodes at thefe times. The
greateft difference arifing from the former is 4 minutes
58 feconds; and from the latter, 1 minute 34 feconds.
The tables here inferred being calculated by Mr
Fergufon according to the methods already given, he
gives the following directions for their ufe.
355 To calculate the true Time of New or Full Moon.
for the ufc Precept I. If the required time be within the li¬
ef thofe mits of the 18th century, wuite out the mean time of
tables. new moon in March, for the propofed year, from Table
I. in the old ftyle, or from Table II. in the new; to¬
gether with the mean anomalies of the fun and moon,
and the fun’s mean diftance from the moon’s afeending
node. If you want the time of full moon in March,
and the half lunation at the foot of Table III. with
its anomalies, &c. to the former numbers, if the new
moon falls before the 15th of March ; but if it falls af¬
ter, fubtraCt the half lunation, with the anomalies, &c.
belonging to it, from the former numbers, and write
down the refpeftive firms or remainders.
II. In thefe additions or fubtraClions, obferve, that
60 feconds make a minute, 60 minutes make a degree,
30 degrees make a fign, and 1 2 figns make a circle.
When you exceed 12 figns in addition, rejeCl 12, and
fet down the remainder. When the number of figns
to be fubtraCled is greater than the number you fub-
traft from, add x 2 figns to the leffer number, and then
you will have a remainder to fet down. In the tables
figns are marked thus s, degrees thus °, minutes thus ',
and feconds thus
III. When the required new or full moon is in any
given month after March, write out as many lunations
with their anomalies, and the fun’s diftance from the
node from Table III. as the given month is after March,
letting them in order below the number taken out for
March.
IV. Add all thefe together, and they will give the
mean time of the required new or full moon, with the
mean anomalies and fun’s mean diftance from the
afeending node, which are the arguments for finding
the proper equations.
V. With the number of days added together, enter
Table IV. under the given month; and againft that
number you have the day of mean new or full moon
in the left-hand column, which fet before the hours,
minutes, and feconds, already foun-d.
But (as it will fometimes happen) if the faid num¬
ber of days fall Ihort of any in the column under the
given month, add one lunation and its anomalies, &c*
(from Table III.) to the forefaid ftuns, and then you
O N 0 M Y. 155
will have a new fum of days wherewith to enter Of Calcula-
Table IV. under the given month, where you are fure tll1£ Ec'l1P'
to find it the fecond time, if the firft falls ftiort. ( e s’ ^'c‘
VI. With the figns and degrees of the fun’s ano¬
maly, enter Table VII. and therewith take out the
annual or firft equation for reducing the mean fyzigy
to the true ; taking care to make proportions in the
table for the odd minutes and feconds of anomaly, as
the table gives the equation only to whole degrees.
Obferve, in this and every other cafe of finding equa¬
tions, that if the figns are at the head of the table,
their degrees are at the left hand, and are reckoned
downwards; but if the figns are at the foot of the table,
their degrees are at the right hand, and are counted
upward ; the equation being in the body of the table,
under or over the figns, in a collateral line wuth the
degrees. The titles Nldd or SubtraB at the head or
foot of the tables where the figns are found, (how whe¬
ther the equation is to be added to the mean time of
new or full moon, or to be fubtrafted from it. In this
table, the equation is to be lubtra&ed, if the figns of
the fun’s anomaly are found at the head of the table;
but it is to be added, if the figns are at the foot.
VII. With the figns and degrees of the fun’s mean
anomaly, enter T^ible VIII. and take out the equation
of the moon’s mean anomaly ; fubtraft this equation
from her mean anomaly, if the figns of the fun’s anoma¬
ly be at the head of the table, but add it if they are at
the foot; the refult will be the moon’s equated ano¬
maly, with which enter Table IX. and take out the
fecond equation for reducing the mean to the true time
of new or full moon ; adding this equation, if the figns
of the moon’s anomaly are at the head of the table,
but fubtrafting it if they are at the foot; and the re¬
fult wall give you the mean time of the required new
or full moon twice equated, which will be fufficiently
near for common almanacs.'—But when you want to
calculate an eclipfe, the following equations muft be
ufed : thus,
VIII. Subtrad! the moon’s equated anomaly from
the fun’s mean anomaly, and with the remainder in
figns and degrees enter Table X. and take out the
third equation, applying it to the former equated time,
as the titles Add or Subtraff do direft.
IX. With the fun’s mean diftance from the afeend¬
ing node enter Table XI. and take out the equation
anfwering to that argument, adding it to, or fubtraft-
ing it from, the former equated time, as the titles di-
redl, and the refult will give the time of new or full
moon, agreeing with w7ell regulated clocks or wratches
very near the truth. But to make it agree with the
folar, or apparent time, you muft apply the equation
of natural days, taken from an equation-table, as it is
leap-year, or the firft, fecond, or third after. This,
however, unlefs in very nice calculations, needs not be
regarded, as the difference between true and apparent
time is never very confiderable.
The method of calculating the time of any new or
full moon without the limits of the 18th century will
be fhown further on. And a few examples compared
with the precepts will make the whole work plain.
N. B. The tables begin the day at noon, and reckon
forward from thence to the noon following.—Thus,
March the 31ft, at 22 h. 30 m. 25 fee. of tabular time
is April 1 ft (in common reckoning) at 30 m. 25 fee.
after 10 o’clock in the morning.
U 2 EXAMPLE
JS5
Of Calcula¬
ting Eclip-
fes, &c.
ASTRONOMY.
EXAMPLE I.
Required the true time of idew Moon in April 1764, Neve Style P
Appendix
Of Calcula¬
ting Eclip-
fes, 8tc.
V—v——f
By the Precepts.
March I/64,
Add 1 Lunation,
Mean New Moon,
Firft Equation,
Time once equated,
Second equation,
Time twice equated,
Third Equation,
Time thrice equated,
Fourth Equation,
True New Moon,
Equation of days,
Apparent time,
New Moon.
31
H. M.
2
29
8 55
12 44
3
21 39
4 10
39
40
1 50
3 24
I9
49
22 25
4- 4
3°
37
22 30
+
7
18
22 30
— 3
25
48
22 26 37
Sun’s Anomaly.
8 2 20 O
o 29 6 19
9 1 26 19
n 10 59 18
9 20 27 1
Arg. 3d equation.
Moon’s Anomaly.
Sun from Node.
IO 13 35 21
o 25 49 C
II 9 24 21
+ 1 34 57
u 10 59 18
Arg. 2d equation.
11 4 54 48
I O 40 14
0 dS 35 2
Sun from Node,
and Arg. 4th e-
quation.
So the true time is 22 h. 30 min. 25 fee. after the noon
of the 31 ft March; that is, April ift, at 30 min. 25 fee.
after ten in the morning. But the apparent time is 26
min. 37 fee. after ten in the morning.
Qu.
E X A
The true time of the
M P L E II.
Full Moon in May 1762, New Style?
By the Precepts.
March 1762,
Add 2 lunations,
New Moon, May,
Subt. 4 Lunation,
Full Moon, May,
Firft Equation,
Time once equated,
Second Equation,
Time twice equated,
Third Equation,
Time thrice equated,
Fourth Equation,
The Full Moon,
New Moon.
D. H. M. S.
24 15 18 24
59 1 28 6
22 16 46 30
14 18 22 2
7 22 24 28
+ 3 16 36
8 1 41 4
- 9 47 53
7 *5 53 11
— 2 36
7 15 5° 35
4- 15
7 15 5° 5°
Sun’s Anomaly.
Moon’s Anomaly.
8 23 48 16
I 28 12 39
10 22 O 55
o 14 33 10
10 7 27 45
9 3 57 18
1 3 30 _ 27
Arg. 3d equation.
1 23 59 11
I 21 38 I
3 15 37 I2
6 12 54 30
9 2 42 42
+ 1 14 36
9 3 57 .18
Arg. 2d equation.
Sun from Node,
IO 18 49 14
2 I 20 28
o 20 9 42
O 15 20 7
0 4 49 35
Sun from Node,
and Arg. 4th e-
quation.
Anf. May 7th at 15I1. 5cmin. jofec. paft noon, vi%.
May 8th at 3 h. 50 min. 50 fee. in the morning.
To calculate the time of New and Full Moon in a given
year and month of any particular century between the
Chriftian era and the century.
Precept I. Find a year of the fame number in the
18th century with that of the year in the century pro-
pofed, and take out the mean time of new moon in
March, old ftyle, for that year, with the mean ano¬
malies and fun’s mean diftance from the node at that
time, as already taught.
II. Take as many complete centuries of years from
Table VI. as, when fubtra&ed from the abovefaid year
in the 18th century, will anfwer to the given year ;
and take out the firft mean new moon and its anoma¬
lies, &c. belonging to the faid centuries, artd fet them
below thofe taken out for March in the 18th century.
III. Subtract the numbers belonging to thefe centu¬
ries from thofe of the 18th century, and the remainders
will be the meantime and anomalies, &.c. of new moon
in March, in the given year of the century propofed.—
Then, work in all refpe&s for the true time of new or
full moon, as fhown in the above precepts and examples.
IV. If the days annexed to thefe centuries exceed the
number of days from the beginning of March taken out
in the 18th century, add a lunation and its anomalies,
&. from "Fable III. to the time and anomalies of new'
moon in March, and then proceed in all refpedts as
above. This circumftance hapnens in Example V.
EXAMPLE
App endix.
Of Calcula¬
ting Eclip-
fes, See.
ASTRONOMY.
EXAMPLE III.
"Required the true time of Full Moon in April, Old Style, A. D. 30?
From 1730 fubtracl 1700 (or 17 centuries) and there remains 30.
*57
Of Calcula¬
ting Eclip-
fes. See.
By the Precepts.
New Moon
March 1730,
Add 4 Lunation,
Full Moon,
1700 years fubtr.
Full D March A. D. 30.
Add 1 Lunation,
Full Moon, April,
Firft Equation,
Time once equated,
Second Equation,
Time twice equated,
Third Equation,
Time thrice equated,
Fourth Equation,
True Full Moon, April,
D. H. M S.
7 12 34
t4 l8 22
j6
2
22 6 56
I4 I? 36
I o
42
7 13 l9
29 12 44
36
623
+ 3 28
39
4
6 5 31
+ 2 57
43
48
6 8 29
— 2
31
54
Sun’s Anomaly.
8 18 4 31
o 14 33 10
9 2 37 41
1X 28 46 o
9 3 51 41
o 29 6 19
10 2 58 o
5 10 58 40
4 2* 59 .20
Arg. 3d equation.
Moon’s Anomaly. I Sun from Node.
s.
n
9 ° 32 ^
6 12 54 30
3 *3 26 47
10 29 36 o
4 I3 5° 47
o 25 49 o
5
+
9 39 47
1 *8 53
5 10 58 40
Arg. 2d equation.
I 23 17 16
O 15 20 7
2 8 37 23
4 29 23 o
9 !4 23
o 40 14
10 9 54 37
Sun from Node,
and Arg. fourth
equation.
6 8 26
— 1
37
33
8 25
Hence it appears, that the true time of Full Moon
in April, A. D. 30, old rtyle, was on the 6th day, at
25 m. 4 f. pad; eight in the evening.
To Calculate the true time of New or Full Moon 'in any fubtraft the time and anomalies belonging to it from
given year and month before the Chriftian era.
Precept I. Find a year in the 18th century, which
being added to the given number of years before Chrift
diminifhed by one, fliall make a number of complete
centuries.
II. Find this number of centuries in Table VI. and
EXAM
thofe of the mean new moon in March, the above found
year of the t8th century 5 and the remainder w ill de¬
note the time and anomalies, &c. of mean new moon
in March, the given year before Chrift.—Then, for the
true time thereof in any month of that year, proceed
as above taught.
P L E IV.
Required the true time of New Moon in May, 0 let Style, the year before Chrijl 585?
The years 584 added to 1716, make 2300, or 23 centuries.
By the Precepts.
March 1716,
2300 years fubtraft,
March before Chrift 585,
Add 3 Lunations,
May before Chrift 585,
Firft Equation,
'Time once equated,
Second Equation,
Time twice equated,
Third Equation,
Time thrice equated,
Fourth Equation,
True newr moon,
New Moon.
D H. M. S.
1 7
5
33
57
29
53
o
88
11
l4
35
x 2
36
9
28
47
1
45
37
+
46
15
28
4
+
28
2
+
28
30
Sun’s Anomaly.
Moon’s Anomaly.
22
*9
5°
47
39
o
3
27
39
58
o
*5
22
41
37
17
6 14 41 20
Arg. 3d equation.
J4
59
28
17
15
27
5 15 42
3
46
5 *9 41 .17
Arg. 2d equation.
Sun from Node.
27
25
J7
27
5°
o
5
42
0 3 5° 47
Sun from Node,
and Arg. fourth
equation.
So the true time wras May 28th, at 2 minutes 30 fe-
conds paft four in the afternoon.
Thefe Tables are calculated for the meridian of Lon- degree that the meridian of the given place is weftwmrd
don j but they will ferve for any other place, by fub- of London, or adding four minutes for every degree
trading four minutes from the tabular time, for every that the meridian of the given place is eaftward: as in
EXAMPLE
ASTRONOMY a a'
OfCalcula- W iV1 I* Appendix,
EXAMPLE V. ’ OfCalcula.
l_v__ Reared dt true Ume of Full Moon a, AlxonMa in Egyf, in September, Old Style, the yenr before Chrijl 2o. / "S-feT
The years 200 added to 1800, make 2000 or 20 cyphers.
New Moon.
By the Precepts.
March 1800,
Add 1 Lunation,
From the fum,
Subtract 2000 years,
N. M. bef. Chr. 201,
Add | J Lunations,
l half Lunations,
Full moon, September,
Firft Equation,
Time once equated,
Second Equation,
I itue twice equated,
Third Equation,
Time thrice equated,
Fourth Equation,
True time at London,
Add for Alexandria,
True time there,
E. H. M. S.
29
o
12
22
44
42
27
*3
18
20
*9
Sun’s Anomaly.
23
29
r9
6
55
i9
22
8
26
50
o
Moon’s Anomaly. ') Sun from Node.
i s
IO
O
7
25
52
49
36 n
o 1 1
58
40
24
H
3
15
41
42
36
o
4
27
38
45
38
o
H
I77
H
18
4
18
57
24
22
22
*7
3
43
52
21
6
13
8
5i
25
*5
4
22
5 26
11
58
22
5 25
22
25
1
22
7 26 28
*3
24
H
36
37
33
H
56
10
ro
5
6
l7
4
12
59
54
54
36
3 ,
30!
6
4
!5
53
1
20
38
24
7
3
10
22
4
47
J9
20 | 10
55 —
5 18 27 25
Arg. 3d equation.
48 9 It 26 15
28 14 | Sun from Node,
and Argument
i° 4 19 _ 55 i fourth equation.
Arg. 2d equation. (
Thus it appears, that the true time of Full Moon,
at Alexandria, in September, old llyle, the year be¬
fore Chrift 201, was the 22d day, at 26 minutes 28
leconds after feven in the evening.
/
E X A M P L E VI.
Required the true time of Full Moon at Babylonia OBober, Old Style, the 4008 year before the frjl year of
Chrift^ or 4007 before the year of his birth ?
The years 4007 added to 1793, make 5800, or 58 centuries.
By the Precepts
March 1793,
Subtraft 5800 years,
N. M. bef. Chr. 4007,
Add 17 Lunations,
A£Id 1 half Lunations,
Full moon, Oftober,
Firft Equation,
Time once equated,
Second Equation,
Time twice equated,
Third Equation,
Time thrice equated,
Fourth Equation,
Full moon at London,
Add for Babylon,
True time there.
New Moon.
D. H. M. S
30
15
9
12
!3
38
55
7
206
14
20
17
18
35
8
22
48
21
2
22 8
6
13
11
26
22
+
52
29
45
21
22 16
22
4
6
10
22 16
17
56
5i
22
16
2
17
25
4i
22 18 42 46
Sun’s Anomaly. I Moon’s Anomaly.
9
10
10
21
16
35
10
6
o
18
23
H
41
44
33
26 58
26 27
36
26
4 o 31 10
Arg. gd equation.
7 37
24 43
58
o
12
o
I 2
54
43
54
58
3
30
Sun from Node.
6
J3
18
1
26
o
23
4
J5
17 26
4i S8
20 7
26 32
— 5
31
5
1 26 27 26
Arg. 2d equation.
5 *3 19 II
Sun from Node,
and Argument
fourth equation.
So that, qn the meridian of London, the true time
was October 23d, at 17 minutes 5 feconds pad four
m the morning ; but at Babylon, the true time was
O&ober 23d, at 42 minutes 46 feconds pad fix in
the morning.—This, is fuppofed by fome to have been
the year of the creation.
cT
EXAMPLE.
Appendix. A S T R
Of Calcula-To calculate the true time of New or Full Moon in any
1 fe! &c.P’ given year and montb after tbe 1 %tb ^ntury.
t.■■ i i./ Precept I. Find a year of the fame number in the
18th century with that of the year propofed, and take
out the mean time and anomalies, &c. of new moon in
March, old ftyle, for that year, in Table I.
II. Fake fo many years from Table VI. as when
added to the above-mentioned year in the 18th century
0 N o M Y. j59
will anfwer to the given year in which the new or full Of Calcula-
inoon is required ; and take out the firft new moon, twS EcIiP'
with its anomalies for thefe complete centuries. , ^es’ ^cc’
III. Add all thefe together, and then work in all
refpedls as above Ihown, only remember to fubtraft a
lunation and its anomalies, when the abovefaid addition
carries the new moon beyond the 3ill of March j as
in the following example.
EXAMPLE VII.
Required the true time of New Moon in July, Old Style, A. D. 2180 ?
Four centuries (or 400 years) added to A. D. 1780, make 2180.
By the Trecepts.
March 1780,
Add 400 years,
From the Sum
Subtraft 1 Lunation
New Moon March 2180.
Add 4 Lunations,
New Moon July 2180,
Firft Equation,
Time once equated,
Second Equation,
Time twice equated,
Third Equation,
Time thrice equated,
Fourth Equation,
True time, July,
New Moon.
D. H. M. S.
Sun’s Anomaly.s Moon’s Anomaly
23 23 1 34
17 8 43 29
41 7 45 13
29 12 44 3
19 1 10
118 2 56 12
7 21 57 22
- 1 3 39
7 20 53 43
+ 9 24 8
8 ^ 17 51
+ 3 56
8 6 2i 47
■j* 1 8
8 6 22 55
9 4 18 13
o 13 24
9 17 42 13
o 29 6 19
8 18 35 54
3 26 25 17
o 15 1 II
3 9 38 37
10 5 22 34
Arg. 3d equation.
I 21 7 47
IO I 28 O
11 22 35 47
o 25 49 o
10 26 46 47
3 13 16 2
210 2 49
— 24 12
9 38 37
Arg. 2d equation.
Sun from Node.
10 18 21
6 17 49
6 10
o 40 14
5 29 47
2 40 56
8 8 10 43
Sun from Node and
Argument fourth
equation.
True time, July 8th, at 22 minutes 55 feconds
paft fix in the evening.
In keeping by the old ftyle, we are always fure to
be right, by adding or fubtrafting whole hundreds of
years to or from any given year in the 18th century.
But in the new ftyle we may be very apt to make mif-
takcs, on account of the leap year’s not coming in re¬
gularly every fourth year : and therefore, when we go
without the limits of the 18th century, we had beft
keep to the old ftyle, and at the end of the calculation
reduce the time to the new. Thus, in the 2 2d cen¬
tury there will be fourteen days difference between the
ftyles ; and therefore the true time of new moon in
this laft example being reduced to the new ftyle will
be the 22d of July, at 22 minutes 55 feconds paft fix
m the evening.
'To calculate the true place of the Sun for any given mo¬
ment of time.
, Precept L In Table XII. find the next leffer year
m number to that in which the fun’s place is fought,
and wiite out his mean longitude and anomaly an-
fwering thereto : to which add his mean motion and
anomaly for the complete refidue of years, months
days, hours, minutes, and feconds, down to the given
time, and this will be the fun’s mean place and ano¬
maly at that time, in the old ftyle, provided the faid
in any year after the Chriftian era. See the
JirJt jot lowing example.
II. Enter I able XIII. rvith the fun’s mean anoma¬
ly, and making proportions for the odd minutes and
ieconds thereof, take out the equation of the fun’s cen¬
tre : which, being applied to his mean place as the
title yldd or 3uhtraEl direfts, will give his true place
or longitude from the vernal equinox, at the time for
which it was required.
III. To calculate the fun’s place for any time in a
given year before the Chriftian era, take out his mean
longitude and anomaly for the firft year thereof, and
from thefe numbers fubtrafl the mean motions and
anomalies for the complete hundreds or thoufands next
above the given year ; and to the remainders, add thofe
for the refidue of years, months, &c. and then work in'
all refpe&s as above. See the fecond example following,
EXAMPLE
i6o
Ot Calcula¬
ting Eclip-
fes, &c.
ASTRONOM Y.
EXAMPLE I.
Appendix.
Required the Sun's true place, March 'loth, Old Style, 1764, at 22 hours 30 minutes 25 feconds pajl Noon ?
In common reckoning, March l\Jl, at 10 hours 30 minutes in the Forenoon.
To the radical year after Chrifl.
Add complete years
Biffextile Days
Hours
Minutes
Seconds
Sun’s mean place at the given time
Equation of the Sun’s centre, add
Sun’s true place at the fame time
1701
i 1
March
20
22
3°
25
Sun’s Longitude.
9
o
11
1
20
o
29
28
43
27
17
9
50
12
o
11
20 41 55
54 13
1 14
1
o 10 14 36
1 55 36
Sun’s Anomaly.
6 13 1
11 29 26
11 29
1 28
o
o
o
o
20 41 55
54 13
1 14
1
H
9
9 1 27 23
Mean Anomaly.
12 10 12 or cf 12 10 12
Of Calcula¬
ting Eclip-
fes, &c.
E X A M P L E II.
Required the Sun's true place, October 13d, Old Style, at 16 hours 57 minutes pajl Noon, in the 4008/0 year before
the year of Chrijl 1 ; which was the 4007//J before the year of his birth, atid the year of the 'Julian period 706.
By the Precepts.
From the radical numbers after Chrifl;
Subtraft thofe for 5000 complete years
Remains for a new radix
To which add,
to bring it to <[
the given time
complete years
Sun’s mean place at the given time
Equation of the fun’s centre fubtradt
Sun’s true place at the fame time
i
900
80
12
Oftober
Days 23
Hours 16
Minutes 57
Sun’s Longitude.
9 7 53
1 7 46 40
8 29
22
6
48
36
5
4
40
30
o
16
26
54
12
39 26
2 20
Sun’s Anomaly.
6 28 48 o
10 13 25 o
8
11
11
11
8
*5 23
21 37
29 !5
29 53
29 4
22 40
o
o
o
o
o
I 2
39 26
2 20
5 28 33 58
Sun’s Anomaly.
So that in the meridian of London, the fun was then
lufl; entering the lign set Libra, and confequently was
upon the point of the autumnal equinox.
If to the above time of the autumnal equinox at
London, we add 2 h. 25 m. 41 fee. for the longitude
of Babylon, we {hall have for the time of the fame
equinox, at that place, Oflober 23d,. at 19 h. 22 m.
41 fee. ; which, in the common way of reckoning, is
Odlober 24th, at 22 m. 41 fee. pafl: feven in the morn-
ing.
And it appears by Example VI. that in the fame
year the true time of full meon at Babylon was Octo¬
ber 23d, at 42 m. 46 fee. after lix in the morning j fo
ihat the autumnal equinox was on the day next after
2
the day of full moon.—The dominical letter for that
year was G, and confequently the 24th of October was
on a Wednefday.
To find the Sun's difiance from the Moon's afeending
node, at the time of any given new or full moon : and
confequently, to know whether there is an eclipfe at
that time or not.
The fun’s diltance from the moon’s afeending node
is the argument for finding the moon’s fourth equation
in the fyzigies ; and therefore it is taken into all the
foregoing examples in finding the times thereof. Thus,
at the time of mean new moon in April 1764, the fun’s
me a#
Appendix. ASTRO
Ofcalcula- mean diftance from tlie afeending node is o* 5° 35' 2".
ting Eclip- gee Example I.
fes, &cc. The defcending node is oppofite to the afeending
u—y—J^ne^ and they are juft {jx fignsdiftant from each other.
When the fun is within 17 degrees of either of the
nodes at the time of new moon, he will be eclipfed at
that time) and when he is within 12 degrees of either of
the nodes at the time of full moon, the moon will be then
eclipfed. Thus we find, that there will be an eclipfe
of the fun at the time of new moon in April 1764'
But the true time of that new moon comes out by
the equations to be $0 minutes 46 feconds later than
the mean time thereof, by comparing thefe times in the
above example : and therefore we mull: add the fun’s
motion from the node during that interval to the above
mean diftance o* 50 3 2", which motion is found in
Table XII. for CO minutes 46 feconds, to be 2' 12".
And to this we mull apply the equation of the fun’s
mean diftance from the node in Table XV. found by
the fun’s anomaly, which, at the mean time of new
moon in Example I. is 9s i° 26' 19"; and then we
(hall have the fun’s true diftance from the node, at the
true time of new moon, as follows :
Sun from Node.
}
At the mean time of new moon in
April 1764
Sun’s motion from the! 50 minutes
node for J 46 feconds
Sun’s mean diftance from node at
true new moon
Equation of mean diftance from
node, add
Sun’s true diftance from the afeend¬
ing node
5 35
10
2
7 42 14
Which being far within the above limit of 17 degrees,
Ihows that the fun muft then be eclipfed.
And now we fhall fhow how to project this, or any
other eclipfe, either of the fun or moon.
To projeB an Eclipfe of the Sun.
In order to this, we muft find the 10 following ele¬
ments by means of the tables. «
1. The true time of conjunflion of the fun and
moon •, and at that time. 2. The femidiameter of the
earth’s difk, as feen from the moon, which is equal to
the moon’s horizontal parallax. 3. The fun’s diftance
from the folftitial colure to which he is then neareft.
4. The fun’s declination. 5. The angle of the moon’s
vifible path with the ecliptic. 6. The moon’s latitude.
7. The moon’s true horary motion from the fun.
G. The fun’s femidiameter. 9. The moon’s. 10. The
femidiameter of the penumbra.
We lhall now proceed to find thefe elements for the
fun’s eclipfe in April 1764.
To find the true time of new moon. This, by Ex¬
ample I. is found to be on the firft day of the faid
month, at 30 minutes 25 feconds after ten in the morn-
ing.
2. To find the moon's horizontal parallax, or femidia-
meter of the earth's difk, as feen from the moon. Enter
Table XVII. with the figns and degrees of the moon’s
Vox- III. Part I.
N O M Y; 161
anomaly (making proportions, becaufe the anomaly is Of caleula-
in the table only to every 6th degree), and thereby tn^E^P-
take out the moon’s horizontal parallax ; which for the 1 .'V-V.,),' ..
above time, anfwering to the anomaly IIs 90 24' 21",
is54'43"-
3. To find the fun's difiance from the nearefi folfiice,
viz. the beginning of Cancer, which is 3s or go0 from
the beginning of Aries. It appears by Example I.
(where the fun’s place is calculated to the above time
of new moon), that the fun’s longitude from the begin¬
ning of Aries is then os 12° 10' 12": that is, the
fun’s place at that time is <y> Aries, 12° io' 12".
Therefore from
Subtradl; the fun’s longitude or place
o
12
o
10
o
I 2
48
Remains the fun’s diftance from") _
the folftice se J 2 1 / 49
Or 770 49' 48"; each fign containing 30 degrees.
4. To find the fun's declination. Enter Table XIV.
with the figns and degrees of the fun’s true place, viz.
o* 12°, and making proportions for the 10' 12", take
out the fun’s declination anfwering to his true place,
and it will be found to be 40 49' north.
5. To find the moon's latitude. This depends on her
diftance from her afeending node, which is the fame as
the fun’s diftance from it at the time of new moon j
and is thereby found in Table XVI.
But we have already found that the fun’s equated
diftance from the afeending node, at the time of new
moon in April 1764, is os 70 42' 14". See above.
Therefore, enter Table XVI. with o figns at the
top, and 7 and 8 degrees at the left hand, and take out
36' and 39", the latitude for 70 5 and 4I7 51", the lati¬
tude for 8° : and by making proportions between thefe
latitudes for the 42' 14", by which the moon’s diftance
from the node exceeds 7 degrees, her true latitude will
be found to be 40' 18" north afeending.
6. To find the moon's true horary motion from the fun.
With the moon’s anomaly, viz. 11s 90 24' 2i//, Table
XVII. and take out the moon’s horary motion ; which,
by making proportions in that Table, will be found to
be 30' zz". Then, with the fun’s anomaly, 9*" i°
26' 19", take out his horary motion 2' zS" from the
fame table } and fubtrafling the latter from the for¬
mer, there will remain 27' 54" for the moon’s true ho¬
rary motion from the fun.
7. To find the angle of the moon's vUible path with
the ecliptic. This, in the projeftion of eclipfes, may be
always rated at’ 30 35', without any fenfible error.
8. 9. To find the femidiameters of the fun and moon.
Thefe are found in the fame table, and by the fame ar¬
guments, as their horary motions. In the prefent
cafe, the fun’s anomaly gives his femidiameter 16' 6",
and the moon’s anomaly gives her femidiameter 14'
57"*
10. To find the femidiameter of the penumbra.
Add the moon’s femidiameter to the fun’s, and their
fum will be the femidiameter of the penumbra, viz.
31' 3".
Now colleft thefe elements, that they may be found
the more readily when they are wanted in the conftruc-
tion of this eclipfe.
X j True
162
Of calcula¬
ting Eclip-
les, &c.
I. True time of new moon in
April, 1764
2. Semidiameter of the earth’s dilk
3. Sun’s diftance from the neareft folft.
4. Sun’s declination, north
5. Moon’s latitude, north afcending
6. Moon’s horary motion from the fun
7. Angle of the moon’s vifible path!
with the ecliptic f
8. Sun’s lemidiameter
9. Moon’s femidiameter
o. Semidiameter of the penumbra
A s T R
10 30 25
o
o
77
4
o
o
54
49
49
40
*7
35
16
H
31
53
48
o
18
54
o
6
57
3
To project an Eclipfe of the Sun geometrically.
•Fig> j-g ai . ^ak.e a of any convenient length, as AC, and
divide it into as many equal parts as the earth’s femi-
difk contains minutes of a degree 5 which, at the time
of the eclipfe in April 1764, is 54' 53" Then, with
the .whole length of the fcale as a radius, defcribe the
femichcle AMB upon the centre C; which femicircle
fhaii reprefent the northern half of the earth’s enlight¬
ened dilk, as feen from the fun.
Upon the centre C raife the ftraight line CH, per¬
pendicular to the diameter ACB j fo ACB {hall be a
part of the ecliptic, and CH its axis.
Being provided with a good fedfor, open it to the
radius CA in the line of chords j and taking from
thence the chord of 23-5- degrees in your compaffes, let
it off both ways from H, to g and to h, in the peri¬
phery of the femidifk ; and draw the ftraight line gVh,
in which the north pole of the diik will be alwTavs
found. J
When the fun is in Aries, Taurus, Gemini, Can¬
cer, Teo, and \ irgo, the north pole of the earth is en¬
lightened by the fun : but whilff the fun is in the other
lix figns, the fouth pole is enlightened, and the north
pole is in the dark.
And when the fun is in Capricorn, Aquarius, Pifces,
Aries, Taurus, and Gemini, the northern half of the
earth’s axis C XII P lies to the right hand of the axis
of the ecliptic, as feen from the fun ; and to the left
hand, whilft the fun is in the other fix figns.
Open the feclor till the radius (or diftance of the
two 9° s) the fines be equal to the length of V hf
and take the/me of the fun’s diftance from the fol-
itice (77 49' 4^ ) as nearly as you can guefs, in your
compaffes, from the line of the fines, and fet off that
diftance from V to Pin the line gVh, becaufe the
earth’s axis lies to the right hand of the axis of
the ecliptic in this cafe, the fun being in Aries; and
draw’ the ilraight line C XII P for the earth’s axis,
ot which P is the north pole. If the earth’s axis had
lain to the left hand from the axis of the ecliptic,
the diftance VP would have been fet oft' from V to¬
wards g.
To draw' the parallel of latitude of any given place,
as fuppofe London, or the path of that place on the
earth’s enlightened difk as feen from the fun, from fun-
rile till funfet, take the following method.
Subtraa the latitude of London, 510’ from 90°,
and the remainder 38°! will be the colatitude, which
take in your compaffes from the line of chords, making
O N O M Y. Appendix*
CA or CB the radius, and fet it from h (where the Of calcula-
earth’s axis meets the periphery of the dilk) to VI and tinS EcliP-
VI, and draw the occult or dotted line VI K VI.
Then, from the points w’here this line meets the earth’s
dilk, fet off the chord of the fun’s declination 40 49/ to
I) and I, and to E and G, and conned! thefe points
by the tw'o occult lines F XII G and DLE.
Bifedt LX XII in K, and through the point K
draw the black line VI K VI. Then making CB the
radius of a line of fines on the fedlor, take the colati¬
tude of London 3S°-i- from the fines in your compaffes,
and fet it both vrays from K to VI and VI. Thefe*
hours will be juft in the edge of the dilk at the equi¬
noxes, but at no other time in the whole year.
\\ ith the extent K VI taken into your compaffes,
fet one foot in K (in the black line below the occult
one) as a centre, and with the other foot defcribe the
femicircle VI 7 8 9 10, &c. and divide it into 12 equal
parts. Then from thefe points of divifion draw the
occult lines yp, 80, 9//, &c. parallel to the earth’s axis
C XII P.
With the fmall extent K XII as a radius, defcribe
the quadrantal arc XII/, and divide it into fix equal
parts, as XII, a, ab, be, cd, de, and ef; and through
the divifion points a, b, c. d, e, draw the occult lines
VII * V, VIII tfTV, IX c III, X b II, and XI, u I,
all parallel to VI K VI, and meeting the former occult
lines 7/> 80, &c. in the points VII VIII IX X XI,
v IV III II and I : which points (hall mark the fe-
veral fituations of London on the earth’s dilk, at thefe
hours refpe&ively, as feen from the fun ; and the ellip¬
tic curve VI VII VII, &c. being drawn through thefe
points, lhall reprefent the parallel of latitude, or path
of London on the dilk, as feen from the fun, from its
riling to its fetting.
N. B. If the fun’s declination had been fouth, the
diurnal path of London v'ould have been on the upper
fide of the line \ I K \ I, and would have touched the
line DLE in L. It is requifite to divide the horary
fpaces into quarters (as fome are in the figure), and, if
poftible, into minutes alfo.
Make CB the radius of a line of chords on the fee- *
tor, and take therefrom the chor'd of 50 3 the
angle of the moon’s vifible path with the ecliptic, fet
it off from H to M on the left hand of CH, the axis
of the ecliptic, becaufe the moon’s latitude is north
afcending. Then draw CM for the axis of the moon’s
orbit, and bifeft the angle MCH by the right line Cs.
If the moon’s latitude had been north defeending, the
axis of her orbit would have been on the right hand
from the axis of the 'ecliptic. N. B. The axis of
the moon’s orbit lies the fame way when her latitude
is fouth afcending as w'hen it is north afcending ; and
the fame way when fouth defeending as when north
defeending.
Take the moon’s latitude 40' 18" from the fcale
CA in your compaffes, and fet it from i to .r in the
bifecting line C55, making ix parallel to Cy: and through
.v, at right angles to the axis of the moon’s orbit CM,
drawn the ftraight line N wxy S for the path of the pe¬
numbra’s centre over the earth’s dilk.—The point w,
in the axis of the moon’s orbit, is that where the pe¬
numbra’s centre approaches neareft to the centre of the
earth’s dilk, and confequently in the middle of the ge¬
neral eclipfes : the point x is that where the conjunction
2 of
astronomy.
Appendix.
Of calcula- of the fun and moon falls, according to equal pme by
ting Eclip- tables j and the point y is the ecliptical conjun&ion
. fc~Si &cc' . of the fun and moon.
Take the moon’s true horary motion from the fun,
27' $4", in your compaffes, from the fcale CA (every
diviikm of which is a minute of a degree), and with
that extent make marks along the path of the penum¬
bra’s centre ; and divide each fpace from marR to mark
into 60 equal parts or horary minutes, by dots } and
fet the hours to every 60th minute in fuch a manner,
that the dot fignifying the inftant of new moon by
the tables may fall into the point .r, half way between
the axis of the moon’s orbit and the axis ol the eclip¬
tic ; and then the reft of the dots will ftrow the points
of the earth’s dilk, where the penumbra’s centre is at
the inftants denoted by them, in its tranlit over the earth.
Apply one fide of a fquare to the line of the penum¬
bra’s path, and move the fquare backwards and for¬
wards until the other fide of it cuts the fame hour and
minute (as at m and ni) both in the path of London
and in the path of the penumbra’s centre ; and the
particular minute or inftant which the fquare cuts at
the fame time on both paths {hall be the inftant of
the vifible coujunftion of the fun and moon, or greateft
obfeuration of the iun, at the place for which the con-
ftruftion is made, namely London, in the prefent ex¬
ample ■, and this inftant is at 37! minutes pall ten
o’clock in the morning } which is 1 7 minutes five fe-
conds later than the tabular time of true conjun&ion.
Take the fun’s femidiameter, 16' 6", in your com¬
paffes, from the fcale CA, and fetting one foot on the
path of London, at w, namely at 474 minutes paft ten,
with the other foot deferibe the circle UY, which {hall
reprefent the fun’s dilk as feen from London at the
• greateft obfeuration Then take .the moon’s femidia¬
meter, 14' 57", in your compailes from the fame fcale,
and fetting one foot in the path of the penumbra’s
centre at m, in the 47 f minutes after ten, with the other
foot deferibe the circle TY for the moon’s dilk, as
fieen from London, at the time when the eclipfe is at
the greateft, and the portion of the fun’s dilk which is
hid or cut off by the moon’s will (how the quantity of
the eclipfe at that time 5 which quantity may be mea-
fured on a line equal to the fun’s diameter, and divided
into 1 2 equal parts for digits.
Laftly,take the femidiameter of the penumbra, 3 l'3",
from the fcale CA in your compaffes ; and fetting one
foot in the line of the penumbra’s centre path, on the
left hand from the axis of the ecliptic, direeft the other
foot toward the path of London; and carry that extent
backwards and fonvards till both the points of the com¬
paffes fall into the lame inftants in both the paths : and
thefe inftants will denote the time w'hen the eclipfe be¬
gins at London.—Then do the like on the right hand
of the axis of the ecliptic j and "where the points of the
compaffes fall into the fame inftants in both the paths,
they will (how’ at what time the eclipfe ends at London.
Thefe trials give 20 minutes after nine in the morning
for the beginning of the eclipfe at London, at the points
N and O ; 47^ minutes after ten, at the points m and
rt, for the time of greateft obfeuration j and 18 minutes
after twelve, at R and S, for the time when the eclipfe
ends 3 according to mean or equal time.
From thefe times we muft fubtradl the equation of
natural days, viz. 3 minutes 48 feconds, in leap
jear April 1. and we ftiall have the apparent times j
namely, 9 hours 16 minutes 12 feconds for the begin- 0[ca^j'^
ning of the eclipfe, 10 hours 43 minutes 42 feconds for t!"eg^ ^P‘
the time of greateft obfeuratym, and 12 hours 14 minutes ■
12 feconds for the time when the eclipfe ends. But the
beft wray is to apply this equation to the true equal time
of new moon, before the projection be begun 3 as is
done in Example I. For the motion or pofition of places
on the earth’s di{k anfwer to apparent or folar time.
In this conftruCtion it is fuppofed, that the angle
under wdiich the moon’s di£k is feen, during the whole
time of the eclipfe, continues invariably the lame 3 and
that the moon’s motion is uniform and reCtilineal du¬
ring that time. But thefe fuppofitions do not exaftly
agree wuth the truth ; and therefore, fuppofing the
elements given by the tables to be accurate, yet the
times and phafes of the eclipfe, deduced from its con-
ftruftion will not anfwer exaftly to what paffeth in
the heavens 3 but may be at leaft tvro or three minutes
wrong, though done with the greateft care. More¬
over, the paths of all places of confiderable latitudes
are nearer the centre of the earth’s dHk as feen from
the fun than thofe conftruftions make them 3 becaufe
the dilk is projeCled as if the earth were a perfeCl fphere,
although it is known to be a fpheroid. Confequently,
the moon’s ftiadow will go farther northward in all
places of northern latitude, and farther fouthward in
all places of Southern latitude, than it is ftiowm to do
in thefe projeClions According to Meyer’s Tables,
this eclipfe was about a quarter of an hour fooner than,
either thefe tables, or Mr Flamftead’s, or Dr Halley’s,
make it 3 and was not annular at London. But M. de
la Caille’s make it almoft central.
The projeEiion of lunar eclipfcs.
When the moon is within 1 2 degrees of either of
her nodes at the time when ihe is full, the will be
eclipfed, otherwife not.
We find by Example II. that at the time of
mean full moon in May 1762, the fun’s diftance from
the afeending node was only 40 49' 35"3 and themoon
being then oppofite to the fun, muft have been juft
as near her defeending node, and was therefore eclipfed.
The elements for conftruCling an eclipfe of the moon
are eight in number, as follows :
1. The true time of full moon 3 and at that time,
2. The moon’s horizontal parallax. 3. The fun’s fe¬
midiameter. 4. The moon’s. 5. The femidiameter of
the earth’s ftiadow at the moon. 6. The moon’s lati¬
tude. 7. The angle of the moon’s vifible path with
the ecliptic. 8. The moon’s true horary motion from
the fun. Therefore,
1. -T0 find the true time of new or full moon. Work
as already taught in the precepts.—Thus we have the
true time of full moon in May 1762 (fee Example II.
page 562) on the 8th day, at 50 minutes 50 feconds
paft three o’clock in the morning.
2. To find the moon's horizontal parallax. Enter
Table XVII. with the moon’s mean anomaly (at the
above full) 9s 2° 42' 42", and thereby take out her
horizontal parallax 3 which, by making the requxfite
proportions, will be found to be 57' 23".
2, 4. To find the femidiameters of the fun and moon.
Enter Table XVII. with their refpeClive anomalies,
the fun’s being 10s 70 27'45" (by the above example)
and the moon’s 9s 2° 42' 42" 3 and thereby take out
their refpeftive femidiameters j the fun’s 15' 56", and
the moon’s 15' 38/'.
X 2 5. To *
ifi4 ASTRO
Of cakula- *I'o find the femidiametcr of the earth's Jhadow at
t‘ffs ^ moon. Add the fun’s horizontal parallax, which is
.always 10', to the moon’s which in the prefent cafe is
37' 23"> the will be 57' 33", from which fubtraft
the fun’s femidiameter 15'' 56", and there will remain
41' 37" for the femidiameter of that part of the earth’s
fhadow which the moon then palfes through.
6. To find the moon's latitude. Find the fun’s true
diftance from the afcending node (as already taught
at the true time of full moon $ and this diftance
increafed by fix figns will be the moon’s true diftance
irom the fame node ; and confequently the argument
for finding her true latitude.
I hus, in Example II. the fun’s mean diftance from
the aicending node w^as of 40° 49' 35", at the time of
mean full moon 5 but it appears by the example, that
the true time thereof w?as fix hours 33 minutes 38 fe-
conds fooner than the mean time $ and therefore we
murt fubtraft the fun’s motion from the node (found
in Table XII.) during this interval from the above
mean diftance of 4° 49* order to have his mean
diftance from it at the true time of full moon. Then to
this apply the equation of his mean diftance from the
node, found in I able XV. by his mean anomaly iof 70
27' 45" : and laftly add fix figns : fo ftiall the moon’s
true diftance from the afcending node be found as followrs:
s 0 ' "
Sun from node at mean full moon
{6 hours
33 minutes
38 feconds
Sum, fubtradl from the uppermoft line
Remains his mean diftance at true full moon
Equation of his mean diftance, add
Sun’s true diftance from the node
To which add.
And the fum will be
o 4
4 49 .35
XS 35
1 z6
2
*7 3
3* 32
I 33 o
6 10 32
6 6 10 32
Which is the moon’s true diftance from her afcending
node at the true time of her being full; and confequently
the argument for finding her true latitude at that time.
■—Therefore, with this argument enter Table XVI.
making proportions between the latitudes belonging to
the 6th and 7th degree of the argument at the left
hand (the figns being at top) for the to' 32", and it
will give 32' 21" for the moon’s true latitude, which
appears by the table to be fouth defcendmg.
7. To find the angle of the moon's vifible path with the
ecliptic. This may be ftated at 50 35', without any er¬
ror of confequence in the projection of the eclipfe.
8. To find the moon's true horary motion from the fan.
With their relpeCtive anomalies take out their horary
motions from Table XVII. and the fun’s horary mo¬
tion fubtraCted from the moon’s, leaves remaining the
moon’s true horary motion from the fun : in the pre¬
fent cafe 30' 32".
Now colleCt thefe elements together for ufe.
D. H. i/I. S.
1. True time of full moon in May, 1762 8 3 5° 50
O I 7T
Moon’s horizontal parallax
Sun’s femidiameter
Moon’s femidiameter
Semidiameter of the earth’s fhadow at the moon
Moon’s true latitude, fouth deft ending
Angle of her vifible path with the ecliptic
Her true horary motion from the fun w ^
Thefe elements being found for the conftruCtion of
the moon’s eclipfe in May 1762, proceed as follows;
0 57 23
O 13 36
0 ^ 38
0 4[ 37
o 32 21
5 35 o
30 52
in O M Y. Appendix.
Make a fcale of any convenient length, as WXOfcalcula-
(fig. 159. r?.), and divide it into 60 equal parts, each party’s
ftanding for a minute of a degree. fes, Sec.
Draw the right line ACE (fig. 160. a.) for part of the ’
ecliptic, and CD perpendicular thereto for the fouth-
ern part of its axis 5 the moon having fouth latitude.
Add the femidiameters of the moon and earth’s Iha-
dow together, which in this eclipfe will make 57' 15" j
and take this from the fcale in your compaffes, and let¬
ting one foot in the point C as a centre, with the other
foot deferibe the femicircle ADB ; in one point of
which the moon’s centre will be at the beginning of
the eclipfe, and in another at the end thereof.
Take the femidiameter of the earth’s fhadow, 41'
37", in your compafles from the fcale, and letting one
foot in the centre C, with the other foot deferibe the
femicircle KLM for the fouthern half of the earth’s
fliadow, becaufe the moon’s latitude is fouth in this
eclipfe.
Make CD equal to the radius of a line of chords on
the feCtor, and fet off the angle of the moon’s vifible
path with the ecliptic, 50 35', from D to E, and draw
the right line CFE for the fouthern half of the axis of
the moon’s orbit lying to the right hand from the axis of
the ecliptic CD, becaufe the moon’s latitude is fouth
defeending.—Itwmuld have been the fame way (on the
other fide of the ecliptic) if her latitude had been north
defeending, but contrary in both cafes if her latitude
had been either north afcending or fouth afcending.
BiledI the angle DCE by the right line Cg, in which
line the true equal time of oppolition of the fun and
moon falls as given by the table.
Take the moon’s latitude, 32' 21", from the fcale
with your compaffes, and fet it from C to G in the.
line CG g; and through the point G, at right angles
to CFE, draw the right line PHGFN for the path of
the moon’s centre. Then F ftiall be the point in the
earth’s ffiadow, where the moon’s centre is at the
middle of the eclipfe 5 G, the point where her centre
is at the tabular time of her being full ; and H, the
point where her centre is at the inff ant of her eclipti-
cal oppofition.
Take the moon’s horary motion from the fun, 30'
5 2", in your compaffes from the fcale ; and with that
extent make marks along the line of the moon’s path.
PC/N : then divide each fpace from mark to mark in¬
to 60 equal parts, or horary minutes, and fet the hours
to the proper dots in luch a manner, that the dot fig-
nifying the inftant of lull moon (viz. 50 minutes 30
feconds after 111 in the. morning) may be in the point
G, where the line of the moon’s path cuts the line that
Bifcdls the angle DCE.
Take the moon’s femidiameter, 15' 38/', in your
compaffes from the fcale, and with that extent, as a
radius, upon the points N, F, and P, as centres, de¬
feribe the circle Q_for the moon at the beginning of
the eclipfe, when Ihe touches the earth’s lhadow at V j
the circle R for the moon at the middle of the eclipfe j
and the circle S for the moon at the end of the eclipfe,
juft leaving the earth’s lhadow at W.
The point N denotes the inftant when the eclipfe
began, namely, at 15 minutes 10 ieconds after II in
the morning j the point F the middle of the ecliple at
47 minutes 44 leconds paft III j and the point P the
end of the eclipfe, at 18 minutes after V.—At the
greateft obfeuration the moon was 10 digits eclipfed.
TABLE L
ASTRONOMICAL TABLES for calculating ECLIPSES.
165
TABLE I. The mean time of New Moon in March, Old Style ; with the mean Anomalies of the Sun and Moon, and the Sun's
mean diflance from the Moon's afcending Node, from A. D. 1700 to A. D. 1800 inclujive.
>
U
1700
1701
1702
1703
1704
1705
1706
1707
1708
1709
1710
1711
1712
1713
17x4
1715
17x6
1717
1718
1719
X720
1721
1722
1723
1724
1725
1726
1727'
1728
MeanNewMoon
in March.
Sun’s Mean
Anomaly.
D. H. M. S. s 0 ' "
25 8
8 16 1 x
27 13 44 5
16 22 32 41
6 7 21 18
24 4 53 57
*3 *3 42 34
2 22 31 11
21 20 3 50
IO 4 52 2/
29 2 25 7
l8 II 13 43
7 20 2 20
25 !7 34 59
368
15 2 23
4 11 12 1
23 8 44 52
11 *7 33
38
29 8
1 222
23 54 45
9 8 43 22
27 6 16 1
388
16 15 4
5 23 53
24 21 25 54
13 6 14 31
148
2 15 3
21 12 35 47
10 21 24
28 18 57
238
19 58 48
20 59
27 36 CJ
16 52 43
5 H 54
9 8
8
8
9
8 24 3° 47
8 13 46 39
9 2 8 50
8 21 24 43
9 9 46 54
8 29 2 47
8 18 18 39
9 6 40 51
25 56 43
15 12 35
9 3' 34 47
22 50 39
58
12
o
6 32
28 44
l9 44 37
9 8 6 49
27 22 41
16 38 33
9 5 ° 45
24 16 37
78
3 9
1729
1730
1731
1732
*733
*734
1735
1736
1737
1738
1739
1740
1741
1742
18 3 45 40
7 12 34 16
26 10 6 56
H 18 55 33
4
23
12
o
l9
3 44
1 16 49
10 5
18 54 2
16 26 42
25 8
13 32 29
9 1 54 47
21 10 34
9 52 46
8 28 48 39
8 18 4 31
9 6 26 42
8 25 42 34
Moon’s mean
Anrmaly.
22 30 37
28 7 42
7 55 47
17 43 52
8 23 20 57
7 3 9
5 12 57
4 18 34 13
2 28 22 18
2 3 59 24
o 13 47 30
10 23 35 36
9 29 12 42
8 9 o 47
6 18 48 52
5 24 25 57
4 4 !4
2142
1 l9 39 I3
11 29 27 18
11 5 4 24
9 H 52 29
7 24 4° 34
7 o 17 40
5 10 5 45
3 J9 53 5°
2 25 30 56
1 5 19 1
o 10 56 7
98
14 58 26
3 20 38
22 36 30
II 52 22
o 14 34
9 1 15 18 8 19 30 26
27 22 47 58
16 7 36 348
5 16 25 11
24 13 57 52
I743iI3 22 46 278
1744! 2 7 35
1745 21 5 7 44
174610 13 56 20
1747,29 11 29 o
1748 17 20 17
1749 7561
1750 26 2 38 53
1751 |i5 11 2 7
I752j 3 20 16 6
7 52 38
27 8 30
16 24 22
4 46 34
48
9
8
24 2 27
13 18 20
1 4° 32
20 56 24
10 20 44 12
9 o 32 17
8 6 9 23
6 15 57 28
Sun’s mean Dift
from the Node.
6 14 31 7
7 23 14 8
8 1 16 55
8 9 19 42
9 18 2 43
9 26 5
1048
11 12 51
11 20 54
o 29 37 6
1 7 39 54
1 15 42 41
2 H 25 43
3 2 28 30
3 10 31 !7
4 19 14 18
4 27 17 5
5 5 19 52
6 14 2 54
6 22 5 41
8 o 48 45
8 8 51 29
8 16 54 16
9 25 37 18
3 4°
10
10 11 42 52
11 20 25 54
11 28 28 41
1 7 11 42
1 15 14 29
1 23 17 16
3 2 o 17
3 ^ 3 4
4 25 45 33
4 * 22 39
2 11 10 44
o 20 58 49
11 26 35 55
10 6 24
912 1
7 21 49 11
6 1 37 16
5 7 14 22
3 17 2 27
1 26 50 32
1 2 27 38
11 12 15 43
3 18 5 51
4 26 48 53
5 4 51 40
5 12 54 27
6 21 37 29
6 29 40 16
8 8 23 18
8 1.6 26 5
8 24 28 52
Jo 3 JJ 54
9 9 18 3610 17 52 49
368
3 8
29 8
28 34 28
17 50 20
6 12 32
25 28 24
14 44 16
27 40 54
7 28 59
13 6 5
22 54 10
2 42 15
10 1 14 41
10 19 17 28
11 28 o 30
o 6 3 17
1 14 46 19
1 22 49 5
2 o 51 52
3 9 34 53
3 J7 37 40
3 25 40 27
jMeanNewMdonj Sun’s mean
• in March. Anomaly.
Moon’s mean Sun’s mean Dift.
Anomaly. | from the Node.
D. H. M. S.is 0
175322
1754112.
J755I J
175619
J757
1758
J759
1760
176
176..'
17 48 45:9
2 37 22]8
11 25 59,8
8 58 3819
17 47 1518
3 6 28
22 22 20
11 38 12
o o 24
19 16 16
1763
1764
1765
1766
1767
1768
1769
1870I15
1771
1772
J773
1774
1775
1776
J777
1778
1779
1780
1781
1782
J783
1784
1785
1786
1787
1788
1789
1790
1791
1792
J793
J794
J795
1796
J5 J9 54|9
o 8 31 ~
8 57 8
6 29 47
15 18 24
3071
20 21 39 40
10 6 28 17
7 S8 28
26 ?4 20
16 10 12
4 32 24
23 48 16
b 13
9 J
20 42
4
26 20
J3
29 4 o 569 9 4 20
18
6
25
12 49 33
21 38 10
19 10 40
3 59 2
12 48
68
22 10 20 43
11 19 91
J 3 57 55
20 1 3° 35
8 10 19 12
98
7
6
6
23 23
7 51
16 16 40
1 29
1
7 50 21
28 8
48
448
'3
16 38 578
14 11 37
23 01
28 20 32 53
21 30
18
7 H Jo
25 11 42.
14 20 31
4 5 J9
23 2 52
68
469
23 8
598
399
11 11 41 158 21 53 59
3° 9 J3 55 9 Jo 16 JJ
28 20 17
17 36
5 58 21
25 r4 J3
J4 30
2 52 17
22 8
11 24
29 46 13
19 2
9 7 24 17
26 40 9
15 56 1
4 t8 13
8 23 34 5
38
12 49 58
1 12 10
2028 3
8 50 15
2867
2 8 19 21
o 18 7 26
Jo 27 55 31
3 32 37
13 20 4
10
18 57 48
28 45 54
8 34
14 11
23 59 11
o 3 47 J6
11 9 24 21
9 19*12 26
8 24 49 32
4 37 3
14 25 42
20 2 48
29 5° 53
9 S8 58
01516
10 25 4
9 4 52 J4
8 10 29 20
6 20 17 25
25 54 31
5 42 36
J5 30 41
21 7 47
o 55 52
Jo 10 43 57
916 21
7 26 9
7 1 46 14
5 JJ 34 J91
17 21 59 3 21,22 24
5 44 11 2 26 59 30
25 o 3i 6 47 35
14 J5 55 11 16 35 40
238 71022 12 46
32
19 18
9 2 51
27 o 23 48
179716 9 12 24
798 5 18 1 1
J79924 15 33 41
i8ooji3 o 22 J7
8 29 32 3
8 18 47 55
9 7 10 7
26 25 59
8 J5 41 51
9 4 4 3
8 23 19 55
9 2 o 52
8 7 37 58
6 17 26 4
4 27 14 9
4 2 5J J4
2 12 39 19
o 22 27 25
11 28 431
Jo 7 52 36
4 23 28
12 26 15
20 29 2
29 12 3
7 14 50
15 57 52
24 o 39
2 326
10 46 2.7
10 18 49 14
10 26 52 1
O 5 35 2
o 13 37 49
1 22 20 51
2 o 23 38
2 8 26 25
3 17 9 27
3 25 12 14
4 3 15
11 58
20 o 50
28 3 37
6 46 38
14 49 25
8 23 32 26
9 1 35 13
9 9 S8
10 18 21
10 26 23 48
4
J3
21
26 35
9 36
12 23
1 29 55 25
2 7 58 12
16 o 59
24 44
2 46 48
Jo 49 35
J9 32 37
27 35 24
6 18 26
14 21 13
22 24 o
1 7 1
9 9 9 48
9 J7 J2 35
10 25 55 37
11 3 58 24
166
ASTRONOMIC JL TAB IMS S /or calculating ECLIPSES.
TABLE II. Mean New Moon, io'c. in March, New
Style, from A. D. 17$2 to A. D. 1800.
*752
1753
Mean New Moon
in March.
D. H. M. S.
Sun’s mean
Anomaly.
14 20 16 6j8 14 44 16
454 42,8 408
i754:23 2 37 22|8 22 22 20
1755I12 n 25 59:8 11 38 12
17563° 8 58 38^9 o o 24
Moon’s mean
Anomaly.
1757
1758
1759
1760
1761
1762
r763
1764
1765
1766
767
1768
1769
1770
1771
1772
*773
1774
1775
1776
1777
1778
1779
1780
1781
19 17 47 15)8 19 16 16
9 2 35 518 8 32 8
28 o 8 31 8 26 54 20
16 857 88161012
5 17 45 448 5 26 4
24 15
14 o
6
10 15
18
7
8 55
>4 8
268
17 8
53 8
29 12 49
17 21 38
6 26
3 59
12 48
33 8
98
46 8
26 8
28 20 17
17 36 9
652 1
25 H 13
8 14 30 5
3 21 36 398
22 19 91
12 3 51
1 124631
19 10 19 12
19 8
55 8
48 8
19 7
16 40 28
1 29
10 17
7 5° 21
48
40 8
8
1782
1783
1784
1785
1786
1787
1788
1789
1790
1791
16 38 57
1 27 33
23 o
7 48 5°
c 21
3°
18
6
25
!5
4
14 10
22 58 42
20 31 238 27
5 19 598
14 8 35
23 48 16
8 .13 4 8
2 20 o
20 42 13
9 58 5
3 45 57
22 8 9
11 24 1
° 39 53
8 19 2 5
8 17 57
26 40 9
15 56 1
5 11 53
23 34 5
38
8 12 49 58
8 2 5 50
20 28
8 9 43 55
8 28 6 7
6 8 17 21
59
37 51
3 2 42 15
1 12 30 20
o 18 7 26
10 27 55 31
10 3 32 37
Sun’s mean Dift.
from the Node.
3 25 4° 27
4 3 43 H
5 12 26 15
5 20 29
6 29 123
8 13 20 42
6 23 8 47
5 28 45 54
4 8 34 o
2 18 22 5
1 23 59 11
o 3 47 16
io 13 35 21
9 19 12 i6
7 29 o 31
7 4 37 37
5 H 25 42
3 24 *3 47
2 29 50 53
1 9 38 58
11 19 27
1025 4
4 52
H 4°
20 17
5 0 5 3°
4 5 42 36
2 15 30 41
o 25 18 46
o o 55 52
10 10 43 57
8 20 32
9 26 9
6 5 57 13
5 11 34 '9
1792 22 11 41 15
1793 11 20 29 51
179430 18 2 32
1795120 2 51 8
17961 8 11 39 44
1797 27 9 12 24
1798 16 18 1 1
1799; 6 2 49 37
1800 25 022 178
14 15
3 31
21
11
53 59
9 5J
29 32
l8. 47
26 25 59
15 41 51
4 57 43
23 19 55
22 24
10 29
21
1
6 47 55
16 35 40
26 23 45
7
7
8 24
9
9
7 H 5
15 17 38
° 39
3 26
6 13
10 18 49 14
10 26 52 1
11 4 54 48
0 13 37 49
o 21 40 37
2 o 23 38
2 8 26 25
2 16 29 13
3 25 12 14
4 3 i5 1
4 11 17 48
5 20 o 50
5 28 3 37
6 6 6 24
7 H 49 25
7 22 52 12
9 2 35 A3
9 9 38 o
9 i7 4° 47
10 26 23 48
11 4 26 35
11 12 29 22
o 21 12 23
o 29 15 10
2 7 58 12
2 052
11 48 57
17 26 4
27 14 9
7 2 H
2 16 o 59
2 24 3 46
4 2 46 48
4 1° 49 35
4 18 52 22
5 27 35 24
6 53811
7 J4 21 A3
7 22 24 o
8 o 26 47
2 12 39 19 9 9 9 48
O 22 27 25 9 17 12 35
II 2 15 30 9 25 15 22
IO 7 52 3641 3 58 24
TABLE 11A Mean Anomalies, and Sun's mean Dijlance
from the Node, for 13 mean Lunations.
Mean
Lunations.
N! D. H. M. 3.
I : 29 12 44 3
2; 39 128 6
3 88 14 12 9
4'ii8 2 56 12
5447 15 4° *5
6'i77 4 24 x8
7 206 17 8 21
8j2j6 5 52 24
9'265 18 36 27
10 295 7 20 30
324 20 4 33
.354 8 48 36
383 21 32 40
14 18 22 2
Sun’s mean
Anomaly.
o 29 6 19
1 28 i2 39
2 27 18 58
3 26 25 17
4 25 31 37
5 24 37 56
6 23 44 15
7 22 5° 35
8 21 56 54
9 21 3 14
10 20 9 33
11 19 15 55
o 18 22 12
Moon’s mean
Anomaly.
o 25 49 O
1 21 38 I
2 17 27 I
3 !3 l6 2
4 9 5 2
4 54
0 43
26 32
22 21
18 10
9 J3 59 5
10 9 48 5
11 5 37 6
o 14 33 10 6 12 54 30 o 15 20 7
Sun’s mean Dili
irom the Node.
o 40 14
1 20 28
2 O 42
2 40 56
3 21 IO
4 1 24
4 41 38
5 21 52
626
6 42 20
11 7 22 34
08 2 47
1 8 43 1
TABLE IV. The Days of the Tear, recloned from the be¬
ginning of March.
35 65
36 66
21 52 82
22'53 83
„ 23i54!84
I24 24I55'85
25 56 86
93
94
95
96
97
98
99
100
101
102
103
104
105
106
107
108
109
110
111
112
.25
26
27
28
29^29 60 90
30 30 6191
31 311 I92
113
114
115
116
117
26:57 87 118
27 58 88
28 A9'89
123
124
125
126
127
128
129
130
A31
132
A33
134
135
136
137
138
139
140
141
142
H3
144
145
146
147
148
119 149
121
122
150
'51
*52
153
>
154
155
156
J57
158
J59
160
161
162
163
164
165
166
167
168
169
170
171
172
173
174
J75
176
177
178
185
186
187
188
189
190
191
192
*93
194
x95
196
J97
198
199
200
201
202
203
204
205
206
207
208
209
C
216
217
2 18
219
220
221
222
223
224
225
226
227
228
229
230
231
232
233
234
246
247
248
249
250
251
252
253
2 54
255
256
257
258
259
260
261
262
263
264
265
235 266
179 210
l8o 21 I
181212
182 213
183 I 214
184 I
236
237
238
2 39
240
241
242
2 43
244
2 45
267
268
269
270
276
277
278
279
280
281
282
283
284
285
286
287
288
289
29-0
3°7
308
3-9
310
31!
312
3*3
3*4
3*5
316
3*7
318
3*9
320
321
291
292
293
2 94
295
271
272
273
274
275
296
297
298
299
300
301
302
322
323
3 24
325
326
327
328
329
33°
331
332
333
3°3i334
3°4'335
3°5|336
3°61337
338
339
34°
341
342
343
344
345
346
347
348
349
35°
35*
352
353
354
355
356
357
358
359
360
361
362
363
364
365
366
S 'i R ONO MICA L TABLES for calculating ECLIPSES.
i 57
TABLE V. Mean Lunations from i to 100000.
Lunat.
9
io
20
3°
4°
5°
6o
70
So
Days. Decimal Parts.
Days. H. M. S. Th. Fo.
9°
loo
200
300
400
500
600
700
800
900
xooo
2000
3000'
4000
5000
6000
7000
8000
9000
10000
2000.0
30000
40000
50000
60000
70000.
SOOOO
90000
IOOOOO
29-53059°85io8o
59.061181702160
88.59177255324°
118.1223634043 20
i47-6529542554oi
177.183545106481
2o6-7I41359^756i
236.244726808641
265.775317659722
295-3°59o85io8o
590.6118x702160
885-9i77255324°
1181.22363404320
1476.52954255401
1771.83545106481
2067.14135957561
2362.44726808641
2657-753I7659722
2953-°59o85io8o
5906.1181702160
8859.1772553240
11812.2363404320
14765.2954255401
I77i8.3545io648i
2o67i.4i3595756i
23624.4726808641
26577.5317659722
2953c-59o85io8o
59061.i8i7C2i-6o
88591.772553240
118122.363404320
147652.954255401
177183.545106481
206714.135957561
236244.726808641
265775.317659722
295305.9o85io8o
592611.81702160
885917.72553240
1181223.63404320
1476529.54255401
1771835.45106481
2067141.35957561
2362447.26808641
2657753-17659722
2953059^0851080
29
59
88
118
12 44
1 28
14 12
2 56
147
177
206
236
265
295
590
885
1181
1476
1771
2067
2362
2657
2 95 3
5906
8859
11812
14765
17718
20671
23624
26577
29530
59061
88591
118122
147652
*77183
206714
236244
265775
295305
590611
885917
1181223
1476529
1771835
2067141
2362447
2657753
2953059
15
4
r7
5
18 36
7 20
14 41
22 1
5 22
12 42
20 3
3 23
xo 44
18 4
1 25
2 50
4 i5
5 4°
7 5
8 30
9 55
11 20
3 2 58
6 5 57
9 8 55
12 11 53
15 14 52
18 17 50
21 20 48
24 23 47
27 26 45
30 29 43
o 59 26
31 29 10
1 58 53
32 28 36
25819
33 28 2
3 57 46
34 27 29
4 57 12
9 54 24
14 51 36
19 48 48
24 46 o
29 43 12
34 4° 24
12 45
14 10
4 21
18 32
8 43
22 54
L3 4
3 i5
17 26
7 37
21 48
19 36
17 24
»5 *3
13 i
10 49
8 37
6 25
4 H
2 2
39 37 36
44 34 48
49 S2 o
39 4 °
2836 o
18 8 o
7 4°
57 12
46 44
36 16
25 48
15 20
3° 40
46 o
1 20
16 40
32 o
47 20
2 40
18 o
33 20 o
I ABLE VI. The fir/} mean New Moon, with the mean
Anomalies of the Sun one} Moon, anrl the Sun's mean
Dfiance from the Afcending Node, next after complete
Centuries of Julian TTears.
T ’ xJ'or-
Luna- a £
tlui :S.
Firft
New Moon
D. H. M. S.
Sun’s mean
•Vnomaly.
M.’s mean
Anomaly.
12.37 j IOO 4 81052
24741 200 j 8 l6 21 44
3711 i 30043 o 32 37
O 3 21
O 642
o 10 3
4948:40017 8 43 29 o 13 24
16 50
6185 500 21 16 54 211 p 16 46
7422 600 26 1 5 14 o 20
86:8 7001 o 20 32 3 11 24 2210 21 45
9895 800 5 4 42 55 i! 27 43! 777
8 15 22
5 o 44
i 16 6
10 1 28
Sun from
Node.
4 19 27
9 8 55
12822
6 17 49
2 12
11
16
3 26 44
7 15 31
o 4 .8
Luna¬
tions.
11132
12369
1 3606
14843
16080
7316
*8553
19790
21027
22264
23501
24738
25974
27211
28448
29685
30922
32159
33396
34632
D. H. M. S.
900
1000
1100
1200
:30c 26
Firft
New Mocn.
Sun’s mean
Anomaly.
9 12 53 47
13 21 4 40
18 5 15 32
22 13 26 24
1400
1500
1600
1700
1800
1900
2000
2100
2200
2300
2400
35869
37106
383433
39580320020 18 51 40
408 r 7
42054
43290
4452
45764
47001
48238
49475
5071
51948
73*85
54422
55659
56896 4600
58133 4700
2500
2600
2700
2800
2900
50C0
100
21 37 16
j j 7 ^
6 1 14 58
10 9 25 50
14 17 36 42
T9 * 47 35
23 9 58 27
27 18 9 19
014
° 4 25
o 7 46
on 7
o 14 28
11 18 43
1122 4
11 25 25
M.’s mean
Anomaly.
Sun from
Node.
32229
0751
8 23 13
5 8 35
11 28 46
o 2
o 5 29
o 8 50
2 13 36
6 21 47 1
11 5 57 53
15 H 8 45
19 22 19 38
24 6 30 30
28 14 41 22
3 10 8 11
7 18 19
12 2 29 56
16 10 40 48
33oo
34oo
3500
3600
3700
3800
39°o
4000
1 4100
4200
4300
4400
25 3 2 33
29 11 13 25
4 6 40 14
8 14 51 6
12 23 1 59
17 7 12 51
21 15 23 43
25 23 34 35
11 x3 5
11 16 26
ii i9 47
11 23 8
ix 26 29
11 29 50
° 3 11
11 7 26
11 104
11 14
11 17 30
20 51
1 23 57
9 r3 3°
5 28 52
2 H *4
10 29 36
7 14 58
4020
o 15 4
8 515
4 20 37
1 5 59
921 21
4 24 25
9 13 53
2 3 20
6 22 47
11 12 15
3 1 2
7 20 29
o 9 56
4 29 23
9 18 51
2 818
6 27 45
10 16 22
360
7 25 2
° 14 54
6 6 43 5 4 22
2 22 4| 9 23 49
7 26
11
6 26 59
21316
6 2
11
11 24 12
11 27 33
11 1 48
11 5 9
3 12 21
11 27 43
8135
4 28 27
1 *3 49
9 29 11
5 *8 44
246
4500
301334700
593694800
60606
61843
62080 5
643*7
490
5000
100
5200
O 19 I 25
5 3 12 17
9 11 23 9
*3 *9 34 1
,8 3 44 54
72 II 55 46
6 38
26 20
11 8 20
11 U 51
11 15 12
11 18 33
10 22 48
10 26 9
10 29 31
11 252
T 3
j-
10 19 28
7 4 5o
3 20 12
o 5 34
10 21 30
3 10 58
8 o 25
o 19 52
5 9 20
9 28 47
* *7 34
6 7 1
10 26 29
3 *5 56
8 5 23
o 24 50
7 25
4 10 29
o 25 51
9 11 13
4 *3 37
9 3
1 22 32
6 11 59
1 *5 33 27
5 23 44 20
10 7 55 12
14 16 6 4
19 o 16 56
5 26 35
2 11 57
11 12 55 10 27 19! 8 10 21
1017 9616 52 11 29
11 127
3 20 54
65554 5300
66791I5400
6802815500
69265 5600
70502 5700
7i739i58oo
7297615900
74212.0000
3 8 27 49
27 16 38 41
2 12 < 3c
6 20 16 22
11 427 15
15 12 38 7
19 20 48 59
10 20 31
10 23 52
1027 13
11 o 34
3 55
7 16
10 11 31
10 14 52
3 2 14
11 17 ?6l
8 2 58
4 18 20
18
21
10 24 56
24 4 59 5210 28 17
1 3 42
9 19 4
5 8 37
1 23 59
10 921
6 24 43
3 10 5
11 25 27
[ 1 6 25
2 25 52
7 H 39
4 6
4 23 34
9 *3 *
2 2 28
6 21 56
i58
ASTRONOMICAL TABLES for calculating ECLIPSES.
TABLE VII. The annual, or fir ft Equation of the mean
to the true Si%ygy.
Argument. Sun’s mean Anomaly.
Subtraft.
O
Signs
H. M. S
o o
i
Sign
H. M.
2
Signs
3
Signs
H. M. S.! H. M. S
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
io
3 12! 3 35 ° 4 IO 53
4 18
8 35
12 51
17 8
21 24
o 25 39
o 28 55
o 34 11
o 38 26
o 42 39
46 52
51 4
55
59
3
1 7 45
1 11 53
1 16 o
1 20 6
1 24 10
21 1
22 1
23: I
24; I
2511
28
32
36 10
40
44
6 55i 3 37 10 4 10 57
10 36, 3 39 18 4 10 55
14 i5 3 31 23 4 10 49
17 5* 3 4? 26!4 i° 39
21 27 3 45 244 10 24
2 25 9
2 28 29
2 31 57
2 35 22
2 38 44
42 3
45 18
48 30
51 40
54 48
57 53
o 54
3 5i
6 45
9 36
26! 1 47 54
2 7! 1
28 1
29 1
30 2
51 46
55 37
59 26
o 12
d 11
Signs
12
15
17
20
23
3 47 19; 4
3 49 7,4
3 5° 5°
3 52 29
3 54 4
3 55 35
3 57 2
3 58 27
3 59 49
3 1 7
4
39
10
37
59
2 18
3 23
4 22
5 18
6 10
6 58
7 41
8 21
8 57
9 29
7 16
6 29
5 37
4 41
3 40
4 2 35
4 1 26
4 012
3 58 52
3 57 27
55
54
52
3 5r 9
3 49
26
36
3
25
28
20 26
32 45
35 0
10
Signs
9 55
10 16
10 33
:o 45
10 53
9
Signs
3 47
3 45
3 43
3 4i
3 39
38
44
4
Signs
EL M. S.
3 39 3°
3 37 19
3 35 6
3 32 50
3 3° 3°
3 28 5
25 35
23 o
20 20
17 35
3 14 49
5
Signs
H. M. S.
7 45
2 3 55
201
1 56 5
1 52 6
1 48 4
1 41 1
1 39 56
1 35 49
1 31 4i
1 27 31
59
6
10
io{ 1
7 1
2 57 o
2 53 49
2 50 36
2 47 18
2 43 "57
40
37
33
3°
26
33
6
35
2
26
2
2
45i 2
40; 2
3°i 2
22
19
i5
11
7
23 19
19 5
14 49
10 32
6 15
1 5614
57 36 i3
53 i512
48 52
44 28
o 40 29
° 35 36
o 31 10
o 26 44
022 17
8
Signs
7
Signs
o 17 50
o 13 23
o 8 56
o 4 29
000
6 £
Signs oy
Add
TABLE VIII. Equation of the Moon's mean Anomaly.
Argument. Sun’s mean Anomaly.
Subtract.
Signs
Sign
o 46 45
2
Sipms
I 21 32
i 37'jO 48 10
3 i3i° 49 34
4 52i° 5° 53
6 28:0 52 19
8 6 © J3 40
1 22 21
1 23 10
3
Signs
4
Signs
5
Signs
I 35 I; I 23 4! 0 48 19
23 57
24 4i
25 24
35 2, 1 22 14 o 46 51
35 ij 1 21 24!° 45 23
2C O I 20 32 O 43 54
34 57! I 19 38 o 42 24
34 50'1 18 42 o 40 53
o
Signs
6 o
7 0
8 o
9 0
10 o
9 42
11 20
12 56
14 33
16 10
11 o
12 o
17
19
14 O 22
15 o 24
16, o 25
17J o 27
180 28
19I o 30
20: o 31
21: o 33 29
22 o 35 2
23'
TABLE IX. The fecond Equation of the mean to the true Si-zygy
o 36 32
o 38 1
o 39 29
40 59
42 26
43 54
45 i9
46 45
1
Sign
2
Signs
3
Signs
55 1 26 6i 1 34 43
34 33
34 22
56 21: 1 26 48; 1
57 38.127281
58 56' 1 28 6
o 13 1 28 43
1 29 1
2 43 1
3 56 1
5 8i 1
6 i8i 1
29 17
29 51
30 22
30 50
31 i9
7 27! 1
8 36’ 1
9 42| 1
10 49, 1
11 54j 1
31 45
32 12
32 34
32 57
33 i7
12 58
H 1
15 1
16 o
16 59
17
18
11
Signs
57
52
19 47
20 40
21 32
33 36
33 52
34 6
34 18
34 3°
34 4°
34 48
34 54
34 58
35 1
10
Signs
9
Signs
4
Signs
1 17 45
1 16 48
i 15 47
34 9 1 14 44
1 33 53 1 13 4i
1 33 37
1 33 20
1 33 0
1 32 38
1 32 14
3i 5C
31 23
3° 55
30 25
29 54
1 29 20
1 28 45
1 28 9
I 27 3°
1 26 50
26 27
25 5
1 24 39
23 52
23 4
8
Signs
1 I2 37
1 11 33
1 10 26
1 9 17
1
8 8
6 58
5 46
4 32
3 19
2 1
1 ° 45
o 59 26
o 58 7
o 56 45
° 55 23
o 54 1
o 52 37
051 12
o 49 45
o 48 19
7
Signs
5
Signs
o 39 21
0.37 49
o 36 15
o 34 40
o 33 5
031 31
o 29 54
o 28 18
o 26 40
0 25 3
23 23
2i 45
20 7
18 28
16 48 10
15
13 28
11 48
10 7
8 20
o 6 44
0 5 3
0321
o 1 40
000
6
Signs
Add
Argument. Moon’s equated Anomaly.
Add
o
Signs
Sign
H. M. S. H. M.S.
O O; 5 I 2 48
21
10 58 5
21 56:5
32 54 5 39 5i
52 5
56
3° 57
43
54 5°! 5
48 37
57 17
1 5 48|6
1 16 46, 6
1 27 44! 6
1 38 40’ 6
1 49 33; 6
5 5i
H 19
22 41
3° 57
39 4
2
Signs
H. M. S,
8 47 8
8 51 45
8 56 10
9 ° 25
9 4 31
9 8 25
3
Signs
4
Signs
H. M. S. H. M. S
9 46 44
9 45 3
9 45 12
9 44 11
9 42 59
9 4i 36
8 8 59
3
57 23
5i 33
45 46
39 46
5
Signs
H. M. S,
4 34 33
o 23': 6
11 106
21 54I7
32 34:7
43 917
47 °
54 46
2 24
9 52
i? 9
9 12 9 9 4° 3
9 15 43, 9 S8 19
9 19 5:9 36 24
9 22 i49 34 18
9 25 12! 9 32 1
7 33 36
7 27 22
7 21 2
7 14 3°
7 7 5°
3°
29
28
27
7 26
5i 2325
26
i? 25
8 47
3 42 32;24
3 33 38,23
3 24 42I22
3 15 44:21
3 6 45 20
9 27 5419 29 33)7 1 2: 2 57 43'i9
9 3° 32! 9 2<5 54|6 54 8,2 48 39:18,
9 32 58; 9 24 4i6 47 9 2 39 34|i7
9 35 14 9 21 3! 6 40 6 2 30 2816
9 37 1219 17 51! 6 32 56 2 21 194
ASTRONOMICAL TABLE S for calculating ECL IP SE S,
ifr)
TABLE IX. Concluded,
o
Signs
H. M. S
3*7
53
4 3
14 24
24 42
3 34 5*7 51 249 44 53
3 45
3 55
4 5
4 »5
4 25
4
4
4
5
5
35
44 4
54 11
3 33
12 48
11
Signs
Sign
H. !\I. S
48
24
31
38
44
51
2
Signs
H. M. S
8 47 89 46 44
9 39
9 40 51
9 42 21
9 43 42
89
63
57
3
9
8 15
21
45;9 45 5-
569 46 38
579 47
9 47 36
9 47 49
2 8
28
8 26
S2
8 37
8 42
8 47
S'gns
9 47 34
9 47 46
9 47 33
9 47 1
89 46 44
.9 .
Signs
.3
Signs
FL M. S
14 28
9 10 5
9 7
9 3 1
8 59
13 8
8
8
48
8
54 5°
8 50 24
45 4*5
8 41
8 36 6 5
31 0
25 44
20 18
T4 33
 8 59
8
Signs
4
Signs
H. M. S
8 8 59
6 25 40
18 18
10 49
3 16
55 38
47
40
S2
24
16
7 56°
59 42
51 15
43 2
34 33
.7
Signs
.5
Signs
H. M. S
4 34 33
2x2 8
2 2 53
[ 53 36
1 44 16
1 34 54
25 31
16 7
6 41
57 13
47 44
38 13
28 41
8
34
> 19
’ 9
1 o
6
Signs
e
12
h
13
12
11
10
TABLE X. The third equation
of the mean to the true Sy%ygy.
Argument. Sun’s Anomaly—
Moon’s Anomaly.
TAB. XL The fourth equation
of the mean to the true Syzygy.
Argument. Sun’s mean diftance
from the Node.
TABLE XII. "The Suns mean Longitude, Motion, and Anomaly,
Old Style.
Sun’s mean
Longitude.
201
301
401
501
IOOI
IIOI
1201
1301
1401
IJOI
l6oi
1701
l8oi
9
10
53
23
9
10 54
*5 39
15 *6
16 11
16 57
17 42
18 27
19 !3
19 58
20 43
21 29
Sun’s mean
Motion.
10 11
11
12
13
14
15
16
1/
18
29 45
29 31
29 17
o 1
29 47
29 33
29 18
° 3
29 49
29 34
29 20
° 5
29 5i
29 36
29 22
o 7.
29 52
29 38
40
20
o
49
29
9
49
38
18
58
38
26
7
47
25
15
55
35
Sun’s mean
Anomaly.
28 48
26 57:
26 1
25 5
24 9
19 32
18 36
17 40;
16 44
15 49
14 53
J3 57
13 1
Su i’s m an
Ynomaly.
29 45
29 29
29 14
29 58
29 42
29 27
29 11
29 55
29 40
29 24
29 9
29 53
29 37
29 22
29 7
29 50
29 35
29 20
3
19
20
40
60
80
100
200
300
400
500
600
70c
800
900
1000
2000
3000
4000!
5000
6000
Ian.
Feb.
Mar
Apr.
May
June
July
Aug.
Sept
oa.
Nov.
Dec.
Sun’s mean
Motion.
29 24
o 9
o 18
o 27
o 36
O 45
1 30
16
1
46
32
17
2
48
33
6
40
12
2
3
3
4
5
6
6
7
X5
22
o
46
15 20
Sun’s mean
Anomaly.
11
11
11
29
29
29
29
29
29
28
27
26
25
24
23
22
21
20
II
II 2
IO 22
II
IO
O IO
Sun’s mean
Motion.
o
1
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
o o
° 33 18
28 9
28 42 30
28 16 40
28 49 CO
28 24 8
28 57 26
29 30 44
29 4 54
29 38 12
29 12 22
13
4
Sun’s mean
-Ynomaly.
28
28 42
28 17
28 50
28 24
28 57
29 30
29 4
*9 37
10 29 11
Sun’s mean
Motion and
Anomaly.
Suti’s mean
Motion and
•Anomaly.
Sun’s mean
dift from
the Node.
90
100
o 59 8
I I
58
57
56
55
54
53
53
8 52
9 5i
10 50
o
Vox.. III. Part I
12
13
14
ij
160
17
180
190
20
21
22
23
240
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
" H
w M
uds
Sun’s mean
Motion and
Anomaly,
11 49 401110
12 48
13 47
14 47
15 46
16 45
17 44
18 43
19 42
20 41
21 41
22 4O
23 39
24 38
25 37
26 36
27 35
28 35
29 34
° 33
30
40
%
7p
80
9°
100
28J0
56,0
241'o
51,0
,I2'0
57
5 I4jo
13 J5|o
22
30
38
47
55
12
20
28 2
45
37
53
2
10
18
160
r7|0
18:0
190
20 o
21 o
22 0
23|0
o
25,
26
7
28
29
301
12 190
14 4 7 jo
17 150
19 43p
22 11J0
24 38,0
27 6,0
29 34jo
32 -20
34 300
36 58,0
39 260
4i 53p
44 210
46 490
49 170
51 45
54
36,31 1
12132 1
48:33ji
39:34
59 35
35,36
ii37
20 47:38.x
23 2.3391
25 58*401
28 34141 1
31 10:42(1
45 43 I
2I,44|i
56 40
59
1 36
4
32
4
6
9
11
28
5 7:4511
33,'46
8j47
44*48
20,49
5i 56502
54 5'i!5i
/ 852
43153
1954
55'53
3ii56
7i57
43'58
19*59
13 55 * *7 45602
16
18
21
23
26
28
3*
33
36
38
4i
43
45
48
50
53
55
58
o
3
5
8
10
*3
*5
*7
20
22
25
27
Sun’s mean
did. from
the Node
23
5*
19
57
*5
42
to
38 1
6
34
2
57
25
53
21
49
*7
44
12
40
8
36
4
32
59
?7
55
23
5*
20 30
23 6
25 42
28 18
30 54
33 29
36
38 40
1 41 16
1 43 52
1 46 28
1 49
1 5* 39
1 54 15
1 55 5*
* 59 27
2 3
In Leap years, after February, add one day, and (Hie day’s motion.
170
ASTRONOMICAL TABLES for calculating ECLIPSES.
I ABLE XIII. Equation of the Sun's centre, or the dif¬
ference between his mean and true place.
Argument. Sun’s mean Anomaly.
Subtract
1
2
3
4
i
6
7
80
90
too
11
12
r3
o
Signs
1
Sign
56 47
Si<rns
39
.3
Signs
A
Signs
5
Signs
1 55 371 41 '2
1 590
3 57 1
5 561
o 7 541
o 9521
I I so
13 4«
15 46
*7 43
J9 40
o 21 37
0 23 33
o 25 29
3°iI
12 1
27
29
20
16031 15
17° 33 9
o 35 2
0 36 55,
o 38 47;
21
{22
23
24
o 40 39
O 42 30
o 44
o 46
o 47
20
57
o
1
3
5  
6 50
53|
33
12
40
41 6
42 3
42 59
43 52
10
11
13
1
27!1
2;I
1
9 1
o 49 45
o 51 32
o 53 18
° 55 3
o 56 47
14 41
16 11
17 40
19 8
20 34
21 59
23 22
24 44ji
26 51
27 241
28 41 1
29 57
31 11
32 25
33 35
44 44
45 34
46 22
47 8
47.53
48 35
49 l5
49 54
50 30
57 5
11
Signs
34 45
35 53
36 59
38 3
39 6
10
Signs
51
52
52
53
.53 
53 5°
54 10
54 28
54 44
54 58
1 55
1 55
1 55
1 55
1 55 37
9
Signs
55
55
55
55
55
55
55
54 5C 1
S4 35
54 1
40 12
39
38 6
37 °
3 7 52
53 57
53 3^
53
52
51
51
51 15
50 41
5° 5
49 26
48 46
48 3
47 19
46 32
45 44
44 53
44 I*
43 7 i
42 101
41 120
34 43
33 32
S2
3i 4
29 4
58 33
o 57
0 55
o 53 30
o 51 4c
o 49 49
° 47 57
46 5
190 44 11
042 16
o 40 2 1
28 29
27 9
25 48
24 25
23 o
21
20
18
17
34
6
360
29
1928
27
26
25
TABLE XV. Equation of the Sun's mean Difancefrom the Node.
Argument. Sun’s mean Anomaly.
Subtract.
o
y Signs
o
2
4
6l
o 11
-I-
T
20
3°
4'
_5
6
1
o 15
17
19
O 21
Sign
,a .3
Signs Signs
1 47
1 482
1 492
1 502
1 512
LA* A
1 534
1 544
1 354
1 562
LAZil
1 582
1 582
1 59|a
4
Signs
5
S.gns
1 504 4
I 48.I 2
i 47ji o
[ 460 58
1 45 |o 56
1 440 54
1 43|° 52
o 38 25
o 36 28
O 34 3°
o 32 32
0 3° 33
o
o
13 59
12 24
10 47
9 9
7 29
. 8
Signs
5 49
4 7
2 24
o 39
58 53
.7
S’urns
28 33
26 33
24 33
22 32
20 30
18 28
16 26
14 24
12 21
10 18
6
Signs
11o 254 21
I2jO 25 I 22
Ijp 28jl 24
2rj[i4iO 301 262 Oj2
2 ol!154 2 74 54 
11 I 10 j 9 8
i i gns|Signs|S ignsjSigns
Add
TABLE XIV. The Sun's Declination.
Argument. Sun’s true place.
Signs
o A.
6 6'
Signs ] Signs
3°
24,11
48!12
3C
20
C! o
6
6
7
8
: 9
;io
;VT
:I2
!3
[H
45
36
J9
23
47
11
34
A8
22
45
9
S2
I 1120
3 2 4 O
53120
132 i
2449
3628
48,27
5926
Io'25
Signs i Signs
Signs
N. t
,, • re
Oj O Oil 30;20 I 130
41 jo 50
40 0 48
44 39° 46
44 370 44
34 36p 42
34 34,0 40
31 33,o 37
24 314 35
2| I 30 0 3345
'6
7
S'gns
Sisrns
O
Signs
24
I
Sign
Ol
344
36
o 38
40
o 42
2
Siinr
1 47
44
46
230 48
o 50
52
25 o
260 54
270 56
28o 58
291 o
30
Add
28
30 2
314
34j2
_35 2_
36|z
2
2
2
2
1 37
1 39
1 40
LA1
1 43
1 44
1 45
i 46
4 47
11 10
Sign Signs
9
Signs
3
Sign;
4
Sign?
1 50,
i 5
Signs
280 31
o 29
o 27
o 24
O 22
2
2 14 27
2 ojl 25
2 0,1 24
i 594 23
1 59ji 21 o 20
581 190
17
i5
13
8
Signs
18
o 16
13
O II
.7
Sisms
9
o 7
o 5
o 3
6
Siirns
TABLE XVI.
The Muon's
Latitude iu E-
elipfes.
Arg. Moon’s
equated l)i-
ftarree from
the Node.
o Signs.
North Afcend.
6 Signs.
South Defend.
Signs
13
f3
14
>4
i4_
15
l5
15
16
5 16
33
53
12
31
IS
9
28
46
4
22
Sigr
2 1:24
3I|23
41122
50!2 1
I
59,20
22
22
2 2
22
22
849
1648
2447
31I16
38
Signs
s.
A., n
1816
41 16
4 17
2747
50 17
000
o 5 15,
0 10 30128
O 15 45I27
o 20 59 26
3942
57,22
14;22
3°43
4623
46 14' 15
51 13A6
5612
24 1
6 10
I’ABLE XVII. The Moon's horizontal Parallax, with
the Semidiameters and true Horary Motions of the Sun
and Moon, to every fxth degree of their mean Anoma¬
lies, the quantities for the intermediate degrees being
eafily proportioned by fght.
0 CO c
3 S 3
i-C 3- >
o -4
0 54 2 9
6j54 31
1254 34
1854 40
2454 47
13 18
18
18
18
3<
57
20
42 19
22 3
l8i2 3
33 23
4S;23
323
14
18
2 1
23
2640
2740
28 10
11
449
25jI9
47 19
11
8
30
Signs
!9
20
17
31
45
58
11
Signs
2 5
2 7
28
29
29
Signs
i8j 1
1911
26 13
31 26
36 39
4i 51
47 a
52 13
57 23!19
2 31L8
7 384 7 ;l
12 44 16
17 49! o'
22 52 14
27 53 r3
52 52, 1 2
37 49!11 !
o|54
655
12;55
18l55
24 55
56
6
17
29
4
0 55
656
1256
18 56
24
57
56
12
29
48
8
5 Sitrn*.
North Def end.
II Signs.
South Afcend.
57
657
1258
1858
24 c8
30
52
12
31
49
15 ^o
15 50
*5 5°
f5 51
>5 51
52
53
54
55
5 6
16
16
16
16
16
059
659
12
18
24
This Table
fhows the
Moon’s Lati¬
tude a little
beyond the ut-
molt Limits of
Eclipfes.
59
59
60
6
2 1
35
48
o
60
60
60
60
24 60
11
'2 I
3°
S8
45
! si
O
r* o- p
C/i
14 54
H 55
H
H 5
14 58
563
59
1
4
58
59
1
2
4
6
8
10
11 15
1316
SKS
c o c
o
o
3 ^
3°
30
o
30 19
30 26
30
831
3*
34
44
55
9
23
40
5 6
2632 r
4Ij33
46,33
S* 34
5834
34
i 6
16
16
16
16
14
!5
17
*9
20
16
16
16
16
16
60 4116 2316 29
9
H
J9
24
2836
16
16
16
16
2316
31
32
37
S8
39
25
47
1 1
34
58
O C 3
c
2 23
2 23
2 23
2 23
2 23
24
24
24
24
25
2 5
26
27
27
28
35
35
36
36
22
45
o
20
40
o
10
19
28
36
37 40
29
29
29
30
0 Co C
3 £ 3
S x
I 2
O
24
18
I 2
6
24
18
I 2
6
10
o
24
18
I 2
6
30
31
31
32
32
24
18
1 2
6
S2
33
33
33
33
33
24
18
12
6
24
18
Appendix.
ASTRONOM Y.
Defcription
ot A ^jII, Deferifttion of AJlronomical Inflrumcnts ferving to
illufrate the Motions of the Heavenly Bodies.
357 The machine reprefented by fig. 161. is the Grand
I he orrery. Orrery, firlt made in this kingdom by Mr Rowley
for King George I. The frame of it, which contains
the wheel-work, &c. and regulates the whole machine,
is made of ebony, and about four feet in diameter ; the
outfide thereof is adorned with 12 pilafters. Between
thefe the 12 figns of the zodiac are neatly painted with
gilded frames. Above the frame is a broad ring iup-
ported with 12 pillars. This ring reprefents the plane
of the ecliptic ) upon which are two circles of degrees,
and between thefe the names and characters of the 1 2
figns. Near the outfide is a circle of months and days,
exattly correfponding to the fun’s place at noon each
day throughout the year. Above the ecliptic Hand
fome of the principal circles of the fphere, agreeable
to their refpeftive fituations in the heavens : viz. N°
10. are the two colures, divided into degrees and half
degrees ; N° 11. is one-half the equinodlial circle,
making an angle of 23 ^ degrees. 'I he tropic of Can¬
cer and the anflic circle are each fixed parallel at their
proper diftance from the equinodlial. On the north¬
ern half of the ecliptic is a brafs femicircle, moveable
upon two points fixed in T and £±. This femicircle
ferves as a moveable horizon to be put to any degree
of latitude upon the north part of the meridian, and
the whole machine may be fet to any latitude without
difturbing any of the internal motions, by two ftrong
hinges (N° 13.) fixed to the bottom-frame upon which
the inllrument moves, and a ftrong brafs arch, having
holes at every degree, through which a ftrong pin is
put at every elevation. This arch and the two hinges
fupport the whole machine when it is lifted up accord¬
ing to any latitude ; and the arch at other times lies
conveniently under the bottom-frame. When the ma¬
chine is to be fet to any latitude (which is eafily done by
two men, each taking hold of two handles convenient¬
ly fixed for the purpoie), fet the moveable horizon to
the fame degree upon the meridian, and hence you
may form an idea of the refpedlive altitude or depref-
fion of the planets both primary and fecondary. The
Jim (N° 1.) ftands in the middle of the whole fyftem
upon a wire, making an angle with the ecliptic of
about 82 degrees. Next the fun is fmall ball (2.), re-
- prefenting Mercury. Next to Mercury is Venus (3.),
reprefented by a larger ball. The earth is reprefent¬
ed (N° 4.) by an ivory ball, having fome circles and
& map fketched upon it. The wire which fupports the
earth makes an angle with the ecliptic of 66|- degrees,
the inclination of the earth’s axis to the ecliptic. Near
the bottom of the earth’s axis is a dial-plate (N° 9.),
having an index pointing to the hours of the day as the
earth turns round its axis. Round the earth is a ring
fupported by two fmall pillars, reprefenting the orbit
of the moon ; and the divifions upon it anfwer to the
moon’s latitude. The motion of this ring reprefents
the motion of the moon’s orbit according to that of the
nodes. Within this ring is the moon (Na 5.), having
a black cap or cafe, by which its motion reprefents the
phafes of the moon according to her age. Without the
-orbits of the earth and moon is Mars (N° 6.) The
next in order to Mars is Jupiter and his four moons
(N° 7.) Each of thefe moons is fupported by a wire Deft
fixed in a focket which turns about the pillar fupport- ot .
ing Jupiter. Thefe fatellites may be turned by the ^
hand to any pofition, and yet wrhen the machine is put  
into motion, they wdll all move in their proper times.
The outermoft of all is Saturn, his five moons, and his
ring (N° 8.) Thefe moons are fupported and con¬
trived fimilar to thofe of Jupiter. The machine is put
into motion by turning a fmall winch (N0 14.) ; and
the whole fyftem is alfo moved by this winch, and by
pulling out and pufhing in a fmall cylindrical pin aboa-'e
the handle. When it is puftied in, all the planets,
both primary and fecondary, wall move according to
their refpeftive periods by turning the handle. When
it is drawn out, the motions of the fatellites of Jupiter
and Saturn will be flopped while all the reft move
without interruption. There is alfo a brafs lamp, ha¬
ving tw'o convex glaftes to be put in room of the fun j
and alfo a fmaller earth and moon, made fomewhat in
proportion to their diftance from each other, which
may be put on at pleafure. The lamp turns round at
the fame time with the earth, and the glaftes of it call
a ftrong light upon her j and when the fmaller earth
and moon are placed on, it will be eafy to fhowr when
either of them wall be eclipfed. When this machine
is intended to be ufed, the planets mull be duly placed
by means of an ephemeris hereafter deferibed 5 and you
may place a fmall black patch or bit of wafer upon
the middle of the fun. Right againft the firft degree
of 'T, you may alfo place patches upon Venus, Mars,
and Jupiter, right againft fome noted point in the
ecliptic. Put in the handle, and pufti in the pin which
is above it. One turn of this handle anfwers to a re¬
volution of the ball which reprelents the earth about
its axis 5 and confequently to 24 hours of time, as
fhown by the hour index (9.), which is marked and
placed at the foot of the wire on which the ball of the
earth is fixed. Again, when the index has moved the
fpace of ten hours, Jupiter makes one revolution round
its axis, and fo of the reft. By thefe means the revo¬
lutions of the planets, and their motions round their
own axes, will be reprefented to the eye. By obferv-
ing the motions of the fpots upon the furface of the fun
and of the planets in the heavens, their diurnal rotation
was firft difeovered, after the fame manner as wre in this
machine obferve the motions of their reprefentatives by
that of the marks placed upon them.
The Orrery (fig. 162.) is a machine contrived by
the late ingenious Mr James Fergufon. It fhorvs the
motions of the fun, Mercury, Venus, earth, and moon j
and occafionally the fuperior planets, Mars, Jupiter,
and Saturn, may be put on. Jupiter’s four fatellites
are moved round him in their proper times by a fmall
winch j and Saturn has his five fatellites, and his ring
which keeps its parallelifm round the fun ^ and by a
lamp put in the fun’s place, the ring fturws all its va¬
rious phafes already deferibed.
In the centre, N° 1. reprefents the fun, fupported
by its axis, inclining almoft 8 degrees from the axis of
the ecliptic, and turning round in 25^ days on its axis,
of which the north pole inclines toward the eighth de¬
gree of Pifces in the great ecliptic (N° 11.), where¬
on the months and days are engraven over the figns
and degrees in wdrich the fun appears, as feen from the
earth, on the different days of the year.
Y 2 The
172 * ASTRO
Defcnpticn rJfhe nearelt planet (N° 2.) to the fun is Mercury,
'micaTln'"g°es round him in 87 days, 23 hours, or 87
itmments. diurnal rotations of the earth 5 but has no motion round
  —- its axis in the machine, becaufe the time of its diurnal
motion in the heavens is not known to us.
The next planet in order is Venus (N° 3.), which
performs her annual courfe in 224 days 17 hours, and
turns round her axis in 24 days 8 hours, or in 24^-
diurnal rotations of the earth. Her axis inclines 75
degrees from the axis of the ecliptic, and her north
pole inclines towards the 20th degree of Aquarius,
according to the obfervations of Bianchini. She (hows
all the phenomena defcribed in Part II.
Next, without the orbit of Venus, is the earth
(N° 4.), which turns round its axis, to any fixed point
at a great diftance, in 23 hours 56 minutes 4 feconds
of mean folar time*, but from the fun to the fun again,
in 24 hours of the fame time. N° 6. is a fidereal dial-
plate under the earth, and N° 7. a folar dial-plate on
the cover of the machine. The index of the former
Ihows fidereal, and of the latter, folar time ; and hence
the former index gains one entire revolution on the lat¬
ter every year, as 365 folar or natural days contain
366 fidereal days, or apparent revolutions of the liars.
In the time that the earth makes 365^ diurnal rota¬
tions on its axis, it goes once round the fun in the
plane of the ecliptic j and always keeps oppofite to a
moving index (N° 10.) which Ihows the fun’s daily
change of place, and alfo the days of the months.
The earth is half covered with a black cap, for di¬
viding the apparently enlightened half next the fun
from the other half, which, when turned away from
him, is in the dark. The edge of the cap reprefents
the circle bounding light and darknefs, and Ihows' at
what time the fun rifes and fets to all places throughout
the year. The earth’s axis inclines 23^ degrees from
the axis of the ecliptic ; the north pole inclines to¬
wards the beginning of Cancer, and keeps its parallel-
ifm throughout its annual courfe ; fo that in fummer
the northern parts of the earth incline towards the fun,
and in winter from him : by which means, the differ¬
ent lengths of days and nights, and the caufe of the va¬
rious feafons, are demonllrated to fight.
There is a broad horizon, to the upper fide of wdiich
is fixed a meridian femicircle in the north and fouth
points, graduated on both fides from the horizon to
90° in the zenith or vertical point. The edge of the
horizon is graduated from the eaft and weft to the
fouth and north points, and within thefe divifions are
the points of the compafs. From the lower fide of
this thin horizontal plate Hand out four fmall wires,
to which is fixed a tw’ilight circle 18 degrees from the
graduated fide of the horizon all round. This horizon
may be put upon the earth (w'hen the cap is taken
away), and rectified to the latitude of any place j and
then by a fmall wire called the folar ray, which may
be put on fo as to proceed direftly from the fun’s cen¬
tre towards the earth’s, but to come no farther than
almoft to touch the horizon. The beginning of twi¬
light, time of funrifing, with his amplitude, meridian
altitude, time of fetting, amplitude then, and end of
twilight, are fliown for every day of the year, at that
place to which the horizon is redtified.
The moon (N° $-) goes round the earth, from be-
N O M Y, Appendix,
tween it and any fixed point at a great diftance, in 27 Defcription
days 7 hours 43 minutes, or through all the figns and0* Aftrcno.
degrees of her orbit, which is called her periodical re- ^n-
volution ; but ihe goes round from the fun to the fun rumei)ts.
again, or from change to change, in 29 days 1 2 hours ' V~W
3 5 minutes, which is her fynodical revolution ; and in
that time file exhibits all the phafes already defcribed.
When the above-mentioned horizon is reftified to
the latitude of any given place, the times of the moon’s
riling and fetting, together rt-ith her amplitude, are
fhown to that place as well as the fun’s ; and all the
various phenomena of the harveft-moon are made ob¬
vious to fight.
The moon’s orbit (N° 9.) is inclined to the ecliptic
(N° 11.) one half being above, and the other below
it. The nodes, or points at o and o, lie in the plane
of the ecliptic, as before defcribed, and Ihift back-ward
through all its fines and degrees in 18-f- years. The de¬
grees of the moon’s latitude to the higheft at NL
(north latitude) and loweft at SL (fouth latitude),
are engraven both ways from her nodes at o and o,
and as the moon rifes and falls in her orbit according
to its inclination, her latitude and diftance from her
nodes are fhown for every day, having firft redlified
her orbit fo as to fet the nodes to their proper places
in the ecliptic *, and then as they come about at differ¬
ent and almoft oppofite times of the year, and then
point tow’ards the fun, all the eclipfes may be Ihown
for hundreds of years (without any new reflification)
by turning the machinery backward for time paft, or
forward for time to come. At 17 degrees diftance
from each node, on both fides, is engraved a fmall
fun ; and at 12 degrees diftance, a fmall moon, which
fhow the limits of folar and lunar eclipfes *, and when,
at any change, the moon falls between either of thefe
funs and the node, the fun will be eclipfed on the day
pointed to by the annual index (N° 10.) } and as the
moon has then north or fouth latitude, one may eafily
judge whether that eclipfe wull be vifible in the north¬
ern or fouthern hemifphere : efpecially as the earth’s
axis inclines toward the fun or from him at that time.
And when at any full the moon falls between either of
the little moons and node, ftie will be eclipfed, and
the annual index Ihows the day of that eclipfe. There
is a circle of 294 equal parts (N° 8.) on the cover of
the machine, on which an index ftiows the days of the
moon’s age.
There are two femicircles (fig. 163.) fixed to an el¬
liptical ring, which being put like a cap upon the
earth, and the forked part F upon the moon, lhowTs
the tides as the earth turns round within them, and
they are led round it by the moon. W hen the differ¬
ent places come to the femicircle A^EZ^B, they have
tides of flood j and when then come to the femi¬
circle CED, they have tides of ebb ; the index on the
hour-circle (fig. 162.) fhowing the times of thefe phe¬
nomena.
There is a jointed wire, of which one end being put
into a hole in the upright ftem that holds the earth’s
cap, and the wire laid into a fmall forked piece which
may be occafionally put upon Venus or Mercury, fhows
the direft and retrograde motions of thefe two planets,
with their ftationary times and places as feen from the
earth.
The
Appendix. ASTRONOMY. 17J
Deicription The whole machinery is turned by a winch or handle
of Ailrono- 12.) ; and is fo eafily moved, that a clock might
ftruments turn ^ w‘t^out an7 danger of flopping.
. ^ i To give a plate of the wheel-work of this machine
would anfwer no purpofe, beeaufe many of the wheels
lie fo behind others as to hide them from fight in any
view whatever.
The PLANEtARI um (fig. 164.) is an inftrument
contrived by Mr William Jones of Holborn, London,
mathematical inftrument maker, who has paid confi-
derable attention to thofe fort of machines, in order to
reduce them to their greateft degree of fimplicity and
perfection. It reprefents in a general manner, by va¬
rious parts of its machinery, all the motions and phe¬
nomena of the planetary fyftem. This machine con-
fifts of, the Sun (in the centre), with the planets,
Mercury, Venus, the Earth and Moon, Mars, Jupiter
and his four moons, Saturn and his five moons ; and to
it is occafionally applied an extra long arm for the
Georgian planet and his two moons. To the earth
and moon is applied a frame CD, containing only four
■wheels and two pinions, which ferve to preferve the
earth’s axis in its proper parallelifm in its motion round
the fun, and to give the moon her due revolution about
the earth at the fame time, Thefe wheels are con¬
nected with the wheel-work in the round box below,
and the whole is fet in motion by the winch H. The
arm M that carries round the moon, points out on the
plate C her age and phafes for any fituation in her or¬
bit, and which accordingly are engraved thereon. In
the fame manner the arm points out her place in the
ecliptic B, in figns and degrees, called her geocentric
place ; that is, as feen from the earth. The moon’s
orbit is reprefented by the flat rim A; the two joints
of which, andvupon which it turns, denoting her
nodes. This orbit is made to incline to any defired
angle. The earth of this inftrument is ufually made
of a three inch or i-t- globe, papered, &c. for the pur¬
pofe ; and by means of the terminating wire that goes
over it, points out the changes of the feafons, and the
different lengths of days and nights more confpicuoufly.
This machine is alfo made to reprefent the Ptolemaic
Syftem, or Inch as is vulgarly received } which places
the earth in the centre, and the planets and fun revol¬
ving about it. (It is done by an auxiliary fmall fun
and an earth, w'hich change their places in the inftru¬
ment.) At the fame time, it affords a moft manifeft
confutation of it : for it is plainly obferved in this
conftruiftion, (1.) That the planets Mercury and Ve¬
nus, being both within the orbit of the fun, cannot at
any time be feen to go behind it ; whereas in nature
we obferve them as often to go behind as before the
fun in the heavens. (2.) It (hows, that as the planets
move in circular orbits about the central earth, they
ought at all times to be of the fame apparent magni¬
tudes ; whereas, on the contrary, we obferve their ap¬
parent magnitude in the heavens to be very variable,
and fo far different, that, for inftance, Mars will fome-
times appear as big as Jupiter nearly, and at other
times you will fcarcely know him from a fixed ftar.
(fl.) It lhows that any of the planets might be feen at
all diftances from the fun in the heavens •, or, in other
words, that when the fun is fetting, Mercury or Ve-
rius may be feen not only in the fouth but even in ihe
eaft j which circumftances were never yet obferved.
(4.) You fee by this planetarium that the motions ofDefcriPtl0n
the planets ftiould always be regular and uniformly the c^'c^0I^0_“
fame ; whereas, on the contrary, we oblerve them al- gruments.
ways to move with a variable velocity, lometimes fall- y—w
er, then flower, and fometimes not at all, as will be
prefently ihown. (5.) By the machine you fee the
planets move all the fame way, viz. from weft to eaft
continually : but in the heavens we fee them move
fometimes direct from w’eft to eaft, fometimes retro¬
grade from eaft to weft, and at other times to be fta-
tionary. All which phenomena plainly prove this fy¬
ftem to be a falfe and abfurd hypothefis.
The truth of the Copernican or Solar Syftem of the
world is hereby moft clearly reprefented. For taking
the earth from the centre, and placing thereon the
ufual large brafs ball for the fun, and reftoring the
earth to its proper fituation among the planets, then
every thing will be right and agree exaftly with cele-
ftial obfervations. For turning the winch H, (1.)
You will fee the planets Mercury and Venus go both
before and behind the fun, or have two conjundions.
(2.) You will obferve Mercury never to be more than
a certain angular diftancej 2i°, and Venus 470, from
the fun. (3.) That the planets,, especially Mars, will
be fometimes much nearer to the earth than at others,
and therefore mutt appear larger at one time than at
another. (4.) You will fee that the planets cannot
appear at the earth to move with an uniform velocity 5
for when neareft they appear to move fafter, and flow¬
er when moft remote. (5.) You will obferve the pla¬
nets will appear at the earth to move femetimes di-
redly from weft to eaft, and then to become retro¬
grade from eaft to weft, and between both to be fta-
tionary or without any apparent motion at all. W hich
particulars all correfpond exadly with obfervations,
and fully prove the truth of this excellent fyftem.
Fig. 165. reprefents an apparatus to (how thefe latter
particulars more evidently. An hollow wire, with a
flit at top, is placed over the arm of the planet Mer¬
cury or Venus at E. The arm DG reprefents a ray
of light coming from the planet at D to the earth, and
is put over the centre wdiich carries the earth at F.
The planets being then put in motion, the planet D,
as feen in the heavens from the earth at F, will under¬
go the feveral changes of pofition as above deferibed.
The wire prop that is over Mercury at E, may be
placed over the other fuperior planets, Mars, &c. and
the fame phenomena be exhibited.
By this machine you at once fee all the planets in
motion about the fun, with the fame refpedive veloci¬
ties and periods of revolution which they have in the
heavens 5 the wheel-wrork being calculated to a mi¬
nute of time, from the lateft difeoveries.
You will fee here a demonftration of the earth’s
motion about the fun, as well as thofe of the reft of
the planets : for if the earth w’ere to be at reft in the
heavens, then the time between any two conjundions
of the fame kind, or oppofitions, wmuld be the fame
wuth the periodical time of the planets, viz. §8 days
in Mercury, 225 in Venus, &c. \ whereas you here
obferve this time, inftead of being 225 days, is no lefs
than 583 days in Venus, occafioned by the earth’s
moving in the mean time about the fun the fame way
with the planet. And this fpace of 583 days always
paffes between two like conjunctions of Venus in the
heavens.
mical In-
-Uruments.
.174 ASTRO
Oefcription heavens. Hence the moft important point of aftrono-
^int'^[0rn°" In^ fatisfaftoril7 demonilrated.
The diurnal rotation of the earth about its axis, and
a demonilration of the caufe of the different feafons of
the year, and the different lengths of days and nights,
are here anfwered completely : for as the earth is pla¬
ced on an axis inclining to that of the ecliptic in an
angle of 23^ degrees, and is fet in motion by the
-v,-heel-work, there will be evidently feen the different
inclination of the fun’s rays on the earth, the different
quantity thereof which falls on a given fpace, the dif¬
ferent quantity of the atmofphere they pals through,
sand the different continuance of the fun above the ho-
xizon at the fame place in different times of the year;
which particulars conllitute the difference betwixt heat
•and cold in the fummer and winter feafons.
As the globe of the earth is moveable about its in¬
clined axis, fo by having the horizon of London drawn
upon the furface of it, and by means of the termina¬
ting wire going over it, by which is denoted, that on
that fide of the wire next the fun is the enlightened
half of the earth, and the oppofite fide the darkened
half, you will here fee very naturally reprefented the
caufe of the different lengths of day and night, by ob-
ferving the unequal portions of the circle tvhich the
iiland of Great Britain, or the city of London, or any
other place, defcribes in the light and dark hemifpheres
nt different times of the year, by turning the earth on
its axis with the hand. But in fome of the better or-
■xeries on this principle, the earth revolves about its
■axis by wheel-work.
As to the eclipfes of the fun and moon, the true
caufes of them are here very clearly feen : for by pla¬
cing the lamp (fig. 166.) upon the centre, in room of
the brafs ball denoting the fun, and turning the winch
until the moon'comes into a right line between the
centres of the lamp (or fun) and earth, the ihadow of
the moon will fall upon the earth, and all who live on
that part over which the ffiadow paffes will fee the
fun eclipfed more or lefs On the other fide, the
moon pafles (in the aforefaid cafe) through the fha-
dow of the earth, and is by that means eclipfed. And
the orbit A (fig. 164.) is fo moveable on the two
joints called nodes, that any perfon may eafily repre-
fent the due pofition of the nodes and intermediate
fpaces of the moon’s orbit 5 and thence fhow when
there w-ill or will not be an eclipfe of either luminary,
and what the quantity of each will be.
While the moon is continuing to move round the
earth, the lamp on the centre will fo illumine the
moon, that you will eafily fee all her phafes, as newq
dichotomized, gibbous, full, waning, &c. juft as they
appear in the heavens. You will moreover obferve
,all the fame phafes of the earth as they appear at the
^noon.
N O M Y. Appendix.
1 he fatellites of Jupiter and Saturn are moveableDdcription
onl} by the hand j yet may all their phenomena be ea-0^A^rono“
fily reprefented, excepting the true relative motions and
didances. I hus, it that gilt globe which before re¬
prefented the fun be made now to denote Jupiter, and
four of the primary planets only be retained, then will
the Jovian fyftem be reprefented ; and, by candle light
only, you will fee (the machine being in motion) the
immeriions and emerfions of the fatellites into and
out of Jupiter’s ffiadow. Yow will fee plainly the
manner in which they tranfit his body, and their oc-
cultations behind it. You will obferve the various
ways in which one or more of thefe moons may at
times difappear. And if the machine be fet by a
white wall, &c. then by the projection of their tha-
dows will be teen the reafons why thofe moons always
appear on each fide of Jupiter in a right line, why
thofe which are moft remote may appear neareft, and
e contrariu. And the lame may be done for Saturn’s
five moons and his ring.
The method of Rectifying the Orrery, and the proper
Manner of placing the Planets in their true Situa¬
tions.
Having dwelled thus much on the defeription of
orreries, it may be ufeful to young readers, to point
out the method by which the orrery fhould be firft
reCHfied, previous to the exhibition or ufing of it :
and the following is extracted from Mr William Jones’s
defeription of his new Portable Orrery. “ The me¬
thod of Ihowing the places, and relative afpeCts of the
planets on any day of the year in the planetarium,
muff; be done by the aftiftance of an ephetneris or alma¬
nack, which among other almanacks is publilhed an¬
nually by the Stationers Company.
“ The ephemeris contains a diary or daily account
of the planets places in the heavens, m figns, degrees,
and minutes, both as they appear to the eye fuppofed
to be at the fun, and at the earth, throughout the
year. 'The firft of thefe pofitious is called the helio¬
centric place, and the latter, the geocentric place. The
heliocentric place is that made ufe of in orreries j the
geocentric place, that in globes. As an example for
finding their places, and letting them right in the or¬
rery, we will fuppofe the ephemeris (by White, which
for this purpofe is confidered the beft) at hand, where¬
in at the bottom of the left-hand page for every month
is the heliocentric longitudes (or places) of all the pla¬
nets to every fix days of the month ; which is near
enough for common ufe : A copy of one of thefe ta¬
bles for March 1784 is here inferted for the informa¬
tion of the tyro.
Day
increaf.
11
35
59
23
47
Helioc.
long. T?
16 56
16
*7
17
*7
56
7
17
28
Helioc.
long. ^
X I
43
if
47
W
Helioc.
long. $
I 25 30
4 23
7 if
10 6
12 55
Helioc.
long.©
II T1£
17
23
29
5 ^
37
37
36
33
3°
Helioc.
long. 2
35
7
3 s
8
8 vy 38
Helioc.
long. $
tig 58
23
f 9
33
15 vs 49
“ Now
astronomy.
Appendix.
Defeription “ Now as an example, we will fuppofe, that in order
ot Aftrono- t0 {•et t]ie planets of the orrery, we want their heliocen*
ftruments tr*c P^aces ^or t^le 2I^: this month. Looking into
, the table, we take the 19th day, which is the neareft
to the day wanted: then, accordingly, we find the place
of Saturn ( T? ), is in 170 17', or 17 degrees (rejecting
the minutes, being in this cafe ufelefs) ; of Capricor-
nus (vj), of Jupiter (If.), in 1S0 of Aquarius (,^),
Mars ( ? ) in io° of Cancer (05), the earth (©) in
290 of Virgo (115.), Venus ( ^ ) in 290 of Sagittarius,
( / ), Mercury ( ^ ) in 28 degrees of the fame fign 5 and
in the fame manner for any other day therein ipecified.
Upon even this circumftance depends a very pleafing
aftronomical praxis, by which the young tyro may at
any time be able to entertain himfelt in a mod rational
and agreeable manner, viz. he may in a minute or
twro reprefent the true appearance of the planetary fy-
ftem jull as it really is in the heavens, and for any
day he pleafes, by affigning to each planet its proper
place in its orbit; as in the following manner : For
the 10th of March, as before, the place of Saturn is in
170 of Capricornus (>?))> now Lying hold of the
arm of Saturn in the orrery, you place it over or againil
the 170 of Capricorn on the ecliptic circle, conflantly
placed on or furrounding the inftrument ; thus doing
the fame for the other planets, they will have the pro¬
per heliocentric places for that day.
“ Nowr in this fituation of the planets, we obferve,
that if a perfon wras placed on the earth, he would fee
Venus and Jupiter in the fame line and place of the
ecliptic, confequently in the heavens they would ap¬
pear together or in conjunction 5 Mercury a little to
the left or eaflward of them, and nearer to the fun ;
Saturn to the right, or weitward, farther from the
fun ; Mars direftly oppofite to Saturn ; fo that when
Saturn appears in the wreft, Mars appears in the caft
and v/ce verfa. Several other curious and entertaining
particulars, as depending on the above, may be eafily
reprefented and fliown by the learner 3 particularly the
foregoing w7hen the winch is turned, and all the planets
let into their refpeCHve motions.”
We cannot clofe this detail on orreries more agree¬
ably than by the following account of an inftrument
of that fort invented by Mr James Fergufon, to which
he gives the name of a Mechanical Paradox, and
which is aftuated by means of w'hat many, as he ob-
ferves, even good mechanics, would be ready to pro¬
nounce impofiible, viz. That the teeth of one wheel
taking equally deep into the teeth of three others,
ftiould affect them in fuch a manner, that in turning
it any way round its axis, it ihould turn one of them
the fame way, another the contrary way, and the third
no way at all.
The folution of the paradox is given under the arti¬
cle Mechanics \ after which our author proceeds to
give the following account of its ufes. “ This ma¬
chine is fo much of an orrery, as is fufficient to (how
the different lengths of days and nights, the viciflitudes
of the feafons, the retrograde motion of the nodes of
the moon’s orbit, the direCt motion of the apogeal
point of her orbit, and the months in which the fun
and moon muft be eclipfed.
“ On the great immoveable plate A (fee fig. 167.')
are the months and days of the year, and the figns and
degress of the zodiac fo placed, that when the annual
/ a
index h is brought to any given day of the year, it will Defcription
point to the degree of the fign in which the fun is on0^^0^0*
that day. The index is fixed to the moveable frame ftrumenl;.
BC, and is carried round the immoveable plate with c—-v—
it, by means of the knob n. The carrying this frame
and index round the immoveable plate, anfwers to the
earth’s annual motion round the fun, and to the fun’s
apparent motion round the ecliptic in a year.
“ The central wheel D (being fixed on the axis a,
which is fixed in the centre of the immoveable plate)
turns the thick wheel E round its own axis by the
motion of the frame ; and the teeth of the wheel E
take into the teeth of the three wheels F, G, H, whofe -
axis turn with one another, like the axis of the
hour, minute, and fecond hands of a clock or watch,
where the feconds are fhown from the centre of the
dial-plate.,
“ On the upper ends of thefe axes, are the round
plates I, K, L j the plate I being on the axis of the
w heel F, K on the axis of G, and L on the axis of H.
So that whichever way thefe wheels are affedfted, their
refpedlive plates, and what they fupport, muft be af¬
fected in the fame manner 5 each wdieel and plate be-
ing independent of the others.
“ The two upright wires M and N are fixed into
the plate I 5 and they fupport the fmall ecliptic OP,
on which, in the machine, the figns and degrees of the
ecliptic are marked. This plate alfo fupports the fmall
terreftrial globe e, on its inclining axis f, which is fixed
into the plate near the foot of the wire N. This axis
inclines 33 J degrees from a right line, fuppofed to be
perpendicular to the furface of the plate I, and alfo to
the plane of the fmall ecliptic OP, which is parallel to
that plate.
“ On the earth e is the crefcent g, which goes more
than half way round the earth,, and Hands perpendi¬
cular to the plane of the fmall ecliptic OP, directly
facing the fun Z : Its ufe is to divide the enlightened-
half of the earth next the fun from the other half
which is then in the dark.y fo that it repr/efents the
boundary of light and darknefs, and therefore ought
to go quite round the earth ; but cannot in a machine,
becaufe in fome pofitions the earth’s axis would fall
upon it. The earth may be freely turned round on its
axis by hand, within the crefcent, which is fupported
by the crooked wire w, fixed to it, and into the upper
plate of the moveable frame BC.
“ In the plate K are fixed the two upright wires
and R : they fupport the moon’s inclined orbits ST in
its nodes, which are the two oppolite points of the
moon’s orbit wdiere it interfedts the ecliptic OP. The
afeending node is marked Si, to which the defeendingy
node is oppofite below e, but hid from view by the
globe e. The half T <? of this orbit is on the north
fide of the ecliptic O P, and the other half e S is on
the fouth fide of the ecliptic. The moon is not in this
machine ; but when fhe is in either of the nodes of her
orbit in the heavens, Ihe is them in the plane of the
ecliptic : when Ihe is at T in her orbit, Ihe is in her
greateft north latitude ; and when ftie is at S, (he is in
her greateft fouth latitude.
“ In the plate L is fixed the crooked wire U 17,
which points downward to the fmall ecliptic OP, and
Ihows the motion of the moon’s apogee therein, and
its place at any given time*
“ The.
176
ASTRONOMY.
Appendix,
Defcription The ball Z reprefents tlie fun, which is fupported
of Aftrono- tjle w;re XY, fixed into the upper plate of
ftrumcnts. frame at X. A ftraight wire W proceeds from
—y—-' the fun Z, and points always towards the centre of the
earth e ; but toward different points of its furface at
different times of the year, on account of the obliquity
of its axis, which keeps its parallelifm during the
earth’s annual courfe round the fun Z ; and therefore
muff incline fometimes toward the fun, at other times
from him, and twice in the year neither toward nor
from the fun, but fidewife to him. The wire W is
called the fclar i'ay.
“ As the annual-index h (hows the fun’s place in
.the ecliptic for every day of the year, by turning the
frame round the axis of the immoveable plate A, ac¬
cording to the order of the months and figns, the folar
ray does the fame in the fmall ecliptic OP : for as this
ecliptic has no motion on its axis, its figns and degrees
ftill keep parallel to thofe on the immoveable plate.
At the fame time, the nodes of the moon’s orbit ST
(or points where it interfecfs the ecliptic OP) are
moved backwrard, or contrary to the order of figns, at
the rate of 1 py degrees every Julian year ; and the
moon’s apogeal wire U U is moved forward, or accord¬
ing to the order of the figns of the ecliptic, nearly at
the rate of 41 degrees every Julian year ; the year be¬
ing denoted by a revolution of the earth e round the
fun Z j in which time the annual index h goes round
the circles of months and figns, on the immoveable
plate A.
“ Take hold of the knob n, and turn the frame round
thereby ; and in doing this, you will perceive that the
north pole of the earth e is conftantly before the cref-
cent £, in the enlightened part of the earth toward
the fun, from the 20th of March to the 23d of Sep¬
tember ; and the fouth pole all that time behind the
crefcent in the dark ; and from the 23d of September
to the 20th of March, the north pole as conftantly in
the dark behind the crefcent, and the fouth pole in the
light before it 5 which ftiows, that there is but one day
and one night at each pole, in the whole year ; and
that when it is day at either pole, it is night at the
other.
“ From the 20th of March to the 23d of September,
the davs are longer than the nights in all thofe places
of the "northern hemifphere of the earth which revolve
through the light and dark, and Ihorter in thofe of the
fouthern hemifphere. From the 23d of September to
the 20th of March, the reverie.
“ There are 24 meridian femicircles drawn on the
globe, all meeting in its poles : and as one rotation or
turn of the earth on its axis is performed in 24 hours,
each of thefe meridians is an hour diftant from the
other, in every parallel of latitude. Therefore, if you
bring the annual index h to any given day of the year,
on the immoveable plate, you may fee how long the
day then is at any place of the earth, by counting how
many of thefe meridians are in the light, or before the
crefcent, in the parallel of latitude of that place j and
this number being fubtrafted from 24 hours, will leave
remaining the length of the night. And if you turn
the earth round its axis, all thofe places will pafs di-
re£lly under the point of the folar ray, which the fun
•paffes vertically over on that day, becaufe they are juft
as many degrees north or fouth of the equator as the Defcnpiion
fun’s declination is then from the equinoftial. A-ftrono-
“ At the two equinoxes, viz. on the 20th of March 1"*
and 23d of September, the fun is in the equinoctial, , ' ' ^
and confequently has no declination. On thefe days,
the folar ray points directly toward the equator, the
earth’s poles lie under the inner edge of the crelcent,
or boundary of light and darknefs j and in every pa¬
rallel of latitude there are 12 of the meridians or hour-
circles before the crefcent, and 12 behind it, which
ftiows that the days and nights then are each 12 hours
long at all places of the eaath. And if the earth be
turned round its axis, you will fee that all places on
it go equally through the light and the dark hemif-
pheres.
“ On the 21ft of June, the ■whole fpace within
the north polar circle is enlightened, which is 234 de- 1
grees from the pole, ail around 5 becaufe the earth’s
axis then inclines 234 degrees toward the fun : but tlie
whole fpace within the fouth polar circle is in the dark j
and the folar ray points toward the tropic of Cancer
on the earth, which is 234 degrees north from the
equator. On the 2Cth of December the reverfe hap¬
pens, and the folar ray points toward the tropic of
Capricorn, which is 234 degrees fouth from the equa
tor.
“ If you bring the annual-index h to the beginning of
January, and turn the moon’s orbit ST by its fupport-
ing rvires Qjmd R till the afcending node (marked £b)
comes to its place in the ecliptic OP, as found by an
ephemeris, or by aftronomical tables, for the beginning
of any given year ; and then move the annual-index by-
means of the knob till the index comes to any given
day of the year afterward, the nodes will Hand againft
their places in the ecliptic on that day ; and if you
move on the index till either of the nodes comes di-
redtly againft the point of the folar ray, the index will
then be at the day of the year on which the fun is in
conjundftion with that node. At the times of thofe
new moons which happen within feventeen days of the
conjundlion of the fun with either of the nodes, the
fun will be eclipfed 5 and at the times of thofe full
moons, which happen within twelve days of either of
thefe conjundtions, the moon will be eclipfed. Without
thefe limits there can be no eclipfes either of the fun
or moon; becaufe, in nature, the moon’s latitude or de¬
clination from the ecliptic is too great for the moon’s
fliadow to fall on any part of the earth, or for the earth’s
lhadowr to touch the moon.
“ Bring the annual index to the beginning of Janu¬
ary, and fet the moon’s apogeal wire U U to its place
in the ecliptic for that time, as found by aftronomical
tables ; then move the index forward to any given
day of the year, and the wire will point on the fmall
ecliptic to the place of the moon’s apogee for that
time.
“ The earth’s axis f inclines always toward the be¬
ginning of the fign Qancer on the fmall ecliptic OP.
And if you fet either of the moon’s nodes, and her
apogeal wire to the beginning of that fign, and turn
the plate A about, until the earth’s axis inclines to¬
ward any fide of the room (fuppofe the north fide),
and then move the annual-index round and round the
immoveable plate A, according to the order of the
months
Appendix. ASTRO
Defcription months and figns upon it, you will fee that the earth’s
°Lkal In°" axis and be^nninS of Cancer will ftill keep towards the
ftruments. fame fide of the room’ without the lead deviation from
i it; but the nodes of the moon’s orbit ST will turn
progreffively towards all the Tides of the room, con¬
trary to the order of figns in the finall ecliptic OP,
or from eaft, by fouth, to weft, and fo on j and the
apogeal wire UU will turn the contrary way to the
motion of the nodes, or according to the order of the
figns in the imall eclipt-.c, from w'eft, by fouth, to eaft,
and fo on quite round. A clear proof that the wheel
F, which governs the earth’s axis and the fmall eclip¬
tic, does not turn any way round its own centre ; that
the wheel G, which governs the moon’s orbit O P,
turns round its owrn centre backward, or contrary both
to the motion of the frame BC and thick wheel E ;
and that the wheel H, which governs the moon’s apo¬
geal wire UU, turns round its own centre forward, or
in direftion both of the motion of the frame and of
the thick wheel E, by which the three wheels F, G,
and H, are affecled.
“ Fhe wheels D, E, and F, have each 39 teeth in
the machine 5 the wheel G has 37, and H 44.
“ The parallelifm of the earth’s axis is perfect in this
machine j the motion of the apogee very nearly fo ;
the motion of the nodes not quite fo near the truth,
though they will not vary fenfibly therefrom in one
year. But they cannot be brought nearer, unlefs lar¬
ger wheels, with higher numbers of teeth, are ufed.
“ nature, the moon’s apogee goes quite round the
ecliptic in 8 years and 312 days, in direction of the
earth s annual motion \ and the nodes go round the
ecliptic, in a contrary dire&ion, in 18 years and 225
days.. In the machine, the apogee goes round the
ecliptic OP in eight years and four-fifths of a year,
and the nodes in 18 years and a half.”
i he Cometarium, (fig. 168.) This curious ma¬
chine (hows the motion of a comet or eccentric body
moving round the fun, defcribing equal areas in equal
times, and may be fo contrived as to ftiow fuch a mo¬
tion for any degrees of eccentricity. It wras invented
by the late Dr Defaguliers.
The dark elliptical groove round the letters abed
efg hikl m is die orbit of the comet Y 5 this comet
is carried round in the groove according to the order
of letters, by the wire W fixed in the fun S, and Aides
on the wire as it approaches nearer to or recedes far¬
ther from the fun, being neareft of all in the perihe¬
lion a, and fartheft in the aphelion g. The areas,
rt 8 S c, c S d, &c. or contents of thefe feveral
triangles, are all equal; and in every turn of the winch
N, the comet Y is carried over one of thefe areas j
conlequently, in as much time as it moves from to
g, or from g to h, it moves from m to a, or from a to
b; and fo of the reft, being quickeft of all at a, and
Aoweft at g. Thus the comet’s velocity in its orbit
continually decreafes from the perihelion a to the aphe¬
lion g; and increafes in the fame proportion from ^
i he elliptic orbit is divided into 12 equal parts or
hgns, with their refpeftive degrees, and fo is the
circle n 0 p q r s t u, which reprefents a great circle in
?he heavens, and to which the comet’s motion is re-
a bna^ knob on the point of the wire W.
Whilft the comet moves from Z" to p- m its orbit it
Vol. III. Part I,
358
Cometa¬
rium.
N O M Y.
appears to move only about five degrees in this circle,
as is ftiown by the fmall knob on the end of the wire W 5
but in as fiiort time as the comet moves from m to a,
or from a to b, it appears to deferibe the large fpace
t n or n 0 m the heavens, either of which fpaces con¬
tains 120 degrees, or four figns. Were the eccentricity
of its orbit greater, the greater ftill wrould be the'diffe ¬
rence of its motion, and vice verfa.
ABCDEFGHIKLM is a circular orbit for fhow-
ing the equable motion of a body round the fun S,
defcribing equal areas A8B, BSC, &c. in equal times
with thole of the body Y in its elliptical orbit above
mentioned ; but with this difference, that the circular
motion deferibes the equal arcs AB, BC, &c, in the
fame equal times that the elliptical motion deferibes
the unequal arcs, a b,b c, &c.
Now fuppofe the two bodies Y and 1 to ftart from
the points a and A at the fame moment of time, and,'
each having gone round its refpe&ive orbit, to arrive
at thefe points again at the fame inftant, the body Y
will be forwarder in its orbit than the body 1 all the
wray from a to g, and from A to G ; but 1 will be
forwarder than Y through all the other half of the or¬
bit ; and the difference is equal to the equation of the
body Y in its orbit. At the points a A, and g G,
that is, that in the perihelion and aphelion, they wdll
be equal 5 and then the equation vanilhes. This ftiows
why the equation of a body moving in an elliptic or¬
bit is added to the mean or fuppofed circular motion
from the perihelion to the aphelion, and lubtra&ed
fiom the aphelion to the perihelion, in bodies moving
round the fun, or from the perigee to the apogee, and
from the apogee to the perigee in the moon’s motion
round the earth.
This motion is performed in the following manner
by the machine, fig. 169. ABC is a wooden bar
(in the box containing the wheel-wmrk), above which
are the wheels D and E, and below it the elliptic
plates FF and GG j each plate being fixed on an
axis in one of its focufes, at E and K ; and the
wheel E is fixed on the fame axis with the plate FF.
Thefe plates have grooves round their edges precife-
ly of equal diameters to one another, and in thefe
grooves is the cat-gut firing gg, gg crofting between
the plates at h. On H, the axis of the handle or winch
N in fig. 216. is an endlefs ferew in fig. 217. working
in the wheels D and E, whofe numbers of teeth being
equal, and ftiould be equal to the number of lines, a S,
Z S, c S, &c in fig.' 168. they turn round their axis
in equal times to one another, and to the motion of
the elliptic plates. For, the wheels D and E having
equal numbers of teeth, the plate FF being fixed on
the fame axis with the wffeel E, and turning the
equally big plate GG by a cat-gut firing round them
both, they muff all go round their axis in as many
turns of the handle N as either of the wheels has teeth ..
It is eafy. to fee, that the end h of the elliptical
plate FF being farther from its axis E than the oppo-
fite end I is, muft deferibe a circle fo much the larger
in proportion, and therefore move through fo much
more fpace in the fame time ; and for that reafon the
end h moves fo much fafter than the end I, although
it goes no fooner round the centre E. But then the
quick-moving end h of the plate FF leads about the
fhort end h K of the plate GG with the fame velocity 5
Z and
177
Defcription
of \ftrono-
mical Jn-
ifruments.
17S
Defcript’on
of Aftrono-
mical In-
ftruments.
359
Celeftial
globe.
ASTRO
and the {low-moving end I of the plate FF coming
half round as to B, muft then lead the long end £ of
the plate GG as flowly about : fo that the elliptical
plate FF and its axis E move uniformly and equally
quick in every part of its revolution ; but the elliptical
plate GG, together with its axis K, muft move very
unequally in different parts of its revolution ; the diffe¬
rence being always inverfely as the diftance of any
point of the circumference of GG from its axis at K :
or in other words, to inftance in two points, if the di¬
ftance K £ be four, five, or fix times as great as the
diftance K h, the point h will move in that pofition,
four, five, or fix times as fail as the point k does,
when the plate GG has gone half round; and fo on for
any other eccentricity or difference of the diftances K k
and K h. The tooth I on the plate FF falls in between
the two,teeth at k on the plate GG j by wdiich means
the revolution of the latter is fo adjufted to that of the
former, that they can never vary from one another.
On the top of the axis of the equally-moving wheel
D in fig 169. is the fun S in fig. 168 : which fun,
by the wire fixed to it, carries the ball 1 round the
circle ABCD, &c. with an equable motion, accord¬
ing to the order of the letters : and on the top of the
axis K of the unequally-moving ellipfes GG, in fig. 169.
is the fun S in fig. 168. carrying the ball Y unequally
round in the elliptical groove abed, &c. N. B. This
elliptical groove muft be precifely equal and fimilar to
the verge of the plate GG, which is alfo equal to that
of FF.
In this manner machines may be made to fhow the
true motion of the moon about the earth, or of any
planet about the fun, by making the elliptical plates of
the fame eccentricities, in proportion to the radius, as
the orbits of the planets are, whofe motions they re-
prefent •, and fo their different equations in different
parts of their orbits may be made plain to fight, and
clearer ideas of thefe motions and equations acquired in
half an hour, than could be gained from reading half a
day about fuch motions and equations.
The Improved Celestial Globe, fig. 170. On
the north pole of the axis, above the hour-circle, is
fixed an arch MKH of 234 degrees •, and at the end
H is fixed an upright pin HG, w-hich ftands direftly
over the north pole of the ecliptic, and perpendicular
to that part of the furface of the globe. On this
pin are twro moveable collets at E and H, to which
are fixed the quadrantile wires N and O, having two
little balls on their ends for the fun and moon, as in
the figure. The collet D is fixed to the circular plate
F, whereon the 29^- days of the moon’s age are engra¬
ven, beginning juft under the fun’s wire N; and as
this wire is moved round the globe, the plate F turns
round with it. Thefe'wires are eafily turned, if the
ferew G be fiackened ; and when they are fet to
their proper places, the ferew ferves to fix them
there, fo as in turning the ball of the globe, the wires
with the fun and moon go round wTith it; and thefe
two little balls rife and fet at the fame times, and on
the fame points of the horizon, for the day to wTich
they are redlified, as the fun and moon do in the hea-
N O M Y.
Becaufe the moon keeps not her courfe in the eclip¬
tic (as the fun appears to do) but has a declination of
5^ degrees on each fide from it in every lunation, her
Appendix.
ball may be fererved as many degrees to either fide of Defcription
the ecliptic as her latitude or declination from the eelrp- of Aftrono-
tic amounts to at any given time. _ ftruments.
The horizon is hipported by two femicircular 1 — t
arches, becaufe pillars would flop the progrefs of the
balls when they go below the horizon in an oblique
fphere.
To reBify this globe. Elevate the pole to the lati¬
tude of the place} then bring the fun’s place in the
ecliptic for the given day to the brazen meridian, and
fet the hour index at 1 2 at noon, that is, to the upper
X 2 on the hour circle 5 keeping the globe in that fitua-
tion, fiacken the ferew G, and fet the fun diredlly over
his place on the meridian 5 wdrich done, fet the moon’s
wire under the number that expreffes her age tor that
day on the plate F, and fhe will then (land over her
place in the ecliptic, and fhow what conftellation file
is in.' Laftly, fallen the ferew G, and adjuft the moon
to her latitude, and the globe will be rectified.
Having thus redlified the globe, turn it round, and
obferve on what point of the horizon the fun and
moon balls rife and fet, for thefe agree with the
points of the compafs on which the lun and moon
rife and fet in the heavens on the given day : and the
hour index {hows the time of their rifing and fetting :
and likewife the time of the moon’s palling over the
meridian.
This fimple apparatus {hows all the varieties that can
happen in the rifing and fetting of the fun and moon ;
and makes the forementioned phenomena of the har-
veft moon plain to the eye. It is alfo very ufeful in
reading leftures on the globes, becaufe a large com¬
pany can fee this fun and moon go round, rifing above
and fetting below the horizon at different times, ac¬
cording to the feafons of the year •, and making their
appulfes to different fixed ftars. But in the ufual way,
where there is only the places of the fun and moon in
the ecliptic to keep the eye upon, they are eafily loft
fight of, unlefs they be covered with patches.
The Trajectorium Lunare, fig. 171. This ma-Trajedtori-
chine is for delineating the paths of the earth and um lunare.
moon, fliowing what fort of curves they make in the
ethereal regions. S is the fun, and E the earth, w'hofe
centres are 9 5 inches diftant from each other ; every
inch anfwering to 1,000,oco of miles. M is the moon,
whofe centre is parts of an inch from the earth’s
in this machine, this being in juft proportion to the
moon’s diftance from the earth. AA is a bar of wood,
to be moved by hand round the axis g which is fixed
in the wheel Y. The circumference of this wheel is to
the circumference of the fmall wheel L (below the
other end of the' bar) as 365^ days is to 294, or as a
year is to a lunation. The wheels are grooved round
their edges, and in the grooves is the cat gut firing
GG crofting between the wheels at X. On the axis of
the wheel L is the index F, in which is fixed the
moon’s axis M for carrying her round the earth E
(fixed on the axis of the wheel L) in the time that the
index goes round a circle of 294 equal parts, which are
the days of the moon’s age. The wheel Y has the
months and days of the year all round its limb j and
in the bar AA is fixed the index /, which points out
the days of the months anfwering the days of the
moon’s age, fhown by the index F, in the circle of
29-i- equal parts at the other end of the bar. On
the
Appendix, ASTRO
Defcrip- ion the axis of the wheel L is put the piece D, below
of Aft,ono-the cock C, in which this axis turns round; and in
ftruments. D are put the Pencils e and ^ direftly under the earth
u—E and moon M ; fo that m is carried round ^ as M is
round E.
Lay the machine on an even floor, prefling gently
on the wheel Y, to caufe its fpiked feet (of which two
appear at P and P, the third being fuppofed to be hid
from fight by the wheel) enter a little into the floor to
lecure the wheel from turning. Then lay a paper about
lour feet long under the pencils ^ and /«, crofswife to
the bar ; which done, move the bar flowly round the
axis of the wheel Y; and as the earth E goes round
the (un S, the moon M will go round the earth with
a^duly proportioned velocity ; and the fri&ion wheel
XV running on the floor, will keep the bar from bear¬
ing too heavily on the pencils e and m, which will de¬
lineate the paths of the earth and moon. As the index
I points out the days of the months, the index F (hows
the moon’s age on thefe days, in the circle of 291-
equal parts. And as this laft index points to the dif-
ferent days in its circle, the like numeral figures may
be fet to thofe parts of the curves of the earth’s path
and moon’s where the pencils e and m are at thofe
times refpeaively, to Ihow the places of the earth and
moon. If the pencil e be pulhed a very little off, as
if from the pencil m, to about ^ part of their di-
llance, and the pencil ?n pufhed as much towards e, to
bring them to the fame diftances again, though not
to the fame points of fpace ; then, as ?n goes round
e, e will go as it were round the centre of gravity be¬
tween the earth e and moon m; but this motion will
not fenfibly alter the figure of the earth’s path or the
moon’s.
If a pin, as p, be put through the pencil m, with its
head towards that of the pin q in the pencil <?, its
head will always keep thereto ‘ as m goes round <?,
or as the fame fide of the moon is Hill obverted to
the earth. But the pin p, which may be confidered
as an equatorial diameter of the moon, will turn quite
round the point m, making all poflible angles with
the. line of its progrefs, or line of the moon’s path.
This is an ocular proof of the moon’s turning round
her axis. 0
N> O M Y. ‘ ' ,79
between the horizon and the zenith, as well to the Defcription
northward as fouthward.
HI. A Defcriptjon of the principal Agronomical Injiru-
ments by which AJlronomers make the mojl accurate
Obfervations.
By praftical aftronomy is implied the knowledge of
obferving the celeftial bodies with refpeft to their po-
fition and time of the year, and of deducing from thofe
obfervations certain conclufions ufeful in calculating
the time when any propofed pofition of thefe bodies
mall happen.
For this purpofe, it is neceflary to have a room or
place conveniently fituated, fuitably contrived, and fur-
mlhed with proper aftronomical inftruments. It Ihould
have an uninterrupted view from the zenith down to
(or even below) the horizon, at leaft towards its car-
dmal points ; and for this purpofe, that part of the
roof which lies in the direction of the meridian, in par¬
ticular, fliould have moveable covers, which may eafily
be moved and put on again ; by which means an in-
11 rument may be dire&ed to any point of the heavens
of Aftrono-
This place, called an Obfervatory, Ihould contain ^n,caI In~
fome, if not all, of the following inftruments : nt»nie.nf
I. A Pendulum Clock, for Ihowing equal time.
Phis fliould Ihow time in hours, minutes, and feconds ;
and with wdiich the obferver, by hearing the beats of
the pendulum, may count them by his ear, while his
eye is employed on the motion of the celeftial objeft
he is obferving. Juft before the object arrives at the
polition defcribed, the obferver ftiould look on the
clock and remark the time, fuppofe it 9 hours 1.5 mi¬
nutes 25 feconds; then faying, 25, 26, 27, 28,' &c.
refponfive to the beat of the pendulum, till he fees
through the inftrument the obje£t arrived at the pofi¬
tion expeited ; w^hich fuppofe to happen when he fays
38, he then writes down 9h. 15 min. 38 fee. for the
time of obfervation, annexing the year and the day of
the month. If two perfons are concerned in making
the obfervation, one may read the time audibly while
the other obferves through the inftrument, the obferver
repeating the laft fecond read when the defired pofition
happens.
II. An Achromatic Refracting Telescope,
or a reflecting one, of two feet at leaft in length]
for obferving particular phenomena. Thefe inftruments
are particularly defcribed under Optics.
. HE A Micrometer, for meafuring fmall angular
diftances. SccMicrometer.
-Astronomical Quadrants, both mural and Operants,
portable, ior obferving meridian and other altitudes of
the celeftial bodies.
I. The mural quadrant is in the form of a quarter
of a circle, contained under two radii at rifht angles
to one another, and an arch equal to one fourth part of
the circumference of the circle. It is the moft ufeful
and valuable of all the aftronomical inftruments ; and
as it is fometiraes fixed to the fide of a ftone or brick
wall, and the plane of k erefted exadly in the plane
of the meridian, it in this cafe receives the name of
mural quadrant or arch.
Tycho-Brahe was the firft perfon who contrived this
mural arch, viz. who firft applied it to a W'all ; and
Mr Flamftead, the firft in England who, with indefa¬
tigable pains, fixed one up in the royal obfervatory at
Greenwich. }
Thefe inftruments have ufually been made from five
to eight feet radius, and executed by thofe late cele- v
brated anfts Siffon, Graham, Bird, and other eminent
mathematical inftrument makers in London. The
conftru&ion of them being generally the fame in all
the fizes, we lhall here deferibe one made by the
late Joh. Siflbn, under the direftion of the late M
Graham Fig 172. reprefents the inftrument as all
reay fixed to the wall. It is of copper, and of about
five feet radius. The frame is formed of flat bars, and
ftrengthened by edge bars affixed underneath perpen-
dicularly to them. The radii HB, HA, being divid¬
ed each into four equal parts, ferve to find out the
points D and E, by which the quadrant is freely fuf.
pended on its props or iron fupports that are faftened
lecurely m the wTall.
Gne of the fupports E is reprefented feparately in e
on one fide of the quadrant. It is moveable by means
of a long flender rod EF or ef, which goes into a hol-
^ * low
/
iSo ASTRO
Defcnption low fcrew in order to reftore tlie xnftmment to its fitu-
°mical In°' at^on when it is difcovered to be a little deranged,
ftrumems. maY be known by the very fine perpendicular
*>—v——^ thread HA, which ought always to coincide with
the fame point A of the limb, and carefully examined
to be fo by a fmall magnifying telefcope at everv
obfervation. In order to prevent the unfteadinefs of
fo great a machine, there Ihould be placed behind the
limb four copper ears with double cocks I, K, I, K.
There are others along the radii H A and H B.
Each of thefe cocks contains two fcrews, into which
are fattened the ears that are fixed behind the qua¬
drant.
Over the wall or ttone which fupports the inftrument,
and at the fame height as the centre, is placed horizon¬
tally the axis PO, which is perpendicular to the plane
of the inftrument, and which would pafs through the
centre if it was continued. This axis turns on two
pivots P. On this axis is fixed at right angles ano¬
ther branch ON, loaded at its extremity with a weight
N capable of equipoiling with its weight that of the
telefcope LM ; whilft the axis, by its extremity neareft
the quadrant, carries the wooden frame PRM, which
is fattened to the telefcope in M. The counterpoife
takes off from the obferver the weight of the telefcope
when he raifes it, and hinders him from either forcing
or ftraining the inftrument.
The lower extremity (V) of the telefcope is fur-
nithed with two fmall wheels, which takes the limb of
the quadrant on its two fides. The telefcope hardly
bears any more upon the limb than the fmall friftion of
thefe two wheels ; which renders its motion fo ex¬
tremely eafy and pleafant, that by giving it wdth the
hand only a fmall motion, the telefcope will run of it-
felf over a great part of the limb, balanced by the coun¬
terpoife N
When the telefcope is to be flopped at a certain po-
fition, the copper hand T is to be made ufe of, which
embraces the limb and fprings at the bottom. It is
fixed by fetting a fcrew, which fattens it to the limb.
Then, in turning the regulating fcrew, the telefcope
will be advanced 5 which is continued until the liar or
other objedl whofe altitude is obferving be on the
horizontal fine thread in the telefcope. Then on the
plate X fupporting the telefcope, and carrying a ver¬
nier or nonius, wall be feen the number of degrees and
minutes, and even quarters of minutes, that the angu¬
lar height of the objeft obferved is equal to. The re¬
mainder is eafily ettimated within two or three fe-
conds nearly.
There are feveral methods of fubdividing the divi-
fions of a mural quadrant, which are uiually from five
to ten minutes each j but that which is moft common¬
ly adopted is by the vernier or nonius, the contrivance
of Peter Vernier a Frenchman. This vernier confifts
of a piece of copper or brafs, CDAB (fig. 173.},
which is a fmall portion of X (fig. 172.) reprefented
feparately. The length CD is divided into 20 equal
parts, and placed contiguoufiy on a portion of the di-
vinon of the limb of the quadrant containing 2; divi-
fions, and thereby dividing this length into 20 equal
parts. Thus the firft divifion of the vernier piece mark-
.e(v 15, beginning at the point D, is a little matter back¬
ward, or to the left of the firft divifion of the limb equal
to 15. The fecond divifion of the vernier is to the left
ftrument-
N O M Y, Appendix,
of the fecond divifion of the limb double of the firft Defcnption
difference, or 30" 5 and fo on unto the 20th and laft of Aitiono-
divifion on the left of the vernier piece j where the 20 ,;n'ca^ *n*
differences being accumulated each of the 20th ^
part of the divifion of the limb, this laft divifion will
be found to agree exadlly with the 21ft divifion on the
limb of the quadrant.
The index putt; be puttied the 20th part of a divi¬
fion, or 15", to the right j for to make the lecond di¬
vifion on the vernier coincide with one of the divifionr
ol the limb, in like manner is moving twro 20ths, or
30", we mutt; look at the fecond divifion of the index,
and there will be a concidence with a divifion of the
limb. Thus may be conceived that the beginning D
of the vernier, which is always the line of reckoning,
has advanced two divifions, or 30", to the right, when
the fecond divifion, marked 30 on the vernier, is feen
to correfpond exadlly with one of the lines of the qua¬
drant. „
By means of this vernier may be readily diftin-
guittied the exaftitude of 13" of the limb of a qua¬
drant five feet radius, and limply divided into 5'. By
an eftimation by the eye, afterwards, the accuracy of
two or three feconds may be eafily judged. On the
fide of the quadrant is placed the plate of copper which
carries the telefcope. This plate carries' two verniers.
The outer line CD divides five minutes into 20 parts,
or 15" each. The interior line AB anfw^ers to the
parts of another divifion not having 90°, but 96 parts
of the quadrant. It is ufually adopted by Englilh
aftronomers on account of the facility of its fubdivi-
lions. Each of the 96 portions of the quadrant is
equivalent to 56' 15" of the ufual divifions. It is di¬
vided on the limb into 16 parts, and the arch of the
vernier AB contains 25 of thefe divifions ; and being
divided itfelf into 24, immediately gives parts, the va¬
lue of each of wdiich is 8" From this mode a
table of redu&ion may eafily be conftnnfted, which
will ferve to find the value of this fecond mode of di¬
viding in degrees, minutes, and feconds, reckoning in
the ufual manner, and to have even the advantage of
two different modes ; which makes an excellent verifi¬
cation of the divifions on the limb of the quadrant and
obferved heights by the vernier.
2. The Portable Agronomical Quadrant, is that inftru¬
ment of all others which aftronomers make the greateft
ufe of, and have the moft efteem for. They are gene¬
rally made from 12 to 23 inches. Fig. 174. is a re-
prefentation of the improved modern one as made by
the late Mr Siffon and by the prefent mathematical
inftrument makers. This is capable of being carried
to any part of the world, and put up for obfervation
in an eafy and accurate manner. It is made of brafs,'
and ftrongly framed together by croffed perpendicular
bars. The arch AC, and telefcope EF, are divided
and conftnnfted in a fimilar manner to the mural qua¬
drant, but generally without the divifion of 96 parts.
The counterpoife to the telefcope T is reprefented at
P, and alfo another counterpoife to the quadrant itfelf
at P. The quadrant is fixed to a long axis, which
goes into the pillar KR. Upon this axis is fixed an
index, wdiich points to and fubdivides by a vernier the
divifions of the azimuth circle K. This azimuth circle
is extremely ufeful for taking the azimuth of a cele-
ftial body at the fame time its altitude is obferved.
The
Appendix.
Defcrij Mon The upper end of the axis is firmly connected with the
of Aftrono- a(jju(ling frame GH 5 and the pillar is fupported on the
mical In- croffe([ feet at the bottom of the pillar KR with the
, adjulting icrews a, b, c, d.
When this inftrument is fet up for ufe or obferva-
tion, it is neceffary that two adjuflments be very accu¬
rately made : One, that the plane or furface of the in-
ilrument be truly perpendicular to the horizon , the
other, that the line fuppofed to be drawn from the
centre to the firft line of the limb, be truly on a level
or parallel with the horizon. The firft of thefe par¬
ticulars is done by means of the thread and plum¬
met ; the thread of which is ufually of very fine filver
wire, and it is placed oppofite to a mark made upon
the end of the limb of the inltrument. The four
Screws at the foot, a, b, c, z/, are to be turned until a
perfect coincidence is obferved of the thread upon the
mark, wThich is accurately obferved by means of a fmall
telefcope T, that fits to the limb. The other adjuft-
ment is effected by means of the fpirit level L, which
applies on the frame GPI, and the fmall fcrewrs turned
as before until the bubble of air in the level fettles in
the middle of the tube. The dotted tube EB is a
kind of prover to the inftrument : for by obferving at
wdiat mark the centre of it appears againft, or by put¬
ting up a mark againft it, it wdll at any time difeover
if the inftrument has been difplaced. The ferew S at
the index, is the regulating or adjufting ferew, to move
the telefcope and index, during the obfervation, with
362 the utmoft nicety.
Equatorial V. Astronomical o/-Equatorial Sector. This
ie 01‘ is an inftrument for finding the difference in right a-
feenfion and declination between two objects, the di-
ftance of which is too great to be obferved by the mi¬
crometer. It was the invention of the late ingenious
Mr George Graham, F. R. S. and is conftrmfted from
the following particulars. Let AB (fig. 175.) repre-
fent an arch of a circle containing 10 or 12 degrees
%vell divided, having a ftrong plate CD for its radius,
fixed to the middle of the arch at D : let this radius
be applied to the fide of an axis HFI, and be move-
able about a joint fixed to it at F, fo that the plane of
the fedfor may be always parallel to the axis HI j
which being parallel to the axis of the earth, the plane
of the lector will always be parallel to the plane of
icme hour-circle. Let a telefcope CE be moveable
about the centre C of the arch AB, from one end of
it to the other, by turning a ferew at G 5 and let the
line of fight be parallel to the plane of the fedlor.
Now% by turning the whole inftrument about the axis
HI, till the plane of it be fucceffively diredted, firft to
one of the ftars and then to another, it is eafy to move
the fedfor about the joint F, into fuch a pofition, that
the arch AB, when fixed, ftiall take in both the ftars
in their paflage, by the plane of it, provided the dif¬
ference of their declinations does not exceed the arch
AB, Then, having fixed the plane of the fedlor a
little to the weftw-ard of both the ftars, move the tele¬
fcope CE by the ferew G ; and obferve by a clock the
time of each tranfit over the crofs hairs, and alfo the
' degrees and minutes upon the arch AB, cut by the in¬
dex at each tranfit; then in the dift’erence of the arch¬
es, the difference of the declinations, and by the dif¬
ference of the times, wre have the difference of the
right afeenfions of the ftars.
The dimenfions of this inftrument are thefe : The Defcription
length of the telefcope, or the radius of the feclor, is 0f -Aftron°-
2!: feet; the breadth of the radius, near the end C, r110311”"
is inch; and at the end D twro inches. Tfip ■ mmen s.^
breadth of the limb AB is 1^ inch ; and its length
fix inches, containing ten degrees divided into quarters,
and numbered from either end to the other. The tele¬
fcope carries a nonius or fubdividing plate, whofe
length, being equal to fixteen quarters of a degree, is
divided into fifteen equal parts ; which, in effedl, di¬
vides the limb into minutes, and, by eftimation, into
fmaller parts. The length of the fquare axis HIF is
eighteen inches, and of the part HI twelve inches ;
and its thicknefs is about a quarter of an inch : the
diameters of the circles are each five inches : the thick¬
nefs of the plates, and the other meafures, may be ta¬
ken at the diredfion of a workman.
This inftrument may be rediified, for making obfer-
vations, in this manner : By placing the interfeflion
of the jerofs hairs at the fame diftar.ee from the plane
of the fedtor, as the centre of the objedl-glafs, the plane
deferibed by the line of fight, during the circular mo¬
tion of the telefcope upon the limb, wdll be fufficiently
true, or free from conical curvity ; which may be exa¬
mined by fufpending a long plumb-line at a convenientr
diftance from the inftrument ; and by fixing the plane
of the fedlor in a vertical pofition, and then by obferv¬
ing, while the telefcope is moved by the ferew along
the limb, whether the crofs hairs appear to move alonp
the plumb-line.
The axis hfo may be elevated nearly parallel to the
axis of the earth, by means of a fmall common qua¬
drant ; and its error may be corredfed, by making the
line of fight follow the circular motion of any of the
circumpolar ftars, while the whole inftrument is moved
about its axis hfo, the telefcope being fixed to the
limb ; for this purpofe, let the telefcope d / be diredf-
. ed to the ftar a, when it paffes over the higheft point
of its diurnal circle, and let the divifion cut by the
nonius be then noted; then, after twelve hours, when
the ftar comes to the lowed point of its circle, having
turned the inftrument half round its axis, to bring the
telefcope into the pofition m n ; if the crofs hairs cover
the fame ftar fuppofed at b, the elevation of the axis
hfo is exadtly right ; but if it be neceffary to move
the telefcope into the pofition u v, in order to point to
this ftar at c, the arch m u, which meafures the angle
mfu or bfc, will be known ; and then the axis h fo
mull be depreffed half the quantity of this given angle
if the ftar paffed below b, or mull be railed fo much
higher if'above it ; and then the trial muft be repeat¬
ed till the true elevation of the axis be obtained. By
making the like obfervations upon the fame ftar on
each fide the pole, in the fix-o’clock hour-circle, the
error of the axis, toward the call or weft, may alio be
found and corredled, till the crofs hairs follow the ftar
quite round the pole ; for fuppofing a 0p b c to be an
arch of the meridian (or in the fecond pradlice of the
fix-o’clock hour-circle), make the angle afp equal to
half the angle afe, and the line fp will point to the
pole; and the angle ofp, which is the error of the
axis, will be equal to half the angle bfc, or 7nftt,
found by the obfervation; becaufe the difference of
the two angles afb, afe, is double the difference
of their halves afo and afp, Unlefs the ftar be
very
ASTRONOMY.
182
ASTRO
PctcnpiKHi very near the pole, allowance muft be made for refrac-
01 Aftrono- tions>
mical In- r
ftmments. ^ * ran sit and Equal Altitude Inftruments.
*“ ^J r • Tranjit Injlrument is ufed for obferving ob-
Tr-nfi3 -1'e<^S 38 tliey P31'8 OVCr the meridian< Il: confifts^of a
Aruments!' tele^‘ope fixed at right angles to a horizontal axis;
which axis mull; be fo fupported that what is called the
line of collimation, or line of fight of the telefcope,
may move in the plane of the meridian. This inftru-
ment was firft made by the celebrated Mr Romer in
the year i689» and has fince received great improve¬
ments. It is made of various fizes, and of large dimen-
fions in our great obfervatories ; but the following is
one of a fize fufficiently large and accurate for all the
ufeful purpofes.
The axis AB (fig. 176), to which the middle of
the telefcope is fixed, is about 2^ feet long, tapering
gradually toward its ends, which terminate in cylin¬
ders well turned and fmoothed. The telefcope CD,
which is about four feet and i-J inch diameter, is
connected with the axis by means of a ftrong cube or
die G, and in which the two cones MQ^ forming the
axis, are fixed. This cube or flock G ferves as the
principal part of the whole machine, it not only
keeps together the two cones, but holds the two
fockets KH, of 15 inches length, for the two tele-
fcopic tubes. Each of thefe fockets has a fquare bafe,
and is fixed to the cube by four fcrews. Thefe fockets
are cut down in the fides about eight inches, to admit
more eafily the tube, of the telefcope ; but when the
tube is inferted, it is kept in firm by fcrewing up the
tightening fcrews at the end of the fockets at K and
H. Thefe two fockets are very ufeful in keeping the
telefcope in its greateft poflible degree of fteadinefs.
They alfo afford a better opportunity of balancing the
telefcope and reftifying its vertical thread, than by any
other means.
In order to direft the telefcope to the given height
that a ftar would be obferved at, there is fixed a femi-
circle AN on one of the fupporters, of about 8^ inches
diameter, and divided into degrees. The index is
fixed on the axis, at the end of which is a vernier,
which fubdivides the degrees into 12 parts, or five mi¬
nutes. This index is moveable on the axis, and may
be clofely applied to the divifions by means of a tight¬
ening ferew.
Two upright ports of wood or ftone YY, firmly
fixed at a proper diftance, are to fuftain the fupport¬
ers of this inftrument. Thefe fupporters are two
thick brafs plates RR, having well fmoothed angular
notches in their upper ends, to receive the cylindrical
arms of the axis. Each of thefe notched plates is
contrived to be moveable by a ferew, which Aides them
upon the furfaces of two other plates immoveably fix¬
ed upon the two upright pillars; one plate moving in
a horizontal, and the other in a vertical direflion ;
or, which is more fimple, thefe two modes are fome-
times applied only on one fide, as at V and P, the ho¬
rizontal motion by the ferew P, and the vertical by
the ferew V. Thefe two motions ferve to adjuft the
telefcope to the planes of the horizon and meridian :
to the plane of the horizon by the fpirit-level EF,
hung by DC on the axis MQ^in a parallel diredlion !
and to the plane of the meridian in the following man¬
ner :
N O M Y, Appendix.
Oblerve by the clock when a circumpolar ftar feen Defcription
through this inftrument tranfits both above and below of Aftrono-
the pole ; and if the times of deferibing the eaftern and ™fal In-
weftern parts of its circuit are equal, the telefcope is
then m the plane of the meridian : otherwife the ferew “
P muft be gently turned that it may move the tele¬
fcope fo much that the time of the ftar’s revolution be
bifeded by both the upper and lower tranfits, taking
care at the fame time that the axis remains perfe&ly
horizontal. When the telefcope is thus adjufted, a
mark muft be fet at a confiderable diftance (the great¬
er the better) in the horizontal diredion of the mter-
fedion of the crofs wires, and in a place where it can
be illuminated in the night-time by a lanthsrn hanging
near it; which mark being on a fixed objed, will ferve
at all times afterwards to examine the’ pofition of the
telefcope by, the axis of the inftrument being firft ad¬
jufted by means of the level.
. To adjujl the Clock by the Sun's Tranjit over the Me¬
ridian. Note the times by the clock when the prece¬
ding and following edges of the lun’s limb touch the
crols wires. I he difference between the middle time
and 12 hours, Ihows how much the mean, or time by
the clock, is farter or flower than the apparent or fo-
lar time for that day : to which the equation of time
being applied, will ftiow the time of mean noon for
that day, by which the clock may be adjufted.
2. The Equal /bltitude Injlruttient, is an inftrument
that is ufed to obferve a celeftial objed when it has
the fame altitude on both the eaft and w'eft fides of
the meridian, or in the morning and afternoon. It
principally confifts of a telefcope about 30 inches long
fixed to a fextantal or femicircular divided arch ; the
centre of which is fixed to a long vertical axis: but
the. particulars of this inftrument the reader will fee’ ex¬
plained in Optics.
3. Compound Tranjit Injlrument. Some inftruments
have been contrived to anfwer both kinds of obferva-
tions, viz. either a tranfit or equal altitudes. Fig. 178.
reprefents fuch an inftrument, made firft of all for Mi¬
le Monnier, the French aftronomer, by the late Mr
Sifion, under the diredion of Mr Opaham, mounted
and fixed up ready for obfervation.
AB is a telefcope, which may be 3, 4, 5, or 6 feet
long, whofe cylindrical tube fits exadly into another
hollow cylinder a b, perpendicular to the axis: thefe
feveral pieces are of the beft hammered plate brafs.
The cylindrical extremity of this axis MN are of fo-
lid bell-metal, and wrought exquifitely true, and ex-
a&ly the fame fize, iu a lathe; and it is on the per-
fedion to wrtiich the cylinders or trunnions are turned
that the juftnefs of the inftrument depends. In the
common focus of the objed-glafs and eye-glafs is pla¬
ced a reticle (fig. 177.), confifting of three horizontal
and parallel fine-ftretched filver wires, fixed by pins or
fcrews to a brafs circle, the middle one parting through
its centre, with a fourth vertical wire likewife parting
through the centre, exa&ly perpendicular to the for¬
mer three.
The horizontal axis MN (fig. 178.) is placed on a
ftrong brafs frame, into the middle of which a fteel cy¬
linder GH is fixed perpendicularly, being turned truly
round, and terminating in a conical point at its lower
extremity; w-here it is let into a fmall hole drilled
in the middle of the dove-tail Aider ; w-hich Aider is
fupported
/
Appendix. A S T R
Defcription fupported by a hollow tube fixed to the fupporting
of Aftrono-pjgce JK, confiding of two ftrong plates of brafs,
ftruinents. iolne^ together at right angles, to which are fixed two
« r ■ iron cramps L, L, by which it is fattened to the done
wall of a fouth window.
The upper part G of the deel fpindle is embraced by
a collar def, being in contaft with the blunt extre¬
mity of three fcrews, whofe particular ufe will be ex¬
plained by and by. O is another cylindrical collar
clofely embracing thei deel fpindle at about a third part
of its length from the top 5 by the means of a Imall
lerew it may be loofened or pinched clofe as occafion
requires, hrom the bottom of this collar proceeds an
arm or lever afted upon by the two fcrews g h, where¬
by the whole indrument, excepting the fupporting
piece, may be moved laterally, fo that the telefcope
may be made to point at a didant mark fixed in the
vertical of the meridian, z £ is a graduated femicircle
of thin brafs fcrewed to the telefcope, whereby it may
be elevated fo as to point to a known celedial objed
in the day time. ///z is a fpirit-level parallel to the
axis' of rotation on the telefcope, on which two trun¬
nions hang by two hooks at M and N. Along the
upper fide of the glafs tube of the level Hides a pointer
to be fet to the end of the air-bubble } and when the
pofition of the axis of rotation is fo adjuded by the
fcrews that the air-bubble keeps to the pointer for a
whole revolution of the indrument, the fpindle GH is
certainly perpendicular to the horizon, and then the
line of collimation of the telefcope defcribes a circle
of equal altitude in the heavens. When the level is
fufpended on the axis, raife or deprefs the tube of the
level by twiding the neb of the fcrew ?i till you bring
either end of the air-bubble to red at any point to¬
wards the middle of the tube, to which Hide the in¬
dex } then lift off the level, and, turning the ends of
it contrary ways, hang it again on the trunnions; and
if the air-bubble reds exabdly again, the index as be¬
fore, the axis of rotation is truly horizontal : If not,
deprefs that end of the axis which lies on the fame fide
of the pointer as the bubble does, by turning the neb
of the lerew at N, till the bubble returns about half¬
way towards the pointer ; then having moved the
pointer to the place where it now reds, invert the ends
ot the level again, and repeat the fame practice till
the bubble reds exaftly at the pointer in both pofitions
of the level. If, after the telefcope is turned upfide
down, that is, after the trunnions are inverted end for
end, you perceive that the fame point of a remote
fixed objedl is covered by the vertical wire in the focus
of the telefcope, that was covered by it before the in-
verfion, it is certain that the line of fight or collima-
tiem is perpendicular to the tranfverfe axis; but if the
laid vertical wire covers any other point, the brafs
circle that carries the hairs mud be moved by a ferew-
key introduced through the perforation in the fide of
the tube at X, till it appears to bifedf the line joining
thefe two points as near gs you can judge ; then, by
reverting the axis to its former pofition, you will find
whether the wires be exadly adjuded. n/b. The ball
0 is a counterpoife to the centre of gravity of the femi-
ciicle 1 k, without which the telefcope would not red
in an oblique elevation wnthout being fixed bv a fcrew
or fome other contrivance.
ftruments.
O N O M Y. 183
The feveral beforementioned verifications being ac- Defcription
complidred, if the telefcope be elevated to any angle of Adrona-
with the horizon, and there dopped, all fixed dars rnKai In-
which pafs over the three horizontal wires of the
reticle on the eadern fide of the meridian in afeending,
will have preciiely the fame altitudes when in defeend-
ing they again crofs the fame refpeddive wires on the
w-ed fide, and the middle between the times of each
refpedfive equal altitude will be the exaft moment of
the liar’s culminating or pading the meridian. By
the help of a good pendulum-clock, the hour of their
true meridional tranfits will be known, and confequently
the difference of right afeenfion of different dars. Now,
fince it will be fufficient to obferve a liar which has
north declination two or three hours before and after its
paffing the meridian, in order to deduce the times of its
arrival at that circle; it follows, that having once found
the difference of right afeenfion of two dars about 60
degrees afunder, and you again obferve the fird of thefe
dand at the fame altitude both in the ead and wed fide,
you infer with certainty the moment by the clock at
which the fecond dar will be on the meridian that fame
night, and by this means the tranfit indrument may be
fixed in the true plane of the meridian till the next
day 5 when, by depreffing it to fome didant land ob-
jefts, a mark may be difeovered w'hereby it may ever
after be re&ified very readily, fo as to take the tranfits
of any of the heavenly bodies to great exa&nefs, whe¬
ther by night or day.
When fuch a mark is thus found, the telefcope be¬
ing directed carefully to it, mud be fixed in that po¬
fition by pinching fad the end of the arm or lever be¬
tween the two oppofite fcrews g b ; and if at any fu¬
ture time, whether from the effedt of heat or cold on
the wrall to which the indrument is fixed, or by any
fettling of the wall itfelf, the mark appears no longer
well bifedted by the vertical wire, the telefcope may
eafily be made to bifedt it again, by giving a Imall
motion to the pinching fcrews.
The tranfit indrument is now confidered as one of
the mod effential particulars of the apparatus of an
adronomical obfervatory.
Befides the above, may be mentioned,
The Equatorial or Portable Observatory ; Portable
an indrument defigned to anfwer a numoer of uleful obrerva~
purpofes in pradHcal adronomy, independent of anyt0Iy'
particular obfervatory. It may be made ufe of in any
deady room or place, and performs mod of. the ufeful
problems in the fcience. The following is a defcription
of one lately invented by Mr Ramfden, from whom it
has received the name of the Univerfol Equatorial.
The principal parts of this indrument (bg. 179.)
are, 1. The azimuth or horizontal circle A, which re-
prefents the horizon of the place, and moves on a long
axis B, called the vertical axis. 2. The equatorial or
hour circle C, reprefenting the equator, placed at right
angles to the polar axis D, or the axis of the earth,
upon which it moves. 3. The femicircle of declination
E,^ on which the telefcope is placed, and moving on the*
axis of declination, or the axis of motion of the line of
collimation F. Ihefe circles are meafured and divided
as in the following table ;
t
Meafurey
184
Defcription
of Aftrono-
mical In-
ftruments.
ASTRONOMY.
Meafures of the feveral
circles and divifions
on them.
Azimuth or hori¬
zontal circle
Equatorial or hour
circle
Vertical femicircle 1
for declination >
or latitude. J
Radius.
In dec.
5 1
5 1
5 5
Limb divided
to
{
IJ'
1' in time
15'
Nonius of
30 gives
feconds.
3°
30
2
}
3°
Divided on
limb into
part-- of inc.
45th
45th
4 2d
Divided by
Nonius into
parts of inc.
1350th
I350t^
1260th
Appendix,
Defcription
of Aftrono-
mieal In-
ftruments.
-4. The telefcope, which is an achromatic refraflor
with a triple objedl-glafs, whofe focal diftance is 17
inches, and aperture 2.45 inches, and furnifhed with
lix different eye-tubes •, fo that its magnifying powers
extend from 44 to 168. The telefcope in this equa¬
torial may be brought parallel to the polar axis, as in
the figure, fo as to point to the pole flar in any part
of its diurnal revolution j and thus it has been obfer-
ved near noon, when the fun has fhone very bright.
5. The apparatus for eorre&ing the error in altitude
occafioned by refradlion, which is applied to the eye-
end of the telefcope, and confifls of a Hide G moving
m a groove or dove-tail, and carrying the feveraTeye-
> tubes of the telefcope, on which Hide there is an in¬
dex correfponding to five fmall divifions engraved on
the dove-tail; a very fmall circle, called the refraftion
circle H, moveable by a finger-fcrew at the extremity
of the eye-end of the telefcope j which circle is di¬
vided into half minutes, one entire revolution of it be¬
ing equal to 3' iB", and by its motion raifes the centre
of the crofs hairs on a circle of altitude ; and likewife
a quadrant I of 14 inch radius, with divifions on each
fide, one exprefling the degree of altitude of the objefl:
viewed, and the other expreffing the minutes and fe¬
conds of error occafioned by refradlion, correfponding
to that degree of altitude : to this quadrant is joined
a fmall round level K, which is adjlifted partly by the
pinion that turns the whole of this apparatus, and
partly by the index of the quadrant; for which pur-
pofe the refra£lion circle is fet to the fame minute, &.c.
which the index points to on the limb of the quadrant;
and if the minute, &c. given by the quadrant exceed
the 3' 18" contained in one entire revolution of the re-
fradtion circle, this muft be fet to the excefs above
one or more of its entire revolutions •, then the centre
of the crofs hairs will appear to be raifed on a circle of
altitude to the additional height which the error of re-
fradfion will occafion at that altitude.
This inilrument ftands on three feet L diftant from
each other 14.4 inches ; and when all the parts are
horizontal is about 29 inches high : the weight of the
equatorial and apparatus is only 59 lb. avoirdupoife,
which are contained in a mahogany cafe weighing
The principal adjuftment in this inftrument is that
ol making the line of collimation to'defcribe a portion
ot an hour-circle in the heavens; in order to which,
the azimuth circle muft be truly level, the line of col¬
limation or fome correfponding line reprefented by
the fmall brafs rod M parallel to it, muft be perpendi¬
cular to the axis of its ownr proper motion j and this
laft axis muft be perpendicular to the polar aids ^ on the
brafs rod M there is occafionally placed a hanging level
N, the ufe of which will appear in the following ad-
juftments :
The azimuth circle may be made level by turning
the inftrument till one of the levels is parallel to an
imaginary line joining two of the feet fcrews ; then ad-
juft that level with thefe two-feet fcrews; turn the circle
half round, i.e. 180° ; and if the bubble be not then
right, corredt half the error by the fcrew-belonging to
the level, and the other half error by the two-foot
fcrews ; repeat this till the bubble comes right; then
turn the circle 90° from the two former pofitions, and
fet the bubble right, if it be wrong, by the foot fcrew
at the end of the level; when this is done, adjuft the
other level by its own fcrew, and the azimuth circle
wfill be truly level. The hanging level muft then be
fixed to the brafs rod by two hooks of equal length,
and made truly parallel to it : for this purpofe make
the polar axis perpendicular or nearly perpendicular to
the horizon ; then adjuft the level by the pinion of the
declination-femicircle ; reverfe the level, and if it be
wrong, corredt half the error by a fmall fteel fcrew
that lies under one end of the level, and the other
half-error by the pinion of the declination-femicircle ;
repeat this till the bubble be right in both pofitions.
In order to make the brafs rod on w-hich the level is
fufpended at right angles to the axis of motion of the
telefcope or line of collimation, make the polar axis
horizontal, or nearly fo : fet the declination-femicircle
to o°, turn the hour-circle till the bubble comes right;
then turn the declination-circle to 90° ; adjuft the bub¬
ble by raifing or deprefling the polar axis (firft by
hand till it be nearly right, afterwards tighten with an
ivory key the focket which runs on the arch with the
polar axis, and then apply the fame ivory key to the
adjufting fcrew at the end of the faid arch till the
bubble comes quite right) ; then turn the declination-
circle to the oppofite 90° ; if the level be not then
right, corredl half the error by the aforefaid adjufting
fcrew at the end of the arch, and the other half error
by the two fcrews which raife or deprefs the end of
the brafs rod. The polar axis remaining nearly hori¬
zontal as before, and the declination-femicircle at o°,
adjuft the bubble by the hour-circle ; then turn the
declination-femicircle to 90°, and adjuft the bubble by
raifing or deprefling the polar axis ; then turn the
hour-circle J 2 hours ; and if the bubble be wrong,
correft half the error by the polar axis, and the other
half error by tbe two pair of capftan fcrews at the
feet of the two fiipports on one fide .of the axis of mo¬
tion
Plate LIX.
e
f
t
,r
>•
/ H G-f
)Y)
C
/ pj
• . // frr/\icti^i/cr€ feat;.
*
/
a
AS TK () NO MY.
so
.jJ5
c
' //-><■// . //(,/. *■ /<y///i/cr
4^
1.5
• //3<>///''*u'n. /t,//, j,
. /, i
:v ,\
T //
( ' 7.
A S Tl< OX O MY.
rti> -.x V rn
F l ute LX a
AS T HON OM Y.
Plate J, XIV.
OJ/'r/v. (5
CD''/h e S^'A foon.(
e
® -1/^
Alt'/yy/r •
Venus.
C
Affir.r.
c
—c tytti c
t / ’t/te//ffe fft/ree
f/te rfr.r/ftttce ef
//te J’iruntft. _
.
(~7v.
68.
J
'Wi
r tfr//irter
h * »J/z/e/Z/Au.
—c—
/j/.rAf7/ee ef' t/te fourt/i SaAeZ/etejAvr/t tAe A/artZ.
• ZaAuni
ZC //(.i i faZe/ZtAxj.
-c- 
-A (zrAZe. -Afoon.
O-. *
VJzsAerzzce ofAZieAfocrigborn /Ae Krrrt/t.
» Z'/y. J6.
' A a,
(/
SerZ/avA. %
, /u/s/Av. 3
. t/ZAr// .'V/yn.// .
\
*
A S T J \ O O M y
Plate !,X\r.
. \/(/K
* *
* *
*
* V
•* 6
* *:
*8
* r
\ *
* V
if-0
K
f'/'r^fc,).
sk
.r//>/•// . t'/yt/K /ryt//>/r >/'_
Piute J.XVI.
Astko.vomv.
ft a/?r /ru/fr/vr/he&.
arte ■
.ryj J x v
f,
A S T R ON OMY. Flate R XVIII
X s T K o x O MX.
Plate iLXXXI.
, /. A, //; 'S<>ufiS(>r /•'O
A S T K O X () M V
O
•rvttytit'i'Jr-tr/.
r* |
w
$ 1
0
ASTBO N Cm Y.
Plate L XXII
>C///t‘rt. //rr/\ >\'ttfydvr
s
v
ASTIVONOM V.
Hale LXXIll.
F
13
/- . )
t
, r//-'//.'S’/VH. //»/'!./fitfr/i'r/ent
' , //rl/?r/ry/^f /t>r /(YY/’
Plate P, XXIX
A S TBOXOMT.
Plate r;xxx
As TK o X O M V.
1%. 161. The CTrAXD OKKKRY bvTvowJcn'.
/. /. / -:
V"
* <"
X-
'/fitAi/rt/,
////>/
\
Appendix, ASTRO
Defeription tion of the telefcope ; and thus this axis will be at
right angles to the polar axis. The next adjudment
ihunients. to ma^e t^ie ceittre of crofs hairs remain on the fame
u-—  1 object, while you turn the eye-tube quite round by the
pinion of the refraction apparatus : for this adjullment,
let the index on the Hide to the firft divifion on the
t^)ve-tail •, and fet the divifion marked 18'7 on the re-
iraclion circle to its index ; then look through the te¬
lefcope, and with the pinion turn the eve-tube quite
round ; and if the centre of the hairs does not remain
on the fame ipot during that revolution, it muft be
correfted by the four fmall ferews, two and two at a
time (which you will find upon unferewing the nearell
end of the eye-tube that contains'the firft eye-glafs) ;
repeat this correction till the centre of the hairs re¬
mains on the fpot you tire looking at during an entire
revolution. In order to make the line of collimation
parallel to the brafs rod on which the level hangs, fet
the polar axis horizontal, and the declination-circle to
90°, adjuft the level by the polar axis ; look through
the telefcope on home diftant horizontal objeCt, covered
by the centre of the crofs hairs ; then invert the tele¬
fcope, which is done by turning the hour-circle half
round ; and if the centre of the crofs hairs does not
cover the fame object as before, correCt half the error
by the uppermoft and lowermoft of the four fmall
ferews at the eye-end of the large tube of the tele¬
fcope ; this correction will give a fecond objeCl now
covered by the centre of the hairs, which muft: be
adopted inftead of the firft object : then invert the te¬
lefcope as before } and if the fecond obiedt be not co¬
vered by the centre of the hairs, correct half the error
by the fame two ferews which were ufed before : this
cqrredtion will give a third objedt, now covered by the
centre of the hairs, which muft be adopted inftead of
the fecond objedt } repeat this operation till no error
remains 5 then fet the hour-circle exadlly to j 2 hours
(the declination-circle remaining at 90° as before) ;
alnd if the centre of the crofs hairs does not cover the
laft objedl fixed on, fet it to that objedt by the two re¬
maining fmall ferews at th? eye-end of the large tube,
and then the line of collimation will be parallel to the
brafs rod. For redlifying the nonius of the declina¬
tion and equatorial circles, lower the telefcope as many
degrees, minutes, and feconds, below o° or on the
declination-femicircle as are equal to the complement
of the latitude j then elevate the polar axis till the bub-
N O M Y. 185
ble be horizontal, and thus the equatorial circle will Deftnptie'1
be elevated to the colatitude of the place j fet this cir- of
cle to 6 hours j adjuft the level by the pinion of the ™r!^en"‘
declination-circle j then turn the equatorial circle ex- w™—
adtly 1 2 hours from the laft pofition ; and if the level
be not right, corredt one-half of the error by the equa¬
torial circle, and the other half by the declination-
circle y then turn the equatorial circle back again ex¬
adlly 12 hours from the laft pofition 5 and if the level
be Hill wrong, repeat the corredtion as before till it
be right, when turned to either pofition ; that being
done, fet the nonius of the equatorial circle exadlly to
6 hours, and the nonius of the declination-circle ex¬
adlly to o°.
The principal ufes of this equatorial are,
1. To find your meridian by one obfervation only :
for this purpofe, elevate the equatorial circle to the
colatitude of the place, and fet the declination-fe¬
micircle to the fun’s declination for the day and hour
of the day required j then move the azimuth and hour
circles both at the fame time, either in the fame or
contrary diredlion, till you bring the centre of the
crofs hairs in the telefcope exadlly to cover the centre
of the fun ; when that is done, the index of the hour-
circle will give the apparent or folar time at the in-
llant of obfervation j and thus the time is gained,
though the fun be at a diftance from the meridian j
then ttirn the hour-circle till the index points precifely
at 12 o’clock, and lower the telefcope to the horizon,
in order to obferve fome point there in the centre of
your glafs, and that point is your meridian mark found
by one obfervation only , the beft time for this opera¬
tion is three hours before or three hours after I 2 at
noon.
2. To point the telefcope on a ftar, though not on
the meridian, in full daylight. Having elevated the
equatorial circle to the co-latitude of the place, and
fet the declination-femicircle to the ftar’s declination,
move the index of the hour-circle till it fliall point to
the precife time at which the ftar is then diftant from
the meridian, found in tables of the right afeenfion of
the liars, and the ftar will then appear in the glafs.
Befides thefe ufes peculiar to this inftrument, it is alfo
applicable to all the purpofes to which the principal
aftronomical inftruments, viz. a tranfit, a quadrant,
and an equal altitude inftrument, are applied.
INDEX.
j4bERRATI0N of the fixed ftars, N° 265
Academy, Royal, of fciences founded, 30
Adam fuppofed to have underftood
aftronomy, I
Alphonfo of Caftile patronifes aftrono-
mers, by whom the tables
are conitrufted,
Americans knowledge of aftronomy,
Anomalyy mean,
Antediluviansy their knowledge of a-
ftronomy,
Vol. Ill, Part I.
18
5
51
293
ib.
'1
Apogee of the moon’s orbit, N° 81
of the planets,
ApJideSy moon’s,
Arabians cultivate aftronomy in the
dark ages,
Archimedes determines the relative
diftances of the pla¬
nets, 13
Afcenjioriy right, 250
AttraBiony laws of, a61 among the
ftars, 230
Axis of the world, 3}
AJlrological divifion of the heavens, 371
Atmofpherey why not feen about the
moon,
B
Bailly inveftigates the Indian aftrono¬
my, _
Bayer, John, forms a celeftial atlas,
improves the nomenclature of
the ftars,
Benares, obfervatory,
399
4
26
ib.
3
A a
Bianchini,
i86 A
Bianchini, obfervations of Venus, N° 146
BiffextUe, or Leap year, 63
Bodies, falling, velocity calculated, 352
weight increafes towards the
poles, 276
Bodin''s opinion of comet's, 301
Bradley, Dr, fucceeds Dr Halley, 34
difcovers the aberration of
light, ib.
nutation of the
earth’s axis, ib.
Briggs, Henry, improves logarithms, 28
Brydone obferves the prodigious velo¬
city of a comet, 319
conj edfures about comets with¬
out tails, 322
C
Cctfar, Julius, reforms the year, 63
Caille, de la, conftru&s folar tables 36
Calendar, Gregorian, 64
CaJJini appointed to the obfervatory at
at Paris, 30
J" obfervations of Venus, 141, 144,
*49
Ceres, planet, elements not precifely
known, 183
Chaldeans cultivated aftronomy early, 6
Chinefe, their knowledge of aftronomy, 2
give names to the zodiac, 3
Clouds, folar, two regions, 7 7
{iWeV hypothefis of comets, 323
Cometarium, 358
Comets, account of, 183
atmofpheres and phafes, 184
appearance of one in 1618,
1680, 1744, 1759, 186, 191
tails, < 187
obfervations on, by Hevelius
and Hooke, 188
fuppofed by the ancients to
be planets, 298
Ariftotle’s opinion of, 299
one fpecies only exifts, 300
opinion of Kepler and Bodin, 301
Bernouilli’s opinion of, 302
true doftrine revived by Ty¬
cho Brahe, 303
motion determined by New¬
ton, 304
return of one predifted by Dr
Halley, 305
periodical times of different
ones determined, 306
why fometimes invifible in
perihelion, 307
more feen in hemifphere to¬
wards the fun, 308
differences in eccentricities of
orbits, 309
opinions of their fubftance, 3x0
diftances and diameters of
fome computed, 311
occafion eclipfes, 312
conjeftures concerning their
tails, £ 313
S T R O N O M
Comets, conjectures by Appian and
Tycho Brahe, N° 313
by Defcartes, 314
by others, afcrib-
ed to electrici¬
ty, _ ib.
by Dr Plamilton, 315
velocity obferved by Bry¬
done, 319
in 1680 fubjeCted to great
heat, 3 20
conjectures of their nature by
Hevelius, 321
about thofe with¬
out tails, 322
Cole’s hypothefis, 323
periodical times, 324
Halley calculates their re¬
turn, _ 325
return at unequal intervals,
why, 3 26
at what diftance vifible, 372
move in eccentric ellipfes, 373
motion, how to calculate, 374
are affeCted by the planets, 375
confequence of meeting a
planet, 376
Cancellations, names of, 199
Copernicus reftores the fyftem of Py¬
thagoras, 2 2—2 8 2
his diffidence and fear of
giving offence, retard
the publication of his
fyftem, ib.
D
Day, aftronomical, 55
fidereal, 56
varies in length, 57
mean aftronomical, 58
Declination, rules for finding, 249
Denjities of planets calculated,. 356
Dollond improves the telefcope, 31
Dunn, Mr, his account of the folar
fpots, 69
E
Earth, true figure, difcovered, 34
figure fpherical, 269
dimenfions afcertained, 270
different meafurements, 271
anomalies in the figure, ac¬
counted for by Mr Play¬
fair, 272
latitude and longitude found, 273
motion round the fun, proved
from its figure, 275
from celeftial ap¬
pearances, 277
objeCHons to, anfwer-
ed, 278
demonftrated from the
aberration of light, 286
diurnal motion and changes of
feafons illuftrated, 290
effeCts of motion on the ap¬
pearances ®f the planets, 292
Y. Index.
Earth and mcon move about a com¬
mon centre, N° 353
protuberant matter, effeCts of,
libratory momentum, 411
applied to nuta¬
tion and pre-
ceffion, 412
various modes of
application, 413
real and momentary change
greateft at the folltices, 414
moon’s aCtion, 419
Eclipfes, method of calculating, 353
tables for calculating, p.
169, 170.
lunar, 99
folar, 103
duration of, 11 o
Ecliptic, 43
obliquity of, ib.
Egyptians early cultivators of aftrono-
my, 6
Elements of the planets, tables of, 297
Equation of the centre explained, 51
of time computed, 60
Equator, 3 7
Equinoctial line, 255
points, ib.
Equinoxes, preceffion of, difcovered
by Hipparchus, 257
importance of the difco-
very, _ 259
fmall irregularities, difco¬
vered by Dr Bradley, 261
F
Falling bodies, velocity of, calculat¬
ed, > 352
Elamjlead, Mr, appointed aftronomer
royal, 30
makes a catalogue of the
ftars, 33
Fontana improves telefcopes, 31
Forces, moving, caufe of motion, 332
compofition of, 333
refolution, 334
accelerating, 336
central, 338
centripetal, effeCl of, 340
centrifugal compared with
gravitation, 342
French philofophers cultivate aftrono¬
my* 35
G
Galaxy, or milky-rvay, 211
feems to furround the hea¬
vens, 222
Globe, celeftial, 359
Golden number, 61
Gravitation, general law of, 355
Grecian aftronomy improved by
Thales, 9
by Anaximander, ib.
Greeks, unknown when aftronomy
was firft cultivated among
them, 8
Greenwich
Index. A
Greenwich obfervatory built, N° 3q
H
Ilal/ey, Dr, appointed aftronomer
. r°yal> 33
difcovers the acceleration of
the moon,
Tecommends the method of
finding the longitude now
followed, ib.
account of new ftars, 200
predicts the return of a co-
met, ^05
calculates their return, 325
Hamilton's, Dr, opinion of comets, 3 j5
infufficient, 317
Heavens, divifion of, 197
method of gauging, by Her-
fchel, 2 24
interior conftruflion, 229
Herfchel, Dr, improves telefcopes, 36
difcovers a planet, ib,
fix fatellites, ib,
obfervations on the fun, 70
adopts new terms to ex-
prefs the appearances, 71
opinion of the conftru&ion
of the univerfe, 217
of the via la&ea, 218
method of gauging the hea¬
vens, 225
hypothefis of celeflial ap¬
pearances 223
method of finding the pa¬
rallax of fixed liars, 268
Herfchel, planet difcovered by the a-
ftronomer, 36
its fatellites, 183
fix in number, 330
Hevelius, a zealous altronomer, 30
compiles his Selenographia, ib.
his obfervatory and inftru-
ments burnt, ib.
conje&ures of the nature of
comets, 321
Ilicetas taught the diurnal motion of
the earth, 11
Hipparchus difcovers the eccentricity
of the planetary orbits, 14
makes a catalogue of the
fixed ftars, 15
difcovers the preceflion of
the equinoxes, 257
charged with plagiarifm, 260
Hoote, Dr, improves telefcopes, 30
Horizon explained, 37
Horrox, a young aftronomer of great
talents, 29
predi&ed and obferved the
tranfit of Venus for the
fir ft time, ib.
formed a theory of the moon, ib.
I
Indians, their knowledge of aftrono- •
m7» 4
s T R o N o M
Indians, authenticity of their aftrono-
my, N° 370
Injlruments, aftronomical, firft impro¬
ved in England, 31
defcription of, p. 171—184.
Jofephus mentions the grand year
known to Seth, 1
Jupiter's belts firft difcovered, 166
fpots in them, 167
account of one, 168
no difference of feafons, 169
moons, four in number, 170
diftance and periodic
times, 171
eclipfes, 172
appear fometimes as
dark fpots, 173
vary in light and mag¬
nitude, 174
fhadowrs fometimes vi-
fible on Jupiter’s
difk, 173
three eclipfed every
revolution, 176
eclipfes, when vifible, 177
orbits and diftances, 327
irregularities in their
motions, 328
K
Kepler difcovers the famous law’s in
aftronomy, 26
law explained, 49
opinion of comets, 301
difcovers the caufe of the tides, 400
X*
Latitudes of heavenly bodies, 252
how found, 253
Libration of the moon, 133
theory, 134
Line, meridian, method of drawing, 40
Logarithms invented by Baron Napier, 26
improved by Urfinus and
. Briggs> . 28
Longitude of the heavenly bodies, 251
of places on the earth, me¬
thod of finding, 274
Long, Dr, his account of the folar
fpots, 66
Louville's obfervations on the moon’s
ring, 126
Lowe's, Mr, method of finding the
longitude, 274
Lunation, or month, 61
M
Mackay, Mr, method of finding the
longitude, 274
Mars, fpots firft feen, 133
bright about the poles, 136
Dr Herfchel’s account of, 157
appear and difappear, 138
w’hite about the poles, 162
pofition of the poles, J39
feafons, j 60
refembles the earth, i6x
Y- 187
Mars, his form fpheroidical, N° 163
difference of diameters, 164
atmofphere,
Majlelyne, Dr, improves the lunar
method of finding the
longitude, 36
Mercury's apparent motions, 133
diameter, 136
nature, 137
Meridian explained, 37
line, method of drawing, 40
Milky-way,. 2 j ±
Moon's motion in her orbit, 79
orbit elliptical, 80
.eccentricity, g *
evedHon,
variation, g^
annual equation, 83
revolution of her nodes, 86
parallax, method of determin-
. ing, 87
diftance, gg
phafes, (jo
is opaque, 9*
mode of meafuring the year, 93
the earth appears a moon to it, 92
longitude found, 94
nonagefimal degree, 98
eclipfes, .
period, 100
why vifible w’hen eclipfed, 101
eclipfes obferved with difficul-
, tyj _ 102
number in a year, 104
total and annular, 106
extent of lhadow and penum¬
bra, 107
fize, 1x,
Kght, 11 2
fpots, , T 3
names of, ib,
inequalities of furface, 114
method of meafuring moun¬
tains, x x 3
mountains, height of, overrat-
e<^» 116
volcanoes, 1 j 9
fubftance, conjedlures of, 120
atmofphere, exiftence of, dif-
puted, 121
ring obferved in eclipfes, 123
lightning, l2’1
height of atmofphere account¬
ed for, x 28
has no fenfible atmofphere, 131
libration, x 3 3
theory, 134
tendency the fame as gravita-
tion, . 330
motion explained, 331
inequalities, 377
neareft the earth when leaft
attradled, 379
•rbit, caufe of dilatation, 380
A a 2 Moon's
i88
ASTRONOMY.
Index.
Moon's orbit changed by the action
of the fun, N° 381
nodes, 382
motion explained, 384
inclination, 383
motion, irregularities from be¬
ing elliptical, • 385
orbit, inequality in the eccen-
tricity, 391
inequalities computed, 392
mean diftance, fecular equation, 39^3
has no atmofphere, why, 399
Motion, definition of, 331
Motions, of the, 51
N
Nadir, 3 7
Napier, Baron, invents logarithms, 26
Nebula, our fidereal iylfem, one, 236
extent, 239
how to be delineated, 241
Nebulce in the milky-way, 219
arranged in ftrata, 220
affume various fitapes, 221
how formed, ‘ 231
vacancies, how occafioned, 232
decay and recompofition, 242
univerfe compofed of, 243
iize and diitance, 244
time of forming, 245
planetary, 247
Newton, Sir Ifaac, his difcoveries, 31
determines the motions of
the comets, 304
his opinion of comets de¬
fended, 316
obfervations on the precef-
fion of equinoxes, 407
iketch of his inveftigation, 40S
determination of the form
and dimenfions of the
earth, 409
examination of phenomena
of preceihon on mechani¬
cal principles, 410
Node, afcending, 86
Nodules on lire luminous clouds of the
fun, 75
Number, golden, 61
Nutation, lunar, 421
compared with preceffion, 423
o
Obfervatory, portable, 364
Openings formed by the fun’s lumi¬
nous clouds being remov¬
ed, 72
Ofcillation of the planetary fyftem, 369
P
Valias, planet, elements not precifely
known, 183
Perigee of the moon’s orbit, 81
of the planets, 293
.Phoenicians taught allronomy by the
Egyptians, 7
apply it to navigation, ib
Philolaus afferts the annual motion of
the earth round the fun, 11
Planets, N° 3 7
apogee and perigee, 293
difference of apparent diame¬
ters, 294
appearances of fuperior, ex¬
plained, 295
orbits and laws of their mo¬
tions, ib.
heliocentric circles, 296*
nodes, 297
tables of elements, ib.
revolve round the fun, 343
in confequence of a
force in the fun, 344
the fame tendency in all, 346
and fame in their fatellites, 347
reatf on the fun, 354
denfities calculated, 356
maffes, table of, 357
gravity at their furfaces, 359
fecular and periodical inequa¬
lities, 360
motion of the aphelion 361
motions, method of correfl-
ing, ^ . 363
Jupiter and Saturn influence
each others motions, 362
defledlion of, towards each
other,
Pendulum regulated by gravitation, 337
PreceJJion of equinoxes, 257—259
obfervation by
Newton and
others, 407
Newton’s inveftigation, 408
lunar, 420
greateff equation, 425
Ptoler?iy, his iyftem erroneous, 16
Ptolemy Philadelphus encourages the
fciences in E-
gypt, 12
Purback improves aftronomy, 19
Pythagoras improves aftronomy, 11
corredi notions of the folar
fyftem, ib.
of the moon’s light, ib.
- of the milky-wav, ib.
CL
Quadrants, 3 61
Quadratures of the moon, 90
R
Revolution of a body round a centre
explained, 339
Regiomontanus conftruifts aftronomical
apparatus, 20
calculates lunations and
eclipfes, ib.
writes a theory of pla¬
nets and comets, ib.
Ridges of the fun’s luminous clouds, 74
Rcemer difeovers the progreffive mo¬
tion of light, 33
Rothman, an aftronomer, 23
Ring of Saturn, 395
difeovery concerning, by Dr
Herfchel, 396
Ringoi Saturn probably confiftent, N° 397
origin, 393
S
Satellites, tend to the fun, 347
to their primaries, 349
irregularities in Jupiter’s, 394
Saturn, telefcopic appearance of, 178
ring difeovered by Huygens, 179
luppofed to revolve round
its axis, 180
diameter, ib.
fatellites, 181
two difeovered by
Herfchel, 182
number, 329
Seafons explained, 44
changes illuftrated, 290
different, explained, 291
Sedlor, equatorial, 362
Selenographia compiled by Plevelius, 40
Shallo%vs of the fun’s luminous clouds, 93
Shepherds, Afiatic, obferve the hea¬
vens, 255
Signs of the zodiac, ij2
Society, Royal, founded in London, 80
Stars, fixed, occultations by the moon, 130
Style, old, 64
new, ib.
Sun, annual motion, 39
altitude, 41
motion, method of afeertaining, 42
not uniform 45
diameter varies, 46
diftance varies, 47
motion varies, 48
orbit, elliptical, 50
varies, _ 53
diftance determined, ^4
fpots, firft difeovered, 65
Long, Dr, bis account of
them, 66
move from w'eft to eaft, 67
obferved by difterent aftro-
nomers, 68
Dunn, Mr, his account of
them, 69
appearances of the luminous
clouds, 72—76
two regions of clouds, 77
theory of phenomena, 78
eclipfes, 103
beginning and ending, 108
account of one by Dr
Halley, 124
his place in the univerfe, 224
centre attrafts all bodies, 348
moves round the common cen¬
tre of gravity, 3^4
Syzigies of the moon, 90
Stars, fixed, number increafed by te-
lefcopes, 192
difference in magnitude, 193-
telefcopic, 194
unformed, 195
divifion in conftellations,
and ufes, 196
Stars, fixed,
>
Index.
A
Stars, fixed, new, Dr Halley’s account
Of, N° 200
changes among, 201
accounts of variable ftars,
202—208
method of difcovering
variations, 210
conjeftures of their na¬
ture, 212
comparative brightnefs
with the fun, 214
method of afcertaining
the fituation, 248
vary in right afcenfion
and declination, 254
diftance, immeafurable, 266
appear large to the eye, 267
parallax, method of afcer-
taining, 268
Syjlem, Pythagorean, _ 279
fupprelTed by the Ptolemaic, 280
Ptolemaic, infufficient, 281
Pythagorean, revived, 282
Tychonic, 283
T
Tables, Alphonfine, conftru&ed, 18
diredtions for ufing, 356
Telefcopes invented, 27
improved by Hooke, 30
by Fontana, 3 I
by Huygens, ib.
Gregory, ib.
Sir Ilaac New¬
ton, ib.
Holland, ib.
cautions in ufing, n8
Iheory, mathematical, of the poles of
the equator, 262—264
Time, divilions of, 55—57
equation of, computed, 60
Tides, caufe difcovercd by Kepler, 400
S T R O N O M
Tides, why high at full moon, N° 401
influence of the fun, 402
not higheft when the moon is
in the meridian, 403
turn on the axis of the moon’s
orbit, 4°4
irregularities accounted for, 405
Trajetloriiun lunare, 360
Tranjit inftruments, _ 363
Tycho Brahe obferves the connexion
of Saturn and Jupiter, 24
makes a more accurate
quadrant, ib.
fuperintends the building
of Uraniburg, his ob-
fervatory, 25
revives the true dodlrine
of comets, 301
U
XJlug Beg cultivates allronomy, 17
Uraniburg, built by Tycho Brahe, and
furnifhed with inftruments, 25
Urjinus, Benjamin, calculates large
tables of loga¬
rithms,. 28
Velocity, motion, 3 3 5
Venus, appai'ent motions, v 138
revolution round her axis, 139
doubts of the time, 147
fpots firft difeovered, 140
feem to move from fouth
to north, and why, 142
appearances at different
times,- 143
obfervations by Caflini, 141
by Bianchini, 146
fatellites difeovered by Caflini, 149
and by Mr Short, 150
Mr Mon¬
taigne, J52
difficult to be feen, 152
y. 189
Venus, atmofphere of, obferved by Mr
Hirft, N° 153
Volcanoes in the moon, 119
W
cultivates aftronomy, and con-
ftrudls inftruments, 20
Weight of bodies increafes towards the
poles, 276
Werner, John, early attachment to
aftronomy, 21
obferves the motion of
a comet, ib,
propoles a method of
finding the longi¬
tude at fea, zb,
difeovers the preceflion
of the equinoxes, zb,
conftrufts a planetari¬
um, ib.
William IV. landgrave of Heffe Caf-
fel, an aftx-onomer, 2 3
World, argument againft the eterisity, 36
Wright, Edward, makes obfervations
on the fun’s alti¬
tude, 26
improves the theory
of his motion, ib.
computes tables of
his declination, ib.
59
zb.
62
reformed by Julius
Caefar, 63
leap, zb.
lunar, , 93
z
Zenith, . 3 7
Zodiac, Chinefe names of the figns, 3
figns of, 5 2
divifion of 198'
Tear, tropical,
lidereal,
Roman,
AST
Aftrope_ ASTROPE wells, near Banbury in Oxfordlhire,
1 Wells are recommended as excellent in many diforders. I he
II water is a brifk, fpirituous, pleaiant-tafted chalybeate,
AHrue. is alio gently purgative. It fliould be drank from
three to five quarts in the forenoon.
ASTROSCOPE, a kind of aftronomical inftru-
ment, compofed of two cones, on whofe furface the
conftellations, with their liars, are delineated, by means
whereof the liars may be eafily known. The aftro-
fcope is the invention of William Schuckhard, former¬
ly profeffor of mathematics a,t Tubingen, who publiffi-
ed a treatife exprefsly on it in 1698.
ASTRUC, John, a celebrated phvfician, was born
in the year 1684, at the little town of Savoy, in the
province of Languedoc. His father, who was a Pro-
teftant clergyman, bellowed particular pains upon the
AST
carlieft part of his education. After which he went to Aftmc.
the umverfity of iVIontpclier, where he was created "v
mailer of arts in the year I'jco. He then began the
ftudy of medicine j and, in two years, obtained the
degree of bachelor, having upon that occalion written
a differtation on the caufe of fermentation, which he
defended in a very fpxrited manner. On the 25th of
January 17^3 was created dodlor oi phylic j aitei
which, before arriving at extenfive pradlice he applied
to the ftudy of medical authors, both ancient and mo¬
dern, with uncommon afllduity. 1 he good effects Oi.
this ftudy foou appeared 5 for, in the year 1710, he
publilhed a treatife concerning mufcular motion, from
wffiich he acquired very high reputation. In the year
1717, he was appointed to teach medicine at Mont¬
pelier 5 which he did with fuch perfpicuity and elo¬
quence.
Afturia.
AST [ r
__ quence, that it was univerfally faid he had been born
to be a profeflbr. His fame foon rofe to fuch a height,
that the king affigned him an annual falary ; and he
was, at the fame time, appointed to fuperintend the
mineral, waters in the province of Languedoc. But
as Montpelier did not afford fufficient fcope for his
afpinng genius, he went to Paris with a great ftock of
manufcnpts, which he intended to publifh, after fub-
je£hng them to the examination of the learned. Soon
after, however, he left it, having in the year 1729 ac¬
cepted the office of firft phyfician to the king of Po¬
land. In this capacity he remained only for a ffiort
time, and he again returned to Paris. Upon the death
of the celebrated Geoffrey, in the year 1731, he was
appointed regius profeffor of medicine at Paris. The
duties of this office he difeharged in fuch a manner as
to anfwer even the moft fanguine expectations. He
taught the practice of phyfic with fo great applaufe, as
to draw from other univerfities to that of Paris a great
concourfe of medical ftudents, foreigners as well as na¬
tives of France. At the fame time he was not more
celebrated as a profeffor than a practitioner. And,
even at an advanced age, he perfevered with unwea¬
ried affiduity in that intenfe ftudy which firft raifed his
reputation. Hence it is that he has been enabled to
Tranfmit to pofterity fo many valuable monuments of
his medical erudition. He died, univerfally regretted
on the 15th of May 1766, in the 8 2d year of his
age.
ASTURIA, an ancient kingdom of Spain, fub-
dued by Auguftus emperor of Rome.—The inhabi¬
tants of this country, along with thofe of Cantabria,
afferted their liberty long after the reft of Spain had
received the Roman yoke. So great was their defire
of liberty, that, after being clofely ffiut up by the Ro¬
man army, they endured the moft terrible calamities of
^amine, even to the devouring of one another, rather
than fubmit to the enemy. .At length, however, the
Aftunans were for furrendering: but the Cantabrians
oppofed this meafure, maintaining that they ought all
to die iword in hand like brave men. Upon this the
two nations quarrelled, notwithftanding their defperate
iituation ; and a battle enfuing, 10,000 of the Aftu-
rians were driven to.the intrenchments of the Romans,
venom they begged in the moft moving manner to re¬
ceive them on any terms they pleafed. But Tiberius
the emperor’s fon-in-law refufing to admit them into
the. camp, fome of thefe unhappy people put an end to
their.hves by falling upon their own fwords 5 others
lighting.great fires threw themfelves into them, while
dome poifoned themfelves by drinking the juice of a ve¬
nomous herb.
The campaign being put an end to by winter, the
next year the Afturians fummoned all their ftrength
and refolution againft the Romans ; but notwithftand-
mg. their utmoft efforts of valour and defpair, they were
entirely defeated in a moft bloody battle, which lafted
two days, and for that time entirely fubdued. A few
years afterwards they rebelled, in conjunction with
•the Cantabrians j but were foon reduced by the Ro¬
mans, who maffacred moft of the young men that were
capable of bearing arms. This did not prevent them
from revolting anew in a ffiort time afterwards ; but
without fuccefs, being obliged to fubmit to the Ro-
9° 1 A s Y
man power, till the fubverficn of that empire by the Afturias
Goths. 1 ] ||
Asturias, anciently the kingdom of Afturia, is , A1yjurT1,
now a principality of modern Spain, bounded by Bif- V
cay on the eaft, Galicia on the weft, Old Caftile and
Leon on the louth, and the fea on the north. Its
greateft length is about no miles, and its breadth 54.
On the fouth it is feparated from Old Caftile and Leon
by high mountains covered with woods. The province
is tolerably fertile, but thinly inhabited. The inhabi¬
tants value themfelves much on being defeended from
the ancient Goths. Even the poor peafants, who are
fain to go to feek work in other provinces, call them¬
felves illuflnous Goths and Mountaineers, thinking it
ignominious to marry even with great and rich fami¬
lies of another race. This pride is flattered by the
refpeci paid them by the reft of the nation, and the
privileges beftowed upon them by the government.
The hereditary prince of Spain is ftyled prince of the
AJiurias. d he moft remarkable places in this prin¬
cipality are Oviedo, Gyon, Santillana, and St An-
dero.
AST YAGES, fon of Cyaxares, the laft king of
the Medes. He dreamed that from the womb of his
daughter Mandane, married to Cambyfes king of Per-
fla, there fprung a vine that fpread itfelf over all Afia.
She being with child, he refolved to kill the infant a$
foon as born. Its name was Cyrus j and Harpagus,
being fent to deftroy it, preferved it : which Aftyages
after a long time hearing of, he caufed Harpagus to
eat his own fon. Harpagus called in Cyrus, who de¬
throned his grandfather, and thereby ended the mo¬
narchy of the Medes. See Media and Persia.
AS PYANAX, the only fon of Heftor and Andro¬
mache. After the taking of Troy, he was thrown from
the top of a tower by Ulyffes’s orders.
ASTYNOMI, in Grecian Antiquity, magiftrates in
Athens, corresponding to the gediles of the Romans ;
they were ten in number. See vEdile.
^ASYLUM, a fan&uary, or place of refuge, where
criminals flielter themfelves from the hands of juftice.
T he word is compounded of the primitive particle cc,
and <rv\etu, I hurt; becaufe no perfon could be taken
out of an afylum without facrilege.
The afyla of altars and temples were very ancient j
and likewife thofe of tombs, ftatues, and other monu¬
ments of confiderable perfonages. Thus, the temple
of Diana at Ephefus was a refuge for debtors, the tomb
of Thefeus for Oaves. Among the Romans, a cele¬
brated afylum was opened by Romulus between the
mounts Palatine and Capitoline, in order to people
Rome, for all forts of perfons indiferiminately, fugi¬
tive Oaves, debtors, and criminals of every kind. The
Jews had their afyla ; the moft remarkable of which
were, the fix cities of refuge, the temple, and the al¬
tar of burnt-offerings.
It was cuftomary among the Heathens to allow re¬
fuge and impunity even to the vileft and moft flagrant
offenders ; fome out of fuperftition, and others for the
fake of peopling their cities : and it was by this means,
and with fuch inhabitants, that Thebes, Athens, and
Rome, were firft flocked. We even read of afylums
at Lyons and Vienne among the ancient Gauls; and
there are fome cities in Germany which ftill preferve
the
A T A
ATymmefry the ancient right of afylum. Hence on the medals of
,1 feveral ancient cities, particularly in Syria, we meet
Aralanta.^ infcription A2TAOI, to which is added EPAI.
This quality of afylum was given them, according to
M. Spanheim, in regard to their temples, and to the
gods revered by them.
The emperors Honorius and Theodolius granting
•the like immunities to churches, thebilhops and monks
laid hold of a certain tradl: or territory, without which
they fixed the bounds of the fecular jurifdiftion : and
fo well did they manage their privileges, that convents
in a little time became next akin to fortreffes } where
the moft notorious villains were in lafety, and braved
the power of the magiilrate.
Thefe privileges at length were extended not only to
the churches and churchyards, but alfo to the bifhops
houfes j whence the criminal could not be removed
without a legal affurance of life, and an entire remif-
fton of the crime. The reafon of the extenfion w7as,
that they might not be obliged to live altogether in
the churches, &c. where feveral of the occafions of
life could not be decently performed.
But at length thefe afyla or fanftuaries were alfo
ftripped of moil of their immunities, becaufe they fer-
ved to make guilt and libertinage more bold and dar¬
ing. In England, particularly, they were entirely
abolifhed; See Sanctuary.
ASYMMETRY, the want of proportion between
the parts of any thing ; being the contrary of fymme-
try. Or, it is the relation of two quantities which
have no common meafure, as between x and 2, or
the fide and diagonal of a fquare.
ASYMPTOTE, in Geometry, a line which conti¬
nually approaches nearer to another j but, though con¬
tinued infinitely, will never meet with it : Of thefe are
many kinds. In ftriftnefs, however, the term afymptotes
is appropriated to right lines, which approach nearer
and nearer to fome curves of which they are faid to
be afymptotes; but if they and their curves are inde¬
finitely continued, they will never meet. See Conic
SeEiions.
ASYNDETON, in Grammar, a figure which omits
the conj unctions in a fentence. As in veni,vidi, vici,
where et is left out ; or in that of Cicero concerning
Catiline, abiit, excejjit, evaft, erupit: or in that verfe of
Virgil,
Ferte cite Jlammas, date vela, impellite remos.
Afyndeton ftands oppofed to polyfyndeton, wdxere the
copulatives are multiplied.
ATABULUS, in Phyfo/ogy, a provincial wind in
Apulia, of a dry pinching quality, and very noxious in
its effefts. The ancient naturalifts fpeak of the Ata-
bulus in terms of horror, on account of the ravage it
made among the fruits of the earth, which it fcorched
or withered up.
ATABYRIS, a very high mountain in the illand
of Rhodes, on which, according to Strabo and Dio¬
dorus Siculus, there flood a temple of Jupiter Ata-
byrius, whofe worlhip a colony of Rhodians carried
into Sicily, where a temple was built to the fame deity
at Agrigentum.
AT AL ANTA, an ifland in the Euripus of Euboea,
near the Locri Opuntii, faid to have been originally a
city of the Locri, but torn from the continent in the
ATE
time of the earthquake, and during an eruption of Meunt Atalartls
JEtna. This happened in the fourth year of the 93d II
Olympiad, in the reign of Artaxerxes Mnemon. . te a‘,,
ATALANTIS, Atlantica, or Atlantis. See
Atlantis.
A FARAXY, a term ufed by the ftcics and fceptics,
to denote that calmnefs of mind which fecures us from
all emotions arifing from vanity and felf-conceit.
■AFARGAIIS tanum, the temple of a goddefs
worIhipped by the Syrians and Parthians, having the
face of a wroman and tail of a fifli, and called Uerceto
by the Greeks. Her temple flood in the city Bambyce,
called afterwards Hieropohs. It w7as extremely riclq
infomuch that Craffus, in his march againfl the Par¬
thians, {pent feveral days in weighing the treafure.
Voflius makes the name of this goddefs Phoenician from
Addir datr, “ the great fifh.”
ATARNEA, an ancient town of Myfia, fituated
between Adrymyttium and Pitane, remarkable for the
marriage of Ariftotle with the After or concubine of
the tyrant Hermias ; alfo for the dotage of that philo-
fopher.
ATAXY, in a general fenfe, the want of order :
With phyficians, it lignifies irregularity of crifes and*
paroxyfms of fevers.
ATCHE, in Commerce, a fmall filver coin ufed
in Turkey, and worth only one-third of the Engliflt
penny.
AICHIEVEMEN F, in Heraldry, denotes the-
arms of a perfon or family,, together with all the ex¬
terior ornaments of the ftiield $ as helmet, mantle,
creft, fcrolls, and motto, together with fuch quarter-
ings as may have been acquired by alliances, all mar-
fhalled in order.
ATCH1EVE. This term is derived from the
French achever, i. e. to finifh or make an end of; but
fignifies, in its ordinary acceptation, to perform great
actions or exploits.
ATE, the goddefs of mifehief, in the Pagan theo¬
logy. She was daughter of Jupiter, and caft down
from heaven at the birth of Hercules. For Juno ha¬
ving deceived Jupiter, in caufing Euriftheus to be born
before Hercules, Jupiter expreffed his refentment on
Ate, as the author of that mifehief: and threw7 her
headlong from heaven to the earth, fwearing fhe ftiould
never return thither again {Homeri II. xix. 1 25.) The
name of this goddefs comes from u.rxu, noceo, “ to hurt.”
Her being the daughter of Jupiter, means, according
to mythologifts, that no evil happens to us but by the
permiflion of Providence ; and her baniihment to earth
denotes the terrible effedfs of divine juftice among
men.
ATEGUA, or Atteuga, an ancient town of
Spain, placed by fome in the road from Antiquara,
now* Antequera, to Hifpalis, or Seville; by others near
Alcala Real p which laft is the more probable fituation,
becaufe the Flumen Salfum, now the Salado, was in its
neighbourhood. Now Tebala Vieja, or Teivela.
ATELLA, an ancient town of Campania in Italy,
between Capua and Neapolis. From this town the A-
tellance fabulce, or Atellaniludi, took their name. Thefe
w7ere alio called Ofci, from their inventor, in whofe ter¬
ritory Atella lay. They were generally a fpecies of
farce, interlarded with much ribaldry and buffoonery *
and foraetimes w7ere exordia or interludes prefented
between
[ 191 1
\
Ateropo
Giufto
A T H , [192
between tue afls of other plays. I be aclors in tbefe
farces were not reckoned among the common players,
A • ^ r nor deemed infamous j but retained the rights of their
CrTed!an tribe, and might be lifted for foldiers, the privilege
t ¥ 1 only of free men. I he ruins of this town a; e ft ill to
be feen about 11 miles from the modern Averfa^ which
was built out of its materials.
ATEMPO GiusTO, in Mujic, fignifies to ling or
play in an equal, true, and juft time.
AT ERG ATI S, in Mythology, a goddefs of the Sy¬
rians, fuppofed to be the mother of Semiramis. She
w’as reprefented with the face and breafts oF a wo¬
man, but the reft of her body refembled a fifti. Vof-
fius fays the term ftgnifies without jijh, and con-
ieftures that the votaries of this deity abftained from
fifti. . .
ATERNUM, a town of Lucama m Italy, nmv
Aterni, (Cluverus) : Alio a town in the territory of
the Piceni, now Fcfcara, a port-town of Naples, fi-
tuated on the Adriatic. E. Long. 15. 25. N. Eat.
■ 42. 30.
ATESTE, a town in the territory of Venice in
Italy, now called EJle. E. Long. 12. 6. N. Lat.
■‘^ATHAMADULET, the prime minifter of the
Perfian empire, as the grand vizier is of' the Turkifti
empire. He is great chancellor of the kingdom, prefi-
dent of the council, fuperintendant of the finances, and
is charged wdth all foreign aftairs.
ATHAMANTA, spignel. See Botany Index.
ATHANASIA, goldilocks. See Botany In¬
dex.
ATH AN A SIAN creed-, a formulary, or con-
feftion of faith, long fuppofed to have been drawn up
pjy Athanafius bilhop of Alexandria, in the fouith
century, to juftify himfelf againft the calumnies of
his Arian enemies. But it is now generally allow¬
ed among the learned not to have been his. Dr
Waterland aferibes it to Hilary biftiop of Arles, for
the following among other reafons : \. Becaufe Ho-
noratus of Marfeilles, the wTriter of his life, tells us,
that he compofed an Expojition of the Creed; a pio-
perer title for the Athanafian than that of Creed lim¬
ply which it now bears. 2. Hilary was a great ad¬
mirer and follower of St Auftin,; and the whole com-
pofition of this creed is in a manner upon St Auftm’s
plan, both with refpeft to the Trinity and incarnation,
q. It is agreeable to the ftyle of Hilary, as far as we
can judge from the little that is left of his works. Up¬
on the whole, he concludes, that Hilary biftiop of
Arles, about the year 430, compofed the Expoftion
of Faith, which now bears the name of the Athana-
fian Creed, for the ule of the Gallican clergy, and par¬
ticularly thofe of the diocele of Arles : T hat, about
the year 570, it became famous enough to be com¬
mented upon \ but that all this wThile, and for feveral
years lower, it had not yet acquired the name of Atha-
7i a fan, but wras limply ftyled Ihe Catholic Faith : I hat,
before 670, Athanafius’s admired name came in to re¬
commend and adorn it, being in itlelf an excellent fy-
ftem of the Athanafian principles of the Trinity and in¬
carnation, in oppofition chiefly to the Anans, Macedo¬
nians, and Apollinarians. This is the hypothefis of the
learned author of the Critical lliflory of hoe Athanafan
Creed.
] A T II
As to the reception of this creed in the Chriftian Athnmftms
churches, we find, that it obtained in France in the A 1^n‘‘u,[
time of Hincmar, or about 850: that it was received
in Spain about too years later than in France, and in
Germany much about the fame time. As to our own
country, we have clear and pofitive proofs of this
creed being fung alternately in our churches in the
tenth century. It was in common ufe in fome parts of
Italy, particularly in the diocefe of Verona, about the
year 960, and was received at Rome about the year
1014. As to the Greek and oriental -churches, it has
been queftioned whether any of them ever received
this creed at all; though fome very confiderable wri¬
ters are of a contrary perfuafion. It appears then, that
the reception of this creed has been both general and
ancient; and may vie with any, in that reipecl, ex¬
cept the Nicene, or Conftantinopolitan, the only gene¬
ral creed common to all the churches.
As to the matter of this creed, it is given as a fum-
mary of the true orthodox faith, and a condemnation
of all herefies ancient and modern. Unhappily, however,
it has proved a fruitful fource of unprofitable contro-
verfy and unchriftian animofity even down to the pve-
fent time.
ATHANASIUS, St, bilhop of Alexandria, and
one of the greateft defenders of the faith againft the
ArianS, wras born in Egypt. He followred St Alex¬
ander to the council of Nice, in 32 5, where he difputed
againft Arius, and the following years was made bi¬
lhop of Alexandria ; but, in 335, was depofed by the
council of Tyre : when, having recourie to the em¬
peror Conftantine, the Arian deputies acceded him of
having hindered the exportation of corn from Alexan-"
dria to Conftantinople; on which the emperor, with¬
out fuffering him to make his defence, baniftied him to
Treves. The emperor, two years, after, gave orders
that he Ihould be reftored to his bilhopric : but, on his
return to Alexandria, his enemies brought frefh accu-
fations againft him, and chofe Gregory of Cappadocia
to his fee which obliged Athanafius to go to Rome
to reclaim it of Pope Julius. He was there declared
innocent, in a council held in 34^> und in that of
Sardica in 347 ; and two years after was reftored to his
lee by order of the emperor Conftans; but alter the
death of that prince, he was again banilhed by the
emperor Conftantius, which obliged him to retire into
the deferts. The Arians then eledfed one George in
his room ; who being killed in a popular fedition un¬
der Julian in 360, St Athanafius returned to Alexan¬
dria, but was again banilhed under Julian, and reftored
to his fee under Jovian. He addrefied to that emperor
a letter, in which he propofed that the Nicene creed
Ihould be the ftandard of the orthodox faith, and con¬
demned thole who denied the divinity of the Holy
Ghoft. He was alfo baniftied by Valens in 367, and
afterw-ards recalled. St Athanafius died on the 2d of
May 1 703.
His works principally contain a defence of the my-
fteries of the Trinity, and of the incarnation and divi¬
nity of the Word and Holy Spirit. There are three
editions of his works which are efteemed; that of Com-
melin, printed in 1600; that of Peter Nannius, in
1627; and that of Father Montfaucon. As to the
creed which bears his name, fee the preceding ar-
tlcle' ATHANATI,
A T H [ »93 ] A T H
AthanaU ATHANATI, in Perfian antiquity, a body of ca-
valry, confifting of 10,000 men, always complete.
> They were called athanati (a word originally Greek,
and fignifying immortal, becaufe, when one of them
happened to die, another was immediately appointed to
fucceed him.
ATHANOR. Chemifts have diftinguilhed by this
name a furnace fo conftrufted that it can always main¬
tain an equal heat, and>which fhall lad: a long time
without addition of frelh fuel.
1 he body of the athanor has nothing in it parti¬
cular, and is conftru6ted like( ordinary furnaces. But
at one of its fides, or its middle, there is an upright
hollow tower, which communicates with the fireplace
by one or more doping openings, and which has a lid
to clofe its upper opening. This furnace is now rare¬
ly ufed.
ATHAROTH, or Atroth, in Ancient Geography,
the name of feveral towns. Two appear to have
been in Samaria, in the tribe of Ephraim; and one
four miles to the north of Sebade, or the city of Sa¬
maria ; the other in the confines of Benjamin and
Ephraim, yet fo as to be in the didrift of Ephraim ra¬
ther than Benjamin (Jofhua). This the /Itroth-Adder
mentioned by Jodma xvi. 5. from which to Upper
Bethoron extends the greated breadth of the tribe of
Ephraim.
ATHEISM, the difbelief of a deity. See A-
THEIST.
A FHEIST, a perfon wdio does not believe the ex-
idence of a Deity. Many people, both ancient and
modern, have pretended to atheifm, or have been rec¬
koned atheids by the world ; but it is judly quedioned
whether any man ferioudy adopted fuch a principle.
Thefe pretenfions, therefore, mud be founded on pride
or affeftation.
Atheifm, as abfurd and unreafonable as it is, his
had its martyrs. Lucilio Vanini, an Italian, native of
Naples, publicly taught atheifm in France, about the
beginning of the 17th century; and, being convifted
of it at Thouloufe, was condemned to death. Being
preded to make public acknowledgment of his crime,
and to alk pardon of God, the king, and judice, he
anfwered, he did not believe there was a God; that
he never offended the king; and, as for judice, he
wilhed it to the devil. He confeffed that he was
one of twelve, who parted in company from Naples
to Ipread their doftrine in all parts of Europe. His
tongue was fird cut out, and then his body burnt, A-
pril 9. 1619.
Cicero reprefents it as a probable opinion, that they
who apply themfelves to the dudy of philofophy believe
there are no gods. This mud, doubtlefs, be meant
of the academic philofophy, to which Cicero himfelf
w-as attached, and which doubted of every thing. On
the contrary, the Newtonian philofophers are continual¬
ly recurring to a Deity, whom they ahvays find at the
end of their chain of natural caufes. Some foreigners
have even charged them with making too much ufe of
the notion of a God in philofophy, contrary to the rule
of Horace :
Nec Dens interjit, ni/i dignus vindice nodus.
Among us, the philofophers have been the principal
advocates for the exidence of a Deitv. Witnefs the
Vol. III. Part I.
writings of Sir Ifaac Newton, Boyle, Ray, Cheyne, Atheling
Nieuwentyt, &c. To which may be added many . I!
others, who, though of the clergy (as was alfo Ray), -
yet have didinguilhed themfelves by their philofo- > y, *
phical pieces in behalf of the exidence of a God ;
e. gr. Derham, Bentley, Whidon, Samuel and John
Clarke, Fenelon, &c. So true is that faying of Lord
Bacon, that though a fmattering of philofophy mayr
lead a man into atheifm, a deep draught will certainly
bring him back again to the belief of a God and Pro¬
vidence.
ATHELING, Adeling, Edling, Ethling, or
Eth eling, among the Anglo-Saxons, was a title of
honour, properly belonging to the heir-apparent, or
prefumptive, to the crown. This honourable appella¬
tion was firlt conferred by King Edwrard the Confeffor
on Edgar, to whom he was great uncle, W'hen, being
without any iffue of his own, he intended to make him
his heir.
ATHP1LSTAN, a Saxon king of England, natu¬
ral fon of Edward the elder, and grandfon of the great
Alfred. He fucceeded to the crowm in 921;, and
reigned r 6 years. There was a remarkable law paffed
by this prince, which diows his jud fentiments of the
advantages of commerce, as tvell as the early attention
to it in this country : it declared, that any merchant
who made three voyages on his own account beyond
the Britifh channel or narrow7 feas, Ihould be entitled
to the privilege of a thane or gentleman.
ATHEN^EA, in Antiquity, a fead celebrated by
the ancient Greeks in honour of Minerva, who was
called Athene.
ATHENE UM, in Antiquity, a public place where¬
in the profeffors of the liberal arts held their affem-
blies, the rhetoricians declaimed, and the poets re-
hearfed their performances. Thefe places, of which
there were a great number at Athens, were built in
the manner of amphitheatres, encompaffed with feats,
called cunei. The three mod celebrated Athenaea w7ere
thofe at Athens, at Rome, and at Lyons, the fecond
of which w7as built by the emperor Adrian.
ATHENiEUS, a phyfician, born in Cilicia, co¬
temporary with Pliny, and founder of the pneumatic
feft. He taught that the fire, air, water, and earth,
are not the true elements, but that their qualities are,
viz. heat, cold, moidure, and drynefs ; and to thefe he
added a fifth element, which he called fpirit, whence
his feft had its name.
Athenjv.us, a Greek grammarian, born at Nau-
cratis in Egypt in the 3d century, one of the mod
learned men of his time. Of all his works v7e have
none extant but his Deipnofophi, i. e. the fophids at
table. There is an infinity of fafts and quotations in
this work which render it very agreeable to admirers
of antiquity.
There w7as alfo a mathematician of this name, who
wrote a treatife on mechanics, which is inferted in the
works of the ancient mathematicians, printed at Paris
in 1693, in folio, in Greek and Latin.
ATHENAGOR AS, an Athenian philofopher, flou-
rilhed about the middle of the 2d century, and was
remarkable for his zeal for Chridianity, and his great
learning, as appears from the apology w7hich he ad-
dreffed to the emperors Marcus Aurelius Antoninus
and Lucius Commodus.
B b
ATHENODORUS,
Athenodo-
rus
II
Athens.
By whom
founded.
ctemark-
■fole build
fogs.
A T H [i
ATHENODOP^-US, a famous ftolc pliilofopher,
born at Tarfus, went to the court of Auguftus, and
was made by him tutor to Tiberius. Augustus had a
great efteem for him, and found him by experience a
man of virtue and probity. He ufed to fpeak very
freely to the emperor. He, before he left the court
to return home, warned the emperor not to give him-
felf up to anger, but, whenever he fliould be in a paf-
fion, to rehearfe the 24 letters of the alphabet before
he refolved to fay or do any thing. He did not live
to fee his bad fuccefs in the education of Tiberius.
ATHENOPOL1S, a town of the Maffilienfes, an
ancient nation of Gaul. It is conjeftured by Harduin
to be the lame with Telo Martins, now “7 onion; by
others to be the fame with Antipohs or Antibes.
ATHENREE, a town of Ireland in the county of
Galway, and province of Connaught. W. Long. 8. 5.
N. Lat. 53. 14. It is governed by a portrieve, and
hath a barrack for three companies of foot. It hath
been a place of conliderable ftrength } but, like the
numerous churches and caftles which furround it, has
felt the refiitlefs force of time. Some of the walls and
towers, however, are Hill remaining, as monuments of
its former grandeur.
ATHENS, a celebrated city of Greece, and capi¬
tal of the ancient kingdom of Attica, fituated in E.
Long. 24. N. Lat. 38. 5. See Attica.
In early times, that which was afterwards called the
citadel was the whole city ; and went under the name
of Cecropia, from its founder Cecrops, whom the
Athenians in after times affirmed to have been the firft
builder of cities, and called this therefore by way of
eminence Polls, i. e. the city. In the reign of Eiich-
thonius it loft the name of Cecropia, and acquired
that of Athens, on what account is not certain •, the
jnoft probable is, that it was fo named in refpedl to
the goddefs IVIinerva, whom the Greeks call Athene,
v.ffio was alfo efteemed its protedlreis. This old city
was leated on the top ol a rock in the midft of a large
and pleafant plain, which, as the number ol inhabi¬
tants increafed, became full of buildings, which indu¬
ced the dlftinttion of Aero and Catapolis, i. e. of the
upper and lower city. The extent of the citadel was
60 ftadia •, it was furrounded by olive trees, and forti¬
fied, as feme fay, with a ftrong pallifade ; in lucceed-
incr times it was encompaffed with a ftrong wall, in
which there were nine gates, one very large one, and
the reft fmall. The iniide of the citadel was adorned
with innumerable edifices. The moft remarkable of
which were, 1. The magnificent temple ol IVIinerva,
ftyled parthenion, becaule that goddefs was a virgin.
The Perlians deftroyed it 5 but it was rebuilt with ftill
greater fplendour by the famous Pericles, all of the
fineft marble, with fuch fkill and ftrength, that, in fpite
of tlic rage of time and barbarous nations^ it remains
perhaps the firft antiquity in the world, and Hands
a witnefs to the truth of what ancient writers have
recorded of the prodigious magnificence of Athens in
her flourifhing ftate. 2. The temple of Neptune and
of IVIinerva 5 for it was divided into two parts : one
facred to the god, in which was the fait fountain find
to have fprung upon the ftroke of his trident ; the other
to the goddefs prote&refs of Athens, wherein was the
facred olive which Ihe produced, and her image wffiich
fell down from heaven in the reign of Erichthonius.
Athens.
94 ] A T H
At the back of Minerva’s temple wTas the public trea-
fury, which wras burnt to the ground through the kna- —y——''
very of the treafurers, who, having miiapplied the re¬
venues of the ftatc, took this ftiort method of making
up accounts.
The lower city comprehended all the buildings fur¬
rounding the citadel, the fort Munychia, and the ha¬
vens Phalerum and Piraeus, the latter of which was
joined to the city by walls five miles in length ; that
on the north was built by Pericles, but that on the
fouth by Tliemiftocles •, but by degrees the turrets
which were at firft eredled on thofe walls were turned
into dwelling-houfes for the accommodation of the
Athenians, whofe large city was now become too fmall
for them. The city, or rather the lower city, had 1 3
great gates, with the names of which it is not necei-
fary to trouble the reader. Among the principal edi¬
fices which adorned it, we may reckon, 1. The temple
of Thefeus, erefted by Conon, near its centre. Ad¬
jacent thereto, the young people performed their exer-
cifes. It was alfo a fan&uary for diftreffed perfons,
flaves or free. 2. ft he Olympian temple erefled in ho¬
nour of Jupiter, the honour of Athens, and of all
Greece. The foundation of it was laid by Pififtratus :
it was carried on but flowly in fucceedmg times, 700
years elapfing before it was finiftred, which happened
under the reign of Adrian, who was particularly kind
to Athens : this was the firft building in which the
Athenians beheld pillars. 3. The pantheon, dedica,-
ted to all the gods > a moft noble ftru&ure, fupported
by x20 marble pillars, and having over its great gate
two horfes carved by Praxiteles : it is yet remaining,
as we ihall have occafion to fliow hereafter when wTe
come to fpeak of the prefent ftate of this famous city.
In feveral parts of it were Jlaoi or porticoes, wherein
people walked in rainy weather, and from whence a
fed! of philofophers were denominated JIoics, becaule
their mafter Zeno taught in thofe porticoes. .
There w'ere at Athens two places called bAvi/wci/Jj^eraniicu's.
from Ceramus the fon of Bacchus and Ariadne one^
within the city, containing a multitude of buildings of
all forts ; the other in the fuburbs, in which was the
academy and other edifices. The gymnafia of Athens
were many } but the moft remarkable w ere the L\ -
ceum, Academia, and Cynofarges. I lie Lyceum flood
on the banks of the lliffus j fome fay it w!as built by
Pififtratus, others by Pericles, others by. Lycurgus.
Here Ariftotle taught philofophy, inftrufting fuch as
came to hear him as they walked, whence his difciples
are generally thought to derive the name of pet ipate-
tics. The ceramicus without the city was the diftance
of fix ftadia from its walls. The academy made part
thereof ; as to the name of which there is fome difpute.
Some affirm that it w'as fo called from Academus, an
ancient hero, who, when Helen was ftolen by I heieus,
difeovered the place where ftie lay hid to Caftor and
Pollux : for wffiich reafon the Lacedemonians, when
they invaded Attica, always fpared this place. Di-
crearchus writes, that Caftor and Pollux had two Ar¬
cadians in their army, the one named Echedemus, the
other Marothus ; from the former of thele he fays this
place took its name, and that the borough of Mara¬
thon wras fo called .from the other. It was a marfhy
unwholefome place, till Cimon was at great pains to
have it drained ; and then it became extremely plea-
A T H [ i
Athens, fant and delightful, being adorned with fliady walks,
—v '*' * where Plato read his leftures, and from thence his
fcholars were ftyled academics. The Cynofarges was
4 a place in the fuburbs not far from the Lyceum : it
Cynofarges. was famous on many accounts ; but particularly for a
noble gymnafium erefted there, appointed for the fpe-
cial ufe of fuch as were Athenians only by one fide.
In after times Themiftocles derived to himfelf ill will,
by carrying many of the nobility to exercife with him
here, becaufe, being but of the half blood, he could ex¬
ercife nowhere elfe but in this gymnafium. Antifthenes
inftituted a fedl of philofophers, who from the name of
^ this diftrift, as many think, were ftyled Cynics.
Havens. The havens of Athens were three. Firft the Pirse-
us, which was diftant about 35 or 40 ftadia from the
city, till joined thereto by the long wralls beforemen-
tioned, after which it became the principal harbour of
the city. It had three docks ; Cantharos, Aphrodi-
fium, and Zea; the firft was fo called from an ancient
hero, the fecond from the goddefs Venus who had there
two temples, and the third from bread-corn. There
were in this port five porticoes, which joining together
formed one great one called from thence Macra Stoa,
or the grand portico. There were likewife two great
markets or fora : one near the long portico, the other
near the city. The fecond port was Munichia, a pro¬
montory not far diftant from Pyraeus ; a place very
ftrong by nature, and afterwards rendered far ftronger
by art. It was of this that Epimenides faid, if the
Athenians forefaw what mifchief it would one day pro¬
duce to them, they would eat it away with their teeth.
The third .was Phalerum, diftant from the city, accor¬
ding to Thucydides 35 ftadia, but according to Pau-
fanias only 20. This was the moft ancient harbour of
6 Athens, as Pyrseus was the moft: capacious.
Prefent Of this city, as it Hands at prefent, we have the fol-
ftate. lowing account by Dr Chandler. “ It is now called
Athini; and is not iqconfiderable, either in extent or
the number of inhabitants. It enjoys a fine tempera¬
ture, and a ferene fky. The air is clear and whole-
fome, though not fo delicately foft as in Ionia. The
town ftands beneath the acropolis or citadel; not en-
compaffing the rock as formerly, but fpreading into
the plain, chiefly on the weft and north-weft. Cor-
fairs infefting it, the avenues were fecured, and in 1676
the gates were regularly (hut after funfet. It is now
open again : but feveral of the gateways i-emain, and a
guard of Turks patrols at midnight. Some mafles of
brick-work, Handing feparate, without the town, be¬
longed perhaps to the ancient wall, of which other
traces alfo appear. The houfes are moftly mean and
ftraggling ; many with large courts or areas before
them. In the lanes, the high walls on each fide, which
are commonly white-waihed, reflect ftrongly the heat
of the fun. The ftreets are very irregular 5 and an¬
ciently were neither uniform nor handfome. They
have w'ater conveyed in channels from Mount Hymet-
tus, and in the bazar or market-place is a large foun¬
tain. The Turks have feveral mofques and public
baths. The Greeks have convents for men and wo¬
men ; with many churches, in which fervice is regu¬
larly performed ; and befides thefe, they have nume¬
rous oratories or chapels, fome in ruins or confifting of
bare wallsj frequented only on the anniverfaries of the
faints to whom they are dedicated. A portrait of the
95 ] , A T 11
owmer on a board is placed in them on that occa''on, Athens,
and removed when the folemnity of the day is over. v-—
“ The city of Cecrops is now a fortrefs with a thick 7
irregular wall, {landing on the brink of precipices, and Citadel, or
enclofing a large area about twice as long as broad. Clt> oi Ce-
Some portions of the ancient wall may be difcovered'1 " '
on the outfide, particularly at the twro extreme angles j
and in many places it is patched with pieces of co¬
lumns, and with marbles taken from the ruins. A
confiderable fum had been recently expended on the
fide next Hymettus, which was finiihed before we ar¬
rived. The fcaffolding had been removed to the end
toward Pentele j but money was wanting, and the
wrorkmen were withdrawn. The garrifon confifts of
a few Turks ivho refide there with their families, and
are called by the Greeks Cajiriani, or the foldiers of the
caftle. The rock is lofty, abrupt, and inacceflible, ex¬
cept the front, which is toward the Piraeus ; and on
that quarter is a mountainous ridge, within cannon-
ftiot. It is deftitute of water fit for drinking ; and
iupplies are daily carried up in earthen jars, on horfes
and afles, from one of the conduits of the town.
“ The acropolis furniflied a very ample field to the
ancient virtuofi. It was filled with monuments of A-
thenian glory, and exhibited an amazing difplay of
beauty, of opulence, and of art j each contending as
it were for the fuperiority. It appeared as one entire
offering to the Deity, furpafling in excellence and afto-
nifhing in richnefs. Heliodorus, named Periegetes,
the guide, had employed on it 15 books. The curio-
fities of various kinds, with the piftures, ftatues, and
pieces of fculpture, were fo many and fo remarkable,
as to fupply Polemo Periegetes with matter for four
volumes •, and Strabo affirms, that as many would be
required in treating of other portions of Athens and
of Attica. In particular, the number of ftatues was
prodigious. Tiberius Nero, who was fond of images,
plundered the acropolis as well as Delphi and Olym¬
pia 5 yet Athens, and each of thefe places, had not
fewer than 3000 remaining in the time of Pliny.
Even Paufanias feems here to be diftreffed by the mul¬
tiplicity of his fubjecl. But this banquet, as it were,
of the fenfes has long been withdrawn 5 and is now be¬
come like the tale of a vifion. The fpeftator views
'with concern the marble ruins intermixed with mean
flat-roofed cottages, and extant amid rubbilh ; the fad
memorials of a nobler people j which, however, as vi-
fible from the fea, fhould have introduced modern
Athens to more early notice. They w ho reported it
was only a fmall village, muft, it has been furmifed,
have beheld the acropolis through the wrong end of
their telefcopes.
“ The acropolis has now, as formerly, only one
entrance, which fronts the Piraeus. The afcent is by
traverfes and rude fortifications furnifhed with cannon,
but without carriages, and negledled. By the fecond
gate is the ftation of the guard, who fits crofs-legged
under cover, much at his eafe, fmoking his pipe, or
drinking coffee, with his companions about him in
like attitudes. Over this gateway is an infcription in
large charadters on a Hone turned upfide down, and
black from the fires made below. It records a prefent
of a pair of gates. g
“ Going farther up, you come to the ruins of thePropyl£a.
propylea, an edifice which graced the entrance into the
B b .2 citadel
A T H
Athens, citadel. This was one of the ftru&ures ol Pericles,
^ v who began itw’hen Euthymenes was archon, 435 years
' before Chrift. It was completed in five years, at the
expence of 2012 talents. It was of marble, of the
Doric order, and had five doors to afford an eafy paf-
fage to the multitudes which reforted on bufmefs or
devotion to the acropolis.
While this fabric was building, the architeft Mne-
ficles, whole activity equalled his {kill, was hurt by a
fall, and the phyficians defpaired of his life : but Mi¬
nerva, who was propitious to the undertaking, appear¬
ed, it was faid, to Pericles, and prefcribed a remedy,
by which he was fpeedily and eafily cured. It was a
plant or herb growing round about the acropolis, and
^ called afterwards parlhenium.
Temple of “ The right wing of the propylea was a temple of
Vidtory. Victory. They related that iEgeus had flood there,
viewing the fea, and anxious for the return of his Ion
Thefeus, who was gone to Crete with the tributary
children to be delivered to the Minotaur. The veflel
which carried them had black fails luiting the occafion
of its voyage j and it was agreed, that, if 1 hefeus
overcame the enemy, their colour ftrould be changed to
white. The neglect of this fignal was fatal to ./Egeus,
who, on feeing the fails unaltered, threw himfelf down
headlong from the rock, and perilhed. The idol was
named Viciovy without wings / it was faid, becaufe the
news of the fuccefs of Thefeus did not arrive but with
the conqueror. It had a pomegranate in the right
hand, and a helmet in the left. As the ftatue was
without pinions, it was hoped the goddefs would re¬
main for ever on the fpot.
“ On the left wing of the propylea, and fronting the
temple of Vi&ory, was a building decorated with paint¬
ings by Polygnotus, of which an account is given by
Paufaruas. This edifice, as well as the temple, was
of the Doric order, the columns fluted, and without
bales. Both contributed alike to the uniformity and
grandeur of the defign ; and the whole fabric, when
finiflied, was deemed equally magnificent and orna¬
mental. The interval between Pericles and Paufanias
conlifts of feveral centuries. The propylea remained
entire in the time of this topographer 5 and, as will be
fkown, continued nearly fo to a much later period.
It had then a roof of white marble, which was unfur-
paffed either in the fize of the ftones or in the beauty
of their arrangement } and before each wing was an
equeftrian ftatue.
“ The propylea have ceafed to be the entrance of
the acropolis. The paflage which was between the
columns in the centre, is walled up aimoft to their
capitals, and above is a battery of cannon. 1 he way
now winds before the front of the ancient ftrufture ;
and turning to the left hand among rubbifti and mean
walls, you come to the back part, and to the five
door-ways. The foil without is rifen higher than the
top of the two fmafter. There, under the vault and
cannon, lies a heap of large ftones, the ruin of the
roof.
“ The temple of Vi&ory, Handing on an abrupt
rock, has its back and one fide encumbered with the
modern ramparts. The columns in the front being
wafted up, you enter it by a breach in the fide, within
the propylea. It was ufed by the Turks as a maga¬
zine for powder, until about the year 1656, when a
A T H
fudden explofion, occafioned by lightning, carried away Athena,
the roof, with a houfe eretled on it, belonging to the yr-™..'
officer who commanded in the acropolis, whofe family, 10
except a girl, perffhed. The women of the aga con-
tinned to inhabit this quarter, but it is now ahan-an expi0_
doned and in ruins. fion.
“ The cell of the temple of Vidlory, which is of
white marble, very thick, and ftrongly cemented, fuf- ' .
ficiently witneffes the great violence it has undergone j
the ftones in many places being disjointed, as it were,
and forced from their original pofition. Two of thefe
making an acute angle, the exterior edges touching,
without the crevice; and the light abroad being much
ftronger than in the room, which has a modern roof
and is dark 5 the portion in contaft becoming pellucid,
had illumined the vacant fpace with a dim colour re-
fembling that of amber. We were defired to examine
this extraordinary appearance, which the Greeks re¬
garded as a Handing miracle, and which the Turks,
wTho could not confute them, beheld with equal afto-
nifhment. We found in the gape fome coals, which
had been brought on a bit of earthen ware for the
purpofe of burning incenfe, as we fuppofed, and alfo
a piece of w'ax-taper, which probably had been light¬
ed in honour of the faint and author of the wonder*,
but our Swifs unfortunately carrying his own candle
too far in, the fmoke blackened the marble, and de-
ftroyed the phenomenon.
“ The building oppofite to the temple has ferved as
a foundation for a fquare lofty tower of ordinary ma*
fonry. The columns of the front are wafted up, and
the entrance is by a low iron gate in the fide. It is now
ufed as a place of confinement for delinquents : but in
1676 wras a powder-magazine. In the waft of a ram¬
part near it are fome fragments of exquifite fculpture,
reprefenting the Athenians fighting with the Amazons.
Thefe belong to the frieze, which was then Handing.
In the fecond century, when Paufanias lived, much of
the painting was impaired by age, but fome remained,
and the fubje&s w*ere chiefly taken from the Trojan
ftory. The traces are fince vanifhed.
“ The pediment of the temple of Viflory, with
that of the oppofite wing, is defcribed as remaining in
1676 ; but on each building a fquare tower had been
erefted. One of the fteps in the front of the propylea
was entire, with the four columns, their entablature, and
the pediment. The portico, to which the five door¬
ways belonged, confifted of a large Iquare room, roof¬
ed with flabs of marble, which were laid on two great
marble beams, and fuftained by four beautiful columns.
Thefe were Ionic, the proportions of this order beft
fuiting that purpofe, as taller than the Doric *, the
reafon it was likewife preferred in the pronaos of the
temple of Viftory. The roof of the propylea, after
Handing above 2000 years, was probably deftroyed,
with aft the pediments, by the Venetians in 1687,
when they battered the caftle in front, firing red-hot
bullets, and took it, but were compelled to refign it
again to the Turks in the following year. The exte¬
rior wafts, and, in particular, a fide of the temple of
Viiftory, retain many marks of their hoftilities. 1X
“ The chief ornament of the acropolis was the par-Temple of
thenon or great temple of Minerva, a moft fuperb and Minerva,
magnificent fabric. The Perfians had burned the edi-
ficeC wftuch before occupied the fite, and was called
hecatompedoni
196 ]
A T H [ 197 ] A T H
Athens, hecatompedon, from its being 100 feet fquare. The
—"Y~—' zeal of Pericles and of all the Athenians was exerted
in providing a far more ample and glorious relidence
for their favourite goddefs. The architects were Cal¬
licrates and Idtinus ; and a treatife on the building
was written by the latter and Carpion. It was of
white marble, of the Doric order, the columns fluted
and without bafes, the number in front eight j and
adorned with admirable fculpture. The ftory of the
birth of Minerva was carved in the front pediment j
and in the back, her conteft with Neptune for the
country. The beafts of burden, which had conveyed
up the materials, were regarded as facred, and recom-
penfed with paftures; and one, which had voluntarily
headed the train, was maintained during life, without
I2 labour, at the public expence.
Her ftatue. “ The ftatue of Minerva, made for this temple by
Phidias, was of ivory, 26 cubits or 39 feet high. It
■was decked with pure gold to the amount of 44 ta¬
lents, fo difpofed by the advice of Pericles as to be
taken oft' and weighed if required. The goddefs was
reprefented Handing, with her veftment reaching to
her feet. Her helmet had a fphinx for the creft, and
on the ftdes were griffins. The head of Medufa was
on her breaftplate. In one hand Are held her fpear,
and in the other fupported an image of Yi&ory about
four cubits high. The battle of the Centaurs and
Lapithm was carved on her fandals *, and on her ftiield,
wdiich lay at her feet, the war of the gods and giants,
and the battle of the Athenians and Amazons. By
her fpear was a ferpent, in allufion to the ftory of E-
richthonius •, and on the pedeftal, the birth of Pando¬
ra. The Sphinx, the Viftory, and Serpent, were ac-
/Counted eminently wonderful. This image was placed
in the temple in the firft year of the 87th Olympiad, in
wThich the Peloponnefian war began. The' gold was
ftripped off by the tyrant Lychares, when Demetrius
Poliorcetes compelled him to fly. The fame plunderer
plucked down the golden ftiields in the acropolis, and
carried away the golden ViClories, with the precious
veffels and ornaments provided for the Panathengean
feftival.
“ The parthenon remained entire for many ages af¬
ter it was deprived of the goddefs. The Chriftians
converted it into a church, and the Mahometans into
a mofque. It is mentioned in the letters of Crufius,
and mifcalled the pantheon and the temple of the un¬
known God. The Venetians under Koningfmark,
when they befteged the acropolis in 1687, threw a
bomb, which demoliftied the roof, and, fetting fire to
fome powder, did much damage to the fabric. The
floor, which is indented, ftill witneffes the place of its
fall. This was the fad forerunner of farther deftruc-
tion •, the Turks breaking the ftones, and applying
them to the building of a new mofque, -which Hands
wdthin the ruin, or to the repairing their houfes and
the walls of the fortrefs. The vaft pile of ponderous
materials, which lay ready, is greatly diminifhed ; and
the whole ftru&ure will gradually be confumed and
difappear.
Temple “ fhe temple of Minerva in 1676 was, as Wheeler
converted and Spon affert, the fineft mofque in the world, with-
into a out comparifon. The Greeks had adapted the fabric
mofque. to their ceremonial, by conftru&ing at one end a femi-
circular recefs for the holy tables, with a window j for
before it was enlightened only by the door, obfcurity Athens,
being preferred under the heathen ritual, except on
feftivals, when it yielded to fplendid illuminations :
the reafon, it has been furmifed, why temples are com¬
monly found Ample and unadorned on the infides. In
the wall beneath the window were inferted two pieces
of the ftone called phengites, a fpecies of marble dif-
covered in Cappadocia in the time of Nero ; and fo
tranfparent that he erefted with it a temple to For¬
tune, which wras luminous within when the door was
Ihut. Thefe pieces were perforated, and the light
which entered was tinged wfith a reddiftr or yellowifh
hue. The pisfture of the Panagia or Virgin Mary, in
mofaic, on the ceiling of the recefs, remained ; with
two jafper columns belonging to the fcrpen, which had
feparated that part from the nave $ and within, a ca¬
nopy fupported by four pillars of porphyry, with Co¬
rinthian capitals of white marble, under which the
table had been placed 5 and behind it, beneath the
window, a marble chair for the archbifhop ; and alfo
a pulpit Handing on four fmall pillars in the noddle
aile. The Turks had white-wafhed the walls, to obli¬
terate the portraits of faints, and idle other paintings,
with which the Greeks decorate their places of wor-
fhip ; and had eredted a pulpit on the right hand for'
their iman or reader. The roof was difpofed in fquare
compartments ; the ftones maflive ; and fome had fal¬
len in. It had been fuftained in the pronaos by fix co¬
lumns but the place of one was then fupplied by a
large pile of rude mafonry, the Turks Hot having been
able to fill up the gap more worthily. The roof of
the naos was fupported by colonnades ranging with
the door, on each fide ; and confifting of 22 pillars be ¬
low, and of 23 above. The odd one was oyer the en¬
trance, which by that difpofition was left wide and un~
embarraffed. In the portico were fufpended a few
lamps, to be ufed in the mofque at the feafons when
the muflelmans affemble before day-break, or to be
lighted up round the minaret, as is the cuftom during
their Ramazan or Lent. ^
“ It is not eafy to conceive a more ftriking objedl Magnifi-
than the parthenion, though now a mere ruin. The co-centnhn'
lumns within the naos have all been removed: but on
the floor may be feen the circles which diredfed the
workmen in placing them ) and at the farther end is
a groove acrofs it, as for one of the partitions of the
cell. The recefs eredled by the Chriftians is demolifti¬
ed *, and from the ruhbifh of the ceiling the Turkifli
boys colledt bits of the mofaic, of different colours,
wdiich compofed the pidlure. We wrere told at Smyr¬
na, that this fubftance had taken a polifti, and been
fet in buckles. This cell is about half demoliftied j
and in the columns which furrounded it is a large
gap near the middle. On the w7alls are fome traces of
the paintings. Before the portico is a refervoir funk
in the rock, to fupply the Turks with water for the
purifications cuftomary on entering their mofques. In
it, on the left hand, is the rubbifh of the pile eredled
to fupply the place of a column j and on the right, a
ftaircafe, which leads out on the architrave, and has a
marble or two with infcriptions, but w7orn fo as not to
be legible. It belonged to the minaret, which has been
deftroyed. j_
“ The travellers, to whom we are indebted for an Sculptures,
account of the mofque, have likewife given a defcrip-
tion
A T H
Athens.
I
tion of tlie fculpture then remaining in the front. In
the middle of the pediment was feen a bearded Jupiter,
with a majeftic countenance, Handing, and naked ; the
right arm broken. The thunderbolt, it has been fup-
pofed, was placed in that hand, and the eagle between
his feet. On his right was a figure, it is conje&ured,
of Viftory, clothed to the mid-leg 3 the head and arms
gone. This was leading on the horfes of a car, in
which Minerva fat, young and unarmed; her head-
drefs, inftead of a helmet, refembling that of a Ve¬
nus. The generous ardour and lively fpirit vifible in
this pair of celeftial Heeds, was fuch as befpoke the
hand of a mailer, bold and delicate, of a Phidias or
Praxiteles. Behind Minerva was a female figure, with¬
out a head, fitting with an infant in her lap ; and in
this angle of the pediment was the emperor Hadrian
with his arm round Sabina, both reclining, and feem-
ing to regard Minerva with pleafure. On the left fide
of Jupiter were five or fix other trunks to complete the
aflembly of deities, into which he received her. Thefe
figures were all wonderfully carved, and appeared as
big as life. Hadrian and his confort, it is likely, were
complimented by the Athenians with places among
the marble gods in the pediment, as benefaftors.
Both of them may be confidered as intruders on the
original company ; and poflibly their heads were pla¬
ced on trunks, which before had other owners. They
Hill pofiefs their corner, and are eafy to be recognifed
though not unimpaired. The refi of the Hatues arc
defaced, removed, or fallen. Morofini was ambitious
to enrich Venice with the fpoils of Athens; and by an
attempt to take down the principal group, haflened
their ruin. In the other pediment is a head or tivo of
fea-horfes finely executed, with fome mutilated figures ;
and on the architrave beneath them are marks of the
fixtures of votive offerings, perhaps of the golden
fiiields, or of fefloons fufpended on folemn occafions,
when the temple was dreffed out to receive the votaries
of the goddefs.
£redlh£iim. “ Neptune and Minerva, once rival deities, were
joint and amicable tenants of the Ere&heum, in which
wras an altar of Oblivion. The building was double,
a partition wall dividing it into two temples, which
fronted different ways. One was the temple of Nep¬
tune Ere&heus, the other of Minerva Polias. The
latter was entered by a fquare portico connefted with
a marble Ikreen, which fronts towards the propylea.
The door of the cell was on the left hand : and at the
farther end of the paffage was a door leading down in-
to the Pandrofeum, -which was contiguous.
Temple of “ Before the temple of Neptune Ere&heus was an
Neptune E-altar of Jupiter the fupreme, on which no living thing
rectheus. was facrificed, but they offered cakes without wine.
Within it was the altar of Neptune and Ere&heus ;
and two, belonging to Vulcan and a hero named Eli¬
tes, who had tranfmitted the prieflhood to his poffe-
rity, which were called Butadce. On the walls were
paintings of this illufirious family, from which the
prieflefs of Minerva Polias was alfo taken. It was af-
ferted that Neptune had ordained the well of fait wa¬
ter, and the figure of a trident in the rock, to be me¬
morials of his contending for the country. The for¬
mer, Paufanias remarks, was no great wonder, for
other wells of a fimilar nature were found inland ; but
[ 198 ]
A T H
16
this when the fouth wind blei^, afforded the found of Athens.
waves. 1 v——^
“ The temple of Minerva Polias was dedicated by 18
all Attica, and poffeffed the moff ancient flatue cf Mineiva
the goddefs. The demi or towns had other deities, 1J°lias'
but their zeal for her fuffered no diminution. The
image, which they placed in the acropolis, then the
city, was in after ages not only reputed confummately
holy, but believed to have fallen down from heaven in
the reign of Erichthonius. It was guarded by a large
ferpent, which was regularly ferved with offerings of
honeyed cakes for his food. This divine reptile was of
great fagacity, and attained to an extraordinary age.
He wifely withdrew from the temple when in danger
from the Medes; and, it is faid, wras living in the fe-
cond century. Before this flatue wras an owl; and a
golden lamp. This continued burning day and night.
It was contrived by a curious artifl, named Callimachus,
and did not require to be repleniflied with oil oftener
than once a year. A brazen palm-tree, reaching to
the roof, received its fmoke. Ariflion had let the
holy flame expire wdiile Sylla befieged him, and was
abhorred for his impiety. The original olive-tree,
faid to have been produced by Minerva, was kept in
this temple. When the Medes fet fire to the acropo¬
lis, it was confumed; but, they afferted, on the follow¬
ing day, w’as found to have fliot up again as much as
a cubit. It grew low and crooked, but was efleemed
very holy. The prieflefs of Minerva w7as not allowed
to eat of the new cheefe of Attica ; and, among her
perquifites, was a meafure of wdieat, and one of barley,
for every birth and burial. This temple w7as again
burned when Callias was archon, 24 years after the
death of Pericles. Near it wTas the tomb of Cecrops,
and wdthin it Eredlheus wras buried.
“ The ruin of the Eredlheum is of white marble ;
the architettural ornaments of very exquifite wmrkman-
fliip, and uncommonly curious. The columns of the
front of the temple of Neptune are Handing wuth the
architrave; and alfo the Ikreen and portico of Minerva
Polias, and with a portion of the cell retaining traces of
the partitiomwall. The order is Ionic. An edifice
revered by ancient Attica, as holy in the highefl de¬
gree, wras in 1676 the dwelling of a Turkifli family,
and is now7 deferted and neglefted ; but many ponde¬
rous Hones and much rubbiih mufl be removed before
the well and trident wmuld appear. The former, at
leafl, might probably be difeovered. The portico is
ufed as a powder-magazine ; but we obtained permifi-
fion to dig and examine the outfide. The door-way
of the veflibule is walled up, and the foil rifen nearly
to the top of the door-way of the prandofeum. By
the portico is a battery commanding the town, from
W'hich afeends an amufing hum. The ’l urks fire from
it, to give notice of the commencement of Ramazan
or of their Lent, and of Bairam or the holy-days, and
on other public occafions.
‘‘ The prandofeum is a fmall, but very particular
building, of which no fatisfadlory idea can be commu¬
nicated by defeription. The entablature is fupported
by women called Caryatides. Their flory is thus re¬
lated. The Greeks, vidlorious in the Perfian wrar,
jointly deflroyed Carya, a city of the Peloponnefus,
which had favoured the' common enemy. They cut
off
1
Athens.
I^>.
Of Jupiter
Olympius.
20
Detached
piecesof an¬
tique fculp-
Sure, &c.
A T H [ i
off the males, and carried into captivity the women,
whom they compelled to retain their former drefs and
ornaments, though in a Hate of fervitude. The ar¬
chitects of thole times, to perpetuate the memory of
their punifhment, reprefented them, as in this inflance,
each with a burden on her head, one hand uplifted to
it and the other hanging down by her lide. The
images were in number fix, all looking toward the par-
thenon. The four in front, with that next to the
propylea, remain, but mutilated, and their faces be-
fmeared with paint. The foil is rifen almoft to the
top of the bafement on which they are placed. This
temple was open or latticed between the ftatues 5 and
in it alfo was a Hunted olive-tree, with an altar of Ju¬
piter Herceus Handing under it. The propylea are
nearly in a line with the fpace dividing it from the Par¬
thenon ; which difpofition, befides its other effedls, oc-
cafioned the front and flank of the latter edifice to be
feen at once by thofe who approached it from the en¬
trance of the acropolis.
“ The ruin of the temple of Jupiter Olympius con-
fifls of prodigious columns, tall and beautiful, of the
Corinthian order, fluted; fome Angle, fome fupporting
the architraves •, with a few maflive marbles beneath :
the remnant of a vaH heap, which only many ages could
have confumed and reduced into fo fcanty a compafs.
The columns are of very extraordinary dimenfions, be¬
ing about fix feet in diameter, and near 60 in height.
The number without the cell was 116 or 1 20. Seven¬
teen were Handing in 1676: but a few years before
we arrived, one wras overturned with much difficulty,
and applied to the building a new roofque in the bazar
or market-place. This violence was avenged by the
bafliawT of Negropont, who made it a pretext for ex¬
torting from the vaiwode or governor 15 purfes ; the
pillar being, he alledged, the property of their maHer
the Grand Signior. It was an angular column, and
of confequence in determining the dimenfions of the
fabric. We regretted that the fall of this mighty
xnafs had not been pofiponed until we came, as it wmuld
have afforded an opportunity of infpecling and mea-
furing fome members which we found far too lofty to
be attempted. On a piece of the architrave, fupport-
ed by a couple of columns, are two parallel walls, of
modern mafonry, arched about the middle, and again
near the top. You are told it has been the habitation
of a hermit, doubtlefs of a flylite ; but for whatever
building it has been part, and for whatever purpofe
defigned, it muH have been ere£fed thus high in air,’
while the immenfe ruin of this huge flruiffure vras yet
fcarcely diminiffied, and the heap inclined fo as to ren¬
der it acceffible. It was remarked that two Hones of
a Hep in the front had coalefced at the extremity, fo
that no juncture could be perceived ; and the like was
difcovered alfo in a Hep of the parthenon. In both
inHances it may be attributed to a concretory fluid,
which pervades the marble in the quarry. Some por¬
tion remaining in the pieces, when taken green as it
were, and placed in mutual contaft, it exuded and
united them by a procefs fimilar to that in a bone of an
animal when broken and properly fet.
“ Befides the more fiable antiquities, many detach¬
ed pieces are found in the town, by the fountains, in
the fireets, the walls, the houfes, and churches. A-
mong thefe are fragments of fculnture ; a marble chair
99 ] A T H
or two, which probably belonged to the gymnafia or
theatres : a fun-dial at the catholicon or cathedral, in-
fcribed with the name of the maker ; and, atHhe ar- v
chiepifcopal houfe clofe by, a very curious veffel of
marble, ufed as a cillern to receive water, but once
ferving, it is likely, as public flandard or meafure.
Many columns occur: with fome maimed Hatues ; and
pedeflals, feveral with infcriptions, and almoH buried
in earth. A cuftom has prevailed, as at Chios, of
fixing in the wall, over the gateways and doors of the
houfes, carved Hones, mcfl of which exhibit the tune-
ral fupper. In the courts of the houfes lie many
round flylae, or pillars, once placed on the graves of
the Athenians; and a great number are Hill to be feen
applied to the fame ufe in the Turkiffi burying grounds
before the acropolis. Thefe generally have eoncife
infcriptions containing the name of the perfon, and of
the town and tribe to which the deceafed belonged.
Demetrius the Phalerian, who endeavoured to reflraiu
fepulchral luxury, enadled, that no perfon ffiould have
more than one, and that the height ffiould not exceed
three cubits. Another fpecies, which refembles our'
modern head Hones, is fometimes adorned with fculp-
ture, and has an epitaph in verfe. We faw a few mu¬
tilated Hermse.- Thefe wrere buHs on long quadran¬
gular bafes, the heads frequently of brafs, invented by
the Athenians. At firll they were made to reprefent
only Hermes or Mercury, and defigned as guardians
of the fepulchres in which they were lodged ; but af¬
terwards the houfes, Hreets, and porticoes of Athens
were adorned with them, and rendered venerable by
a multitude of portraits of illuftrious men and women,
of heroes, and of gods : and, it is related, Hippar¬
chus, fon of Pififlratus, eredfed them in the demi or
borough towns, and by the road fide, infcribed with
moral apophthegms in elegiac verfe; thus making them
vehicles of inflrudlion.”
ATHERINA. See Ichthyology Index.
ATHEROMA, in Surgery, a tumor without pain
or difcoloration of the Ikin, containing, in a membra¬
nous bag, matter refembling pap, intermixed with hard
and flony particles. Thefe tumors are ufually cured by
incifion.
ATHERTON, or Atherston, a town of War-
wickffiire in England, fituated on the river Stour, in
W. Long. 1. 30. N. Lat. 52. 40. It is a confiderable
town, and had formerly a monaflery ; but now is belt
knowm by its fair, which is the greatefi in England
for cheefe.
ATHESIS, in Ancient Geography, a river of the
Cifalpine Gaul, which, riling in the Rhetian Alps, in
Mount Brenna, in the county of Tirol, runs fouth-
wards and waffies Tridentum and Verona, which lait
it divides; and after palling this, bends its courfe eafi-
wards, in a parallel direction with the Po, and falls in¬
to the Adriatic between Folia Claudia and Philiflina ;
it feparated the Euganei, an ancient people from the
Veneti. The people dwelling on it are called Athejtni
(Pliny). Its modern name is the Adige.
ATHLETAk, in Antiquity, perfons of ftrength and
agility, difciplined to perform in the public games.
The word is originally Greek, : formed from
certamen, “ combat ;” whence alfo nAXov, the
prize or reward adjudged the viftor.—Under athletic
were comprehended wrefilers. boxei's, runners, leapers,
throwers
Athens
II
Athletae.
A T H [ 200 ] A T H
Athletic throwers of the difk, and thofe praftifed in other ex-
j ercifes exhibited in the Olympic, Pythian, and other
folemn fports 5 for the conquerors wherein there were
eltablilhed prizes.
ATHLETIC habit, denotes a flrong hale con-
fhitution of body. Anciently it lignified a full flelhy
corpulent ftate, fuch as the athletae endeavoured to
arrive at. The athletic habit is efteemed the highell
pitch of health: yet it is dangerous, and the next door
to difeafe ; fince, when the body is no longer capable
of being improved, the next alteration mult be for the
worfe. The chief objeft of the athletic diet, was to
obtain a firm, bulky, weighty body $ by force of which,
more than art and agility, they frequently overpower¬
ed their antagonill : hence they fed altogether on dry,
folid, and vifeous meats. In the earlier days, their
chief food was dry figs and cheefe, which w7as called
arida fagwatio, |/)»^ r^a'pYt, and Atwtis <5
Oribafius, or, as others fay, Pythagoras, firlt brought
this into difufe, and fubflituted flelh in lieu thereof. They
had a peculiar bread called : They exercifed,
ate, ffnd drank, without ceafing: they were not allowed
to leavg off eating when fatiated \ but were obliged to
cram on till they could hold no more; by which means
they at length acquired a degree of voracity which
to us feems incredible, and a ftrength proportional.
Witnefs what Paufanias relates of the four celebrated
athletae, Polydamus the Theffalian, Milo the Crotoni-
an, Theagenes the Thafian, and Euthymus the Locrian :
The fecond is faid to have carried a bull on his back
a confiderable way, then to have knocked him down
with a blow of his fill, and laftly, as fome add, devour¬
ed him at a meal.
ATHLONE, a town of Weftmeath in Ireland,
lying in W. Long. 8. O. N. Lat. 53. 20. It is fitua-
ted on both fides of the Shannon, and both parts are
united by a ftrong, high-raifed, and well-built bridge,
in the middle of which Hands a monument, with fome
figures cut in marble, together with Queen Elizabeth’s
arms, and fome inferiptions declaring the time and the
founders of the building. The caftle was founded by
King John on fome land belonging to St Peter’s abbey,
for which he granted a compenfation. It is built on
a high-raifed round hill, refembling one of the Danifh
raths or forts. Here were formerly two convents or
monafteries. Athlone was formerly ftrongly fortified,
and confidered as of very great importance. In the
year 1691, a part of the Englilh army under General
Ginckle, in the very face of the Iriflr who were
ftrongly intrenched on the oppofite fliore, fording the
river, formed, and took poffeffion of the town, not
lofing more than 50 men in the attack; which is
efteemed as bold and fuccefsful an enterprife as any re¬
corded in hiftory. There are generally two troops of
horfe and four companies of foot quartered at Athlone.
This town gives the title earl to the family of Ginckle,
as a reward for the noble fervices performed by the
general.
ATHOL, the moft northern diftridl of Perthfhire
in Scotland, extending in length 43 miles, and in
breadth 30. It is bordered on the north by Badenoch,
on the weft by Lochaber, on the eaft and fouth-eaft
by Mar and Gowrie, on the fouth by Stratherne and
Perth Proper, and on the fouth-weft by Braidalbane.
The country is very rough and mountainous, and
I
contains part of the ancient Caledonian foreft ; but Athos.
thefe mountains are interfperfed with fruitful valleys. *■——%—
Here are feveral villages, but no towms of any con-
fideration. The moft noted place is Blair-Caftle,
feated on the river Tilt, near its influx into the Gurry,
a pleafant limpid ftream that falls in the Tay. This
caftle belongs to the duke of Athol, who derives
his title from this diftrict, and lives here with great
magnificence. In the fame neighbourhood we fee the
pafs of Gillicranky, rendered memorable by the bat¬
tle fought here in the beginning of King William’s
reign, between that monarch’s general M‘Kay, and
the Highlanders adhering to King James. See Gil¬
licranky.
ATHOS, a celebrated mountain of Chalcidia in
Macedonia, fituated in E. Long. 26. 20. N. Lat. 40. ic.
The ancients entertained extravagant notions concern¬
ing its height. Mela affirmed it to be fo high as to
reach above the clouds; and Martianus Capellinus,
that it was fix miles high. It was a received opinion
that the fummit of Mount Athos -was above the middle
region of the air, and that it never rained there ; be-
cauie the affies left on the altars ere&cd near its fummit
were always found as they were left, dry and unfeat-
tered. But if on many accounts it was famous among
the ancients, it is no lefs fo among the moderns. The
Greeks, ftruck with its Angular lituation and the vene¬
rable appearance of its towering afeent, erected fo many
churches, monafteries, hermitages, &c. upon it, that
it became in a manner inhabited by devotees, and from
thence received the name of the Holy Mountain; which
name it ftill retains, though many of thofe confecrated
works are now decayed. According to the accounts
of modern travellers, this mountain advances into the
Archipelago, being joined to the continent by an ifth-
mus about half a league in breadth. It is about 30
miles in circumference, and two in perpendicular
height. It may be travelled over in about three days,
and may be feen 90 miles off. There is a fine pro-
fpedf from the top ; but, like all other high moun¬
tains, the cold on its fummit is exceffive. It abounds
with many different kinds of plants and trees, parti¬
cularly the pine and fir. In the valleys grow's a plant
called elegia, whofe branches ferve to make pens for
writing. In ftiort, this mountain is faid to be adorned
with variety of herbage and evergreens, a multitude
of fprings and ftreams, and woods growing near the
fhore, fo as to be one of the moft agreeable places in
the world.
It is now inhabited by Caloyers, a fort of Greek
monks, of the order of St Bafil, wrho never marry,
though others of that church do. They abftain from
fleffi, and fare very hardly, their ordinary meal being
olives pickled when they are ripe. They are about
6000 in all, and inhabit feveral parts of the mountain,
on which are 24 large old monafteries, furrounded with
high w-alls for a defence againft banditti. They are
fo refpedted, that the Turks themfelves will often fend
them alms. Thefe monks are not idle like others; but
labour with the axe, fpade, and fickle, dreffing them¬
felves like hermits. Formerly they had fine Greek
manuferipts; but are now become fo illiterate, that
they can fcarce read or write.
Through this mountain, or rather through the ifth-
mus behind it, Xerxes king of Perfia is faid to have
cut
Atkins.
A T K [201
Athwart cut a paffage for his fleet when about to invade Greece.
In this work he fpent three whole years, and employ-
ed in it all the forces on board the fleet. He is alfo
faid, before the work was begun, to have written the
following infolent and ridiculous letter to the moun¬
tain : “ Athos, thou proud and afpiring mountain,
that liftefl: up thy head to the very Ikies, I advife thee
not to be fo audacious as to put rocks and ftones that
cannot be cut in the way of my workmen. If thou
makeft that oppofition, I will cut thee entirely down,
and throw thee headlong into the fea.” The directors
of this enterprife are faid to have been Bubaris the fon
of Megabyzus, and Artacheus, the fon of Arbeus, both
Perfians ; but as no traces of fuch a great work remain,
the truth of the whole relation has juftly been called
in queftion.
ATHWART, in Navigation, is fynonymous with
acrofs the line of the courfe.
Athwart the Fore-foot, is a phrafe that denotes the
flight of a cannon ball from one (hip acrofs the courfe
of another, to intercept the latter, and oblige her to
fliorten fail, that the former may come near enough to
examine her.
ATHivART-Haufe, exprefles the fituation of a (hip,
when flie is driven by wind or tide, or any other acci¬
dent, acrofs the fore part of another.
Athwart-Ships, reaching acrofs (hips from one fide
to the other.
ATHY, a town of Ireland, in the county of Kil¬
dare, not far from the borders of Queen’s county.
W. Long. 7. o. N. Lat. 53. o. It is fituated on the
river Barrow 5 is governed by a fovereign, two bailiffs,
and a recorder j and is, alternately with Naas, the af-
fizes town.
ATI BAR, the name by which the inhabitants of
the kingdom of Gago in Africa call gold dull j from
which word, Europeans, and efpecially the French,
have compofed the word tibir, which alfo fignifies gold
dull among thofe who trade in that commodity.
ATIGNY, an ancient town of Champagne in
France, where feveral of the kings of France had their
refidence. It is feated on the river Arfne, in E. Long.
4. 47. N. Lat. 49. 30.
ATKINS, Sir Robert, lord chief baron of the
exchequer, was born in 1621, and educated at the uni-
verfity of Oxford, from whence he removed to the inns
of court, and became eminent in the law. He was
made knight of the Bath, with many other perfons of
the firfl; diftinflion, at the coronation of King Charles
IL. In 1672, he was appointed one of the judges of
common pleas ; in which honourable ftation he con¬
tinued till 1679, when, forefeeing the troubles that
foon after enfued, he thought fit to refign, and retire
into the country. In 1689, he was made by King
William lord chief baron of the exchequer j and about
the fame time executed the office of fpeaker to the
houfe of lords, which had been previoufly refufed by
the marquis of Halifax. He diflinguilhed himfelf by
an unfliaken zeal for the laws and liberties of his coun¬
try. He wrote feveral pieces, which have been col¬
lected into one volume 8vo, under the title of Parlia¬
mentary and Political Tracis. The authors of the
Biographia Britannica remark, that whoever inclines
to be thoroughly informed of the true conftitution of
his country, of the grounds and reafons of the revo-
Yol. lil. Parti.
]
A T L
lution, and of the danger of fuffering prerogative to Atkins
joftle law, cannot read a better or plainer book than
He died in
1709,
thofe trafts of Sir Robert Atkins,
aged 88.
Atkins, Sir Robert, fon of the preceding, was born
in 1646, and was eminent for all the virtues that could
adorn an Engliffi gentleman. He wrote The Ancient
and Prefent State of Gloucefterffiire, in one large vo¬
lume in folio j and died Oftober 29. 1711.
ATKYNS, Ric hard, was defcended from a good
family, and was born at Tuffleigh in Gloucefterffiire
in the year 1615. He was educated at Oxford, from
whence he removed to Lincoln’s Inn, and afterwards
diftinguiftied himfelf by his loyalty to King Charles I.
for whom he railed a troop of horfe at his own ex¬
pence. At the Reftoration he was made one of the
deputy lieutenants of Gloucefterffiire, and difiinguiffi-
ed himfelf by his attachment to the government.
But at length being committed prifoner to the Mar-
ffialfea in Southwark for debt, he died there on the
14th of September 1677. He wrote feveral pieces,
particularly A Treatife on the Original and Growth
of Printing.
ATLANTIC ocean, that bounded by Europe and
Africa on the eaft, and by America on the weft.
ATLANTICA. See Atlantis.
ATLANTIDES, in AJironomy, a denomination
given to the Pleiades, or feven ftars, fometimes alfo
called Vergillite. They are thus called, as being fuppo-
fed by the poets to have been the daughters either of
Atlas or his brother Hefperus, who were tranflated in¬
to heaven.
ATLANTIS, Atalantis, or Atlantica, an
ifland mentioned by Plato and fome others of the an¬
cients, concerning the real exiftence of which many
difputes have been raifed. Homer, Horace, and the
other poets, make two Atlanticas, calling them He-
fperides and Elyftan Fields, making them the habita¬
tions of the bleffed. The moft diftimft account of this
ifland we have in Plato’s Timseus, of which Mr Cham¬
bers gives the following abridgement. “ The Atlantis
was a large illand in the weftern ocean, fituated before
or oppofite to the ftraits of Gades. Out of this ifland
there w^as an eafy paffage into fome others, which lay
near a large continent exceeding in bignefs all Europe
and Afia. Neptune fettled in this ifland (from wdrofe
fon Atlas its name was derived), and divided it among
his ten fons. To the youngeft fell the extremity of
the ifland, called Gadir, which in the language of the
country fignifies fertile, or abundant in fieep. The de-
fcendants of Neptune reigned here from father to fon
for a great number of generations in the order of pri¬
mogeniture, during the fpace of 9000 years. They al¬
fo poffeffed feveral other iflands; and, palling into Eu¬
rope and Africa, fubdued all Libya as far as Egypt,
and all Europe to Afia Minor. At length the ifland
funk under w^ater 5 and for a long time afterwards the
fea thereabouts was full of rocks and (helves.”
Many of the moderns alfo are of opinion, that the
exiftence of the Atlantis is not to be looked upon as
entirely fabulous. Some take it to have been Ameri¬
ca ; and from thence, as well as from a paffage in Se¬
neca’s Medea, and fome other obfcure hints, they
imagine that the new world was not unknown to the
ancients. But allowing this to be the cafe, the above-
C c mentioned
Atlantides
A T L [ 202 j AT M
Atlantis mentioned continent, which was faid to lie beyond At-
A jj s lantis, would feem rather to have been the continent of
. ‘ [ . America than Atlantis itfelf. The learned Rudbeck,
profelibr in the univerfity of Upfal, in a work entitled
At la ntk a Jive Manheim, endeavours to prove that Swe¬
den and Norway are the Atlantis of the ancients; but
this its frtuntion will by no means allow us to believe.
By Kircher it is fuppofed to have been an illand extend¬
ing from the Canaries quite to the Azores j that it was
really fwallowed up by the ocean, as Plato afferts *, and
that thefe fmall iilands are the fhattered remains of it
which were left Handing.
Atlantis, New, is the name of a fiflitious phi-
lofophical commonwealth, of which a defeription has
been given by Lord Bacon.—The NewT Atlantis is
fuppofed to be an illand in the South lea, to which
the author was driven in a voyage from Peru to Japan.
The compolition is an ingenious fable, formed after
the manner of the Utopia of Sir Thomas More, or
Campanella’s City of the Sun. Its chief defign is to
exhibit a model or defeription of a college, inftituted
for the interpretation of nature and the produ&ion of
great and marvellous works, for the benefit of men,
under the name of Solomon’'s lloufe, or “ the college of
the fix days work.” This much, at lead, is finilhed 5
and with great beauty and magnificence. The author
propofed alio a frame of laws, or of the bed date or
mould of a commonwealth. But this part is not exe¬
cuted.
ATLAS, king of Mauritania, a great adronomer,
contemporary with Mofes. From his taking obferva-
tions of the dars from a mountain, the poets feigned
him to have been turned into a mountain, and to fu-
' Itain the heavens on his fiioulders. Being an excellent
adronomer, and the firlt who taught the doflrine of
the fphere, they tell us that his daughters were turned
into liars : feven of them forming the Pleiades, and
other feven the Hyades.
Atlas, a chain of mountains in Africa, lying be¬
tween the 20th and 25th degree of north latitude,
and fuppofed almod to divide the continent from ead
to wed. They are faid to have derived their name
from Atlas king of Mauritania, who was a great
adronomer. They are greatly celebrated by the an¬
cients on account of their height, inforrtuch that the
above-mentioned king, who is faid to have been tranf-
formed into a mountain, was feigned to bear up the
heavens on his dioulders. We are allured, however, by
F)r Shaw, that the part of this chain of mountains
which fell under his obfervation could not dand in com¬
petition either with the Alps or Apennines. He tells
us, that if we conceive a number of hills, ufually of the
perpendicular height of 400, 500, or 600 yards, with
an eafy afeent, and feveral groves of fruit or fored
trees, riling up in a fuccedion of ranges above one ano¬
ther ; and that if to this profpebt we add nowT and then
a rocky precipice, and on the fummit of each imagine
a miferable mud-v,’ailed village j we diall then have a
juft idea of the mountains of Atlas.
* HiJ}- of According to M. Chenier *, this mountain is forrn-
Morvtco, ed by an endlefs chain of lofty eminences, divided into
1. 13. different countries, inhabited by a multitude oi tribes,
whofe ferocity permits no ftranger to approach. “ I
have not been able (continues he) to obtain a fufficient
knowledge of thefe mountains to deferibe them accu¬
rately : What Leo Africanus has faid of them is very Atlas
vague j and his account is the lei's to be regarded at II I
prefent, as it is now about three centuries fince he Atmo*
wrote, and the face of the country has been in that. *' ‘j ' .
time totally changed. Nothing perhaps w’ould be more
interefting to the curiodty of the philofopher, or con¬
duce more to the improvement of our knowdedge in na¬
tural hiftory, than a journey over Mount Atlas. The
climate, though extremely cold in winter, is very heal¬
thy and pleafant 5 the valleys are u’ell cultivated, abound
in fruits, and are diverfified by forefts and plentiful
fprings, the dreams of which uniting at a little didance,
form great rivers, and lofe themfelves in the ocean.
According to the reports of the Moors, there are
many quarries of marble, granite, and other valuable
done, in thefe mountains : It is probable there arfc
alfo mines, but the inhabitants have no idea of thefe
riches ; they confider their liberty, wdiich their dtua-
tion enables them to defend, as the mod inedimable of
all treafures.”
Atlas, \n Milters of Literature, denotes a book of
univerfal geography, containing maps of all the known
parts of the world.
Atlas, in Commerce, a filk-fatin, manufaddured in
the Tail Indies. There are fome plain, feme driped,
and fome flowered, the dowers of which are either
gold or only filk. • There are atlaffes of all colours,
but mod of them falfe, efpecially the red and the crim-
fon. The m&nufafture of them is admirable •, the gold
and filk being worked together after fuch a manner as
no workman in Europe can imitate j yet they are very
far from having that fine glofs and ludre which the
French know how to give to their filk duffs. In the
Chinefe manufaftures of this fort, they gild paper on
one fide with leaf-gold j then cut it in long flips, and
weave it into their filks •, which makes them, with very
little cod, look very rich and fine. The fame long
flips are twided or turned about filk threads, fo artifi¬
cially, as to look finer than gold thread, though it be
of no greater value.
ATMOSPHERE, a word generally ufed to fignify
the whole maf’s of fluid, confiding of air, aqueous and
other vapours, eleftric duid, &c. furrounding the earth
to a confiderable height.
The compofition of that part of our atmofphere At im¬
properly called air, was till lately very much unknown.fphere com-
In former times it was fuppofed to be a dmple, homo-'P0^0^t'v®
geneous, and elementary fluid. The experiments of
Dr Prieflley difeovered, that the pured kind of air, *
which he called dephlogijlicated, was in reality a com¬
pound, and might be artificially produced in various
ways. His firit conjedlures concerning its component
parts were, that it confided of earth, nitrous acid, and
phlogidon. Subfequent experiments rendered thefe
conje&ures dubious ; and at lad it was fuppofed that
dephlogidicated air is a pure elementary fubtiance, the
vivifying principle to animals, and the acidifying prin¬
ciple throughout all nature. 'Phis dephlogidicated
air, however, is but a fmall part of the ccmpofition of
our atmofphere. According to the molt accurate
computations, the air we uiually breathe is compofed
of only one-fourth of this dephlogidicated air, or per¬
haps lefs j the other three or four parts confiding of
what Dr Priedley calls phlogiflicated, and M. I. a voi¬
der mephitic air. This by itfclf is abfolutely noxious,
and
Atmo-
fphere.
Phlogifti-
cated air
poifonous
to animals,
and deplilo-
gifticated
air to
•vegetables.
.3
A great
quantity of
cledlric
fluid con¬
tained in
the atmo-
fphere.
4
Calcula¬
tions of the
height of
the atmo-
fphere.
A T M [ 2
and exceedingly poifonous to animals: though It feems
only to he negatively fo ; for when mixed in a certain
proportion with dephlogiilicated air, it may be breath¬
ed with fafety, which could not be if it contained any
ingredient abfolutely unfriendly to the human confti-
tution. The other part, viz. the pure dephlogifticated
air, feems to Hand much in the fame relation to plants
that phlogillicated air does to animals; that is, it
would prove poifonous and deliroy them if they were
to depend upon it entirely for their fubfiltence 5 but as
they derive their nourilhment partly from the air and
partly from the foil, it thence happens, that the plants
which are fet to grow in dephlogiilicated air do not die
inftantly, as animals do in the phlogillicated kind, but
remain for fome time weak and fickly.
The other component parts of cur atmofphere are fo
various, and of fuch heterogeneous natures, that they
do not admit of any kind of definition or analyfis, one
only excepted, namely, the eleBric fluid. This we
know pervades the whole, but appears to be much more
copious in the upper than in the lower atmofpherical
regions. See Electricity. To meafure the ab-
folute quantity of this fluid, either in the atmolphere
or any other fubflance, is impoflible. All that we can
know on this fubjedf is, that the eledlric fluid pervades
the atmofphere ; that it appears to be more abundant
in the fuperior than the inferior regions ; that it feems
to be the immediate bond of connexion between the
atmofphere and the water which is fulpended in it ; and
that by its various operations, the phenomena of hail,
rain, fnow, lightning, and various other kinds of
meteors, are occafioned.
Various attempts have been made to afcertain the
height to which the atmofphere is extended all round
the earth. Thefe commenced foon after it was difco-
vered, by means of the Torricellian tube, that air is a
gravitating fubftance. Thus it alfo became known,
that a column of air, whole bafe is a fquare inch, and
the height that of the whole atmofphere, weighs 15
pounds : and that the weight of air is to that of mer¬
cury, as 1 to 10,800: whence it follows, that if the
weight of the atmofphere be fufficient to raife a co¬
lumn of mercury to the height of 30 inches, the height
of the aerial column mult be 10,800 times as much,
and confequently a little more than five miles high.
It was not, however, at any time fuppofed, that this
calculation could be juft •, for as the air is an elaftic
fluid, the upper parts mufl expand to an immenfe bulk,
and thus render the calculation above related exceed¬
ingly erroneous. By experiments made in difterent
countries, it has been found, that the fpaees which any
portion of air takes up, are reciprocally proportional to
the weights with which it is compreffed. Allowances
were therefore to be made in calculating the height of
the atmofphere. If we fuppofe the height of the
whole divided into inriumerable equal parts, the denflty
of each of which is as its quantity ■, and the weight of
the whole incumbent atmofphere being alfo as its quan¬
tity ; it is evident, that the weight of the incumbent air
is everywhere as the quantity contained in the fub-
jacent part •, which makes a difference between the
weights of each two contiguous parts of air. By a
theorem in geometry, where the differences of magni¬
tudes are geometrically proportional to the magnitudes
themfelves, thefe magnitudes are in continual arithme-
03 ] A f M
tical proportion ; therefore, if, according to the fuppo- Atfndi
fition, the altitude of the air, by the addition of new, fPhere- ,
parts into which it is divided, do continually increafe in v
arithmetical proportion, its denfity will be diminilhed,
or (which is the fame thing, its gravity decreafed) in
continual geometrical proportion.
It is now eafy, from fuch a feries, by making two
or three barometrical obfervations, and determining
the denfity of the atmofphere at two or three different
ffations, to determine its abfolute height, or its rarity,
at any afiignable height. Calculations accordingly
were made upon this plan j but it having been found
that the barometrical obfervations by no means corre-
iponded with the denfity which, by other experiments,
the air ought to have had, it was fufpedled that the
upper parts of the atmofpherical regions were not fub-
jecft to the fame laws with the lower ones. Philofo-Height: 0f
phers therefore had recourfe to another method for de-it determi-
termining the altitude ol the atmofphere, viz. by a cal-fed from
culation of the height from w'hich the light of the jdj'
fun is refrafted, fo as to become vifible to us before heg^iof twi-
himfelf is feen in the heavens. By this method it was light,
determined, that at the height of 45 miles the atmo¬
fphere had no power of refradlion 5 and conlequently
beyond that diltance was cither a mere vacuum or the
next thing to it, and not to be regarded.
This theory foon became very generally received,
and the height of the atmofphere was fpoken of as fa¬
miliarly as the height of a mountain, and reckoned to
be as well afcertained, if not more fo, than the heights
of mofl: mountains are. Very great objections, how- ^
ever, which have never yet been removed, ariie from objection
the appearances of fome meteors, like large globes of from the
fire, not unfrequently to be feen at vaft heights above appearance
the earth (fee Meteor). A very remarkable one ofotmeteor3'
this kind was obferved by Dr Halley in the month of
March 1719, whofe altitude he computed to have
been between 69 and 73J Englifli miles j its diameter
2800 yards, or upwards of a mile and a half j and its
velocity about 350 miles in a minute. Others, appa¬
rently of the fame kind, but whofe altitude and velo¬
city were ftill greater, have been obferved •, particularly
that very remarkable one, Augufl 18th, 1783, whofe
diflance from the earth could not be lefs than 90 miles,
and its diameter not lefs than the former 5 at the fame
time that its velocity was certainly not lefs than icoo
miles in a minute. Fire-balls, in appearance fimilar to
thefe, though vaftly inferior in fize, have been fome-
times obferved at the furface of the earth. Of this
kind Dr Prieftley mentions one feen on board the
Montague, 4th November 1749, which appeared as
big as a large imllflone, and broke with a violent ex-
plofion.
From analogical reafoning, it feems very probable,
that the meteors which appear at fuch great heights
in the air are not effentially different from thofe which,
like the fire-ball juft mentioned, are met with on the
furface of the earth. The perplexing circumftances
with regard to the former are, that at the great
heights above mentioned, the atmofphere ought not to
have any denfity fufficient to fupport flame, or to pro¬
pagate found } yet thefe meteors are commonly fuc-
ceeded by one or more explofions, nay are fometimes
faid to be accompanied with a hilling noife> as they
pafs over our heads. The meteor of 1719 was not
C c 2 only
Ateo-
fphere.
ATM t 2=4 ]
only very bright, infomuch that for a fhort fpace it contained
turned night into day, but was attended with an ex-
plofion heard over all the iiland of Britain, occafioning
a violent concuffion in the atmofphere, and feeming to
ihake the earth itfelf. That of 1783 alfo, though
much higher than the former, was fucceeded by ex-
plofions 5 and, according to the teflimony of feveral
people, a hiding noife was heard as it paffed. Dr
Dailey acknowledged that he was unable to reconcile
thefe circumftances with the received theory of the
height of the atmoiphere ; as, in the regions in which
this meteor moved, the air ought to have been 300,000
times more rare than what we breathe, and the next
thing to a perfect vacuum.
In the meteor of 1783, the difficulty is ftill greater,
as it appears to have been 20 miles farther up in the
air. Dr Halley offers a conjecture, indeed, that the
vail magnitude of fuch bodies might compenfate for
the thinnefs of the medium in which they moved.
Whether or not this was the cafe cannot indeed be
afcertained, as we have fo few data to go upon 5 but
the greatelt difficulty is to account for the brightnefs
of the light. Appearances of this kind are indeed with
great probability attributed to eleClricity, but the dif-
iiculty is not thus removed. Though the eleftrical
hre pervades with great eafe the vacuum of a common
air-pump, yet it does not in that cafe appear in bright
well defined fparks, as in the open air, but rather in
long ftreams refembling the aurora borealis. From
fiome late experiments, indeed, Mr Morgan concludes,
that the eleftrical fluid cannot penetrate a perfeft va-
* See Eht- cuum *. If this is the cafe, it fhows that the regions
dex/*ln" we. *P.eak of are not a Pei'feCl vacuum as can be
artificially made ; but whether it is or not, the ex¬
treme brightnefs of the light ffiows that a fluid was
prefent in thofe regions, capable of confining and con-
denfing the eleClric matter as much as the air does at
the furface of the ground \ for the brightnefs of thefe
meteors, confidering their diftance, cannot be fuppo-
fed inferior to that of the brighteft flaflies of light-
7 ninS*.
Denfity of This being the cafe, it appears reafonable to conclude,
the air does that what is called the denjlty of the air does not alto-
v!1 alZ!IS Sether keeP Pace with its gravity. The latter indeed
muff in a great meafure be affeCted by the vapours,
but above all by the quantity of the bafis of fixed or
dephlogifticated air contained in it : for Mr Kirwan
has difcovered that the bafis of fixed air, when depri¬
ved of its elaftic principle, is not greatly inferior to
gold in fpecific gravity j and we cannot fuppofe that
of dephlogifticated air to be much lefs. It is poffible,
therefore, that pure air, could it be deprived of all
the water it contains, might have very little gravity j
and as there is great reafon to believe that the bafis of
dephlogifticated air is only one of the conftituent parts
of water we fee an evident reafon why the air
ought to become lighter, and likewife lefs fit for refpi-
ration, the higher up we go, though there is a poffibi-
lity that its denfity, or power of fupporting flame, may
continue unaltered.
There are not yet, howTever, a fufficient number of
fa&s to enable us to determine this queftion ; though
fuch as have been difcovered feem rather to favour the
above conjeClure. Dr Boerhaave was of opinion that
the gravity of the air depended entirely on the water it
ATM
and, by the means of alkaline falts, he was
enabled to extraCl as much water from a quantity of
air as was very nearly equivalent to its weight. By the 1
calcination of metals we may extraft as much of the
bafis of dephlogifticated air from a quantity of atmo-
fpherical air as is equivalent to the weight of air loft.
Were it poffible, therefore, to extraft the whole of
this, as well as all other vapours, and to preferve only
the elaftic principle, it is highly probable .that its gra¬
vity would entirely ceafe. It has been found by thofe
who have afcended with aeroftatic machines, or to the
tops of high mountains, that the dephlogirticated air
is found to be contained in fmaller quantities in the at¬
moiphere of thofe elevated regions than on the lower
grounds. It is alfo found, that in fuch fituations the
much drier, and parts with water with much
Atmo¬
fphere.
keep pace
with its
gravity.
more difficulty, than on the ordinary furface. Salt of
tartar, for inftance, which at the foot of a mountain
will very loon run into a liquid, remains for a long
time expofed to the air on the top of it, without fliow-
ing the leaft tendency to deliquefce. Neverthelefs, it
hath never been obferved that fires did not burn as in-
tenfely on the tops of the higheft mountains as on the
plains. The matter 1 indeed was put to the trial in the
great eruption of Vefuvius in 1779, where, though the
lava fpouted up to the height of three miles above the
level of the fea, the uppermoft parts all the while were
to appearance as much inflamed as the loweft. g
The high degree of eleftricity, always exifting in Qravjty 0f
the upper regions of the atmofphere, muft of neceflity the upper
have a very confiderable influence on the gravity of any regions of
heterogeneous particles floating in it. When we con- ^ atmo-
fider the effects of the electric fluid upon light bodies
at the furface of the earth, it will readily be admitted, niflied by
that in thofe regions where this fluid is very abundant, electricity,
the gravity of the atmofphere may be much diminilhed
wfithout affecting its denfity. We know that it is the
nature of any eledlrified iubftance to attra£l light bodies j
and that, by proper management, they may even be
fufpended in the air, without either moving up or
dowm for a confiderable time. If this is the cafe with
light terreftrial bodies, it cannot be thought very im¬
probable that the aerial particles themfelves, i. e. thofe
which we call the bafis of dephlogifticated air, and of
aqueous or other vapour diffufed among them, fhould
be thus affefled in the regions where electricity is fo
abundant. From this caufe, therefore, alfo the gra¬
vity of the atmofphere may be affeCted without any al¬
teration at all being made in its denfity \ and hence
may arife anomalies in the barometer hitherto not ta¬
ken notice of. ^
It appears, therefore, that the abfolute height of the Abfolute
atmofphere is not yet determined. The beginning height of
and ending of twilight indeed (how, that the height ^ atm°-
at wffiich the atmofphere begins to refraft the fun’s
light is about 44 or 45 Engliffi miles. But this may necg
not improbably be only the height to which the aque¬
ous vapours are carried : for it cannot be thought any
unreafonable fuppofition, that light is refraCled only
by means of the aqueous vapour contained in the at¬
mofphere ; and that where this ceafes, it is ftill capable
of fupporting the ele&ric fire at leaft, as bright and
ftrong as at the furface. That it does extend much
higher, is evident from the meteors already mentioned:
for all thefe are undoubtedly carried along with the
atmofplxere >
Atmo-
fphere.
ATM [ 205 ]
atmolphere j otherwife that of 17B3, which was feen phureous fleam
atmo¬
sphere.
for about a minute, muft have been left xooo miles to
the weltward, by the earth flying out below it in its
10 annual courfe round the fun.
Of the pref- It has already been mentioned, that the preffure of
fare of the the atmofphere, when in its mean ftate, is equivalent
to a weight of 1 5 pounds on every fquare inch. Hence
Dr Cotes computed, that the preffure of the whole am¬
bient fluid upon the earth’s furface is equivalent to that
of a globe of lead 60 miles in diameter. Hence alfo
it appears, that the preffure upon a human body mull
be very confiderable j for as every fquare inch of fur-
face luftains a preffure of 15 pounds, every fquare foot,
as containing 144 inches, muft fuftain a preffure of
216^ j and if we fuppofe a man’s body to contain 15
fquare feet of furface, which is pretty near the truth,
he muft fuftain a weight of 32,400 pounds, or 16 tun,
for his ordinary load. By this enormous preflure we
ftiould undoubtedly be crufhed in a moment, were not
all parts of our bodies filled either with air or fome
other elaftic fluid, the fpring of which is juft fufficient
to counterbalance the weight of the atmolphere. But
whatever this fluid may be, we are fure that it is juft
able to counteraft the atmolpherical gravity and no
more *, for if any confiderable preflure be fuperadded
to that of the air, as by going into deep water, or the
like, it is always feverely felt, let it be ever fo equa¬
ble. If the preffure of the atmofphere is taken off
from any part of the human body, the hand, for in-
ftance, when put in an open receiver from whence the
air is afterwards extrafted, the weight of the atmo¬
fphere then difcovers itfelf, and we imagine the hand
ftrongly fucked down into the glafs. See Pneuma¬
tics.
In countries at fome diftance from the equator, the
of the ptef- Prefl’ure the atmofphere varies confiderably, and thus
fure, and produces confiderable changes on many terreftrial bo¬
lts effefts. dies. On the human body the quantity of preffure
fometimes varies near a whole tun ; and when it is thus
fo much diminifhed, moft people find fomething of a
liftlefsnefs and inadlivity about them. It is furprifing,
however, that the fpring of the internal fluid, already
mentioned, which adls as a counterpoife to the atmo-
fpherical gravity, fliould in all cafes feem to keep pace
with it when the preffure is naturally diminiftied, and
even when it is artificially augmented, though not
when the preffure is artificially diminiihed. Thus in
that kind of weather when the preffure of the air is
leaft, we never perceive our veins to fwell, or are fen-
fible of any inward expanfion in our bodies. On the
I2 contrary, the circulation is languid, and we feem ra-
OFdifficuI- ther to be oppreffed by a weight. Even in going up
ty of refpi- to the tops of mountains, where the preflure of the at-
ration on mofphere is diminiftied more than three times what it
mountains u^ua^y ’s on the plain, no fuch appearances are ob-
ferved. Some travellers indeed have affirmed, that on
the tops of very high mountains, the air is fo light as
to occafion a great difficulty of refpiration, and even
violent retching and vomiting of blood. It does not
appear, however, that thefe affertions are well found¬
ed. Mr Brydone found no Inconvenience of this kind
on the top of Mount /Etna ; nor is any fuch thing men¬
tioned by Mr Houel, who alfo afcended this moun¬
tain. Sir William Hamilton indeed fays, that he did
feel a difficulty of refpiration, independent of any ful-
Atmo-
fphere.
it
Variation
ATM
But, on the top of a volcano, the
refpiration may be affedled by fo many different caufes,
that it is perhaps impoffible to afiign the true one. The '
French mathematicians, when on the top of a very
high peak of the Andes, did not make any complaint
of this kind, though they lived there for fome time.
On the contrary, they found the wind fo extremely
violent, that they were fcarce able to withftand its
force ; which feems an argument for at leaft equal den-
Jity of the atmofphere in the fuperior as in the inferior
regions. Dr Heberden, who afcended to the top of
Teneriffe, a higher mountain than /Etna, makes no
mention of any difficulty of refpiration. M. Sauffure, M. Sauf-
however, in his journey to the top of Mount Blanc, the fare’s fymp-
higheft of the Alps, felt very great uneafinels in this ^oms ^
way. His refpiration was not only extremely diffi- ^ °nt
cult, but his pulfe became quick, and he was feized Blanc ac-
with all the fymptoms of a fever. His ftrength was counted
alfo exhaufted to fuch a degree, that he feemed to re- f°r.
quire four times as long a fpace to perform fome ex¬
periments on the top of the mountain as he would
have done at the foot of it. It muft be obferved, how¬
ever, that thefe fymptoms did not begin to appear till
he had afcended two miles and a half perpendicular-
above the level of the fea. The mountain is only about
a quarter of a mile higher j and in this ftrort fpace he
was reduced to the fituation juft mentioned. But it is
improbable that fo fmall a difference, even at the end
of his journey, ftrould have produced fuch violent ef¬
fects, had not fome other caufe concurred. A caufe
of this kind he himfelf mentions, viz. that the atmo¬
lphere at the top of the mountain was fo much im¬
pregnated with fixed air, that lime-water, expofed
to it, quickly became covered with a pellicle occafion-
ed by the abforption of that fluid. Now it is known,
that fixed air is extremely pernicious to animals, and
would bring on fymptoms fimilar to thofe above men¬
tioned. There is no reafon, therefore^ to have re-
courfe to the rarity of the atmofphere for folving a
phenomenon which may more naturally be accounted
for otherwife.
When the preffure of the atmofphere is augmented,-
by defcending, in the diving-bell, to confiderable depths
in the fea, it does not appear that any inconvenience
follows from its increafe. Thofe w-ho fit in the diving-
bell are not fenlible of any preflure as long as they re¬
main in the air, though they feel it very fenfibly in go¬
ing into the water : yet it is certain, that the preffure
in both cafes is the fame : for the whole preffure of the
atmofphere, as well as of the water, is fuftained by the
air in the diving-bell, and confequently communicated
to thofe wTho fit in it.
But though artificial compreffion of the air, as w'ell
as natural rarefaction, can thus be borne, it is otherwife
with artificial rarefaction. Animals in an air-pump
fliow uneafinefs from the very firlt, and cannot live for
any time in an atmofphere rarefied artificially even as
much as it appeared to be from the barometer on the
top of Mount Blanc. ^
It is not eafy to affign the true reafon of the varia-Variation:
tions of gravity in the atmofphere. Certain it is, how-0^16 at-
ever, that they take place only in a very final 1 degree
within the tropics ; and feem there to depend on the accounted^
heat of the fun, as the barometer conftantly finks near for.
half an inch every day, and rifes again to its former
ftation
ATM
T 2°6 ]
A T M
the atmo-
-fphere.
jfttino- ftation in tlie night time. In the temperate zones the
'lji"'re‘ barometer ranges from 28 to near 31 inches, by its va-
" rious altitudes (bowing the changes that are about to
take place in the weather. If we could know, there¬
fore, the latent caufes by which the weather is influen¬
ced, we fliould likewife certainly know thofe by which
the gravity of the atmofphere is affected. In general
they may be reduced to two, viz. an emiflion of latent
heat from the vapour contained in the atmofphere, or
of eleftric fluid from the lame, or from the earth. To
one or both of thefe caufes, therefore, may we alcribe
the variations of the gravity of the atmofphere •, and we
fee that they both tend to produce the fame efieft with
the folar heat in the tropical climates, viz. to rarefy
the air, by mixing with it or fetting loofe a non-
gravitating fluid, which did not aft in fuch large pro¬
portion in any particular place before. No doubt,
the aftion of the latent heat and eleftric fluid is the
lame in the torrid as in the temperate zones : but
in the torrid zone the folar heat and exceffive eva¬
poration counteraft them ; fo that whatever quanti¬
ties may be difcharged by the exceflive deluges of
rain, &c. which fall in thofe countries, they are in-
ftantly abforbed by the abundant fluid, and are quick¬
ly ready to be difcharged again ; while, in the tem¬
perate zones, the air becomes fenfibly lighter, as -well
as warmer, by them for fome time before they can be
i _ abforbed again.
Variation The variations of heat and cold to which the atmo-
of the heat fphere is fubjeft, have been the fubjeft of much fpecu-
and cold of lation. In general they feem to depend entirely upon
the light of the fun retlefted into the atmofphere from
the earth 5 and where this defleftion is deficient, even
though the light fliould be prefent ever fo much, the
moft violent degrees of cold are found to take place.
Hence, on the tops of mountains, the cold is generally
exceflive, though by reafon of the clearnefs of the at¬
mofphere the light of the fun falls upon them in greater
quantity than it can do on an equal fpace on the plain.
In long winding paffages alfo, fuch as the caverns of
./Etna and Vefuvius, where the air has rcom to circu¬
late freely, without any accefs of the fun, the cold is
fcarce tolerable-, whence the ufe of thefe for cooling li¬
quors, preferving meat, &c.
The coldnefs of the atmofphere on the tops of moun¬
tains has been afcribed by M. Lambert and De Luc,
to the igneous fluid, or elementary fire, being more rare
ions tor the in-thofe elevated fituations than on the plains. M. Lam-
tors of tl e kert opini°n that it is rarefied above by the aftion
mountains, the air, and that below it is condenfed by its own
proper weight. He confiders fire as a fluid in motion,
the parts of which are feparable, and which is rarefied
when its velocity is accelerated. He does not decide
with regard to the identity of fire and light, though
he feems inclined to believe it. M. de Luc compares
elementary fire to a continuous fluid, whole parts are
condenfed by being mutually comprefled. He denies
that fire and light are the fame and maintains that
the latter is incapable, by itfelf, of fetting fire to bo¬
dies, though it does fo by putting in motion the igne¬
ous fluid they contain-, and that it afts with more force
near the earth than at a diftance from its furface, by
reafon of this fluid, which he calls a heavy and elajlic
one, being more condenfed there than at a greater
height.
16
Lambert
and De
Luc’s re a
M., Sauffure, in treating of this fubjeft in his ac- Atmo-
count of the Alps, does not confider fire as a fluid fo fi)here'
free and detached as to be able either to afcend with ra- v-—
pidity by its fpecific levity, or to condenfe itfelf fenfi-jvr. Sauf.
bly by its proper w'eight. He fuppofes it to be united hire’s ac-
tp bodies by lo Itrxft an affinity, that all its motions caur‘t>
are determined, or at leafl: powerfully modified, by that
affinity. As foon therefore as fire, difengaged by com-
buflion or by any other caufe, endeavours to diffufc
itfelf, all the bodies that come within the inhere of its
aftivity endeavour to attraft it j and they abforb fuch
quantities of it as are in the direft ratio of their affi¬
nities with it, or in the inverfe ratio of what is liecef-
fary for their equilibrium with the lurrounding bodies.
Now it does not appear that in this diflribution the
fituation of places, with regard to the horizon, has any
other influence than what they receive from the differ¬
ent currents produced by the dilatation of the air, and
by the levity which that dilatation produces. T he
afeent of flame, fmoke, &c. or of air heated in any
way, perfuaded the ancients that fire is pofleffed of ab-
folute levity, by which it had a tendency to mount up¬
wards. “ But thefe effefts (fays he) are owing either
to the levity of the fluid which conflitutes flame, or to
that of air dilated by heat : and not to the levity of the
igneous fluid. I am, however, fufhciently convinced,
that this fluid is incomparably lighter than air, though
I do net believe that it poffeffes the power of afeending
in our atmofphere by virtue of its levity alone. jg^
“ The celebrated Bouguer has demonffrated, by Mr Eou-
principles the moft Ample, and molt univerfally adopt- ?utr’s rea~
ed, that it is not neceflary, in order to account for the iuiL for ^
diminution of heat on mountains, to nave recourie to t0p ol ^
hypothefes that are at beft doubtful. The following Andes,
is his explanation of what was felt on the mountains of
Peru.
“ It was proper, in order to explain this fubjeft, to
infift on the Ihort duration of the fun’s rays, which
cannot ftrike tie different fides of mountains but for a
few hours, and even this not always. A horizontal
plain, when the fun is clear, is expofed at mid-day to
the perpendicular and undiminifhed aftion of thefe
rays, while they fall but obliquely on a plain not much
inclined, or on the fides of a high pile of deep rocks.
But let us conceive for a moment an infulated point,
half the height of the atmofphere, at a diflance from
all mountains, as w-ell as from the clouds which float
in the air. The more a medium is tranfparent, the
lefs heat it ought to receive by the immediate aftion
of the fun. The free paffage wffiich a very tranfpa¬
rent body allows to the rays of light, fhows that its
(mall particles are hardly touched by them. Indeed
what impreflion could they make on it, when they pafs
through almoft without obftru-ftion ? Light, when it
confifts of parallel rays, does not by palling through a
foot of free atmofpheric air, near the earth, loie an
hundred thoufandth part of its force. From this we
may judge how few rays are weakened, or can aft on
this fluid, in their paffage through a ftratum of the dia¬
meter not of an inch or a line, but of a particle. Yet
the fubtility and tranfparency are Hill greater at great
heights, as was obvious on the Cordilleras, wffien wre
looked at diflant objefts. Laftly, the groffer air is
heated below by the contaft or neighbourhood of bo¬
dies of greater denfity than itfelf, which it furrounds,
and
ATM
Atmo-
fphere.
[
*9
Burn ng-
glaffes
equally
powerful
on the tops
of moun¬
tains as on-
plains.
and on which it refts; and the heat may be communi-
j cated by little and little to a certain diftance. The
inferior parts of the atmofphere by this means contraft
daily a very confiderable degree of heat, and may re¬
ceive it in proportion to its denfity or bulk. But it is
evident that the fame thing cannot happen at the di¬
ftance of a league and a halt or two leagues above the
furface of the earth, although the light there may be
fomething more aflive. The air and the wind there¬
fore muft at this height be extremely cold, and colder
in proportion to the elevation.
“ Betides, the heat neceffavy to life is not merely
that which we receive every inftan! from the fun. The
momentary degree of this heat correfponds to a very
Imad part of that which all the bodies around us have
imbibed, and by which ours is chiefly regulated. The
acdion of the fun only ferves to maintain nearly in the
lame ftate the fum of the total heat, by repairing
through the day the lofs it fuftains through the night,
and at all times. If the addition be greater than the
lofs, the total heat will increafe, as it happens in fum-
mer, and it will continue to accumulate in a certain
degree \ but for the reafons already given, this accu-
mulation cannot be very great on the top of a moun¬
tain, where the fummit, which riles high, is never of
great buliv. 1 iie loweft ftate of the thermometer in
every place is always in proportion to the heat acquir¬
ed by the foil •, and that being very fmall on the top
of a mountain, the quantity added to it by the fun du¬
ring the day muft be comparatively greater •, and the
accumulated heat will be more in a condition to re¬
ceive increafe in proportion to its diftance from the de¬
gree which it cannot pafs.
“ Another particular obfervable on all the high
places of the Cordilleras, and which depends on the
i.tme caufe, is, that when we leave the lhade, and ex-
pole ourfelves to the iunlhine, we feel a much greater
difference than we do here in our fine days when the
weather is temperate. livery thing contributes at
Quito to make the fun exceedingly powerful : a fingle
ilep from an expofed place to the fliade gives the fen-
fation of cold : this would not be the cafe if the quan¬
tity of heat acquired by the foil were more confider¬
able. \\ e now alfo fee why the fame thermometer,
put fiill into the (hade-and then in the fun, does not
undergo the fame changes at all times and in all pla¬
ces. In tne morning, upon Pichincha, this inftrument
is generally a few degrees below the freezing point,
which may be reckoned the natural temperature of the
place’, but when during the day we expofe it to the
fun, it is eafy to imagine that the effect muft be great,
and muen more than double in'whatever way it is mea-
fured.,,
This theory is adopted by M. Sauffure, who adds
the following facd to prove that the adion of the fan’s
re)>, confidered abftractedly and independent of any
extrinfic fource or cold, is as great on mountains as on
plains \ viz. that the power of burning lenfes and mir¬
rors is the fame at all heights. To afeertain this faff,
our author procured a burning-glafs fo weak that at
Geneva it would juft fet fire to tinder. This he car¬
ried, with fome of the fame tinder, to the top of the
mountain Saleve (a height of 3000 feet) ; where it not
only produced the fame efteft, but apparently with
greater facility than on the plain. Being perfuaded
107 ] AT M
then, that the principal fource of cold on the tops of Atmo-
high mountains is their being perpetually furrounded Ghere-
with an atmofphere which cannot be much heated ei-
ther by the rays of the fun on account of its tranfpa-
rency, or hy the refletfion of them from the earth by
reafon of its diftance, he wiflied to know, whether the
direct folar rays on the top of a high mountain had the
fame power as on the plain, while the body on which
they afted rvas placed in fuch a manner as to be unaf¬
fected by the furrounding air. For this purpofe he
inftituted a fet of experiments, from which he drew the
following conclufions, viz. that a difference of 77y
toifes in height, diminifhes the heat which the rays of
the fun are able to communicate to a body expofed to
the external air, 140 of the thermometer; that it di-
miniflies the heat of a body partially expofed, only 6° ;
and that it augments by i° the heat of a third body
completely defended from the air.
Hence it appears that the atmofphere, though fo Atmo-
effentially neceffary to the fupport of fire, is iomehowfd1016 eve—
or other the greateft antagonift of heat, and moft ef-1fwhere
fedlually counteracts the operation of the folar rays in
producing it. This power it feems to exert at all di- the fun.1
fiances, at the furface as well as m the higher regions.
From forae experiments made by M. Piflet it appears,
that even in places expofed to the rays of the fun, the
heat, at five feet dillance from the ground, is greater
only by one-or two degrees than at 50 feet above thep, coj”r
furface, though the ground was at that time 15 or 20° very near
warmer than the air immediately in contadl with it. fiirface
Inconfiderable as this difference is, however, it doesofthe
not hold as we go higher up ; for if it did, the cold
on the top of the mountain of Saleve, which is 3000 fome cli~
feet above the level of the lake of Geneva, would be ftarxe.
6b° greater than at the foot of it ; whereas in reality it
is only io°. In the night-time the cafe is reverfed ;
for the ftratum of air, at five feet from the ground, was
found by M. Pidlet to be colder than at (fo. Befides
this, different ftrata of the atmofphere are found to
poffefs very different and variable degrees of cold, with¬
out any regard to their fttuation high up or low down.
In the year 1780, Dr Wilfon of Glafg ow found a ve¬
ry remarkable cold exifting clofe to the furface of the
ground ; fo that the thermometer, when laid on the
iurface of the fnow, funk many degrees lower than one
fufpended 24 feet above it. It has been likewife ob-
ferved, that in clear weather, though the furface of
the earth be then moft liable to be heated by the fun,
yet after that is fet, and during the night, the air is
colder! near the ground, and particularly in the val¬
leys. Experiments on this fubjett were made for a
whole year by Mr James Sex, who has given an ac- Mr Sex’s
count of them in the 78th volume of the Philofophicalexperi-
Tranfa61ions. Pie fufpended thermometers (conifiuft-m?njs orL
ed in fuch a manner as to fhow the true maximum and •h^ful’~
minimum of heat that might take place in the obferT"'-
ver’s abfence) in a fhady northerly afpecl, and at dif¬
ferent heights in the open air. One of thefe was pla
ced at the height of 9 feet, and the other at that of
2,20 from the ground ; and the obfervations were con¬
tinued, with only a few days omiffion, from July 1784
to July 1785. The greateft variations of heat were in
the months of 0£lober and June ; in the former tie
thermometers generally differed moft in the night, and
in the latter moftly in the day. From the 25th to the
a 2.8 tk.
ATM [ 208 ] ATM
Atmo- 28til of O&ober, the heat below, in the night-time,
fphere. exceeded in a fmall degree the heat above *, at which
v time there was frequent rain mingled with hail. From
the nth to the 14th, and alfo on the 31ft, there was
no variation at all; during which time likewife the
weather w^as rainy 5 all the reft of the month proving
clear, the air below was found colder than that above,
fometimes by nine or ten degrees. In the month of
June, the greateft variations took place from the nth
to the 15th, and from the 25th to the 30th 5 and at
both thefe times there appeared to be two currents of
wund, the upper from the fouth-wTeft and the lower
from the north eaft. Sometimes thefe wTere rendered
vifible by clouds, in different ftrata, moving in differ¬
ent direftions 5 and fometimes by clouds moving in a
contrary diredlion to a very fenftble current of air be¬
low. On cloudy nights the loweft thermometer fome¬
times fhowed the heat to be a degree or two greater
than the upper one ; but in the daytime the heat be¬
low conftantly exceeded that above more than in the
month of Odlober.
To determine whether the nofturnal refrigeration
was augmented by a nearer approach to the earth, two
thermometers w7ere placed in the midft of an open
meadow, on the bank of the river near Canterbury.
One was placed on the ground, and the other only fix
feet above it. The thermometer, at fix feet diftance
from the ground, agreed nearly with the former at
nine feet j but the no&urnal variations were found to
correfpond entirely wdth the clearnefs or the cloudi-
nefs of the fky : and though they did not always hap¬
pen in proportion to their refpe£tive altitudes, yet
when the thermometers differed in any refpeft, that
on the ground always indicated the greateft degree of
cold.
The difference betwixt thefe two thermometers, at
the fmall diftance of fix feet from each other, being
found no lefs than three degrees and a half, the num¬
ber of thermometers in the meadow was augmented to
four. One w?as funk in the ground, another placed
juft upon it, and the third fufpended at three feet
above it. Three others were placed on a rifing ground
where the land was level with the cathedral tower,
and about a mile diftance from it. One of thefe was
likewife funk in the ground, another placed juft upon
it, and a third fufpended fix feet above it. With thefe
ieven thermometers, and the two firft mentioned,
which were placed in the city, he continued his ob-
fervations for 20 days ; but as the weather happened
to be cloudy during the whole of that fpace,. excepting
for feven or eight days, no confiderable variation hap¬
pened excepting on thefe days. The refult of the ex¬
periments was, that the cold was generally greater in
the valley than on the hill j but the variations between
the thermometers on the ground and thofe fix feet
above them, were often as great on the hill as in the
valley.
Thus it was perceived that a difference of tempera¬
ture took place at the diftance of only three feet from
the ground j but the length of the thermometers hi¬
therto made ufe of rendered it impoffible to make any
experiment at a fmaller diftance. Two new ones,
therefore, were formed by bending down the large
tube, the body or bulb of the thermometer, to a ho¬
rizontal pofition, while the ftem remained in a vertical
I
one j by which method the temperature might be ob- Atm&.
ferved to the diftance of a fingle inch. Sometimes, in ^^iere’
clear weather, thefe two horizontal thermometers were
placed in the open air, one within an inch of the
ground, and the other nine inches above it. When
the variation among the other thermometers was con¬
fiderable, a difference was likewife perceived between
thefe j the lower one fometimes indicating more than
two degrees lefs heat than the upper one, though pla¬
ced fo near each other.
From thefe experiments Mr Sex concludes, that a His conclu-
greater diminution of heat frequently takes place near fions from
the earth in the night-time than at any altitude in the exPe-
atmofphere within the limits of his inquiry, that is,nments'
220 feet from the ground; and at fuch times the
greateft degrees of cold are always met with neareft
the furface of the earth.
This is a conftant and regular operation of nature
under certain circumftances and difpofitions of the at¬
mofphere, and takes place at all feafons of the year ;
and this difference never happens in any confiderable
degree but when the air is ftill, and the Iky perfe&ly
unclouded. The moifteft vapour, as dews and fogs,
did not at all impede, but rather promote, the refrige¬
ration. In very fevere frofts, when the air frequently
depofites a quantity of frozen vapour, it is commonly
found greateft; but the excefs of heat which in the
day-time was found at the loweft ftatiouin fummer, di-
minilhed in winter almoft to nothing.
It has been obferved, that a thermometer, included Mr Dar¬
in a receiver, always finks when the air begins to be win’s expc-
rarefied. This has been thought to arife, not from ^1™dentisoon
any degree of cold thus produced, but from the hidden ^ucedby
expanfion of the bulb of the thermometer in confe-the rarefac-
quence of the removal of the atmofpherical preffure : tion of air.
But from fome late experiments related, Phil. Tranf.
vol. Ixxviii. by Mr Darwin, it appears that the atmo¬
fphere always becomes warm by compreffion, and cold
by dilatation from a compreffed ftate. Thefe experi¬
ments were,
1. The blaft from an air-gun was repeatedly thrown
upon the bulb of a thermometer, and it uniformly
funk it about two degrees. In making this experi¬
ment, the thermometer was firmly fixed againft a
wall, and the air-gun, after being charged,, was left
for an hour in its vicinity, that it might previoufiy lofe
the heat it had acquired in the a£l of charging ; the
air was then difcharged in a continued ftream on the
bulb of the thermometer, with the effeft already men¬
tioned.
2. A thermometer was fixed in a wooden tube, and
fo applied to the receiver of an air-gun, that, on dif-
charging the air by means of a fcrew prefling on the
valve of the receiver, a continued ftream of air, at the
very time of its expanfion, paffed over the bulb of the
thermometer. This experiment was four times repeat¬
ed, and the thermometer uniformly funk from five to
feven degrees. During the time of condenfation there
was a great difference in the heat, as perceived by the
hand, at the two ends of the condenfing fyringe : that
next the air-globe was almoft painful to the touch ; and
the globe itfelf became hotter than could have been
expefted from its contaft with the fyringe. “ Add
to this (fays Mr Darwin), that in exploding an air-
gun the ftream of air always becomes vifible, which is
owing
ATM
Atmo-
fphere.
[ ]
ATM
of ',1'
^ pour , ' 7~ r~ ”— flii *ittu ueen
previouiiy more condenied, or in greater quantity fo
as not inftantly to acquire heat from the common at-
mofphere in its vicinity, it would probably have fallen
in fnovv.
^ 3* ^ thermometer was placed in the receiver of an
air*pump, and the air being haftily exhaufted, it funk
two. or three degrees 5 but after fome minutes regain¬
ed its former ftation. The experiment was repeated
with a thermometer open at the top, fo that the bulb
could not be affe&ed by any diminution of the exter¬
nal prelTure j but the refult was the fame. Both du¬
ring exhauftion and re-admiflion of the air into the re¬
ceiver, a fteam was regularly obferved to be condenfed
on the fides of the glafs ; which, in both cafes, was in
a few minutes reabforbed, and which appeared to be
precipitated by being deprived of its heat by the ex¬
panded air.
4. A hole, about the fize of a crow-quill, was bo¬
red into a.large air-veffel placed at the commencement
of the principal pipe of the water-works of Derby.
I here are four pumps worked by a water-wheel, the
water, of which is firft thrown into the lower part of
this air-veffel, and rifes from thence to a refervoir about
35 or 4° f£et above the level; fo that the water in this
veffel is conftantly in a Hate of compreffion. Two
thermometers were previoufly fufpended on the leaden
air-veffel, that they might affume the temperature of
it, and as foon as the hole above-mentioned was opened
had their bulbs applied to the ftream of air which if-
fued out 5 the confequence of which was, that the mer¬
cury funk fome degrees in each. This finking of the
mercury could not be afcribed to any evaporation of
moifture from their furfaces, as it was feen both in ex-
haulling and admitting the air into the exhaufted re¬
ceiver mentioned in the laft experiment, that the va¬
pour which it previouiiy contained was depofited du¬
ring its expanfion.
5- There is a curious phenomenon obferved in the
fountain of Hiero, conftrufted on a very large fcale, in
the Chemnifcenfian mines in Hungary. In this nut-
chine the air, in a large veffel, is compreffed by a co¬
lumn of water 260 feet high : a ftop-cock is then
opened : and as the air iffues with great vehemence,
and in .confequence of its previous condenfation be¬
comes immediately much expanded, the moifture it
contains is not only precipitated, as in the. exhaufted
receiver above mentioned, but falls down in a ftiower of
Inow, with icicles adhering to the nofe of the cock.
See Phil. Tranf. vol. Hi.
From this phenomenon, as well as the four experi-
above related, Mr Darwin thinks “ there is
~ reafon to conclude, that in all circumftances
tops of where air is mechanically expanded, it becomes capa-
xnountams. ble of attrafting the fluid matter of heat from other bo¬
dies in contact with it.
‘‘ Now (continues he), as the vaft region of air
which furrounds our globe is perpetually moving along
its furface, climbing up the fides of mountains, and de-
Icending into the valleys j as it paffes along, it muft be
perpetually varying the degree of heat according to
the elevation of the country it traverfes : for, in rifing
to the fummits of mountains, it becomes expanded,
Voi.. III. Part I.
Atmo-
fphere.
2S
His conclu-
(ions with
, . ments
regard to ,
cold on the g°od
atmofphere taken away ; and when thus expanded, it
attracts or abforbs heat from the mountairls in conti¬
guity with it; and, when it defcends into the valleys,
and is comprefled into lefs compafs, it again gives out
the heat it has acquired to the bodies it comes in con-
taft with. The fame thing muft happen to the higher
legions of the atmofphete, which are regions of per¬
petual froft, as has lately been difcovered by the aerial
navigators. When large dirtri&s of air, from the lower
parts of tue atmofphere, are raifed two or three miles
high, they become fo much expanded by the great di¬
minution of the. preflure over them, and thence become
fo cold, that hail or fnow is produced by the precipita¬
tion of the vapour : and as there is, in" thefe high re¬
gions of the atmofphere, nothing elfe for the expanded
air to acquire heat from after it has parted witl/its va¬
pour, the fame degree of cold continues, till the air, on
defcending to the earth, acquires its former ftate of
condenlation and of warmth.
“ I he Andes, almoft under the line, refts its bafe
on burning lands ; about its middle height is a moft
pleafant and temperate climate covering an extenfive
plain, on which is built the city of Quito ; while its
forehead is encircled with eternal fnow, perhaps coeval
with the mountain. Yet, according to the accounts of
Don Ulloa, thefe three dilcordant climates feldom en¬
croach much on each other’s territories. The hot
winds below, if they afcend, become cooled by their
expanfion ; and hence they cannot affeft the fnow up¬
on the fummit; and the'cold winds that fweep the
fummit, become condenfed as they defcend, and of
temperate warmth before they reach the fertile plains
of Quito.”
Notwithftanding all thefe explanations, however, fe- Difficulties
veral very confiderable difficulties remain with regard remain
to the heat and cold of the atmofphere. That warm "n !he
air ftiould always afcend; and thus, when the fource 0fIubic<aa
heat is taken away by the abfence of the fun, that the
ftratum of atmofphere lying immediately next to the
earth fliould be fomewhat colder than that which lies a
little farther up; is not at all to be wondered at. We
have an example fomewhat fimilar to this in the pot¬
ter’s kiln ; where, after the veffels have been intenfely
heated for fome time, and the fire is then withdrawn,
the cooling always begins at bottom, and thofe which
Hand lowermoft will often be quite black, while all the
upper part of the furnace and the veffels next to it are
of a bright red. It doth not, however, appear why
fuch degrees of cold ffiould take place at the furface of
the earth as we femetimes meet with. It is, befides
no uncommon thing to meet with large ftrata in the
upper regions of the atmofphere, remarkable for their
cold, while others are warmer than thofe at the fur¬
face ; as we have been affured of by the teftimony of
feveral aerial navigators. It is alfo difficult to fee why
the air which has once afcended, and become rarefied
to an extreme degree, fhould afterwards defcend amonp-
a denfer fluid of iuperior gravity, though indeed the
atmofpherical currents by which this fluid is continual¬
ly agitated may have confiderable effedl in this way.
See the article Winds.
For the quantity of water contained in the atmo-
iphere, fee the articles Hygrometer, Clouds, Va-
d pour.
Atmo-
fphere.
27
Of the
falubrity
of the at-
i»ofphere.
38
DrIngen-
houfz’s ex¬
periments.
ATM [21
pour, See. For the caufe of the elailicity of the at-
mofphere, fee Elasticity ; and for an explanation of
its various.operations, fee Meteorology.
The ufes of the atmofphere are fo many and fo vari¬
ous that it is impolTible to enumerate them. One of
the mod effential is its power of giving life to vege¬
tables, and fupporting that of all animated beings. For
the latter purpofe, however, it is not in all places equal¬
ly proper : we fhall therefore conclude this article with
feme remarks on
*Ihe Salubrity of the sHtmospherf.. The air on
the tops of mountains is generally more falubrious
than that in pits. Denfe air indeed is always more
proper for refpiration than fuch as is more rare j yet
the air on mountains, though much more rare, is more
free from phlogiltic vapours than that of pits. Hence
it has been found, that people can live very well on the
tops of mountains where the barometer links to 15 or
16 inches. M. de Sauffure, in his journey upon the
Alps, having obferved the air at the foot, on the
middle, and on the fummits of various mountains,
obferves, that the air of the very low plains feems
to be the lefs falubrious 5 that the air of very high
mountains is neither very pure, nor upon the w'hole,
feems fo fit for the lives of men, as that of a certain
height above the level of the fea, which he ellimates to
be about 200 or 300 toifes, that is, about 430 or 650
yards.
Dr White, in the 68th volume of the Phil. Tranf.
giving an account of his experiments on air made at
York, fays, that the atmofpherical air was in a very
bad date, and indeed in the word he had ever ob¬
ferved it, the 13th of September 1777 j when the
barometer dood at 30.30, the thermometer at 69°;
the weather being calm, clear, and the air dry and
fultry, no rain having fallen for above a fortnight.
A dight Ihock of an earthquake was perceived that
da^ . . . . . ,
The air of a bed-room at various times, viz. at night,
and in the morning after deeping in it, has been exa¬
mined by various perfons \ and it has been generally
found, that after deeping in it the air is lefs pure than
at any other time. The air of privies, even in calm
weather, has not been found to be fo much phlogidi-
cated as might have been expefted, notwithdanding its
difagreeable fmell.
From this and other obfervations, it is thought that
the exhalations of human excrements ave very little if
at all injurious, except when they become putrid, or
proceed from a difeafed body; in which cafe they in-
feft the air very quickly.
Dr Ingenhoufz, foon after he left London, fent an
account of his experiments made in the year 1779. up¬
on the purity of the air at fea and other parts ; which
account was read at the Royal Society the 24th of A-
pril 1780, and inferted in the 70th vol. of the Phil.
Tranf. His fird obfervations were made on board a
veffel in the mouth of the Thames, betw een Sheernefs
and Margate, where he found that the air was purer
than any other fort of common air he had met with be¬
fore. He found that the fea-air taken farther from
the land, viz. between the Englidi coad and Odend,
was not fo pure as that tried before j yet this inferior
purity feems not to take place alwTays. The Dodlor’s
general obfervationsj deduced from his numerous expe-
o ] ATM
riments, are, “ That the air at fea, and clofe to it, is
in general purer, and fitter for animal life, than the , fphere«
air on the land, though it feems to be fubjeef to fome
inconlidency in its degree of purity with that of the
land : That probably the air will be found in gene¬
ral much purer far from the land than near the fhore,
the former being never fubje£l to be mixed with land
air.”
The Doctor in the fame paper tranferibes a journal
of experiments, (bowing the degree of purity of the
atmofphere in various places, and under different cir-
cumdances j which we drall infert here in an abridged
manner.
The method ufed in thofe experiments w^as to in-h;s journal
troduce one meafure of common air into the eudiome-of tlie prin¬
ter tube, and then one meafure of nitrous air. The mo-ty of the air
meat that thefe two forts of eladic fluids came into con- nj t|l[llsereut
ta£l, he agitated the tube in the water-trough, andpaCtS‘
then meafured the diminution, exprefling it by hun¬
dredth parts of a meafure ; thus, when he lays, that
fuch air was found to be 130, it fignifies, that after
mixing one meafure of it with one of nitrous air, the
whole mixed and diminiflied quantity was 130 hun¬
dredths of a meafure, viz. one meafure and 30 hun¬
dredths of a meafure more.
“ The different degrees of falubrity of the atmo¬
fphere, as I found it in general in my country houfe at
Southal-Green, ten miles from London, from June to
September, lay between 103 and J.09. I was fur-
prifed when, upon my return to town to my former
lodgings to Pall Mall Court, I found the common air
purer in general in Odlober than I ufed to find it in
the middle of fummer in the country ; for on the 2 2d
of Offober, at nine o’clock in the morning, the wea¬
ther being fair and frofty, I found that one meafure of
common air, and one of nitrous air, occupied too fub-
divifiohs in the glais-tube, or exa&ty one meafure.
That very day, at twTo o’clock in the afternoon (it be¬
ing then rainy weather), the air w^as fomewhat altered
for the wrorfe. It gave 102. October tne 23d, it
being rainy weather, the air gave 102. Odlober the
24th, the weather being ferene, the air at nine o’clock
in the morning gave IQO. Oiffober the 25th, the iky
being cloudy at 11 o’clock in the morning, the air gave
102. ' At 11 o’clock at night, from five different trials,
it gave 105. Oftober the 26th, the weather being
very dark and rainy, the air gave 105, as before.”
The air at Offend was found by the Do&or to be
generally very good, giving between 94 and 98. At
Bruges,'the air taken at feven o’clock at night gave
103. November the 8th, the air at Ghent at three in
the afternoon gave 103. ~
November tire 12th, the air of Brulxels at feven
o’clock P. M. gave 105’. The next day the air of
the lower part of the fame city gave 106 j that oi the
higheff appeared to be purer, as it gave 104 : which
agrees with the common popular obfervation. Novem¬
ber the 14th, both the air of the higheff and that of
the loweft part of the city appeared to be of the fame
goodnefs, giving 103. The weather was frofiy.,
November the 22d, the air of Anfwerp in the even-
ing gave 1094? the weather being rainy, damp, and
cold. November the 23d, the air of Breda gave 106.
The next day about 11 o’clock the air gave 102 ; the
weather being fair, cold, and inclining to froft. At
fevea.
ATM [21
Atrm- feVen o’clock it gave 103. Next clay being the 25th,
fpliere. t]ie a;r gaVe 104; the weather being cold and rainy.
The 26th it gave 103 ; the weather being very rainy,
cold, and ftormy. November the 27th, the air at the
Moordyke dole to the water gave > the weather
being fair and cold, but not frolfy. This fpot is rec¬
koned very healthy. November the 28th, the air of
Rotterdam gave 103 ; the weather being rainy and cold.
November the 29th, the air of Delft gave 103 5 the
- weather being ftormy and rainy.
November the 30th, the air of the Hague gave 104;
the weather being cold, and the wind northerly. The
firft of December the weather underwent a fudden
change ; the wind becoming foutherly and ftormy, and
the atmofphere becoming very hot. The day after,
Fahrenheit’s thermometer flood at 54° ; and the com¬
mon air being repeatedly and accurately tried gave
i t 6 ; and that preferved in a glafs phial from the pre¬
ceding day gave 117; and that gathered clofe to the
lea gave 115.
December the 4th, the air of Amfterdam gave 103;
the weather being rainy, windy, and cold. The day
- after, the weather continuing nearly the fame, the air
gave 102. December the 10th, the air of Rotterdam
gave 101 ; the weather being rainy. December the
1 2th, being in the middle of the water between Dort
and the Moordyke, the air gave 109 ; the weather be¬
ing remarkably dark, rainy, and windy. December
the 13th, the air of Breda in the morning gave 109 j
the weather continuing as the day before. And in the
afternoon, the air gave 1064; the weather having
cleared up. December the 16th, the air of the lower
part of the city of Antwerp gave 105, that of the
higher part 104 •, the weather being rainy and tempe¬
rate. December the 17th, the air of Antwerp gave 107 5
the weather continuing nearly as in the preceding day.
December the 19th, the air of Bruftels gave 109 ; the
weather being rainy, windy, and rather warm. De¬
cember the 21 ft, the air of Bruflels gave 106 ", the
weather being dry and cold. The next day the air
and the weather continued the fame. December the 23d,
the air of Mons gave 104; the weather being rainy
and cold. December the 24th, the air near Bochain
gave 1044 ; the weather being cloudy and cold. De¬
cember the 25th, the air of Peronne gave 1024 ; the
weather being frofty. December the 26th, the air of
Cuvilli gave 103 ; the weather frofty. December the
27th, the air of Senlis gave 1024; the weather frofty.
December the 29th, the air of Paris gave 103 ; the
weather frofty. 1780, January the 8th, the air of Paris
gave 100 ; the weather frofty. January the 13th, the
air of Paris gave 98 ; hard froft.
Thus far with Dr Ingenhoufz’s obfervations. His
hich apparatus was a very portable one, made by Mr Mar-
mems>en~ t*n’ ’n rca^ty is the eudiometer-tube and mea-
L fure as ufed by Mr Fontana before he made his laft im¬
provement. “ The whole of thia apparatus (fays Dr
Ingenhoufz was packed up in a box about ten inches
long, five broad and three and half high. The glafs-
tube or great meafure, w^hich was 16 inches long, and
3®
Apparatus
with
his'
me
made.
i ] ATM
divided into two feparate pieces, lay in a fmall compafs, Atmo
and could be put together by brafs fcrews adapted to fPherC>
the divided extremities. Inilead of a water trough/ v J
fuch as is ufed commonly, I made ufe of a fmall round
wooden tub,” &c.
I he Abbe Fontana, who has made a great number ofFcmana’s
very accurate experiments upon this lubjeft, gives his opinions
opinion in the following words : “ I have not the leaft on tlie fub*
heiitation in aflerting, that the experiments made toic<^"
afeertain the falubrity of the atmofpherical air in vari¬
ous places in different countries and lituations, men¬
tioned by feveral authors, are not to be depended up¬
on ; beeaufe the method they ufed was far from being
exaft (a),, the elements or ingredients fpr the experi¬
ment were unknown and uncertain, and the refults very
different from one another.
“ When all the errors are corrected, it will be found
that the difference between the air of one country and
that of another, at different times, is much lefs than
what is commonly believed : and that the great diffe ¬
rences found by various obfervers are owing to the fal¬
lacious effebls of uncertain methods. This I advance
from experience ; for I was in the fame error. I found
very great differences between the refults of the expe¬
riments of this nature which ought to have been fimi-
lar; which diverfities I attributed to myfelf, rather
than to the method I then ufed. At Paris I examined
the air of different places at the fame time, and efpe-
cially of thofe fituations where it was moft probable to
meet with infe&ed air, becaufe thofe places abounded
with putrid fubftances and impure exhalations; but the
differences I obferved were very fmall, and much lefs
than what could have been fufpefted, for they hardly
arrived at one fiftieth of the air in the tube. Having
taken the air of the hill called Mount Valerian, at the
height of about 500 feet above the level of Paris, and
compared it with the air of Paris taken at the fame
time, and treated alike, I found the former to be hard¬
ly one-thirtieth better than the latter.
“ In London I have obferved almoft the fame. The
air of Iflington and that of London fuffered an equal
diminution by the mixture of nitrous air; yet the air
of Iflington is efteemed to be much better. I have ex¬
amined the air of London taken at different heights
(for inftance, in the ftreet, at the fecond floor, and at
the top of the adjoining houfes), and have found it to
be of the fame quality. Having taken the air at the
iron gallery of St Paul’s cupola, at the height of 313
feet above the ground, and likewife the air of the ftone
gallery, which is 202 feet below the other ; and having
compared thefe two quantities of air with that of the
fleet adjoining, I found that there was fcarce any fen-
fible difference between them, although taken at fuch
different heights.
“ In this experiment a circumftance is to be confi-
dered, which muft have contributed to render the
above-mentioned differences more fenfible : that is, the
agitation of the air of the cupola ; for there was felt
a pretty brilk wind upon it, which I obferved to be
ftronger and ftronger the higher I afeended; whereas
£>2 in
(a) It is plain that Dr Ingenhoufz’s method is not implied in this remark ; fince the Do&or’s experiments
were made long after, and the method ufed by him was properly that of Mr Fontana.
2
.Atmo-
iphere,
Atock.
A T O [ 2i
in the flreet, and indeed in all-the flreets I pafled
through, there v/as no fenfible wind to be felt. This
j experiment -was made at four in the afternoon, the wea¬
ther being clear. The quicklilver in the barometer
at that time was 28,6 inches high, and Fahrenheit’s
thermometer flood at 540.”
A few lines after, Mr Fontana proceeds thus : 
“ From this we clearly fee, how little the experiments
hitherto publifhed about the differences of common air
are to be depended upon. In general, I find that the
air changes from one time to another ; fo that the dif¬
ferences between them are far greater than thofe of the
airs of different countries or different heights. For
inflance, I have found that the air of London in the
months of September, Odlober, and November, 1778,
when treated with the nitrous air, gave II, I, 1,90, and
II, II, 2,25, which is a mean refult of many experi¬
ments which differed very little from each other. The
26th day of November laft, I found the air, for the firfl
time, much better j for it gave II, I, 1,80, and II, II,
2,2©; but the 14th of February 1779, the air gave
II, I, 1,69 and II, II, 2,21 j from whence it appears,
that the air of this 14th of February w as better than
it had been fix months before. There can be no
doubt of the accuracy of the experiments, becaufe I
compared the air taken at different times with that
which I had firft ufed in the month of September, and
which I had preferved in dry glafs-bottles accurately
flopped.”
This difference in the purity of the air at different
times, Mr Fontana farther remarks, is much greater
than the difference between the air of the different
places obferved by him : notwithftanding this great
change, as he obferved, and as he was informed by va¬
rious perfons, no particular change of health in the
generality of people, or facility of breathing, was per¬
ceived.
Mr Fontana laftly concludes with obferving, that
“ Nature is not fo partial as we commonly believe.
She has not only given us an air almoft equally good
everywhere at every time, but has allowed us a cer¬
tain latitude, or a powTer of living and being in health
in qualities of air which differ to a certain degree. By
this I do not mean to deny the exiftence of certain
kinds of noxious air in fome particular places ; but on¬
ly fay, that in general the air is good everywhere, and
that the fmall differences are not to be feared Co much
as fome people would make us believe. Nor do I mean
to fpeak here of fome vapours and other bodies w:hich
are accidentally joined to the common air in particular
places, but do not change its nature and intrinfical
property. This ftate of the air cannot be known by
the teff of nitrous air ; and thofe vapours are to be
confidered in the fame manner as we ftiould confider fo
many particles of arfenic fwimming in the atmofphere.
In this cafe it is the arfenic, and not the degenerated
air, that would kill the animals who ventured to
breathe it.”
ATOCK, the capital of a province of the fame
name in the dominions of the Great Mogul. It is feat-
ed on a point of land where two large rivers meet, and
is one of the beft fortreffes the Mogul has •, but for¬
merly nobody was permitted to enter it without a paff-
port from the Mogul himielf. Eh Long. 72.18. N. Lat.
32. 2©.
Atooi,
2 ] A T O
Ai OM, in Phi/ofophy, a particle of matter, fo mi- Atom
nute, as to admit of no divifion. Atoms are the //;/-
nima natura1, and are conceived as the firft principles or 1
component parts of all phyfical magnitude.
AIOMICAL philosophy, or the doftrine of
atoms, a fyftem w'hich, from the hypothefis that atoms
are endued with gravity and motion, accounted for the
origin and formation of things. This philofophy was
firft broached by Mofchus, lome time before the Tro¬
jan war ; but was much cultivated and improved by
Epicurus j w hence it is denominated the Epicurean phi-
/ofophy. See Epicurean.
ATONEMENT. See Exp IATION.
ATON V, in Medicine, a defect of tone or tenfion,
or a laxity or debility of the folids of the body.
ATOOI, one of the Sandwich iffands, fituated in
W. Long. 160. 20. N. Lat. 21. 57. Towards the
north-eaft and north-weft, the face of the country is
ragged and broken 5 but to the fouthward it is more
even. The hills rife from the fea-fide with a gentle
acclivity, and at a little diftance back are covered with
wood. Its produce is the fame w ith that of the other
iflands of this duller •, but its inhabitants greatly ex¬
cel the people of all the neighbouring ifiands in the
management of their plantations. In the low' grounds,
contiguous to the bay wherein our navigators* anchor-* Cook's
ed, thefe plantations were regularly divided by deep ^r°yage'
ditches j the fences w'ere formed wdth a neatnefs ap¬
proaching to elegance j and the roads through them
wrere finilhed in Inch a manner as would have refle&ed
credit even on an European engineer.
The ifland is about 300 miles in circumference. The
road, or anchoring place, which cur veffels occupied,
is on the fouth-weft fide of the ifland, about twfo leagues
from the weft end, before a village named Wyrnoa.
As far as was founded, the bank was free from rocks $
except to the eaftward of the vallage, where there pro-
je£ls a Ihoal on which are fome rocks and breakers.
This road is fomewhat expofedto the trade-wind j not¬
withftanding which defed, it is far from being a bad
ftation, and greatlv fuperior to thofe which neceflity
continually obliges (hips to ufe, in countries where the
winds are not only more variable but more boifterous j
as at Madeira, Teneriffe, the Azores, &.c. The land¬
ing too is not fo difficult as at moft of thofe places j
and, unlefs in very bad weather, is always pra£!i-
cable. The water in the neighbourhood is excellent,
and may be conveyed with eafe to the boats. But no
w!ood can be cut at any convenient diftance, unlefs the
iflanders could be prevailed upon to part with the few
etooa trees {cordia febejlina) that grow about their vil¬
lages, or a Ipecies called dooe dooe, wrhich grows farther
up the country. The ground, from the wooded part'
to the fea, is covered with an excellent kind of grafs,
about twro feet in height, which fometimes grows in
tufts, and appeared capable of being converted into
abundant crops of fine hay. But on this extenfive fpace
not even a fhrub grows naturally.
Befides taro, the fw'eet potato, and other fimilar ve¬
getables ufed by our crews as refrefhments, among
which were at leaft five or fix varieties of plantains,
the ifland produces bread-fruit; which, however, feems
to be fcarce. There arealfoa few cocoa palms 5 fome
yams ; the kappe of the Friendly iflands, or Virginian
arum j the etooa tree, and odoriferous gardenia, or
cape
A T O f 2[
Atooi. cape jarmine. Our people alfo met with feveral trees
of the dooe dooe, that bear the oily nuts, which are
ftuck upon a kind of ikewer and made ule of as candles.
There is a fpecies of fida, or Indian mallow $ alfo the
morinda citrifolia, which is here called none; a fpecies
ot convolvulus \ the ava or intoxicating pepper, befides
great quantities of gourds. Thefe laft grow to a very
large fize, and are of a remarkable variety of lhapes,
which are perhaps the effedt of art.
The fcarlet birds, w7hich were brought for fale, were
never met with alive \ but one fmall one w’as feen,
about the fize of a canary bird, of a deep crimfon co¬
lour ; alio a large owl, tivo brown hawks or kites, and
a wild duck. Other birds were mentioned by the na¬
tives •, among which were the otoo, or bluilh heron,
and the torata, a fort of whimbrel. It is probable that
the Ipecies of birds are numerous, if we may judge
by the quantity of fine yellow, green, and fmall velvet¬
like blackilh feathers ufed upon the cloaks and other
ornaments worn by thefe people. Filh, and other pro-
dudfions of the fea, were, to appearance, not various.
The only tame or doraeftic animals found here were
hogs, dogs, and fowls, which were all of the fame kind
that had been met wdth at the illands of the South
Pacific. There were alfo fmall lizards, and fome rats.
The inhabitants of Atooi are of the middle fize, and
in general lloutly made. They are neither remarkable
for a beautiful fhape nor for ftriking features. Their
vifage, particularly that of the women, is fometimes
round, but others have it long 5 nor can it juftly be
faid, that they are diftinguifhed as a nation by any ge¬
neral call of countenance. Their complexion is near¬
ly of a nut-brown ; but fome individuals are of a dark¬
er hue. They are far from being ugly, and have, to
all appearance, feiv natural deformities of any kind.
Their Ikin is not very foft nor fhining ; but their eyes
and teeth are, for the mofl part, pretty good. Their
hair in general is flmight ; and though its natural co¬
lour is ufually black, they ftain it, as at the Friendly
and other iflands. They are adlive, vigorous, and mo ft
expert fwimmers ; leaving their canoes upon the moft
frivolous occafton, diving under them, and fwimming
to others, though at a confiderable diftance. Women
with infants at the breaft, when the furf was fo high
as to prevent their landing in the canoes, frequently
leaped overboard, and fwam to the fhore, frequently
endangering their little ones. They appeared to be of
a frank, cheerful difpofition ; and are equally free from
the fickle levity wdnch characterizes the inhabitants of
Otaheite, and the fedate caft which is obfervable among
many of thofe of Tongataboo. They feem to culti¬
vate a fociable intercourfe with each other ; and, ex¬
cept the propenfity to thieving, which is as it were in¬
nate in moft of the people in thofe feas, they appeared
extremely friendly. It was pleafing to obferve with
what affeCtion the women managed their infants, and
with what alacrity the men contributed their afiiftance
in fuch a tender office; thus diftinguifhing themfelves
from thofe favages who confider a wife and child as
things rather neceflary than defirable or worthy of
their regard and efteem. From the numbers that w»ere
feen aflembled at every village in coalting along, it was
conjectured that the inhabitants of this ifland are pretty
numerous. Including the ftraggling houfes, it was
computed there might perhaps be, in the whole illand,
3 1 A T R
fixty fuch villages as that near which our fhips anchor- Atra
ed ; and allowing five perfons to each houfe, there ^trebatit
would be in every village five hundred, or thirty thou-
fand upon the ifland. This number is by no means
exaggerated ; for there were fometimes three thoufand
people at leaft colletted upon the beach, when it could
not be fuppofed that above a tenth part of the natives
were prefent.
ATRA Bins, black bile, or melancholy. Ac¬
cording to the ancients it hath a twofold origin :
I ft, From the groffer parts of the blood, and this they
called the melancholy humour. 2d, From yellow’ bile
being highly concofted. Dr Percival, in his Eflays
Med. and Exp. fuggefts, that it is the gall rendered
acrid by a ftagnation in the gall-bladder, and rendered
vifcid by the abforption of its fluid parts. Eile in this
ftate difcharged into the duodenum, occafions univerfal
diftuvbance and diforder until it is evacuated : it oc¬
cafions violent vomiting, or purging, or both ; and pre¬
vious to this the pulfe is quick, the head aches, a deli¬
rium comes on, a hiccough, intenfe thirft, inw ard heat,
and a fetid breath. Some defcribe this kind of bile as
being acid, harih, corroding, and, when poured on
the ground, bubbling up and raifing the earth after
the manner of a ferment. Dr Percival fays, that by
the ufe of the infuf. Jena limon warmed wfith the
tincl. columb. he had checked the vomitings occafioned
by this matter.
Atra dies, in Antiquity, denotes a fatal day w’here-
'on the Romans received fome memorable defeat. The
word literally imports a black day; a denomination
taken from the colour; which is the emblem of death
and mourning. Whence the Thracians had a cuftom
of marking all their happy days with white ftones or
calculi, and their unhappy days with black ones;
which they caft, at the clofe of each day, into an urn.
At the perfon’s death the ftones were taken out; and
from a comparifon of the numbers of each complexion,
a judgment w’as made of the felicity or infelicity of
his courfe of life. The dies atrce or atri were after¬
wards denominated nefajli and poferi. Such in par¬
ticular was the day when the tribunes were defeated
by the Gauls at the river Allia, and loft the city ; al¬
fo that w’hereon the battle of Cannae was fought; and
feveral others marked in the Roman calendar, as atrca
or unfortunate.
ATRACTYLIS, distaff thistle. See Botany
Index.
ATRiETI, in Medicine, infants having no perfo¬
ration in the anus, or perfons imperforated in the va¬
gina or urethra.
ATRAGENE. See Botany Index.
ATRAPHAXIS. See Botany Index.
ATREBATII, a people of Britain, feated next
to the Bibroci, in part of Berkfhire and part of Ox-
fordlhire. This was one of thofe Belgic colonies which
had come out of Gaul into Britain, and there retained
their ancient name. For the Atrebatii w’ere a tribe
of the Belgas, who inhabited the country which is
now called Artois. They aiaj mentioned by CaTar
among the nations which ccmpofed the Belgic confe¬
deracy againft him : and the quota of troops which
they engaged to furnifh on that occafion w’as 15,000.
Comius of Arras W’as a king or chieftain among the
Atrebatii in Gaul in Caefar’s time : and he feems to
have
A T R [
Atrcus Lave poflefled Tome authority, or at leaf!; fome influence,
^ over our Atrebatii in Britain j for be was fent by
L ' . Caefar to perfuade them to fubmiflion. This circum-
Ifance makes it probable that this colony ol the Atre¬
batii had not been fettled in Britain very long before
that time. The Atrebatii were among thofe Britifli
tribes which fubmitted to Ccefar j nor do we hear of
any remarkable refillance they made againft the Ro¬
mans at their next invafion under Claudius. It is in¬
deed probable, that before the time of this fecond in¬
vafion they had been lubdued by fome of the neigh¬
bouring Hates, perhaps by the powerful nation of the
Cattiveilauni, which may be the reafon they are fo little
mentioned in hiftory. Calliva Atrebatum, mentioned
in the feventh, twelfth, thirteenth, and fourteenth
Itinera of Antoninus, and called by Ptolemy Calcua,
feems to have been the capital of the Atrebatii;
though our antiquaries differ in their fentiments about
the fituation of this ancient city, fome of them placing
-it at Wallingford, and others at Ilchefter.
ATREUS, in Fabulous Hijlory, the fon of Pelops
and Hippodamia, and the father of Agamemnon and
Menelaus, is fuppofed to have been king of Mycenae
and Argos about 1228 years before the Chriftian era.
He drove his brother Thyeftes from court, for having
a criminal commerce with jErope his wife ; but un-
derftanding that he had had two children by her, he
fent for him again, and made him eat them 5 at which
horrid adlion, the fun, it is laid, withdrew his light.
ATRI, a town of Italy, in the farther Abruzzo, in
the kingdom of Naples, with the title of a duchy } it
is the fee of a bifliop, and is feated on a craggy moun¬
tain, four miles from the Adriatic fea. E. Long. 13. 8.
N. Lat. 42. 45.
ATRIENSES, in Antiquity, a kind of fervants or
officers in the great families at Rome, who had the
care and infpe&ion of the atrise and the things lodged
therein.
Thefe are otherwife called atriarii, though fome
make a dillinclion between atrienfes and atriarii;
fuggefting that the latter were an inferior order of fer¬
vants, perhaps affiftants of the atrienfes, and employed
in the more fervile offices of the atrium, as to attend
at the door, fweep the area, &.c.
The atrienfes are reprefented as fervants of authori¬
ty and command over the reft: they afted as procura¬
tors, or agents, of their mailer, in felling his goods,
&c. To their care were committed the ftatues and
images of the mafler’s anceflors, &c. which were pla¬
ced round the atrium; and which they carried in pro-
ceffion at funerals, &cc.
In the villas, or country-houfes, the atrienfes had
the care of the other furniture and utenfils, particular¬
ly thofe of metal, which they wrere to keep bright from
ruff. Other things they were to hang from time to
time in the fun, to keep them dry, &c. They were
clothed in a fliort white linen habit, to diltinguifh
them, and prevent their loitering from home.
ATRIP, in Nautical Language, is applied either to
the anchor or fails. The anchor is atrip, when it is
drawn out of the ground in a perpendicular direction,
either by the cable or buoy-rope. The topfails are
atrip, when they are hoifted up to the maft-bead, or
to their utmoft extent.
Atropa.
214 ] A T R
ATRIPLEX, oracHj or arach. See EoTAXY Atfiple*
Lad ex.
A’lRIUM, in EccleJiaJIical Antiquity, denotes an,
open place or court before a church, making part erf
what was called the northex or antetemple.
The atrium in the ancient churches was a large area
or fquare plat of ground, furrounded with a portico or
cloy iter, fituated between the porch or veftibule of the
church and the body of the church.
Some have miftakenly confounded the atrium with
the porch or veftibule, from which it was diftind ; others
with the narthex, of which it w7as onlyr a part.
The atrium was the manfion of thoie who were not
fuffered to enter farther into the church. More parti¬
cularly, it was the place where the firft clafs of penitents
flood to beg the prayers of the faithful as they went
into the church.
Atrium is alio ufed in the canon-law1', for the ce-
metry or churchyard. In this fenfe rve find a law
prohibiting buildings to be raifed in atno ecclefice, ex¬
cept for the clergy : which the gloffary explains thus,
id ejl in cemeterio, which includes the fpace of forty
paces around a large church, or thirty round a little
church or chapel.
ATROPA, DEADLY NIGHTSHADE. See BOTANY
Index.
Buchanan gives an account of the deftrudion of
the army of SwTeno the Dane, wffien he invaded Scot¬
land, by mixing a quantity of the belladonna berries
with the drink w-hich the Scots were, according to a
treaty of truce, to fupply them with. This fo into¬
xicated the Danes, that the Scots fell upon them in
their fleep, and killed the greateft part of them, fa
that there were fcarcely men enough left to carry off
their king. There have alfo been many inftances in
Britain of children being killed by eating berries
of a fine black colour, and about the fize ot a fmall
cherry, which are no other than thofe of belladon¬
na. When an accident of this kind is difeovered
in time, a glafs of w7arm vinegar will prevent the bad
effeds.
Naturalifts tell ftrange ftories of this plant : but
fetting afide its foporiferous virtue, the modern bota-
nifts w’ill fcarce warrant any of them, nor even that hu¬
man figure ordinarily aferibed to its roots, efpecially
fince the difeovery of the artifice of charletans in fa-
fhioning it, to furprife the credulity of the people.
Mofes informs us (Gen. xxx. 14.) that Reuben
the fon of Leah, being in the field, happened to find
mandrakes, which he brought heme to his mother.
Rachel had a mind to them, and obtained them from
Leah, upon condition that (he fhould content that Ja¬
cob ftiould be Leah’s bedfellow the night followung.
The term omvi dudaim, here made ufe of by Mo¬
fes, is one of thofe words of which the Jews at this
day do not underftand the true fignification. Some
tranflate it violets, others lilies, or jeJJ'amlne. Junius
calls it agreeable flowers ; Codurquus makes it truffle,
or mujhroom; and Calmet will have it to be the citron.
Thofe that would fupport the tranflation of mandrakes
plead, that Rachel being barren, and having a great
defire to conceive, coveted Leah’s mandrakes, it may
be prefumed, with a view7 to its prolific virtues. The
ancients have given to mandrakes the name of the
A T T
Atrophy ap/jlcr of love, and to Venus the name or Mandra^o-
An ^ tti ritls’ anc^ t^e emPeror Julian, in his epiftle to Ca-
Ult° ''i lixenes, fays, that he drinks the juice of mandrakes to
excite amorous inclinations.
ATROPHY, in Medicine, a difeafe, wherein the
body or fome of its parts, does not receive the necef-
fary nutriment, but waftes and decays incelTantly. See
Medicine Index.
ATROPOS, in Fabulous Hi/lory, the name of the
third of the Parcse, or Fates, whole bufinefs it was to
cut the thread of life.
ATTACHMENT, in the Law of England, im¬
plies the taking or apprehending a perfon by virtue
of a writ or precept. It is diltinguilhed from an ar-
ref, by proceeding out of a higher court by precept
or writ ; whereas the latter proceeds out of an inferior
court by precept only. An arrelt lies only on the body
of a man ; whereas an attachment lies often on the
goods only, and fometimes on the body and goods.
An attachment by writ differs from diflrefs, in not ex¬
tending to lands, as the latter does; nor does a ditlrefs
touch the body, as an attachment does.
Attachment out of the Chancery, is obtained upon
an affidavit made, that the defendant was ferved with a
fubpoena, and made no appearance ; or it ilfues upon
not performing fome order or decree. Upon the re¬
turn of this attachment by the ffieriff, quod non ef in¬
ventus in halhva fua, another attachment, with a pro¬
clamation, iffues ; and if he Hill refufes to appear, a
commiffion of rebellion.
Attachment of the Foreft, is one of the three courts
held in the foreft. The loweft court is called the court
of attachment, or wood-mote court ; the mean, fwan-
inote ; and the higheft, the jufice in eyre's feat. The
court of attachments has its name from the verdurers
of the foreft having no other authority in it, but to re¬
ceive the attachments of offienders againft vert and ve-
nifon taken by the forefters, and to enroll them, that
they may be prefented or puniffied at the next juftice
in eyre’s feat. This attachment is by three means :
by goods and chattels ; by body, pledges, or main-
prize ; or by the body only. This court is held every
40 days throughout the year; and is thence called
forty days court.
Foreign Attachment, is an attachment of money
or goods found within a liberty or city, to fatisfy fome
creditor within fuch liberty or city. By the cuftom of
London, and feveral other places, a man can attach
money or goods in the hands of a ftranger, to fatisfy
himfelf.
ATTACK, a violent attempt upon any perfon or
thi ng, an affault, or the aft of beginning a combat
or difpute.
Attack, in the Military Art, is an effort made to
force a poll, break a body of troops, &c.
Attack of a Siege, is a furious affault made by the
befiegers with trenches, covers, mines, &c. in order
to make themfelves mailers of a fortrefs, by ftorming
one of its fides. If there are two or three attacks
made at the fame time, there ffiould be a communica¬
tion betwixt them. See War.
ATTACOTTI, an ancient people of Britain, men¬
tioned by Ammianus Marcellinus and St Jerome, as
wel: as in the Notitia Imperil. They are reprefented
as allies and confederates of the Scots and Pi<fts? and.
ATT
therefore probably their neighbours : though their Attainder.
precife fituation has not been determined by antiqua-
ries.
A TTAINDER, in Law. When fentence of death,
the moft terrible and higheft judgment in our laws, is
pronounced, the immediate infeparable confequence by
the common law is attainder. For when it is now clear
beyond all difpute, that the criminal is no longer fit
to live upon the earth, but is to be exterminated as a
monfter and a bane to human fociety, the law fets a
note of infamy upon him, puts him out of its protec¬
tion, and takes no farther care of him than barely to
fee him executed. He is then called attaint, attinBus,
Jlained or blackened. He is no longer of any credit or
reputation ; he cannot be a witnefs in any court; nei¬
ther is he capable of performing the fundtions of an¬
other man : for, by an anticipation of his puniffiment.
he is already dead in law. This is after judgment; foi
there is great difference between a man conviBed and
attainted; though they are frequently through inac¬
curacy confounded together. After conviclion only,
a man is liable to none of thefe difabilities : for there
is Hill in contemplation of law a poffibility of his inno¬
cence. Something may be offered in arreft of judg¬
ment : the indidhnent may be erroneous, which will
render his guilt uncertain, and thereupon the prefent
conviction may be quaflied : he may obtain a pardon,
or be allowed the benefit of clergy ; both which fup-
pofe fome latent fparks of merit, which plead in exte¬
nuation of his fault. But when judgment is once pro¬
nounced, both law and fadt confpire to prove him com¬
pletely guilty ; and there is not the remoteft poffibility
left of any thing to be faid in his favour. Upon judg¬
ment, therefore, of death, and not before, the attain- •
der of a criminal commences : or upon fuch circum-
ftances as are equivalent to judgment of death ; as judg¬
ment of outlawry on a capital crime, pronounced for
abfconding or fleeing from juftice, w hich tacitly con-
feffes the guilt: and therefore, upon judgment either
of outlawry, or of death, for treafon or felony, a man
{hall be faid to be attainted.
A perfon attainted of high treafon forfeits all his
lands, tenements, and hereditaments ; his blood is cor¬
rupted, and he and his pofterity rendered bafe ; and
this corruption of blood cannot be taken off but by
aift: of parliament *. ^ ^
Attainders may be reverfed or falfified (i. e. proved articles ^
to be falfe) by writ of error, or by plea. If by writ ForfAtun
of error, it muft be by the king’s leave, &c. ; and ^ Ccr \
when, by plea, it may be by denying the treafon, ot'
pleading a pardon by aft of parliament, &c. £iood'
Perfons may be attainted by aft of parliament. 
Afts of attainder of criminals have been paffed in fe¬
veral reigns, on the difcovery of plots and rebellions,
from the reign of King Charles II. when an aft was
made for the attainder of feveral perfons guilty of the
murder of King Charles L Among afts of this na¬
ture, that for attainting Sir John Fenwick, for con-
fpiring againft King William, is the moft remarkable ;
it being made to attaint and convift him of high trcr-
fon on the oath of one witnefs, juft after a law had
been enafted, “ That no perfon fhould be tried or at¬
tainted of high treafon where corruption of blood is
incurred, but by the oath of two lawful witneffes, un-
lefs the party confefs, ftand mute, See.” Stat. 7 and 8.
W> IIL.
[ 2>5 ]
ATT [2
Attaint. W. III. cap. 3. But in the cafe of Sir John Fen-
* * wick there was fomething extraordinary 3 for he was
indi&ed of treafon on the oaths of two witnefles,
though but only one could be produced againft him on
his trial.
ATTAINT, is a writ that lies after judgment
againtt a ]ury of twelve men that have given falfe ver-
di& in any court of record, in an a61ion real or per-
fonal, where the debt or damages amounted to above
40s. Stat. 5 and 34 Edw. III. c. 7. It is called at¬
taint, becaufe the party that obtains it endeavours
thereby to ilain or taint the credit of the jury with per¬
jury, by whofe verdidl he is grieved.
The }ury who are to try this falfe verdift muft be
twenty-four, and are called the grand-jury ; for the law
wills not that the oath of one jury of twelve men Ihould
be attainted or fet afide by an equal number, nor by
lefs indeed than double the former. And he that brings
the attaint can give no other evidence to the grand
'jury, than what was originally given to the petit. For
as their verdi8: is now trying, and the queftion is whe¬
ther or no they did right upon the evidence that ap¬
peared to them, the law adjudged it the higheft abfur-
dity to produce any hibfequent proof upon fuch trial,
and to condemn the prior jurifdiflion for not believing
evidence which they never knew. But thofe againft
whom it is brought are allowed, in the affirmance of
the firft verdidl, to produce new matter : becaufe the
petit jury may have formed their verdift upon evidence
of their own knowledge, which never appeared in courtj
and becaufe very terrible was the judgment which the
common law inflifted upon them, if the grand jury
found their verdift a falfe one. The judgment was,
i. That they fhould lofe their liberam legem, and be¬
come for ever infamous. 2. That they ftiould forfeit
all their goods and chattels. 3. That their lands and
tenements fhould be feized into the king’s hands.
4. That their wives and children fhould be thrown out
of doors. 5. That their houfes fhould be rafed and
thrown down. 6. That their trees fhould be rooted up.
7. That their meadows fhould be ploughed. 8. That
their bodies fhould be caft into jail. 9. That the party
fhould be reftored to ail that he loft by reafon of the
unjuft verdifft. But as the feverify of this punifhment
had its ufual effeft, in preventing the law from being
executed, therefore by the ftatute u Hen. VII. c. 24.
revived by 23 Hen. VIII. c. 3. and made perpetual by
13 Eliz. c. 25. it is allowed to be brought after the
death of the party, and a more moderate punifhment
was infli&ed upon attainted jurors : viz. perpetual in¬
famy, and if the caufe of action were above 40I. value,
a forfeiture of 20b a-piece by the jurors ; or, if under
40I. then 5I. a-piece 3 to be divided between the king
and the party injured. So that a man may now bring
an attaint either upon the ftatute or at common law,
at his eleftion 3 and in both of them may reverfe the
former judgment. But the pradice of fetting afide
6 T ATT
verdi6ls upon motion, and granting new trials, has fo Attainted
fuperfeded the ufe of both forts of attaints, that there II .
is hardly any inftance of an attaint later than the rdth Atte”tlon<
century. *
Attaint, among Farriers, a knock or hurt in a
horfe’s leg, proceeding either from a blow with ano¬
ther horfe’s foot, or from an over-reach in frofty wea¬
ther, when a horfe, being rough fhod, or having fhoes
with long caulkers, ftrikes his hinder feet againft his
fore leg.
ATTAINTED, in La%v, is applied to a perfon’s
being under attainder. See Attainder.
ATTALICiE vestes, in Antiquity, garments
made of a kind of cloth of gold. They took the de¬
nomination from Attalus, furnamed Philometer, a
wealthy king of Pergamus, who was the firft, accord¬
ing to Pliny, who procured gold to be wove into
cloth.
ATTALUS, the name of feveral kings of Perga¬
mus. See Pergamus.
ATTELABUS. See Entomology Index-.
ATTENTION, a due application of the ear, or
the mind, to any thing faid or done, in order to ac¬
quire a knowledge thereof. The word is compound¬
ed of ad, “ to,” and tendo, “ I ftretch.”
Attention of mind is not properly an aft of the un-
derftanding 3 but rather of the will, by which it calls
the underftanding from the confideration of other ob-
jefts, and direfts it to the thing in hand. Neverthe-
lefs, our attention is not always voluntary : an intereft-
ing objeft feizes and fixes it beyond the power of con-
troul.
Attention, in refpeft of hearing, is the ftretching or
ftraining of the tnembrana tympani, fo as to make it
more fufceptible of founds, and better prepared to
catch even a feeble agitation of the air. Or it is the
adjufting the tenfion of that membrane to the degree
of loudnefs or lownefs of the found to which we are
attentive.
According to the degree of attention, objefts make
a flronger or weaker impreffion (a). Attention is re-
quifite even to the fimple aft of feeing : the eye can
take in a confiderable field at one look 3 but no objeft
in the field is feen diftinftly but that fingly which fixes
the attention : in a profound reverie that totally occu¬
pies the attention, we fcarce fee what is direftly before
us. In a train of perceptions, no particular objeft;
makes fucb a figure as it would do fingly and apart j
for when the attention is divided among many objefts,
no particular objeft is entitled to a large {hare* Hence
the ftilinefs of night contributes to terror, there being
nothing to divert the attention :
Horror ubique animos,fimul ipfaJUentia ter rent. JEn. ii.
Zara. Silence and fohtude are ev’rywhere !
Through all the gloomy ways and iron doors
That hither lead, nor human face nor voice
Is
(a) Bacon, in his natural hiftory, makes the following obfervations. “ Sounds are meliorated by the in-
tenfion of the fenfe, where the common fenfe is collefted moft to the particular fenfe of hearing, and the fight
fufpended. Therefore founds are fweeter, as'well as greater, in the night than in the day 3 and I fuppofe they
_are fweeter to blind men than to others 3 and it is manifeft, that between fleeping and waking, when all the
femes are bound and fufpended, mufic is far fweeter than when one is fully waking.”
I
Attention
II
Atterbury.
ATT [2
Is feen or heard. A dreadful din was wont
To grate the lenfe, when enter’d here, from groans
And howls of flaves condemn’d, from clink of chains,
And crafh of rally bars and creaking hinges 5
And ever and anon the fight was dalh’d
With frightful faces, and the meagre looks
Of grim and ghaftly executioners.
Yet more this ftillnefs terrifies my foul,
Than did that fcene of complicated horrors.
Mourning Bride, Aft v. fc. 3.
In matters of flight importance, attention is moftly
dire£fed by will; and for that reafon, it is our own
fault if trifling objefts make any deep impreflion. Had
we powrer equally to withhold our attention from mat¬
ters of importance, we might be proof againft any deep
impreflion. But our power fails us here : an intereft-
ing objedl feizes and fixes the attention beyond the
poflibility of controul ; and while our attention is thus
forcibly attached to one objeft, others may folicit for
admittance ; but in vain, for they will not be regard¬
ed. Thus a fmall misfortune is fcarcely felt in prefence
of a greater:
Lear. Thou think’ll ’tis much, that this contentious
fiorm
Invades us to the Ikin : fo ’tis to thee :
But where the greater malady is fix’d,
The leffer is fcarce felt. Thoud’fi: flmn a bear ;
But if thy flight lay tow’rd the roaring fea,
Thou’dfl: meet the bear i’ th’ mouth. When the
mind’s free,
The body’s delicate : the temped in my mind
Doth from my fenfes take all feeling elfe,
Save what beats there.
King Lear, A61 iii. fc. 5.
ATTENDANTS, or Attenuating Medicines,
are fuch as were fuppofed to fubtilize and break the
humours into finer parts j and thus difpofe them for
motion, circulation, excretion, &c.
ATTENUATION, the a61 of attenuating; that
is, of making any fluid thinner, and lefs confident,
than it was before. The word is compounded of ad
*■ to,’ and tenuis ‘ thin.’ Attenuation is defined more
generally by Chavin, the dividing or feparating of the
minute parts of any body, wdiich before, by their mu¬
tual nexus or implication, formed a more continuous
xnafs. Accordingly, among alchemids, we fometimes
find the word ufed for pulverization, or the a6t of re¬
ducing a body into an impalpable powder, by grind¬
ing, pounding, or the like.
ATTERBURY, Dr Francis, fon of Dr Lewis
Atterbury, was born at Milton in Buckinghamflure,
1662; educated at Wedminder; and from thence
ele61ed to Chrid-church in Oxford, where he foou di-
llinguidred himfelf by his fine genius and turn for po¬
lite literature. The year he was made M. A. 1687,
he exerted himfelf in the controverfy with the Papids,
vindicated Luther in the flronged manner, and fliow-
ed an uncommon, fund of learning, enlivened with
great vivacity. In 1690 he married Mifs Ofborn, a
didant relation of the duke of Leeds ; a lady of great
beauty, but with little or no fortune, who lived at or
in the neighbourhood of Oxford.
In Feb. 1690-1, we find him refolved to “ bedir
himfelf in his office in the houfethat of cenfor pro*
Vol. III. Part I.
17 1 A T .T
bably, an officer (peculiar to Chrid-church) who prfi-Atterbufy.
fides over the claflical exercifes; he then alio held the 11 “ V"'*”
catechetical le61ure founded by Dr Bufby.
About this period it mud have been that he took
orders, and entered into another fcene, and another
fort of converfation ; for in 1691 he was eledled lec¬
turer of St Bride’s church in London, and preacher at
Bridewrell chapel. An academic life, indeed, mud have
been irkfome and infipid to a perfon of his adlive and
afpiring temper. It was hardly poflible that a clergy¬
man of his fine genius, improved by fludy, with a fpi*
rit to exert his talents, fhould remain long unnoticed ;
and we find that he w^as foon appointed chaplain to
King William and Queen Mary.
The diare he took in the controverfy againd Bent¬
ley (about the genuinenefs of Phalaris’s Epiflles) is
now very clearly afcertained. In one of the letters to
his noble pupil, dated “ Chelfea 1698 (he fays), the
matter had cod him fome time and trouble. In laying
the defign of the book, in writing above half of it, in
reviewing a good part of the red, in tranfcribing the
whole, and attending the prefs (he adds), half a year
of my life went aw^ay.”
In 1700, a dill larger field of adlivity opened, In
which Atterbury w?as engaged four years with Dr
Wake (afterwards archbifhop of Canterbury) and
others concerning “ the Rights, Powders, and Privi¬
leges of Convocationsin which, however the truth
of the queflion may be fuppofed to lie, he difplayed
fo much learning and ingenuity, as well as zeal for
the intereds of his order, that the lower houfe of
convocation returned him their thanks, and the uni-
verfity of Oxford complimented him with the degree
of D. D. January 29. 1 700, he w’as indalled arch¬
deacon of Totnefs, being promoted to that dignity by
Sir Jonathan Trelawmey, then bifhop of Exeter. The
fame year he was engaged, with fome other learned di¬
vines, in revifing an intended edition of the “ Greek
Tedament,” with Greek “ Scholia,” colledled chiefly
from the fathers, by Mr Archdeacon Gregory. At
this period he wras popular as preacher at the Rolls
chapel ; an office which had been conferred on him by
Sir John Trevor, a great difeerner of abilities, in 1698,
when he refigned Bridewell, which he had obtained in
1693. Upon the acceffion of Queen Anne in 1702,
Dr Atterbury was appointed one of her Majedy’s
chaplains in ordinary ; and, in October 1704, was ad¬
vanced to the deanery of Carlifle. About two years
after this, he was engaged in a difpute with Mr Hoad-
ly, concerning the advantages of virtue with regard to
the prefent life ; occafioned by his fermon, preached
Augud 30. 1706, at the funeral of Mr Thomas Ben-
net a bookfeller. In 1707, Sir Jonathan Trelawney,
then bifliop of Exeter, appointed him one of the ca¬
nons refidentiaries of that church. In 1709, he was
engaged in a freffi difpute with Mr Hondly, concern¬
ing “ Paffive Obedience ocoafioned by his Latin
Sermon, entitled “ Concio ad Clerum Londinenfem,
habita in Ecclefia S. Elphegi.” In 1710, came on
the famous trial of Dt Sacheverell, whofe remarkable
fpeech on that occafion was generally fuppofed to have
been drawn up by our author, in conjundtion with Dr
Smalridge and Dr Freind. The fame year Dr Atter¬
bury was unanimoufly chofen prolocutor of the lower
houfe of convocation, and had the chief management
E e of
ATT
Atterbury. 0f affairs in that houfe. May it.
1711, h
L
2 1
, ne was ap¬
pointed by the convocation- one of the committee for
comparing Mr Whifton’s do&rines with thofe of the
church of England j and in June following, he had the
chief hand in drawiqg up “ A Reprefentation of the
Prefent State of Religion.” In 171 2, Dr Atterbury
was made dean of Chrilt-church, notwithllanding the
llrong intereft and warm applications of feveral great
men in behalf of his competitor Dr Smalridge. The
next year raw him at the top of his preferment, as
well as of his reputation : for, in the beginning of June
1713, the queen, at the recommendation of Lord
Chancellor Harcourt, advanced him to the bifliopric
of Rochefter, with the deanery of Weftminfter in com-
mendam j he wTas confirmed July 4. and confecrated at
Lambeth next day.
At the beginning of the fucceeding reign, his tide
of profperity began to turn 5 and he received a fen-
iible mortification prefently after the coronation of
King George I. when, upon his offering to prefent
his Majefty (with a view, no doubt, of Handing better
in his favour) with the chair of Hate or royal canopy,
his own perquifites as dean of Weflminfter, the offer
was rejedted, not without fome evident marks of dif-
like to his perfon.
During the rebellion in Scotland, w'hen the Pre¬
tender’s declaration was difperfed, the archbifhop of
Canterbury, and the bifhops in or near London, had
publifhed a Declaration of their abhorrence of the pre¬
fent Rebellion, and an Exhortation to the Clergy and
People to be ‘Zealous in the difcharge of their duties to his
Majejly King George: but the bifhop of Rochefter re¬
futed to fign it; and engaged Bifhop Smalridge in the
fame refufal, on account of fome refledtions it contain¬
ed againft the high church party. He appeared gene¬
rally among the proteftors againft the meafures of the
miniftry under the king, and drew up the reafons of
the protefts with his ovrn hand.
In 17x6, wre find him advifing Dean Srvift in the
management of a refradtory chapter. April 26. 1722,
he fultained a fevere trial in the lofs of his lady; by
whom he had four children 5 Francis, who died an in¬
fant } Ofborn, ftudent of Chrift church j Elizabeth,
who died September 29. 1716, aged 17 ; and Mary,
who had been then feven years married to Mr Mo-
rice.
In this memorable year, on a fufpicion of his being
concerned in a plot in favour of the Pretender, he w7as
apprehended Auguft 24. and committed prifoner to the
T ower.
Two officers, the under fecretary, and a meffenger,
wrent about two o’clock in the afternoon to the bi-
fhop’s houfe at Weftminfter, where he then was, w'ith
orders to bring him and his papers before the council.
He happened to be in his nightgowm when they came
in 5 and being made acquainted with their bufinefs, he
defired time to drefs himfelf. In the mean time his fe¬
cretary came in ; and the officers wTent to fearch for
his papers 5 in the fealing of which the meffenger
brought a paper, wffiich he pretended to have found in
his clofe-ftool, and defired it might be fealed up with
the reft. His Lordfhip obferving it, and believing it
to be a forged one of his own, defired the officers not
to do it, and to bear witnefs that the paper was not
found with him. Neverthelefs they did it j and
S ] ATT
though they behaved themfelves with fome refpcfl to Atterbury,
him, they fuffered the meifengers to treat him in a ve- ^
ry rough manner, threatening him, if he did not make
hafte to dreis himfeif, they would carry him away un-
dreft as he was. Upon which he ordered his fecretary
to fee his papers ail fealed up, and went himfelf direct¬
ly to the Cock-pit, where the council waited for him.
The behaviour of the mefiengers, upon this occafion,
feems to have been very unwarrantable, if what the au¬
thor of “ A Letter to the Clergy of the Church of
England,” &c. tells us be true, that the perfons, di-
refted by order of the king and council to feize his
lordfhip and his papers, received a ftridf command to
treat him with great refpect and reverence. However
this was, when he came before the council, he behaved
with a great deal of calmnefs, and they with much ci¬
vility towards him. He had liberty to fpeak for him¬
felf as much as he pleafed, and they liftened to his de¬
fence with a great deal of attention $ and, what i§ more
unufual, after he was withdrawn, he had twice liberty
to re-enter the council chamber, to make for hitnfelf
fuch reprefentations and requefts as he thought proper.
It is faid, that, while he was under examination, he
made ufe of our Saviour’s anfwer to the Jewiih coun¬
cil, while he flood before them $ “ If I tell you, ye
will not believe me 5 and if I alfo afk you, ye will not
anfwer me, nor let me go.” After three quarters of
an hour’s flay at the Cock-pit, he was fent to the
Tower, privately, in his owm coach, without any man¬
ner of noife or obfervation. '
This commitment of a bifhop upon a fufpicion of
high treafon, as it was a thing rarely pratftifed fince
the E.eformation, fo it occafioned various fpeculations
among the people. Thofe who were the bifhop’s
friends, and pretended to the greateft intimacy with
him, laid the whole odium of the matter upon the mx-
niftry. They knew the bifhop fo well, they faid, his
love to the confiitution, and attachment to the Prote-
ftant fucceffion, his profeffed abhorrence of Popery,
and fettled contempt of the Pretender, and his caution,
prudence, and circumfpeftion, to be fuch, as wmuld
never allow him to engage in an attempt of fubverting
the government, fo hazardous in itfelf, and fo repug¬
nant to his principles; and therefore they imputed
all to the malice and management of a great minifler
of ftate or two, who w^ere refolved to remove him, on
account of fome perfonal prejudices, as well as the
conftant moleftation he gave them in parliament, and
the particular influence and aflivity he had fhovn in
the late eleftion. The friends to-the miniftry, on the
other hand, were ftrongly of opinion, that thu bilhop
was fecretly a favourer of the Pretender’s caufe, and
had formerly been tampering with things of that na¬
ture, even in the queen’s time, and while his party
was excluded from power *, but upon their re-admif-
fion, had relinquifhed that purfuit, and his confede¬
rates therein, and became a good lubjeft again. They
urged, that the influence which the late duke of Or¬
mond had over him, affifted by his owm private ambi¬
tion and revenge, might prompt him to many things
contrary to his declared fentiments, and inconfiftent
with that cunning and caution which in other cafes
he was mafter of. And to obviate the difficulty, ari-
fing from the bifhop’s avprfion to Popery, and the
Pretender’s bigotry to that religion, they talked of a
new
ATT r 2
. t- ^
ATterbury. new invented fcbeme of his, not to receive the Pre-
v tender, whofe principles were not to be changed, but
his fon only, who was to be educated a Proteftant in
the church of England, and the biihop to be his guar¬
dian, and lord proteftor of the kingdom, during his
minority. Thefe, and many more fpeculations, amu-
fed the nation at that time ; and men, as ufual, judged
of things by the meafure of their own affe&ions and
prejudices.
March 23. 1722-3, a bill was brought into the
houfe of commons, lor “ infli&ing certain pains and
penalties on Francis Lord Bifliop of Rochefter j” a
copy of which was fent to him, with notice that he
had liberty of counfel and folicitors for making his
defence. Under thefe circumtlances the biihop ap¬
plied, by petition, to the houfe of lords for their
dire&ion and advice as to his conduct in this conjunc¬
ture ; and April 4. he acquainted the fpeaker of the
houfe of commons, by a letter, that he was determined
to give that houfe no trouble in relation to the bill de¬
pending therein ; but Ihould be ready to make his de¬
fence againft it when it Ihould be argued in another
houie, of which he had the honour to be a member.
On the 9th the bill paffed the houfe of commons, and
was the fame day fent up to the houfe of lords for their
concurrence.
May 6th being the day appointed by the lords for
the fir ft reading of the bill, Biihop Atterbury was
brought to Weftminfter to make his defence. The
counfel for the biihop were. Sir Conftantine Phipps and
William Wynne, Efq. ; for the king, Mr Reeve and
Mr Wearg. The proceedings continued above a
week : and on Saturday May 1 1 th, the biihop was
permitted to plead for himfelf. 'Phis he did in a very
eloquent ipeech •, which he feelingly opens by com¬
plaining of the uncommon feverity he had experienced
in the Power ; which was carried to fo great a length,
that not even his fon-in-law Mr Morice was permitted
to fpeak to him in any nearer mode than Handing in
an open area, whilft the biihop looked out of a two-
pair-of-ftairs window. In the courfe of his defence he
obferves, “ Here is a plot of a year or two Handing,
to fubvert the government with an armed force j an
invafion from abroad, an infurreftion at home : juft
' when ripe for execution, it is difcovered ; and twelve
months after the contrivance of this fcheme, no con-
lultation appears, no men correfponding together, no
provifion made, no arms, no officers provided, not a
man in arms ; and yet the poor biihop has done all this.
What could tempt me to ftep thus out of my way ?
LVas it ambition, and a defire of climbing into a higher
ftation in the church ? There is not a man in my office
farther removed from this than I am. Was money my
aim ? I always defpifed it too much, confidering what
occafion I am now like to have for it: for out of a
poor bilhopric of 500I. per annum, I have laid out
no lefs than 1000I. towards the repairs of the church
and epifcopal palace ; nor did I tpke one Hulling for
dilapidations. I he reft of my little income has been
luent, as is neceflary, as I am a biffiop. Was I in-
11 uenced by any dillike of the eftablilhed religion, and
fccretly inclined towards a. church of greater pomp and
power ? I have, my lords, ever fince I knew what
Popery was, oppofed it ; and the better I knew it, the
jnore I cppofed it. I began my ftudy in divinity,
19 j ATT
when the Popiffi controverfy grew hot, with that im- Atterbury,
mortal book of Tillotfon’s, when he undertook the ""'v ■ ■
Proteftant caufe in general; .and as fuch, I efteemed
him above all. You will pardon me, my lords, if I
mention one thing : Thirty years ago, I writ in de¬
fence of Martin Luther ; and have preached, expref-
fed, and wrote to that purpole from my infancy j and
whatever happens to me, I will fuffer any thing, and,
by God’s grace, burn at the ftake, rather than depart
from any material point of the Proteftant religion as
profeffed in the church of England. Once more :
Can I be fuppofed to favour arbitrary power ? The
■whole tenor of my life has been otherwife : I was al¬
ways a friend to the liberty of the fubjefl; and, to the
beft of my power, conftantly maintained it. I may
have been thought miftaken in the meafures I took to
fupport it; but it matters not by what party I was '
called, fo my actions are uniform.” Afterwards,
fpeaking of the method of proceeding againft him as
unconftitutional, he fays : “ My ruin is not of that
moment to any number of men, to make it worth
their while to violate, or even to feem to violate, the
conftitution in any degree, which they ought to pre-
ferve againft any attempts whatfoever. Though I am
wmrthy of no regard, though whatfoever is done to me
may for that realon be looked upon to be juft j yet
your lordffiips will have fame regard to your own laft*
ing intereft and that of pofterity. This is a proceed¬
ing wuth which the conftitution is unacquainted j which,
under the pretence of fupporting it, will at laft effec¬
tually deftroy it. For God’s fake, lay afide thefe ex¬
traordinary proceedings 5 fet not up thefe new and
dangerous precedents. I, for my part, will voluntarily
and cheerfully go into perpetual banilhment, and pleafe
myfelf that I am in fome meafure the occafion of put¬
ting a flop to fuch precedents, and doing fome good
to my country : I will live, wffierever I am, praying
for its profperity ; and do, in the'words of Father Paul
to the ftate of "Venice, fay, EJlo perpetua. It is not
my departing from it I am concerned for. Let me de¬
part, and let my country be fixed upon the immoveable
foundation of law and juftice, and Hand for ever.”
After a folemn proteftation of his innocence, and an '
appeal to the Searcher of Hearts for the truth of what
he had faid, he concludes thus : “ If, on any account,
there (hall (fill be thought by your lord (hips to be any
feeming (Length in the proofs againft me j if, by your
lordffiips judgments, Springing from unknown motives,
I (hall be thought to be guilty 5 if, for any reafons or
neceffity of ftate, of the wifdom and juftice of which I
am no competent judge, your lordftiips ffiall proceed
to pafs this bill againft me; I (hall difpofe myfelf
quietly and tacitly to fubmit to what you do ; God’s
will be done : Naked came I out of my mother’s
womb, and naked (hall I return ; and, whether he
gives or takes away, bleffed be the name of the Lord !”
On Monday the 13 th he was carried for the laft
time from the Tower to hear the reply of the king’s
counfel to his defence. Thefe were both men of great
knowledge and fagacity in law, but of different talents
in point of eloquence. Their fpeeches on this occa¬
fion were made public ; and they feem to have formed
their “ Replies,” defignedly, in a different way. The
foimer flicks dole to the matter in evidence, and en¬
forces the charge againft the bifliop with great (Length
E e 2 and
A T T [ 2
Atterbury. and perfpiculty : The latter anfwers all his objetlions,
' and refutes the arguments brought in his defence, in
an eafy foft manner, and with great firnplicity of rea-
foning. Mr Reeve is wholly employed in faffs, in
comparing and uniting together circumftances, in or¬
der to corroborate the proofs of the bilhop’s guilt: Mr
Wearg is chiefly taken up in filencing the complaints
of the bilhop and his counfel, and replying to every
thing they advance, in order to invalidate the allega¬
tions of his innocence. The one, in ihort, pofleffes
the minds of the lords with ftrong conviflions again!!
the bifhop : The other difpoffelTes them of any favour¬
able impreflion that might poflibly be made upon them
by the artifice of his defence. And accordingly Mr
Reeve is ftrong, nervous, and enforcing ; but Mr
Wearg, fmooth, eafy, and infinuating, both in the man-
2° ] ATT
ner of his expreftion and the turn of his periods. Mr Atteibury.
Wearg pays the higheft compliments to the biftiop’s v
eloquence : but, at the fame time, reprefents it as em¬
ployed to impofe upon the reafon, and mifguide the
judgment of his hearers in proportion as it affefted their
paftions ; and he endeavours to ftrip the biftiop’s de¬
fence of all its ornaments and colour of rhetoric.
On the 15th the bill was read the third time ; and,
after a long and warm debate, palled on the 16th, by
a majority of 83 to 43. On the 27th, the king came
to the houfe, and confirmed it by his royal affent.
June 18. 1723, this eminent prelate, having the day .
before taken leave of his friends, wdio, from the time
of palling the bill againft him to the day of his de¬
parture, had free accels to him in the Tower (b), em¬
barked on board the Aldborough man of war, and
landed
(b) The following anecdote wTas firft communicated to the public by the late Dr Maty, on the credit of
Lord Chefterfield : “ I went (faid Lord Chefterfield) to Mr Pope, one morning, at Twickenham, and found a
large folio bible, with gilt clafps, lying before him upon his table j and, as 1 knew his way of thinking upon
that book, I alked him, jocofely, if he w7as going to write an anfwer to it ? It is a prefent, laid he, or rather a
legacy, from my old friend the Bilhop of Rochefter. I went to take my leave of him yefterday in the Tower,
where I faw this bible upon his table. After the firft compliments, the Bilhop faid to me. * My friend Pope,
confidering your infirmities, and my age and exile, it is not likely that we Ihould ever meet again j and there¬
fore I give you this legacy to remember me by it. Take it home with you j and let me advile you to abide by
it.’—‘ Does your Lordlhip abide by it yourfelf ?’—‘ I do. ‘ If you do, my Lord, it is but lately. May I beg
to know what new light or arguments have prevailed with you now7, to entertain a opinion fo contrary to that
which you entertained of that book all the former part of your life r’—The Bilhop replied, ‘ We have not time
to talk of thefe things} but take home the book 5 I will abide by it, and I recommend you to do fo too ; and fo
God blefs you.’
Thefe anecdotes Mr Nichols has inferted in the “ Epiftolary Correfpondence,” vol. ii. p. 79* w^b the pro-
felled view of vindicating Atterbury, in the following words of an ingenious corrrefpcndent:
“ Dr Warton has revived this ftory, which he juftly calls an ‘ uncommon’ one, in his laft ‘ Elfay on the
Genius and Writings of Pope.’ It w7as indeed very uncommon 5 and I have my reafons for thinking it equally
groundkfs and invidious. Dr Warton, though he retails the ftory from ‘ Maty’s Memoirs,’ yet candidly ac-
knowdedges, that it ought not to be implicitly relied on. That this caution w as not unnecefiary, will, I appre¬
hend, be fufficiently obvious, from the following comparifon be’tween the date of the ftory itlelf and Mr Pape’s-
letters to the bilhop.
“ According to Lord Chefterfield’s account, this remarkable piece of converfation took place but a few
days before the Biftrop went into exile : and it is infinuated that Mr Pope, till that period, had not even enter¬
tained the ftighteft fufpicion of his friend’s reverence for the bible : Nay, it is ailerted, that the very recom¬
mendation of it from a quarter fo unexpefted, ftaggered Mr Pope to fuch a degree, that in a mingled vein
of raillery and ferioufnefs, he was very eager to know the grounds and reafons of the Biftiop’s change of fenti-
ment.
“ Unfortunately for the credit of Lord Chefterfield and his ftory, there is a letter on record, that was
written nine months before this pretended dialogue took place, in which Mr Pope ferioully acknowdedged
the Bifhop’s piety and generofity, in interefting himfelf fo zealoufly and affedlionately in matters which im¬
mediately related to his improvement in the knowledge of the holy fcriptures. The paffage I refer to is a very
remarkable one : and you will find it in a letter, dated July 27. 1722. It appears undeniably from this letter,
that the Bifhop had earneftly recommended to Mr Pope the ftudy of the bible } and had foftened his zeal with
an unufual urbanity and courtefy, in order to avoid the imputation of ill-breeding, and remove all occalion of
difguft from a mind fo ‘ tremblingly alive’ as Mr Pope’s. I will tranfcribe the paffage at large. ‘ I ought firft
to prepare my mind for a better knowledge even of good profane writers, efpecially the moralifts, &c. be¬
fore I can be worthy of tailing the Supreme of books, and Sublime of all writings, in which, as in all the
intermediate ones, you may (if your friendftiip and charity towards me continue lo far) be the beft guide to,
Yours, A. Pope.’
“ The laft letter of Mr Pope to the Bifhop, previous to his going into exile, was written very early in
June 1723. It muft have been about this time that Pope paid his farew;ell vilit to the Bifhop in the dower.
But whether fuch a converfation as that which hath been pretended adlually took place, may be left to
the determination of every man of common fenfe, after comparing Lord Chefterfield’s anecdote with Mr Pope’s
letter.
“ There muft have been a miftake, or a wilful mifreprefentation fomewdiere. To determine its origin, or to
xtark minutely the vaiious degrees of its progrefs, till it ilfued forth into calumny and falfehood, is impoflible.
ATT [2
AtterSnrv. landed tlie Friday following at C .liis. Wh en he went
‘ on (liore, having been informed chat Lord Bolingbroke,
who had, after the rihng of the parliament, received
the king’s pardon, was arrived at the fame' place on
his return to England, he laid, with an air of pleafant-
ry. “ Then I am exchanged !” and it was, in the
opinion of Mr Pope on the fame occafion, “ a lign of
the nation’s being curfedly afraid of being overrun
with too much politenefs-, w7hen it could not regain one
great man but at the expence of another.” But the
leverity of his treatment did not ceafe even with his
banhhment. The fame vindictive fpirit purfued him
in foreign climes. No Britilh fubjedt was even per¬
mitted to vilit him without the king’s fign manual,
which Mr Morice was always obliged to folicit, not
only for himfelf, but for every one of his family whom
he carried abroad with him, for which the fees of of¬
fice were very high.
Whan Biihop Atterbury firft entered upon his ba-
nilhment, Bruflels wras the place deltined for his refi-
dence ; but, by the arts and mitigations of the Britilh
minilters, he was compelled to leave that place, and
retire to Paris. There being folicited by the friends
of the Pretender to enter into their negociations, he
changed his abode for Montpelier in 1728 5 and, after
reliding there about two years, returned to Paris,
where he died Feb. 15. 173 1-2. The affliftion wdaich
he fultained by the death of his daughter in 1729, was
thought to have haftened his own diffolution. The
former event he hath himlelf related in a very affefling
manner, in a letter to Mr Pope: “ The earned defire
of meeting one I dearly loved, called me abruptly to
Montpelier ; where, after continuing two months un¬
der the cruel torture of a fad and fruitlefs expeftation,
I was forced at laft to take a long journey to Touloufe;
and even there I had miffed the perfon I fought, had
fire not, with great fpirit and courage, ventured all
night up the Garronne to fee me, which fire above all
things defired to do before Ihe died. By that means
fhe was brought where I was, between feven and eight
in the morning, and lived 20 hours afterwardsj which
time was not loft on either fide, but paffed in fuch a
manner as gave great fatisfa&ion to both, and fuch as,
on her part, every way became her circumftances and
character : For Ihe had her fenfes to the very laft
gafp, and exerted them to give me, in thofe few
hours, greater marks of duty and love than fhe had
done in all her lifetime, though fhe had never been
wanting in either. The laft words fire faid to me were
the kindeft of all ; a reflection on the goodnefs of
God, which had allowed us in this manner to meet
once more, before we parted for ever. Not many mi¬
nutes after that, fhe laid herfelf on her pillow, in a
fleeping pofture,
Placidaque ibidemum morte quievit.
Judge you, Sir, what I felt, and ftill feel, on this occa-
21 ] ATT
fion, and fpare me the trouble of deferibing it. At Atterbury.
my age, under my infirmities, among utter ftrangers,
how ihall I find out proper reliefs and fupports ? 1 can
have none, but thofe with which reafon and religion
furnilh me ; and thofe I laid hold on, and grafp as faft
as I can. 1 hope that He who laid the burden upon
me (for wife and good purpofes ho doubt) will enable
me to bear it in like manner as 1 have borne others,
with fome degree of fortitude and firmnefs.”
How far the vbifhop might have been attached in
his inclinations to the Stuart family, to which he
might be led by early prejudices of education, and
the divided opinions of the times, it is not neceffary
here to inquire : But that he fiiould have been weak
enough to engage in a plot fo inconfiftent with his fta-
tion, and fo clumfily devifed (to fay the leaf! of it, and
without entering into his folemn affeveration of inno¬
cence,) is utterly inconfiftent with that cunning which
his enemies allowed him. The duke of Wharton, it
is well known, was violent againft him, till convinced
by his unanfwerable reafoning.
It has been faid that Atterbury’s wifhes reached to
the bilhopric of London, or even to York or Canter¬
bury. But thofe who were better acquainted with his
views, knew that Winchefter would have been much
more defirable to him than either of the others. And
there are thofe now living, who have been told from
refpectable authority, that that bifhopric was offered
to him whenever it fliould become vacant (and till that
event fhould happen, a penfion of 5000I. a-year, be-
fides an ample provifion for Mr Morice), if he would
ceafe to give the oppofition he did to Sir Robert Wal¬
pole’s adminiftration, by his fpeeches and protefts in
the houfe of lords. When that offer was rejected by
the biftiop, then die contrivance for his ruin was deter¬
mined on.
In his fpeech in the houfe of lords, the biihop
mentions his being “ engaged in a correfpondence with
two learned men (Biftiop Potter and Dv Wall) on
fettling the times of writing the four gofpels.” Part
of this correfpondence is ftill in being, and will foon
be publiihed. The fame fubjeft the biihop purfued
during his exile, having confulted the learned of all
nations, and had nearly brought the whole to a con-
clufion when he died. Thefe laudable labours are an
ample confutation of Biihop Newton’s affertion, that
Atterbury “ wrote little whilft in exile but a few cri¬
tic! fms on French authors.”
His body was brought over to England, and in- /
terred on . the 1 2th of May following in Weftminfter
abbey, in a vault which in the year 1722 had been
prepared by his direftions. There is no memorial over
his grave ; nor could there well be any, unlefs his
friends would have confented (which it is moft pro¬
bable they refufed to do) that the words implying him
to have died biihop of Rochefter fhould have been
omitted on his tomb.
Some
I have fimply ftated matters offa£t as they are recorded ;
quite fo obvious and indifputable, as they may think fit.
Koneft wifh to remove unmerited obloquy from the dead,
refpedls ftill fhades the character of this ingenious prelate
am, dear Sir, your faithful humble fervant,
and leave it to your readers to fettle other points not
My motives in this very plain relation arofe from an
I fhould fincerely rejoice if the cloud which in other
could be removed with equal facility and fuccefs. I
Samvel BadcockTI * * * 5
ATT [2
Atterbury.^ ^ Some time before his death, he publifhed a vindica¬
tion of himfelf, Biihop Smalridge, and Dr Aldrich,
from a charge brought againft them by Mr Qldmixon,
of having altered and interpolated the copy of Lord
Clarendon’s “ Hiftory of the Rebellion.’’ BUhop
Atterbury’s “ Sermons” are extant in four volumes in
ociavo : thofe contained in the two firft were publilhed
by himlelf, and dedicated to his great patron Sir Jona¬
than Trelawney biihop of Wincherter; thofe in the
two laft were publiftted after his death by Dr Thomas
Moore his Lordihip’s chaplain. Four admirable “ Vi-
fitation Charges” accompany his “ Epiftolary Corre-
fpondence.”
As to Bifhop Atterbury’s charafter, however the
moral and political part of it may have been different¬
ly reprefented by the oppofite parties, it is univerfally
agreed, that he was a man of great learning and un¬
common abilities, a fine writer, and a molt excellent
preacher. His learned friend Smalridge, in the fpeech
he made when he prefented him to the upper houfe
of convocation, as prolocutor, flyles him Ver in nullo
Uterarum 'genere hofpes, in plerifque artibus et Jiudiis
diu et fehciter exercitatus, in maxime perfect is literarum
difciphnis perfe&ijjimus. In his controverfial writings,
he was fometimes too fevere upon his adverfary, and’
dealt. rather too much in fatire and inveftive ; but
this his panegyrift imputes more to the natural fervour
of his wit than to any bitternefs of temper or pre-
penle malice. In his fermons, however, he is not
only every way unexceptionable, but highly to be com¬
mended. The truth is, his talent as a preacher was
fio excellent and remarkable, that it may not impro¬
perly be faid, that he owed his preferment to the pul¬
pit ^ nor any hard matter to trace him, through his
writings, to his leveral promotions in the church.
We (hall conclude Biihop Atterbury’s charadter as a
preacher, with the encomium beftowred on him by the
Author of “ the Tatler 5” who, having obferved that
the Englilh clergy too much neglefted the art offpeak-
ing, makes a particular exception with regard to our
prelate *, who, fays he, “ has fo particular a regard to
his congregation, that he commits to his memory what
he has to fay to them •, and has fo foft and grace¬
ful a behaviour, that it muft attraft your attention.
His perfon (continues this author), it is to be confef-
fed, is no fmall recommendation ; but he is to be high¬
ly commended for not lofing that advantage, and add¬
ing to propriety of fpeech (which might pafs the cri-
ticifm of Longinus) an aftion which would have been
approved by Demofthenes. He has a peculiar force in
his ^vay, and has affedled many of his audience, who
could not be intelligent hearers of his difcourfe were
there no explanation as well as grace in his attion. This
art of his is ufed with the moft exadi and honed fkill.
He never attempts your paffions, till he has convinced
your reafon. All the objections which you can form
are laid open and difperfed before he ufes* the lead ve¬
hemence in his fermon ; but when he thinks he has
your head, he very foon wins your heart, and never
pretends to ihow the beauty of holinefs, till he has
convinced you of the truth of it.”—In his letters to
1 ope, &c. Biihop Atterbury. appears in a pleafing
light, both as a writer and as a man. In eafe and ele¬
gance they are fuperior to thofe of Pope, which are
wore dudied. There are in them feveral beautiful re-
22 ] ATT
‘'[e"ces t0 tl1e clafiics. The lii[hop excelled in his Atteftation
ailufions to facred as well as profane authors. i.l
AT1ESIAIION, the adt of affirming or wit- AttIca‘
neffing tne truth of fomething, more efpeciaily in' ' v
writing. - v J
ATTIC, any thing relating to Attica, or to the city
ot Athens: thus Attic fait, in philology, is a delicate
poignant fort of wit and humour peculiar to the Athe¬
nian writers ; Attic witnefs, a witnefs incapable of
corruption, &c.
Attic Order. See Architecture.
Attic Brfe, a peculiar kind of bafe ufed by the
ancient architect in the Ionic order j and by Palladio
and forre others, in the Doric.
Attic Story, in ArchiteBure; a dory in the upper
part of a houfe, where the windows are ufually fquare.
xx I PICA, an ancient kingdom of Greece, fituated Boundaries,
along the north coad of the gulf of Saron 5 boundedextenb
on the wed by Megara, Mount Cithaeron, and part of
Boeotia ; on the north by the gulf of Euripus, now7
Stretto di negro ponte, and the red of Boeotia ; and on
the ead by the Euripus. It extends in length from
north-wed to fouth ead about 60 miles; its breadth
from north to fouth was 56, decreafing as it appicached
the fea. \
'I he foil of this country was naturally barren and
craggy, though by the indudry of its inhabitants it
pioduced all the necelfaries of life. On this account
Attica was lefs expofed to invafions than other more Inhabitants
fertile countries; and hence it preferved its ancient in-to
habitants beyond all the other kingdoms in its neiph-be produ"
bourhood ; fo that they were reputed to be the fpon-^f fbiT
taneous productions of the foil; and as a badge of this,
Thucydides tells us, they wore golden grafshoppers in
their hair.
The chief cities in the kingdom of Attica were A-cities5
thens the capital; next to it Eleufis, fituated on the
fame gulf, near the coad of Megara; and next to
that Rhamnus famed for the temple of Amphiaiaus
and the datue of the goodefs Nemefis.
* . T’he fird king of this country, of whom we have anyCecrops
didintf account, w^as Cecrops. Others indeed are faidthe firft
to have reigned before him, particularly one A&eeus,king'
whofe daughter Cecrops married, and in her right laiffi
the foundation of his new7 monarchy. Cecrops is faid
to have been the fird who deified Jupiter, fet up altars
and idols, and indituted, marriage among the Greeks.
He is likewife affirmed to have taught his fubje&s navi¬
gation ; and for the better adminidration of judice, and
promoting intercourfe among them, to have divided
them into the fird four tribes, calledAutochthon,
Aclea, and Para/ia ; and he is alfo by fome faid to be’
the founder of the Areopagus. From this monarch
the Athenians affiefled to call themfelves Cecropida till
the reign of Ereftheus their fixth king, after whom they
took the name oi Ereffbydce.
Cecrops dying after a reign of 50 years, left three Cnmau*
daughters ; by marrying one of whom, probably, Cra-
naus a wealthy citizen aifcended the throne. Fie en¬
joyed his crown peaceably for ten years ; till, having
married one of his daughters named Attis, to Amphic-
tyon the fon of Deucalion, he was by him dethroned, 6
and forced to lead a private life to the lad. From this Whence
daughter, the country, which before had been calledthc C0untT7
Actea, took the name of Attica. was caded
. „ Attica.
After
Attica.
7
Eridtho-
nius.
8
Pandion.
Erectheus
xo
Cecrops II
Pandion II
12
JEgeus.
?3
Thefeus
born.
ATT [ 2
) After a reign of io or 12 years:, Amphiftvon was
himfelf depofed by Eriahonius, faid to be the fon of
Vulcan and Tethys. Being lame of both his feet, he
is laid to have invented coaches, or, as others will have
it, intiituted horte and chariot races, in honour of Mi¬
nerva. He is alfo reported to have been the firlf who
ftamped filver coin. He reigned 50 years, and was
fuccceded by his fon Pandion the father of Progne and
Philomela; whofe hard fate, fo famous among the
poets, is fuppofed to have broke his heart, after a reign
of about 40 years. In his time Triptolemus taught
the Athenians agriculture, which he had learned from
Ceres.
Pandion was fucceeded by his fon Ere&heus, who
being reckoned the moft powerful prince of his time,
Boreas king of Thrace demanded his daughter Orithia
in marriage, and on being refufed carried her off by
force. After a reign of 50 years, Ere&heus being
killed in a battle with the Eleufians, was lucceeded by
his fon Cecrops II. who is generally allowed' to have
been the firft who gathered the people into towns j
they having till then lived in houfes and cottages fcat-
tered here and there, without order or regular diftance.
After a reign of 40 years he was driven out by his bre¬
thren Metion and Pandorus, who forced him to ily in¬
to /Egialea, where he died.
Cecrops II. was fucceeded by his fon Pandion II.
and he r\as likewife driven out by IVIetion, who affumed
the government. Pandion in the mean time fled into
Megara, where he married Pelia the daughter of Pylas
king of that place, and was appointed fuccelTor to the
kingdom. Here he had four Ions, who returning to
Athens, whether with or without their father is uncer¬
tain, expelled the fons of Metion, and after the deceafe
01 Pandion their father, divided the government among
themfelves ; notwithftandirig which, the royal dignity
did in effeft remain with Algeus the eldeft.
Atgeus, when he afcended the throne, finding him¬
felf defpifed by his fubjefts becaufe he had no fons, and
fometimes infulted by his brother Pallas, who had no
lefs than fifty, confulted the oracle of Apollo at Del¬
phi. Receiving here, as was commonly the cafe, an
anfwer which could not be underllood without a com¬
mentator, he applied to Pittheus king of Troezen, fa¬
mous for his fkill in expounding oracles. This prince
eafily prevailed with him to lie with his daughter iE-
thra, who proved with child; and as none but thefe
three were privy to the fe'cret, AEgeus, before his re¬
turn to Athens, hid a hvord and a pair of Ihoes under a
ftone, leaving orders with the princefs, that if the child
proved a boy, fhe Ihould fend him to Athens with thefe
tokens as foon as he was able to.lift up that Hone. He
charged her moreover to ufe all imaginable fecrecy, led
the fons of his brother Pallas fhould way-lay and mur¬
der him.
/itthra being delivered of a fon, Pittheus gave out
that Neptune was the father of it. This child was
named 'Thefeus, and proved one of the moll famous
heroes of antiquity. Being arrived at the age of 16,
his mother bi ought him to the Hone above mentioned j
and he having lifted it with eafe, was delired to take
up t]16 fword and Ihoes and prepare himfelf to go to
his lather. He was advifed to go by fea rather than
by land, as, ever fine®the departure of Hercules, the
roads had been exceedingly infefted by banditti. The-
23 ] ATT
feus, however, who had already begun to difeover Attica,
marks of uncommon ftrength and courage, no fooner 1^’
heard the name of Hercules mentioned, than he be¬
came defirous of imitating fo great a pattern j and
alter performing a number of glorious exploits, for
which fee the article Theseus, he arrived fafe at his
father’s capital.
I he great atchievemefits of our young hero pro-Is made
cured him a welcome reception at the court of Aegeus, known to
though his birth was unknown to all except Medea, tohisfathen
whom the king had lately been married. This queen
being a forcerefs, it is not to be fuppofed any thing
could be concealed from her : Ihe therefore, by her ,
diabolical penetration, quickly found out that Thefeus
w as the king’s Ion 5 after which fire became fo jealous
oi him on account of his valour, that fhe perfuaded her
old hufband to invite the young ftranger to a banquet,
and poiion him in a glafs of wine. The poifon ivas ac¬
cordingly prepared, and Thefeus invited ; but the
prince luddenly drawing his fword, it was immediately
recognized by AEgeus to be the fame he had formerly
ouried below the Hone. Upon this he Hepped forward
to Pheleus, throwung down the poifoned draught in
his way j and, embracing him with much tendernefs,
owned him for his fon before all the court.
At this time the king of Athens had great occafion
for fuch a champion as I hefeus. The fons of Pallas,
who had all along behaved with great infolence, upon
r Thefeus being difeovered to be the king’s fon, and
heir apparent to the crown, broke out in open rebel- j.
lion. They were foon difeomfited ; but AEgeus and He kills the
the whole country of Attica were Hill in great diflrefs Minotaur,
on the following account. Some years before, Andro-
geus, the fon of Minos king of Crete, came to A-
tiiens to be prefent at one of their feaHs. During this
vifit he contrafted fuch an intimacy with the fifty fons
of Pallas, that AEgeus, fearing feme fatal confequen-
ces, caufed him to be privately murdered. Accord¬
ing to others, Androgeus having undertaken to en¬
counter the Marathonian bull, was killed by it. Be
this as it will, Minos having received news of his fon’s
death, imputed it to the people of Attica ; and there¬
fore, after feveral unfuccefsful attempts to revenae his
own quarrel, prayed to the gods to do it, for°hira.
i he Athenians, in confequence of this prayer, w7ere vi-
fited wfith earthquakes, famine, and peHilence ; on ac¬
count of which they applied to the oracle. Here they
were informed, that no relief was to be had till they
were reconciled to the Cretan king. Minos refolvino-
to make them pay dear for their deliverance, impofed
upon them a tribute of feven young men and as many
virgins, whom he condemned to be devoured by the
Minotaur, a monfier feigned by the poets to have been
half man and half bull. This bloody tribute had been
twice paid, and Minos had already fent his mefiengers
the third time, when I hefeus willingly offered himfelf
to be one of the unhappy victims; and embarking with
them in one Ihip, he gave the pilot two fails, the one
black to fail with, and the other white to be hoifled
up at his return in cafe he came off victorious. Our
hero had all the iuccefs he could wi(h : he killed the
Minotaur, prevailed with Minos to remit the tribute,
and his daughter Ariadne to run awav with him; but '
her he left with child in the ifie of Naxos. Unfortu¬
nately, however for AEgeus, the joy of Thefeus and
1 / his
Attica.
ATT [2
his company was fo great, that at their return they
forgot to hoift the white Hag in token of their victory :
upon which the old king, taking for granted that his
fon was killed, threw himfelf into the fea, which ever
fince has from him been called the JEgean Sea.
Thefeus being thus left in pofleffion of the kingdom
tica^ ^ Attica, began immediately to think of indulging his
’ j.g warlike genius, and rendering the civil affairs of his
New mo- kingdom as little troublefome as poffible. To accom-
dels the go-pjjih this purpofe, he began with gathering moft of the
vernment. pe0p]e Qf Attica into the old and new town, which he
incorporated into one city. After this he diverted
himfelf of all his regal power, except the title of king,
the command of the army, and the guardianfhip of
the laws. The reft he committed to proper magiftrates
chofen out of three different orders of the people, whom
he divided into nobles, hufbandmen, and artificers.
The fir ft he inverted with the power of interpreting and
executing the law's, and regulating whatever related to
' religion. The other two chofe their inferior magiftrates
from among themfelves, to take care of whatever rela¬
ted to their feparate orders : fo that the kingdom wms
in fome meafure reduced to a commonwealth, in wdiich
the king had the greateft poft, the nobles were next
to him in honour and authority, the hufbandmen had
the greateft profit, and the attifts exceeded them in
number. He likewife abolifhed all their diftinft courts
of judicature, and built one common council hall called
Prytaneum, wdiich flood for many ages afterwards.
Having thus new-modelled the government, his next
care was to join to his dominions the kingdom of Me-
gara, in right of his grandfather Pandion II. who had
married the daughter of Pylas, as above-mentioned. On
this occafion he eredled the famous pillar in the ifthmus,
which fhowed the limits of the two countries that met
there. On the one fide of this pillar w^as infcribed,
“ This is not Peloponnefus, but Ionia $” and on the
Defeats the other, “ This is Peloponnefus, not Ionia.” After this
Amazons, y,e undertook an expedition againft the Amazons,
Centaurs w^om overcame, took their queen Hippolita, and
-and carries afterwards married her. Soon after this, Thefeus con-
off Helena. trafted an intimacy with Perithous the fon of Ixion :
and being invited to his nuptials, affifted him in kill¬
ing a number of Centaurs, or rather Theffalian horfe-
men (who in their cups had offered violence to their
female guefts), and drove the reft out of the country.
Our two affociates then proceeded to Sparta, where
Thefeus fell in love with the famed Helena, at that
time not above nine years old, w7hile he himfelf was
upwards of fifty. Her they carried off: and of the
rape there are various accounts j but the following one
which is given by Plutarch, is generally allowed to be
the moft authentic.
According to that hiftorian, they ftole this beauty,
the greateft in the rvorld at that time, out of the temple
of Diana Ortia, where Helena happened to be dan¬
cing. They were purfued as far as Tegea, but made
their efcape out of Peloponnefus ; and thinking them¬
felves now fecure of their prey, they agreed to cart lots
for her, upon condition that he to whofe lot fhe fell
fhould atTift the other in procuring fome celebrated
beauty. Fortune having declared for Thefeus, he al-
fifted his companion in the like attempt upon Profer-
pina daughter of Aidonius king of the Molloffi in
Fpirus } who, being the next beauty to Helena, was
J
2+ ] ATT
guarded by the dog Cerberus, which had three heads, Attica,
and was confequently a very formidable enemy. Her ‘
father, however, underftanding that they defigned to
fteal awray his daughter, threw Perithous to be torn in 20
pieces by Cerberus, and put. Thefeus in prifon, from hnpnfoned
whence he was afterwards relieved at the interceflion °f Epiras"^
Hercules.
After this misfortune, Thefeus at length returned to
Athens, but found himielf very coolly received by his
fubjedls. Mneftheus, the fon of Pteus, and great-
grandfon of Ereftheus, had made ufe of the king’s ab-
fence to ingratiate himfelf with the people j and, upon,
the commencement of a war with Caftor and Pollux, the
two brothers of Helena, he perfuaded the people of 2I
Athens to open their gates to the two brothers. Up- Driven out
on this, Thefeus wras under the neceftity of conveying of Athens,
away himfelf and family with all poflible privacy. This
he luckily accomplifhed 5 and defigned to have failed to
Crete, to have obtained affiftance from Deucalion fon,
of Minos, and now brother-in-law to Thefeus himfelf,
he having lately married Phaedra fifter to Deucalion.
Unfortunately, however, our hero was fhipwrecked on 22
the ifland of Scyros. Here he was at firft kindly re-His death,
ceived by Lycomedes the king of that ifland ; but w as
foon after killed by a fall from a high rock, over which
fome fay he was puftied by Lycomedes himfelf, who
had been prevailed upon to deftroy Thefeus in that
manner by Mneftheus, that he might with the more fe-
curity enjoy the kingdom of Athens. 23
Mneftheus reigned 24 years, but loft his life at the Mneftheus,
fiege of Troy ; and was fucceeded by Demophon one ^emoP^on*
of the fons of Thefeus by Phaedra, who was likewife at ^
the fiege of Troy, but had the good fortune to return
in fafety. In his reign wTas erefled the famous court
of the Ephetae ; confifting originally of 50 Athenians
and as many Argives, for trying of w ilful murders. By
this court the king himfelf afterwards fubmitted to be
tried for having accidentally killed one of his fubje£ls.
He reigned 3 3 years, and was fucceeded by his fon, ac¬
cording to fome, or according to others his brother,
Oxyntes, wdio reigned 12 years. Oxyntes was fuc¬
ceeded by his fon Aphydes, who wras murdered by
Thymaetes the baftard fon of Oxyntes. 24
This king difcovered many bafe qualities unworthy Thymsetee
of his dignity; and at laft w7as depofed by his fubjefts aeP°^‘
on the following occafion. Xanthus king of Boeotia
had a conteft with the Athenians about one of their
frontier towns. He offered to decide the matter by
fingle combat with the king; but this w7as declined by
Thymsetes. It happened, that at that time one Me-
lanthus a Meffenian, w7ho had been driven out of his
country by the Heraclidae, was come to Athens *, who
accepted the king of Boeotia’s challenge. At the firft
onfet, Melanthus afked his adverfary, why he had, con-
trary to the articles, brought a fecond into the field w7ith
him ? and as Xanthus immediately looked about to fee
wTo was behind him, Melanthus run him through wdth
his lance. This victory, though it did little honour to
him w7ho gained it, w7as fo agreeable to the Athenians,
that thev depofed their cowrardly king Thymaetes, af-
ter he had reigned 8 years ; and appointed Melanthus MelanthtiR
in his Head, who after a reign of 37 years left the king¬
dom to his fon Codrus.
This prince reigned about 21 years ; during which
time the Dores and Heraclidae had regained all Pelo¬
ponnefus,
ATT
Attica.
26
Codrus the
laft king
facrifices
himfeif for
his country,
[
27
Republican
govern¬
ment intro¬
duced.
28
Tjraco legi
fJator of
Athens.
29
Expelled
■ihe city.
30
His death.
ponnefus, and were upon tlie point of entering into
Attica. Codrus, being informed that the oracle had
promifed them vi&ory provided they did not kill the
king of the .Athenians, came immediately to a relolu-
tion of dying for his country. Difguiling himfeif,
therefore, like a peafant, he went into the enemy’s
camp, and quarrelling with fomc of the foldiers, was
killed by them. On the morrow, the Athenians know¬
ing what was done, fent to demand the body of their
king; at which the invaders were fo terrified, that they
decamped without flriking a blow.
Upon the death of Codrus, a difpute which happened
among his fons concerning the fucceffion, furnilhed the
Athenians with a pretence for ridding themfelves of
their kings altogether, and changing the monarchical
form of government into a republican one. It was im¬
probable, they faid, that they fhould ever have fo good
as king as Codrus; and to prevent their having a worfe,
they refolved to have no king but Jupiter. That they
might not, however, feem ungrateful to the family of
Codrus, they made his fon Medon their fupreme magi-
ftrate, with the title of archon. They afterwards ren¬
dered that office decennial, but continued it ftill in the
family of Codrus. The extinftion of the Medontidte
at laft left them without reftraint; upon which they not
only made this office annual, but created nine archons.
By the latter invention they provided againft the too
great power of a Angle perfon, as by the former they
took away all apprehenfion of the archons having time
to eftablifh themfelves, fo as to change the conrtitution.
In a word, they now attained what they had long
fought, viz. the making the fupreme magiftrates de¬
pendant on the people.
We have a lift of thefe archons for upwards of 600
years, beginning with Creon, who lived about 684
years before Chrift, to Herodes, who lived only 60
years before that time. The firft archon of whom we
hear any thing worth notice, is named Draco. He
- reigned in the fecond, or, as others fay, in the laft year
of the 39th Olympiad, when it is fuppofed he publifti-
ed his laws : but though his name is very frequently
mentioned in hiftory, yet no connefted account can be
found either of him or his inftitutions ; only, in gene¬
ral, his laws were exceedingly fevere, infihfting death
for the fmalleft faults ; which gave occafton to one De-
mades an orator to obferve, that the laws of Draco
were written with blood, and not with ink. For this
extraordinary feverity he gave no other reafon, than
that fmall faults feemed to him to be worthy of death,
and he could find no higher punifhment for the great-
eft. He was far advanced in years when he gave laws
to Athens ; and to give his inftitutions the greater
weight, he wmuld not fuffer them to be called ?ioj?ioi,
or lawTs, but thefmoi, or fanflions proceeding from more
than human wifdom. The extreme feverity of thefe
laws, how'ever, foon made the Athenians weary both
of them and the author of them; upon wffiich Draco was
obliged to retire to TEgina. Here he w^as received with
the higheft honours : but the favour of the inhabitants
of this place proved more fatal to him than the hatred
of the Athenians ; for coming one day into the thea¬
tre, the audience, to fhow their regard, threw, as the
cuftom then was, their cloaks upon him ; and the mul¬
titude of thefe being very great, they ftifled the old man,
who was too weak to difengage himfeif from their load.
Vql. III. Part I.
125 ] ATT
AfteTthe expulficn of Draco, nothing remarkable Attica.,
happened at Athens till the year before Chrift 606, '—~v~—*
wffien we find the republic engaged in a war with the ‘V •
iViitylemans about the city Sigteum, fituated near the war,
mouth of the river Scamander. The Athenian army
was commanded by Phrynon, a perfon equally remark¬
able for the coraelinefs of his perfon and the generofity
of his mind. The Mitylenians wrere commanded by
Pittacus, one of the celebrated fages of Greece. As
thefe commanders looked upon the honour of their re-
fpeftive countries to be concerned, they exerted them¬
felves to the utmoft. At laft they met in Angle com¬
bat : wherein Phrynon depended on his valhur only :
but Pittacus concealed behind his fhield a net, where¬
with he fuddenly entangled his antagonift, and eafily
flew him. This, however, not putting an end to the
war, Periander tyrant of Corinth interpofed; and
both parties having fubmitted to his arbitration, he de¬
creed that Sigseum Ihould belong to the Athenians.
About feven years after this wav, a confpiracy w^as Cylon’s
formed by Cylon fon-in-law to Theagenes tyrant of confpkacy'
Megara, who, having by his affable behaviour procur¬
ed many friends, formed a defign of feizing the fove-
reignty of Athens. Having confulted the oracle as to
the moft proper time, he was directed to make the at¬
tempt when the citizens of Athens w'ere employed in
celebrating their higheft feafts to Jupiter. When ma¬
ny of the citizens therefore were gone to the Olympic
games, Cylon and his affociates made themfelves ma¬
ilers of the citadel. Here they were inftantly be-
fieged by Megacles at that time archon, and foon re¬
duced to great diftrefs for want of water. The chief,
together with his brother, found means to make their
efcape, but the meaner fort were left to ftnft for them¬
felves. In this extremity they fled to the temple of
Minerva ; from whence Megacles with much ado pre¬
vailed upon them to come dowm and fubmit themfelves
to the mercy of their country. Having at laft affented
to this, they tied a cord to the image of the goddefs,
and carried the clue with them, to demonftrate, that
though they were out of the temple they were ftill un- 33
der Minerva’s proteftion. Unfortunately for them, Conipira-
however, as they paffed the temple of the Furies, the tors rriaffa”
line fnapt of itfelf; which Megacles conftruing into a nwad s-
renunciation by the goddefs, caufed his men to fall" Kgl CS
upon them and defpatch as many as they could find.
Such as were without the temple were immediately
maffacred, and thofe who fled thither again were mur¬
dered in their fanftuary. In fliort, none efcapefd but
fuch as bribed the wives of the officers of juftice. This
carnage, however, did not put an end to the fedition.
The remains of Cylon’s faction created great difturb-
ances, by infinuating that the violation of Minerva’s
fan&uary had drawn down the anger of the gods ; and whcmexe-
thefe difcourfes had fuch an effeft, that Megacles and crated by
his officers were ftyled execrable, and held to be per-the PeoPlc-
fons under the difpleafure of heaven.
During the time of this confufion, the Megarenfians Unfuccefs-
attacked Nifea, which they took, as well as Salamis ; ful war
and fo completely routed the Athenians in every at- with Me*
tempt to recover the latter, that a law was at laft paf- gaia'
fed, by which it Ihould be capital for any one to pro-
pofe the recovery of Salamis. About the fame time
the city was difturbed by reports of frightful appear¬
ances, and filled with fuperftitious fears; the oracle at
F £ Delphi
Attica.
,3<\
Epimeni-
des’s expia
tion and
prophecy.
37
Solon the
wife legi-
(lator.
3S
Salamis re¬
covered by
his means.
ATT [2
I^elphi was therefore confulted, and an anfvver return¬
ed that the 'city behoved to be expiated. Upon this,
Epimenides the Phcftian was fent for from Crete, to
perform the neceflary ceremonies, he being reputed a
holy^ man, and one that was deeply Ikilled in all the
myfteries of religion. His expiation confided in ta¬
lking fome black, 'and fome white fneep, turning them
$11 loofe, and direfting fome perfons to follow them to
thofe places where they couched, and there to facrifice
them to the local deity. He cauied alfo many temples
and chapels to be eredled, two of which have been par¬
ticularly noted, viz. the chapel of Contumely and that
of Impudence. This man is faid to have looked will¬
fully on the port of Munychia for a long time, and
then to have fpoke as follows to thofe that were near
him : “ How blind is man to future things ! for did the
Athenians know what milchief will one day be deriv¬
ed to them from this place, they would cat it with their
teeth.” This prediftion was thought to be accom-
pliihed 270 years after, when Antipater conftrained
the Athenians to admit a Macedonian garriion into
that place.
About 597 years before Chrift, Solon the famed
Athenian legiilator began to (how himfelf to his coun¬
trymen. He is faid to have been lineally defcended
from Codms ; but left by his father in circumftances
rather neceffitous, which obliged him to apply to mcr-
chandife : it is plain, however, both from his words
and writings, that he was a difmterefted patriot. The
fhameful decree, that none under pain of death (hould
propofe the recovery of Salamis, grieved him fo much,
that having compofed an elegy of 100 verfes, fuch as
he thought would be mod proper to inflame the
minds of the people, he ran into the market-place as if
he had been mad, with his night-cap on his head, re¬
peating his elegy. A crowd being gathered round the
pretended madman, bis kinfman Pififtratus mingled
among the reft, and obferving the people moved with
Solon’s words, he alfo feconded him with all the elo¬
quence he ' as mafter of j and between them they pre¬
vailed fo far as to have the law repealed, and a war
was immediately commenced againft the people of Me-
gara. Who was commander in this expedition is not
certain ; but the city was recovered, according to the
moft general account, by the following ftratagem. So¬
lon coming with Pififtratus to Colias, and finding there
the women bufy in celebrating, according to cuftom,
the feaft of Ceres, fent a confidant of his to Salamis,
who pretended to be no friend to the people of Attica,
telling the inhabitants of Salamis, that if they had a
mind to feize the faireft of the Athenian ladies, they
might now do it by pafling over to Colias. The Me-
garenfians giving eafy credit to what the man faid, im¬
mediately fitted out a ftripy which Solon perceiving
from the oppofite fhore, difmiffed the women, and ha¬
ving drefied a number of beardlefs youth in female ha¬
bits, under which they concealed every one a dagger,
he fent them to the fea-fide to dance and divert them-
felves as the women were wont to do. When thofe
who came from Salamis faw thefe young perfons dip¬
ping up and down, they ftrove who fhoulb be firft on
Ihore 5 but were every one of them killed, and their
vefiel feized 5 aboard which the Athenians embarking,
failed immediately to Salamis and took it.
On the return of Solon to Athens, he was greatly
26 ] ^ ATT
honoured by the people, to whom another occafion of Attica,
admiring his wifdom was quickly afforded. The in-v ^ ‘
habitants of Cirrha, a town fituated in the bay of Co-cirrlf^
rinth, after having by repeated incurfions watted thelikewife
territory of Delphi, at laft befieged the capital itfelf,reduced br
with a view of making themfelves mafters of the trea-s<?Ion's
fures contained in the temple of Apollo. Advice C£^'^0IK*
this intended iacrilege being fent to the Amphidftyons,
who were the ftates-general of Greece, Solon advifed
that the matter fhould be univerfally relented, and that
all the ftates fhould join in punifhing the Cirrhaeans,
and faving the Delphic oracle. This advice was com¬
plied with, and a general war againft Cirrha declared.
Clytthenes, tyrant of Sicyon, commanded in chief, and
Alcrmeon was general of the Athenian quota. Solon
went as affiftant or counfellor to Clyfthenes, and by
following his advice the war was conducfed to a pro-
fperous iifue. For when the Greek army had befieged
Cirrha for fame time without any appearance of luc-
cefs, the oracle at Delphi was conluited, from whence
the following anfwer was returned :
“ In vain you hope to take the place before
“ The fea’s blue waves roll o’er the hallow’d fhore.”
This anfwer ftruck the whole army with furprife, till
Solon advifed Clyfthenes to confecrate folemnly the
whole territory of Cirrha to the Delphic Apollo 3 fo
as that was a maritime country, the fea muft then wafh
the facred coaft. According to Paufanias, the city
was reduced by the following ftratagem, likewile in¬
vented by Solon. He caufed the river Pliftus, which
run through Cirrha, to be turned into another chan¬
nel, hoping thereby to have diftreffed the inhabitants
for want of -water : but finding they had many wells
within the city, and were not to be reduced by that
means, he caufed a vaft quantity of roots of hellebore
to be thrown into the river, which was then fuflered
to return into its former bed. The inhabitants, over¬
joyed at the fight of running water, came in troops to
drink of it 3 whereupon an epidemic llux enfued, and
the citizens being no longer able to defend the walls,
the town was eafily taken. 40
On the return of Solon to Athens, he found things Athens in
again in the utmoft confufion. The remnant of Cy- j?1'^ C°n‘
Ion’s faflion gave out, that all forts of misfortunes had'
befallen the republic on account of the impiety of Me-
gacles and his followers 3 which clamour was height¬
ened by the retaking of Salamis about this time by the
Megarenfians. Solon interpofed, and perfuaded thofe
who were ftyled execrable to abide a trial, and 300 per- r
fons were chofen to judge them. The event was, that ivic-^adcs’s
300 of Megacles’s party who were alive were fent in-party ba¬
te perpetual baniftiment, and the bones of fuch as were nulied.
dead were dug up and fent without the limits of their
country. 42
Though this decifion reftored the public quiet for the Three fac-
prefent, it was not long before the people were dividedtIons
into three factions, contending about the proper form UP‘
of government. Thefe were called the Diacrii, Pedicel,
and Parali; the firft of thefe were the inhabitants of
the hilly country,, who declared pofitively for demo¬
cracy 3 the fecond, dwelling in the lorver parts, and
who were far more opulent than the former, declared
for an oligarchy, as fuppofing the government would
fall moftly into their hands 3 the third party, who lived
on
ATT [2
Attka. on the fea-coaft, were people of moderate principles,
and therefore were for a mixed government. Eefides
the difturbances raifed on this account, others were
occafioned by the rich oppreffing the poor. According
to_Plutarch, the poor being indebted to the rich, ei¬
ther tilled their grounds and paid them the lixth part
of the produce, or engaged their bodies for their debts,
fo that many wrere made Haves at home, and many fold
into other countries •, nay, fome were obliged to lell
their children to pay their debts, and others in defpair
quitted Attica altogether. The greateft part, how¬
ever, were for throwing off the yoke, and began to
look about for a leader, openly declaring that they in¬
tended to change the form of government, and make a
.repartition of lands. In this extremity, the eyes of all
the citizens were call upon Solon. The mod prudent
were for offering him the fovereignty 5 but he perceiv¬
ing their intentions, behaved in fuch a manner as to
cheat both parties, and Hiowed a fpirit of patriotifm
perhaps never equalled*. He refufed the fovereignty
as far as it might have benefited himfelf 5 and yet took
upon himfelf all the care and trouble ot a prince, for
43 the fake of his people.
Solon cho- He was chofen archon without having recourfe to
len archon. ancj after his election difappointed the hopes of
both parties. It was Solon’s fundamental maxim, That
thofe laws will be bell obferved which power and ju-
ffice equally fupport. Wherever, therefore, he found
the old conftitution confonant to jultice in any tole¬
rable degree, he refufed to make any alteration at all,
and was at extraordinary pains to (how the reafon of
the changes he did make. In fhort, being a perfedt
judge of human nature, he fought to rule only by
fhowing his fubjefts that it was their intereil to obey,
and not by forcing upon them what he himfelf efteem-
ed bell. Therefore, to a perfon who alked whether he
had given the Athenians the beft laws in his power,
he replied, “ I have eftablifhed the belt they could re-
44 ceive.”
Settles all As to the main caufe of fedition, viz. the oppreffed
■cniorders. 0f the meaner fort, Solon removed it by a contri¬
vance which he called Jifachthia, i. e. difcharge ; but
what this was, authors are not agreed upon. Some
fay that he releafed all debts then in being, and prohi¬
bited the taking any man’s perfon for payment of a
debt for the future. According to others, the poor
were eafed, not by cancelling the debts, but by lower¬
ing the intereil, and increafing the value of money ; a
mina, which before was made equal to 73 drachms
only, being by him made equal to lOO", which was of
great advantage to the debtor, and did the creditor no
hurt. It is, however, moll probable that the fifach-
thia was a general remittance of all debts whatever,
otherwife Solon could not have boafted in his verfes
that he had removed fo many marks of mortgages (b)
as were everywhere frequent 5 that .he had freed from
apprehenfion fuch as were driven to defpair, &c.
Infamous But in the midft of all Solon’s glory, an accident
behaviour befel him, which, for a time, hurt his reputation, and
of His three lja(j almoft entirely ruined his fchemes. He had con-
iriends.
27 ] ATT
fulted Conon, Clinias, and Hipponicus, his three Attic9h ^
friends, on an oration prepared with a view to engage ^" v
the people’s confent to the difcharge j and thefe three
men, thus knowing there was to be a general difcharge
of debts, bafely took the opportunity of borrowing
vaft firms before the law was promulgated, in confe-
quence of which they were never obliged to return
them.
This was thought at firft to have been done with
Solon’s confent, and that he had (hared in the money 5
but this afperfion was quickly wiped off when it ap- •
peared that the lawgiver himfelf was a very confider-
able lofer by his own law. His friends, however,
could never recover their credit, but were ever after¬
wards ftigmatized with the opprobrious appellation of
chreocop 'nLe, or debt-fmhers. 46'
The Athenians were as little pleafed with Solon’s Solon bla •
management as with their former condition; the rich lllU'
thinking he had done too much in cancelling the mo- warcp
ney-debts due to them, and the poor that he had doneplaudeJ1
too little, becaufe he had not divided the lands of At-and Chofen
tica equally. In a (liort time, however, they acquief-^eSl^ator’
ced in the new inftitutions, and gave a more public
token of their repentance than they had before drown
of their difpleafure, inftituting a folemn facrifice under
the name of Sifachthia, at the fame time that Solon was
unanimoufly elected legillator of Athens, with full
power to make laws, and alter or new-model the con-
flitution as he thought fit. 47
Solon being now inveited with unlimited authority, Compiles 4
fet about the arduous talk of compiling new law's for bocty
the turbulent people of Attica ; wdrich having at laft 1' "
completed in the belt manner he was able, or in the
belt manner the nature of the people w'ould admit, he
procured them to be ratified for 100 years. Such as-
related to private aftions were preferved on parallelo¬
grams of wood, with cafes wdiich readied from the
ground, and turned about upon a pin like a wheel.
Thefe were thence called axortes; and were placed
firlt in the citadel, and afterwards in the prytaneum,
that all the fubjedts might have accefs to them when
they pleafed. Such as concerned public inftitutions
and facrifices were contained in triangular tables of
ftone called cyrbes. The Athenian magiftrates were
fworn to obferve both ; and in procefs of time thefe
monuments of Solon’s wifdom became fo famous, that
all public acts wrere from them named Axones and Cyr¬
bes. 43
After the promulgation of the laws, Solon found He goes
himfelf obliged to leave Athens, to prevent his being a^roa(*
continually teazed for explanations and alterations 0fcnjeais‘
them. He therefore pretended an inclination to mer-
chandife, and obtained leave to abfent himfelf for 10
years, during which time he hoped the law’s wmuld be
growm familiar. From Athens S6lon travelled into
Egypt, w’here he converfed wuth Pfenophis the He-
liopolitan, and Sonchis the Saite, the moft learned
priefts of that age. From thefe he learned the fitua-
tion of the idand Atlantis, of which he wrote an ac¬
count in verfe, which Plato aftenvards continued See
F f 2 From^'d
(b) The Athenians had a cuftom of hanging up billets to dtow that houfes were engaged for fuch and fuch
fu.ms of money.
- ATT [2
t AttlCa- From Egypt he went to Cyprus, where he was ex-
” v tremely well received by one of the petty kings. This
prince lived in a city called Apeia, built by Demo-
phon the fon of Thefeus, on an eminence near the ri¬
ver Clarius, but in a foil craggy and barren. Solon
obferving a very pleafant plain below, engaged the
king to remove thither \ aflilled in executing the
icheme he had formed 5 and fucceeded fo well that a
new city was formed, which foon became populous,
and out of gratitude to the Athenian legillator was
49 called Solos.
Things faH J3ut while Solon was thus travelling in quell of wif-
derWhls' dom, and with a view to benefit thofe among whom he
abfence. came, his countrymen, who feem to have refolved on
being diilatisfied at all events, had again divided them-
felves into three fa£lions. Lycurgus put himfelf at
the head of the country people \ Megacles the fon of
Alcmaeon was at the head of thofe who lived on the
fea coaft ; and Pififtratus put himfelf at the head of
the poorer fort, to protect them, as he pretended, from
tyranny, but in reality to feize on the fovereignty for
himielf. All the fadlions pretended to have a vail re¬
gard for Solon and his laws, at the fame time that they
were very defirous of a change \ but how they were to
be bettered, none of them knew, or pretended to
50 know.
t^e t^l^s conEifion the legillator returned,
but refutes °f the faflions paid their court to him, and af-
to refume Reeled to receive him with the deepell reverence and
his office, refpedl ; befeeching him to reaffume his authority, and
compofe the diforders which they themfelves kept up.
This Solon declined on account of his age, which, he
faid, rendered him unable to fpeak and a£l for the
good of his country as formerly : however, he fent for
the chiefs of each party, befeeching them in the moll
pathetic manner not to ruin their common parent, but
to prefer the public good to their own private inte-
rell.
Pifillratus, who of all the three had perhaps the lead
intention to follow Solon’s advice, feemed to be the
moll affected with his difeourfes •, but as Solon perceiv¬
ed he affedted popularity by all poflible methods, he
eafily penetrated into his defigns of affuming the fo-
- vereign power. This he fpoke of to Pifillratus him-
felf, at firlt privately 5 but as he faw that his admoni¬
tions in this way had no effect, he then faid the lame
things to others, that the public might be on their
-j guard again!! him.
Pififtratus All the wife difeourfes of Solon, however, were loll
ail'llmes the upon the Athenians. Pifillratus had got the meaner
^ncrtign- por;. cnt;jre]y at p,|s devotion, and therefore refolved to
cheat them out of the liberty which they certainly de-
ferved to lofe. With this view he wounded himfelf,
and, as Herodotus fays, the mules that drew his cha¬
riot'; then he drove into the market-place, and there
Ihowed his bleeding body, imploring the protection of
the people from thofe whom his kindnefs to them had
rendered his implacable enemies. A concourfe of peo¬
ple being inltantly formed, Solon came among the reft,
and, fufpe£ting the deceit, openly taxed Pifillratus with
his perfidious condu£t; but to no purpofe. A general
-affembly of the people was called, wherein it was mo¬
ved by one Arilton, that Pifillratus Ihould have a guard.
Solon was the only perfon prefent who had refolution
enough to oppofe this meafure; the richer Athenians,
28 ] ATT
perceiving that the multitude implicitly followed Pi- Attica,
fiftratus, and applauded every thing he faid, remaining u~—v—^
filent through fear. Solon himfelf, when he faw he
could prevail nothing, left the affembly, faying he was
wifer than fome, and Jlouter than others. A guard of
400 men was now unanimoufly decreed to Pififtratus,
as we are told by Solon himfelf. This inconfiderable
body he made ufe of to enllave the people, but in wftiat
manner he accomplilhed his purpofe is not agreed.
Certain it is, that with his guard he feized the citadel;
but Polyaenus hath given an account of a very fingular
method which he took to put it out of the powder of
the Athenians to defend themfelves even againft fuch a
fmall number. He fummoned an affembly to be held
at the Anacium, and directed that the people Ihould
come thither armed. They accordingly came; and
Pififtratus harangued them, but in a voice fo low that
they could not tell what he faid. The people com¬
plaining of this, Pififtratus told them that they were
hindered from hearing him by the clangour of their
arms; but if they would lay them down in the por¬
tico, he wmuld then be heard diftindlly. This they *
did ; and while they liftened very attentively to a long
and eloquent oration, Pififtratus’s guard conveyed
away their arms, fo that they found themfelves depri¬
ved of all power of refiftance. During the confufion Solonkaves
which followed this event, another affembly was held, Athens,
wherein Solon inveighed bitterly againft the meannefs
of his countrymen, inviting them to take up arms
in defence of their liberty. When he fawT that no¬
thing wmuld do, he laid down his own arms, faying,
that he had done his utmoft for his country and his
laws. According to Plutarch, he refufed to quit the
city ; but the moll probable opinion is, that he imme¬
diately retired from the dominion of Athens, and re¬
fufed to return, even at the felicitation of Pififtratus
himfelf.
Pififtratus, having thus obtained the fovereignty, did
not overturn the laws of Solon, but ufed his power governs
with the greateft moderation. It is not to be expec-with great
ted, hotvever, that fo turbulent a people as the Athe-
nians could be latisfied by any method of governmenttl0n'
he could lay down. At the beginning of his admini-
ftration, Megacles and his family retired out of Athens
to fave their own lives, yet without defpairing of being
able fome time or other to return. With this view
Megacles and his affociates entered into a treaty with
Lycurgus; and having brought him and his party into
a fcheme for depofing Pififtratus, they concerted mat- ^
ters fo well, that Pififtratus was foon obliged to feek Driven out
for Ihelter fomewhere elfe, and, on his departure, the by Mega-
Athenians ordered his goods to be fold. Nobody,c'es-
however, except one perfon {Camas'), would venture
to buy any of them, from an apprehenfion, no doubt,
that they would foon be reftored to their proper owner,
which accordingly happened in a very Ihort time.
As Megacles and his party had negociated with Ly-
curgus to turn out Pififlratus, fo they now entered into after rein-
a treaty with Pififtratus to reinllate him in his princi-hates him.
pality, as foon as they found Lycurgus w’ould not be
implicitly governed by them. To accomplilh this, they
fell upon a very ridiculous projedt ; which, however,
was attended with the defired fuccefs. They found out
a wmman whofe name w as Phja, of a mean family and
fortune, but of a great ftature, and very handfome.
Her
Attica.
. s6
Dnven out
a fecond
time:
ATT. [2
Her they drefled in armour, placed her in a chariot,
and haying difpofed things fo as to make her appear
with all poflible advantage, they conduced her towards
the city, fending heralds before, with orders to fpeak
to the people in the following terms : “ Give a kind
reception, O Athenians, to Prliftratus, who is fo much
honoured by Minerva above all other men, that die
herfelf condefcends to bring him back to the citadel.”
The report being univerfally fpread that Minerva was
bringing home Pififtratus, and the ignorant multitude
believing this woman to be the goddefs, addreffed their
prayers to her, and received Pililtratus with the utmoft
joy. When he had recovered the fovereignty, Pifi-
ftratus married the daughter of Megacles as he had
promifed, and gave the pretended goddefs to his fon
Hipparchus.
Pidftratus did not long enjoy the kingdom to which
he had been reftored in fo ftrange a manner. He had
married the daughter of Megacles, as already obferved;
but having children by a former wife, and remembering
that the whole family of Megacles was reprobated by
the Athenians, he thought proper to let his new fpoufe
remain in a date of perpetual widowhood. This fhe
patiently bore for fome time, but at lad acquainted
her mother. An affront fo grievous could not fail to
be highly refented. Megacles indantly entered into a
treaty with the malcontents, of whom there tvere al¬
ways great plenty at Athens whatever was the form of
government. This Pifidratus being apprized of, and
perceiving a new dorm gathering, he voluntarily quit¬
ted Athens, and retired to Eretria. Here having con-
fulted with his fons, it w'as refolved to reduce Athens
by force. With this view he applied to feveral of the
Greek dates, who furnilhed him with the troops he de¬
fined, but the Thebans exceeded all the red in their
but returns liberality j and with this at my he returned to Attica,
tvith an according to Herodotus, in the I ith year of his banidi-
ment. They fird reduced Marathon, the inhabitants
of which had taken no meafures for their defence,
though they knew that Pifidratus was preparing to at¬
tack them. The republican forces in the mean time
matched out of Athens to attack him ; but behaving
m a fecure and carelefs manner, they were furprifed by
Pifidratus, and totally routed. While they were en¬
deavouring to make their efcape, he caufed his two
fons to ride before him with all fpeed, and tell thofe
they came up with that nobody had any thing to fear,
but that they might every one return to his own home.
This dratagem fo effeflually difperfed the republican
poileffion of ariny, that it wras impodible to rally them, and Pifi-
16 C^/' dratus became a third time abfolute mader of Attica.
His fubjecds Pifidratus being once more in poffedion of the fove-
itill difcon- reignty, took a method of edablifhing himfelf on the
withft "d*" throne diredfly oppofite to whatT'hefeus had done,
ing his mo" fn^ead of colledding the inhabitants from the country
deration. ^nto cities, Pifidratus made them retire from the cities
into the country, in order to apply themfelves to agri¬
culture. This prevented their meeting together, and
caballing againft him in fuch bodies as they had been
accudomed to do. By this means alfo the territory of
Athens was greatly meliorated, and great plantations
of olives were made over all Attica, which had before
not only been deditute of corn, but alfo bare of trees.
He alfo commanded, that, in the city, men fhould wear
57
army.
55
He takes
29 ] AT T
a kind of ilieep-ikin ved, reaching to the knees ; but Attica,
fo intolerable were the laws of Pilidratus to his fubjefts,
that this kind of garment in fucceeding times became
proverbially the habit of davery.
As prince of Athens, Pifidratus received the tenth
part of every man’s revenues, and even of the fruits
of the earth ; and this alfo, though for the fervice of
the date, feeined to the Athenians a mod grievous
burden. In diort, though Pifidratus behaved in all
refpefts as a mod excellent prince, his fubjecls fan¬
cied themfelves opprefled by tyranny, and were per¬
petually grumbling from the time he fird afeended
the throne to the day of his death, which happened
about 33 years after he had fird aflumed the fove¬
reignty, of which time, according to Aridotle, he
reigned 17 years. '
Pifidratus left behind him two fons named Hippar- Hipparchus
chus and Hipptas, both men of great abilities, who and Hip-
diared the government between them, and behaved with Pias*
lenity and moderation. But though by the mildnefs of
their government the family of the Pifidratidae feemed
to be fully edablidied on the throne of Athens, a con-
fpiracy was unexpefledly formed againd both the bro¬
thers, by which Hipparchus was taken od’, and Hip-
pias narrowly efcaped. The mod material facts rela¬
ting to this confpiracy are what follow.
There were at that time in Athens two young men, Confpiracy
called Hannodws and Ariftogiton ; the former of thefe °f Harmo-
was exquifitely beautiful in his perfon, and on that cllus a.nc' A-~
account, according to the infamous cudom of the llfto^lton'
Greeks, violently beloved of the other. This Harmo-
dius was alfo beloved of Hipparchus; who, if we may
believe Thucydides, forced him. This was grievoudy
refented, and revenge determined on ) to haden which,
another accident concurred. Hipparchus, finding that
Harmodius endeavoured to avoid him, publicly af¬
fronted him, by not fullering his fider to carry the of¬
fering of Minerva, as if die was a perfon unworthy of
that odice. The two young men, not daring to Ihow
any public figns of refentment, confulted privately
with their friends ; among whom it was refolved, that
at the approaching fedival of Panathenaea, when the
citizens were allowed to appear in arms, they diould
attempt to redore Athens to its former liberty. In
this they imagined that they diould find themfelves fe-
conded by the whole body of the people. But when
the day appointed was come, they perceived one of ^
their number talking very familiarly with Hippias ; and Hipparduts
fearing that they were difeovered, they immediately killed,
fell upon Hipparchus, and defpatched him with a mul¬
titude of wmunds. In this exploit the people were fo
far from feconding them, as they expedled, that theyT
fudered Harmodius to be killed by Hipparchus’s
guards, and feizing Aridogiton themfelves, delivered
him up to Hippias. Some time afterwards, however,
the refpefl: they paid to thefe two young men exceeded
all bounds. They caufed their praifes to be fung at the The conf j
Panathenaea, forbade any citizen to call a dave by either rators ex-
of their names, and ereided brazen datues to them in travagantly
the forum ; which datues were afterwards carried irito ^onoum^'
Perfia by Xerxes, and fent back from thence by A-
lexander the Great, Antiochus, or Seleucus, for au¬
thors are not agreed by which. Several immunities
and privileges were alfo granted to the defeendants of
thefe» -
ATT
Attica.
<4
Cruelty of
Hippias.
t 230 ]
ATT
.
He is dri¬
ven out of
Athens;
t'hefe two patriots, and all pofRble means tvere taken
to render their memory venerable and refpedted by po-
fterity.
Hippias being now foie mailer of Athens, and pro¬
bably exafperated by the murder of his brother, be¬
gan to alter his conduct greatly, and treat his fubje£ls
in an oppreffive and cruel manner. He began with
torturing Aridogiton, in order to make him confefs
his accomplices : but this proved fatal to his own
friends : for Ariilogiton impeaching Inch as he knew
to be belt afFe6ted to Hippias, they were immediately
put to death ; and when he had deftroyed all thofe he
knew, at lait told Hippias, that now he knew of none
that deferved to fuffer death except the tyrant himfelf.
Hippias next vented his rage on a woman named Lc-
ana, who was kept by Arillogiton. She endured the
torture as long as die could ; but finding herfelf unable
to bear it any longer, die at lad bit od' her tongue, that
die might not have it in her power to make any difco-
very. To her the Athenians eredted the datue of a
lionefs, alluding to her name, without a tongue, on
which w7as engraved a datable infcription.
After the confpiracy was, as Hippias thought, tho¬
roughly quadied, he let himfelf about drengthening his
government by all the means he could think of. He
contradled leagues with foreign princes, increafed his
revenues by various methods, &c. But thefe precau¬
tions were of little avail} the lenity of Pifidratus’s
government had alone fupported it ; and Hippias
purfuing contrary methods, was deprived of his fo-
vereignty in lefs than four years after the death of his
brother.
This, revolution was likewife owing' to the family of
Megacles, who were dyled Alctiueonidcc, and had fet¬
tled at Lipfydrum. In times of difcontent, which at
Athens were very frequent, this family was the com¬
mon refuge of all who fied from that city ; and at lad
they thought of a method of expelling the Pifidratidm
altogether. The method they took to accomplifh
their purpofe was as follows. They agreed with the
Amphidlyons to rebuild the temple at Delphi 5 and
being pofiefied of immenfe riches, they performed their
engagement in a much more magnificent manner than
they were bound to do ; for having agreed only to
build the front of common done, they built it of Parian
marble. At the fame time they corrupted the pro-
phetefs Pythia, engaging her to exhort all the Lace¬
demonians that came to confult the oracle either in
behalf of the date, or their own private affairs, to at¬
tempt the delivery of Athens. This had the defired ef-
le£l : the Lacedemonians, furprifed at hearing this ad¬
monition inceffantly repeated, at lad refolved to obey
the divine command, as they imagined it to be 5 and
lent Anchimolius, a man of great quality, at the head
of an army into Attica, though they were at that time
in league with Hippias, and accounted by him his
good friends and allies. Hippias demanding aflidance
from the Theffalians, they readily fent him 1000 horfe,
under the command of one of their princes named Si¬
neus. The Lacedemonians being landed, Hippias fell
upon them fo fuddenly, that he defeated them with
great daughter, killed their general, and forced the
ihattered remains of their army to fiy to their drips.
The Spartans, incenfed at this unfortunate expedition,
determined to fend another army into Attica; which
they accordingly did foon after under their king Cleo- Attica,
menes: and he having, at his entrance into the Athe-1 \
man territories, defeated the Theffalian horfe, obliged
Plippias to fhut himfelf up in the city of Athens, which
he was foon after forced to abandon altogether. He
was, however, in no want of a place of refuge; the
Theffalian princes inviting him into their countrv,
and the king of Macedon offering his family a citv
and territory, if they chofe to retire into his domi- Is
nions. But Hippias chofe rather to go to the city of and letires
Sigeum, which Pifidratus had conquered, and left to t0 S‘SeuaK
his own family.
After the expulfion of the Pifidratidae, the Atheni¬
ans did not long enjoy the quiet they had prspofed to <4
themfelves. They were quickly divided into two fac- Two tac¬
tions; at the head of one was Clyfthehes, one of thetl0nsm
chief of the Alcmaeonidee ; and of the other, Ifagoras, At‘u ^
a man of great quality, and highly in favour with the
Athenian nobility. Clydhenes applied himfelf to the
people, and endeavoured to gain their affedfion by in-
creafing their power as much as pofiible. Ifagoras per¬
ceiving that by this means his rival would get the bet¬
ter, applied to the Lacedemonians for affillance, revi¬
ving at the fame time the old dory of Megacles’s fa-
crilege, and infiding that Clydhenes ought to be ba- 53
nidied as being of the family of Megacles. CleomenesThe Spar¬
king of Sparta readily came into his meafures, and fud- tamfuppert
denly defpatched a herald to Athens w ith a declara-^a£oras *
tion of war in cafe all the Alcmeeonidm were not im¬
mediately banidied. The Athenians did not hefitate
to banidi their benefadlor Clydhenes, and all his rela¬
tions ; but this piece of ingratitude did not anfwer
their purpofe. Cleomenes entered Attica at the head
of a Spartan army ; and, arriving at Athens, con¬
demned to banifhment 700 families more than what had
been fent into exile before. Not content with this, he
wmuld have diffolved the fenate, and veded the go¬
vernment in 300 of the chief of Ifagoras’s fadlion.
This the Athenians wmuld by no means fubmit to; and
therefore took up arms, and drove Cleomenes and his
troops into the citadel, where they were befieged for
two days. On the third day Cleomenes furrendered,
on condition that all thofe who were in the citadel
fhould retire unmolefted. This, though agreed to, was
not performed by the Athenians. They fell upon fuch
as w7ere feparated from the army, and put them to
death without mercy. Among the number of thofe
{lain on this occafion was Timefitheus the brother of
Cleomenes himfelf. Sg
The Spartan king was no foener withdrawn from but with-
Athens, than he formed a ftrong combination in fa-outTuccefr,
vour of Ifagoras. He engaged the Boeotians to at¬
tack Attica on the one fide, and the Chalcidians on
the other, while he at the head of a powerful Spartan
army entered the territories of Eleufina. In this di-
ftrefs, the Athenians, not being able to cope with fo
many enemies at once, refolved to fuffer their terri¬
tories to be ravaged by the Chalcidians and Boeo¬
tians, contenting themfelves with oppofing the army
commanded by Cleomenes in perfon. But this pow¬
erful confederacy was quickly diffolved : the Corin¬
thians, who were allied with Cleomenes, doubting the
juftice of their caufe, returned home ; his other allies
likewife beginning to waver, and his colleague Arillon,
the other king of Sparta, differing in fentiments, Cleo-
A T T
[
2 ^
70
Boeotians
and Chal-
tans to re-
llore Hip-
j)ias.
Attica, menes was obliged to abandon the enterprife. The
Spartans and their allies being withdrawn, the Athe¬
nians took a fevere revenge of the Boeotians and Chal-
niu Ci^ians> totally routing their forces, and carrying off
cidians de- a great number of priioners. The prifoners taken in
feated. this war were put in irons, but afterwards fet at liber¬
ty on paying a ranfom of two minae per head. Their
fetters were, hotvever, hung up in the citadel; and
the Athenians confecrating the tenth of what they
had received lor ranfom, purchafed a ftatue, reprefent-
ing a chariot and four horfes, which they let up in the
portico of the citadel, with a triumphant infcription in
token of their viclory.
I hefe indignities roufing the Boeotians, they im¬
mediately vowed revenge, and engaged on their fide
the people of y£gina, who had an hereditary hatred
at the Athenians ; and while the latter bent all their
attention to the Boeotian war, the Aiginetans landing
71 a confiderable army, ravaged the coafts of Attica.
Attempt of But while the Athenians were thus employed againfi:
t ie ' par~ the Boeotians and AEginetans, a jealoufy fprung up on
the part of Lacedemon, which wTas never afterwards
eradicated. Cleomenes, after his unfuccefsful expedi¬
tion againlt Attica, produced at Sparta certain oracles
which he laid he had found in the citadel of Athens
while he was befieged therein : the purport of thefe
oracles was, that Athens would in time become a rival
to Sparta. At the fame time it was difeovered, that
Clyllhenes had bribed the priefiefs of Apollo to caufe
the Lacedemonians to expel the Pifillratidte from A-
thens ; which was facrificing their bell friends to’thofe
whom intereft obliged to be their enemies. This had
fuch an effedl, that the Spartans, repenting their folly
an expelling Hippias, fent for him from Sigeum, in
order to rcitore him to his principality : but this not
being agreed to by the reft of the ftates, they were for¬
ced to abandon .the enterprife, and Hippias returned to
Sigeum as he came.
Caufe of the About this time, too, Ariftagoras the Milefian ha-
war with ving fet on foot a revolt in Ionia againft the Perfian
king, applied to the Spartans for afliftance ; but they
declining to have any hand in the matter, he next ap¬
plied to the Athenians, and was by them fnrnifiied
with 20 ftiips under the command of Melanthus, a
nobleman univerfally efteemed. This rafii aftion coft
the Greeks very dear, as it brought upon them the
whole power of the P rfian empire 5. for no fooner did
the king of Perfia hear of the aftiftance fent from A-
thens to hA rebellious fubjefts, than he declared him-
lelf the fworn enemy of that city, and folemnly be-
fought God that he might one day have it in his power
to be revenged on them.
The Ionian war being ended, by the redu&ion of that
country again under the Perfian government, the king
of Perfia fent to demand earth and water as tokens of
lubmiflion from the Greeks. Moft of the iilanders
yielded to this command out of fear, and among the
reft the people of ALgina ; upon which the Athenians
accufed the inhabitants 01 this iiland of treachery to¬
wards Greece, and a war was carried on with them for
a long time. How it ended we are not informed ; but
its continuance ivas fortunate for Greece in general
as, by inuring them to war, and fea-affairs in particu¬
lar, it prevented the whole of the Grecian ftates Lora.
It
Perfia.
1 ] ATT
being fwallowed up by the Perfians who were now Attica,
about to invade them. _
Befides the difpleafure which Darius had conceived
againft the Athenians on account of the aftiftance they
had aftorded the lofiians, he was further engaged to an
expedition againft Greece by the intrigues of Plippias. 7.
Immediately on his returning unfuccefsfully from La- Hippias ap-
cedemon, as above related, Hippias pafled over into Plies t0 the
Afia, went to Artaphernes governor of the adjacent ^,er^ians•
provinces belonging to the Perfian king, and excited
him to make war upon his country, promifing to be
obedient to the Perfian monarch provided he was re-
ftored to the principality of A thens. Of this the A-
thenians being apprifed, fent ambaffadors to Arta¬
phernes, defiring leave to enjoy their liberty in quiet :
but that nobleman returned for anfwer, that if they
would have peace with the great king, they muft im¬
mediately receive Hippias; upon which anfwer the
Athenians refolved to afiilt the enemies of Darius as
much as poflible. The confequence of this refolution
was, that Darius commiftioned Mardonius to revenge
him of the infults he thought the Greeks had offered
him. But Mardonius having met with a ftorm at fea,
and other accidents which rendered him unable to dJ
any thing, Datis and Artaphernes the fon of Arta¬
phernes above-mentioned, were commiffioned to do
what he was to have done.
The Perfian commanders, fearing again to attempt They
to double the promontory of Athos, where their fleetinvade
had formerly fuffered, drew their forces into the plains Greece'
of Cilicia ; and palling from thence through the Cy¬
clades to Euboea, directed their courfe to Athens.
Their charge from Darius was to deftroy both Eretria
and Athens ; and to bring away the inhabitants, that
they might be at his difpofal. Their firft attempt was-Eretm de-
on Eretria, the inhabitants of which fent to Athens ^r°>'ed-
for aftiftance on the firft approach of the Perfian fleet.
The Athenians, with a magnanimity almoft unparallel¬
ed at fuch a jundlure, fent 4000 men to their aftift¬
ance ; but the Eretrians were fo much divided amongft
themfelves, that nothing could be refolved on. One
party among them was for receiving the Athenian fuc-
cours into the city ; another, for abandoning the city
and retiring into the mountains of Euboea ; while a
third fought to betray their country to the Perfians for
their own private intereft. Seeing things in this fitua-
tion, therefore, and that no good could poliibly be
done,^ one iEfchines, a man of great authority amono-
the Eretrians, generoully informed the Athenian com°
manders that they might return home. They accord¬
ingly retired to Oropus, by which means they efcaped
deftruftion : for Eretria being foon after betrayed to-
the Perfians, was pillaged, burnt, and its inhabitants
lold for ftaves.
On the news of this difafter the Athenians immedi¬
ately drew together all the forces they were able, which
after all amounted to no more than 9000 men. Thefe
with 1000 Platasans who afterwards joined them, were
commanded by ten general officers, who had 'equal'
power ; among whom were Miltiades, Ariftides, and
I hemiftocles, men of diftinguilhed valour and great
abilities. But it being generally imagined that fo
.mall a body of troops would be unable to refill the,
ct midab.e power of the Perfians, a meffenger was def-
patchecL
Attica.
76
ATT [23
patched to Sparta to entreat the immediate afliftance of
1 that ftate. He communicated his bufinefs to the fe-
nate in the following terms : “ Men of Lacedemon,
the Athenians defire you to affift them, and not to fuf*
fer the mod ancient of all the Grecian cities to be en-
flaved by the barbarians. Eretria is already deftroyed,
and Greece confequently weakened by the lofs of fo
confiderable a place.” The afliftance was readily grant¬
ed 5 but at the fame time the fuccours arrived fo {low¬
ly, that the Athenians were forced to fight without
7U them. In this memorable engagement in the plains of
Perfians de-Marathon, whither Hippias had condufted the Per¬
meated at pians the latter were defeated with the lofs of 6300
Marathon. whIle the Greeks loft only 192. The Perfians
being thus driven to their {hips, endeavoured to double
Cape Sunium, in ordered to lurpriie Athens itfelf be¬
fore the army could return : but in this they were pre¬
vented by Miltiades 5 who, leaving Ariftides with lOOO
men to guard the priioners, returned fo expeditioufly^
with the other 9000, that he was at tne temple of
Hercules, which was but a fmall way diftant, before
„ the barbarians could attack the city.
Integrity of After the battle, Ariftides difcharged the truft re-
Arillides. pofed in him with the greateft integrity. 1 hough there
■was much gold and filver in the Perfian camp, and
the tents and'ftiips they had taken were Hied with all
forts of riches, he not only forbore touching any thing
himfelf, but to the utmoft of his power prevented
others from doing it. Some, however, found means to
enrich themfelves j among the reft, one Callxas, couim-
german to Ariftides himfelf. This man being a torch-
bearer, and, in virtue of his office, having a fillet on
his head, one of the Perfians took him for a king, and,
falling down at his feet, difcovered to him a vaft quan¬
tity of gold hid in a well. Callias not only feized, and
applied it to his own ufe, but had the cruelty to kill
the poor man who difcovered it to him, that he might
not mention it to others $ by which infamous aftion he
entailed on his pofterity the name of Laccopluti or en-
78 riched by the well. .
Miltiades After the battle of Marathon, all the inhabitants of
ungrateful- piatgea were declared free citizens of Athens, and Mil-
bVthe A* tiades, Themiftocles, and Ariftides, were treated with
Athenians.' all poffible marks of gratitude and relpeft. This
howTever, was but very ffiortlived ; Miltiades propoied
an expedition againft the ifland of Paros, in which ha¬
ving being unfuccefsful, through what caufe is not well
known, he was, on his return, accufed, and condemned
to pay 50 talents, the whole expence of the fcheme *,
and, being unable to pay the debt, was thrown into
prifon, where he foon died of a wound received at
Paros. • r r n
If any thing can exceed the enormity ot Inch a pro¬
ceeding as this, it was the treatment Ariftides next re¬
ceived. Miltiades had propofed an expedition, which
had not proved fuccefsful* and in which he might pof-
fibly have had bad defigns } but againft Aiiftides not
fo much as a ftiadow of guilt was pretended. On the
contrary, his extraordinary virtue had procured him the
title of Juft, and he had never been found to fwerve
from the maxims of equity. His downfal was occa-
ffioned by the intrigues of Themiftocles; who being a
•man of great abilities, and hating Ariftides on acqount
.of the chara&er he defervedly bore among his country-
79 .r
As likewile
Ariftides.
2 ] A T T
men, took all opportunities of infinuating, that his Attics,
rival had in fa6t made himfelf mailer of Athens with- '
out the parade of guards and royalty. “ He gives
laws to the people (faid he) j and what conftitntes a
tyrant, but giving laws ?” In confequence of this
ftrange argument, a ftrong party was formed againft
the virtuous Ariftides, and it was refoved to baniffi
him for to years by the oftracifm. In this cafe, the
name of the perfon to be baniffied was written upon
a {hell by every one who defired his exile, and carried
to a certain place within the forum enolofed with rails.
If the number of {hells fo collefled exceeded 6000,
the fentence w^as intll&ed ; if not, it w^as otherwife.
When the agents of Themiftocles had fufficiently ac-
complifhed their purpofes, on a fudden the people ,
flocked to the forum, defiring the oftracifm. One of
-the clowms who had come from a borough in the coun¬
try, bringing a {hell to Ariftides, faid to him, a W rite
me Ariftides upon this.” Ariftides, furprifed, alk-
ed him if he knew any ill of that Athenian, or if he
had ever done him any hurt ? “ Me hurt! (faid the
fellow, no, I don’t fo much as know him ^ but I am
weary and fick at heart on hearing him everywhere
called the juft:' Ariftides, therefore, took the {hell,
and wrote his owrn name upon it j and wffien informed
that the oftracifm fell upon him, modeftly retired out
of the forum, faying, “ I befeech the gods that the
Athenians may never fee that day which ftiall force
them to remember Ariftides.”
After the battle of Marathon, the war with iEgina
was revived with great vigour \ but the Atginetans •
generally had the fuperiority, on account of their great So
naval power. Themiftocles obferving this, was conti-Tiiem;ft0j
nually exhorting his countrymen to build a fleet, not cles adyifes
only to make them an equal match for the ALginetans, dje buiki-
but alfo be caufe he was of opinion that the Perfians ‘"S" a
would foon pay them another vifit. At laft, he had
the boldnefs to propofe, that the money produced by
the filver mines, which the Athenians had hitherto di¬
vided among themfelves ftiould be applied to the build¬
ing of a fleet : which propofal being complied with,
100 gallevs were immediately put upon the flocks; and
this fudden increafe of their maritime power proved the
means of faving all Greece from flavery. _ sx
About three years after the banifliment of Ariftides, Xerxes in-
Xerxes king of Perfia fent to demand earth and water i vades
but Themiftocles defiring to make the breach withGreece*
that monarch ftill wider, put to deatlf the interpreter
for publiffiing the decree of the king of Perfia in the
language of the Greeks; and having prevailed upon
the feveral ftates to lay afide their animofities, and
provide tor their common fafety, got himfelf elefted
general of the Athenian army.
When the news arrived that the Perfians were ad¬
vancing to invade Greece by the ftraits of Thermo-
pyhe, and that they were for this purpofe tranfporting
their forces by fea, Themiftocles advifed his country¬
men to quit the city, embark on board their galleys,
and meet their enemies while yet at a diftance. This
they would by no means comply with •, for which reafon
Themiftocles put himfelf at the head of the army, and
having pined the Lacedemonians, marched towards
Tempe. Here, having received advice that the ftraits
of Therm op vise were forced, and that both Boeotia and
Theffaly
ATT
Attica.
82
Athens a-
bandoned
by its inha¬
bitants,
83
and de-
ftroyed by
the Per-
fians.
84
They are
totally de¬
feated at
Salamis.
Themifto-
cles ho¬
noured by
the Lacede¬
monians.
Theflaly had fubmitted to the Perfians, the army re¬
turned without doing any thing.
In this diftrefs the Athenians applied to the oracle
at Delphi: from whence they received at firft a very
fevere^ anfwer, threatening them with total deftruaion ;
but atter much humiliation, a more favourable one was
delivered, in which, probably by the diredion of The-
miitocles, they were promifed lafety in walls of wood.
This was by Themillocles and the greateft part of the
citizens interpreted as a command to abandon Athens,
and put all their hopes of lafety in their lleet. Upon
this, the opinion of Themiftocles prevailing, the great-
eit part began to prepare for this embarkation"; and
had money diftributed" among them by the council of
the Areopagus, to the mount of eight drachms per
man : but this not proving fufficient, Themiftocles
gave out that fomebody had ftolen the ftiield of Mi¬
nerva ; under pretence of fearching for which, he
feized on all the money he could find. Some, how¬
ever, there were who refufed to embark with the reft,
but raifed to themfelves fortifications of wood ; under-
ftanding the oracle in its literal fenfe, and refolving
to wait the arrival of the Perfians, and defend them¬
felves to the laft. In the mean time Ariftides w^as re¬
called, when the Athenians faw it their intereft, left he
Ibould have gone over to the Perfians and affifted them
with his advice.
The Perfians having advanced to Athens foon after
the inhabitants had deferted it, met with no oppofition
except from a few juft now mentioned ; who, as they
uxjuld hearken ^o no terms of accommodation, w^ere all
cut in pieces, and the city utterly deftroyed. Xerxes,
however, being defeated in a fea fight at Salamis, was
forced to fly with prodigious lofs. See Salamis. The¬
miftocles was for purfuing him, and breaking down
the bridge he had call over the Hellefpont; but this
advice being rejefted, he fent a trufty meffenger to
Xerxes, acquainting him that the Greeks intended to
break down his bridge, and therefore defired him to
make all the hafte he could, left by that means lie
fiiould be (hut up in Europe. According to Herodo¬
tus, he alfo advifed the Athenians to quit the purfuit
and return home, in order to build their ruined houfes.
This advice, though mifinterpreted by fome, was cer¬
tainly a very prudent one, as Xerxes, though once de¬
feated, was ftill at the head of an army capable of de-
ftroying all Greece ; and had he been driven to defpair
by finding himfelf fhut up or w'armly purfued, it was
impoftible to fay wdiat might have been the event. Af¬
ter this, Themiftocles formed a fcheme, for the aggran-
difement of Athens indeed, but a moft unjuft and in¬
famous one. It was, in Ihort, to make Athens miftrefs
of the fea, by burning all the Ihips except thofe belong¬
ing to that republic. He told his countrymen, that he
had fomething to propofe of great confequence, but
which could not be fpoken publicly : w-hereupon he
was defired to communicate it to Ariftides, bv whom
the propofal was rejeaed ; and Ariftides having'inform-
ed the Athenians that what Themiftocles had faid was
very advantageous but very unjuft, they defired him to
think no more of it.
W hen the fleet returned to Salamis, extraordinary
honours were paid to Themiftocles by the Lacedemo¬
nians. On his entering that city, they decreed him a
wreath of olives as the prize of prudence: prefented him
Vol. III. Part I.
f 233 1
ATT
wuth the moft magnificent chariot in Sparta : and when Attica.
he returned to Athens, he was efcorted by 500 horfe,   
an honour never paid to any ftranger but himfelf. On
his arrival at Athens, however, there were not want*-
ing fome who infinuated that the receiving fuch honours
from the Lacedemonians was injurious to the republic ;
but rhemiftocles, confiding in his innocence, treated
thefe clamours with contempt, and exhorted his coun¬
trymen to entertain no doubts of their allies, but ra¬
ther endeavour to preferve the great reputation they'
had acquired throughout all Greece.
The defeat of Xerxes at Salamis made Mardonius,
who was left to carry on the war by land, more ready
to treat with the Athenians than to fight them ; and
with this view he fent Alexander king of Macedon to
Athens to make propofals of alliance with that repub¬
lic, exclufively of all the other Grecian ftates. This gtf
propofal, however, was rejeaed; and the confequence Athens a
was, that Athens was a fecond time deftroyed, the fecond time
Spartans fending afliftance fo {lowly, that the Atheni-deftroyed-
ans were forced to retire to Salamis; but they were foon T,
freed from all apprehenfions by the total defeat and fian5 fk
death of Mardonius at Platrea; where Ariftides, andfeatedat
the body of troops under his command, diftinguiftied ^at8ea anc^
themfelves in a moft extraordinary manner. Mycale.
The fame day that the battle of Plattea was fought,
the Perfians were defeated in a fea-fight at Mycale in
Ionia, wherein it was allowed that the Athenians who
were there behaved better than any of the other Greeks;
but when it was propofed to tranfport the lonians into
Europe, that they might be in perfect fafety, and give
them the territories of fuch Grecian ftates as had fided
with the Perfians, the Athenians refufed to comply,
fearing the lonians would rival them in trade, or refufe
the obedience they ufed to pay them ; befides which,
they would then lofe the opportunity of plundering the
Perfians in cafe of any quarrel with Ionia. Before they a
returned home, however, the Athenians crofted over to
the Cherfonefus, and befieged Seftos. The fiege was SS
long and troublefome : but at laft the garrifon, being Seftos ta-
prefled with hunger, and having no hopes of relief kcn fotlie
divided themfelves into two bodies, and endeavoured ■‘^’•henians,
make their efcape ; but w'ere purfued, and all either
killed or taken. Oiba%us, one of their commanders
was facrificed to a Thracian god ; and the other, call¬
ed ArtyaBes, impaled alive, and his fon ftoned before
his face, becaufe he had rilled the fepulchre of Prote-
filaus.
After the vidlories at Plataea and Mycale, the Athe-They re¬
mans returned without any apprehenfion, and began to build their
rebuild their city in a more magnificent manner thancity*
before. Here they were no fooner arrived than a dif-
pute was ready to be commenced about the form of
government. The commons, with Themiftocles at
their head, were for a democracy ; to which Ariftides,
rather than hazard the raifing difturbances, confented!
It was therefore propofed, that every citizen ftrould*
have an equal right to the government; and that the
archons ftiould be chofen out of the body of the people,
without preference or diftinflion: and this propofal
being agreed to, put an end to all difeontents for the
prefent.
At this time alfo I hemiftocles propofed that the city
Athens ftiould be fortified in the beft manner pof-
fible, that it might not be liable to be again deftroyed,
G £ when
ATT . t ^
Attica, when the Perfians fhoulJ take it into their heads to
* invade Greece. At this propofal the Lacedemonians
90 were exceedingly alarmed 5 and therefore remonftrated,
Themifto- tliat aiould Athens once be itrongly fortified, and the
cks advifes perfians become pofiTeffed of it, it would be impofiible
Athens ^ to get them out of it again. At lall, feeing thefe al¬
and de- guments had no effeft, they abtolutely forbade the A-
ceivts the thenians to carry their walls any higher. 1 his com-
Spartans r mand gave great offence •, but Themiftocles, confidering
wiio oppofe the powfer of Sparta at that time, advifed the Athenians
to temporize j and to allure the ambafiadors, that they
fliould proceed no farther in their work, till, by an em-
baffy of their own, iatisfadfion fhould be given to their
allies. Being named ambaffador at his own deure to
Sparta, with fome other Athenians, I hemiilocles let out
alone, telling the fenate that it would be for the mtereft
of the ftate to delay fending the other ambaffadors as
long as pofiible. When arrived at Sparta, he put off
from time to time receiving an audience, on account of
his colleagues not being arrived: but in the mean time
the walls of Athens were building with the utmoft ex¬
pedition •, neither houfes nor fepulchres being ipared
for materials 5 and men, women, children, ftrangeis,
citizens, and fervants, working without intermiliion.
Of this the Lacedemonians having notice and the reft
of the Athenian ambaffadors being arrived, f hemi-
jftocles and his colleagues were fummoned before the
ephori, who immediately began to exclaim againft the
Athenians for their breach of promile. 1 hemiftocles
denied the charge: he faid his colleagues aflured nim
of the contrary : that it did not become a great ftate
to give heed to vague reports, but that deputies ought
to, be fent from Sparta to inquire into the truth of the
matter, and that he himfelf would remain as a hoftage,
to be anfwerable for the event. This being agreed to,
he engaged his affociates to advile the Athenians to
c commit the Spartan ambaffadors to fale cuftody till he
fhould be releafed ; after which he publicly avowed
the whole tranfaftion, took the icheme upon himlelf,
and told the Lacedemonians that “all things are law¬
ful for our country.” I he Spartans, feeing no reme¬
dy, concealed their refentment, and fent 1 hemiltocles
91 home in lafety.
Makes the rhe next year, being the laft of the 75c * Olympiad,
Pyrams the Themiftocles obferving the inconvenience of the port
poit of Phalerum, thought of making the Pynuss the port of
S* Athens. This he did not at firft think proper to men¬
tion publicly } but having fignified to the people that
he had fomething of importance to communicate, they
appointed Xanthippus and Ariftides to judge oi his
propofal. They readily came into his meafures, and
told the people drat what Themiftocles propofed would
be of the utmoft advantage to the ftate, at the fame
time that it might be performed with eafe. Upon this
they were defired to lay the matter before the fenate j
who coming unanimoufly into their mealures, ambuiiH-
dors were defpatched to Sparta to inimuate theie how
proper it would be for the Greeks to have fome great
port, where a fleet might always watch the defigns of
the Perfians •, and thus having prevented any umbrage
from their firft undertakings, the work was let about
with fuch expedition, that it was finiftjed before the
Lacedemonians knew well what they were about.
At this time al!o the fovereignty of the fea was
transferred from Sparta to Athens, through the haugh-
4. 1 ATT
ty behaviour of Faufanias the Lacederhonian. He Attics,
had commanded at Plataea, and ftiil enjoyed the fu- v 1
preme authority in the war which was all this time 9^
carrying on againft the Perfians •, but being elated wTith ®
his "fuccefs at Plataea, and having entered into a trea- fta^ransfer-
fonable correfpondence with the enemy, he treated the red to
captains under his command with the greateft haugh- Athens,
tinefs, giving the preference to the Spartans in fuch a
manner that the reft of the Greeks could no longer bear
his infolence. On the contrary, Ariftides, and Cimon
the fon of Miltiades, who commanded the Athenians,
by their obliging behaviour gained the favour of every
body; fo that the allies, having publicly affronted Pau-
fanias, put themfelves under the protection of the A-
thenian republic ; and thenceforward the Athenians,
and not the Lacedemonians, had the fupreme com¬
mand. 93
* The Greeks being nowr fenfible that they would al- Ariftides
ways have occafion to be on their guard againft the taxes
Perfians, and that it was neceffary to eftablifti a fund
by a common taxation of all the ftates, Ariftides was traordiiiary
pitched upon as the only perlbn that could be trufted applaufe.
with the power of allotting to each of the ftates its
proper quota. This difficult talk he undertook, and
executed in a manner unparalleled in the annals of hi-
ftory. All parties were pleafed, and his taxation was
ftyled the happy lot of Greece. The grofs amount of it
w:as 450 talents. 94
It now came to the turn of Themiftocles to experi-Themilto-
ence the ingratitude of his countrymen. His fervices kaniHi-
had been fo effential, that the treatment he received ^
may perhaps be a fufficient excufe for modern patriots
when they conned their own intereft with the fervice
of their country. Themiftocles had plainly faved the
ftate from ruin by his advice; he had diftinguilhed him¬
felf bv his valour ; had rendered Athens, by his policy,
fuperior to the other ftates of Greece ; and entirely
fubverted the Lacedemonian Icheme of pow er. Yet
notwithftanding all this, he was baniflied by the oftra-
cifm, without the fmalleft crime pretended, unlefs that
he was hated by the Lacedemonians, and that he had
erefted a temple, near his own houfe, dedicated to
Diana, the giver of the bejl coiufel; intimating that he
himfelf bad" given the belt counfel for the faiety both
of Athens and of all Greece, which was no more than
the truth. Nay, he w as not only driven out of Athens,,
but out of all Greece ; fo that he was forced to feek
Ihelter from the king of Perfia, againft whom he had
fought with fo much valour. That monarch gave him
a gracious reception ; and he Was never recalled, be-
caufe the Greeks had no occafion for his fervices.
The war with Perfia was not yet difeontinued ; the Slicc^| 0I
Greeks found their advantage in plundering and en-cimon
riching themfelves with the fpoils of the king of Per- againft the.
fia’s fubjechs. For this reafon, in the end of the 77th FtrPians*
Olympiad, they equipped a navy, under a pretence of
relieving fuch of the Greek cities in Afia as were fub-
jeft to the Perfians. Of this fleet Cimon, the fon of
Miltiades by the daughter of the king of Thrace, was
appointed commander in chief. He had already tafted.
the juftice and generofity of his countrymen, having
been thrown into prifon for his father’s fine, fiom which
he wras releafed by Callias, whom his filler Elpinice
married on account of his great wealth procured by no.
very honourable means.. He accepted cf the command,
however,
Attica.
96
He fubclues
the Cherfo-
nefus.
97
Makes
Athens]
irreliftible
at fea.
v 98
He is
banilhed.
ATT [ 2
liotvevef, and gained fuch immenfe booty in this ex¬
pedition, that the Athenians were thereby enabled to
lay the foundation of thofe long extended walls which
united the port to the city. The foundation was laid
in a moorifh ground ; fo that they were forced to fink
it very deep, and at a great expence ; but to this Ci-
mon himfelf contributed out of his own fiiare of the
fpoils, which was very confiderable. He alfo adorned
the forum with palm-trees, and beautified the academy
with delightful w'alks and fountains.
The Perfians having foon after this expedition in¬
vaded Cherfonefus, and with the afiiftance of the Thra¬
cians made themfelves mailers of it, Cimon was fent
again!! them in a great hurry. He had only four Ihips;
but neverthelefs with thefe he took 13 of the Perfian
galleys, and reduced the whole of the Cherfpnefus.
After this he marched again!! the Thracians, who re¬
volting again!! the Athenians, had made themfelves
mafiers of the gold mines lying between the rivers
Nyffus and Strymon. The Thracians Were quickly ob¬
liged to yield ; after which the Athenians fent a great
colony to Amphipolis, a city of Thrace, which for
fome time made a confiderable figure, but afterwards
attempting to penetrate into the country of the Edones,
great part of them were deflroyed.
Cimon alfo fell upon the following expedient to
make Athens irrefiifible at fea by the other Hates of
Greece. Many of the Greek Hates, by virtue of A-
riilides’s taxation, were bound to furnifli men ‘and gal¬
leys as well as to pay the tax for their fupport. But
when they law themfelves out of danger from the Per¬
fians, rnofi of them were very unwilling to furnifii their
quota of men. This the Athenian generals being of¬
fended with, were for having recourfe to force ; but
Cimon permitted fuch as were defirous of Haying at
home to do fo, and accepted a fum of money in lieu
of a galley completely manned. By this means he in¬
ured the Athenians, whom he took on board his galleys,
to hardfliip and difcipline} while the allies who re¬
mained at home became enervated through idlenefs,
and from being confederates, dwindled into tributaries,
and almofi flaves. In the lafl year of the 77th Olym¬
piad, Cimon was fent to affifi the Lacedemonians
again!! their Helotes, who had revolted from them. In
this he was attended with his ufual fuccefs •, but, fome
time after, the Lacedemonians being engaged in the
fiege of Ithome, fent again to the Athenians for fuc-
cour, and Cimon was a fecond time fent to their relief}
but the Spartans having received a fufficient fupply of
troops from other quarters before the arrival of the A-
thenian general, he and his men were difmiffed without
doing any thing. This grrevoufly offended the people
of Athens, who thenceforward hated not only the La¬
cedemonians, but all their own citizens who wTere
thought to be friends to that Hate.
It wras not pofi'rble, however, that any perfon who
had ferved the Hate fhould efcape banilhment at A-
thens. Cimon had gained great wealth both to the
public and to himfelf. In his public charadler he had
behaved wfith unimpeached honelly, and as a private
citizen he dedicated his wealth to the mofl excellent
purpofes. He demolifhed the enclofures about his
grounds and gardens, permitting every one to enter
and take what fruits they pleafed ; he kept an open
table, where both rich and poor were plentifully en-
tertain«d. If he met a citizen in a tattered fuit of
Attica..
35 1 A T T
clothes, he made fome of his attendants exchange with
him; or if the quality of the perfon rendered that
kindnefs unfuitable, he caufed a fum of money to be
privately given him. " All this, how’ever, was not fuf¬
ficient : he did not concur with every meafure of the
commonalty ; and therefore the popular party deter¬
mined not to banifli him, but to put him to death.
The crime laid to his charge was, that by prefents from
the Macedonians he wras prevailed upon to let flip a
manifefi opportunity of enlarging his conquells, after
taking from the Perfians the gold mines of Thrace.
To this accufation Cimon replied, that to the utmol!
of his powTer he had profecuted the wrar againfi the
Thracians, and other enemies of the Hate of Athens ;
but that, it was true, he had not made any inroads into
Macedonia, becaufe he did not imagine he was to a£!
as a public enemy of mankind, and becaufe he was
flruck wdth refped! for a nation modefi in their car¬
riage, jufl in their dealings, and firidlly honourable in
their behaviour towards him and the Athenians : that
if h;s countrymen looked upon this as a crime, he
muH abide their judgment ; but, for his part, he could
never be brought to think fuch condudl amifs. Elpi-
nice, Cimon’s fiHer, ufed all her intereH in his behalf,
and amongfi others fpoke to Pericles the celebrated
flatefman and orator. He was indeed Cimon’s rival,
and had no doubt aflifled in flirring up the profecution
againH him ; but he did not defire his death : and there¬
fore, though appointed to accufe him, Pericles fpoke
in fuch a manner that it plainly appeared he did not
think him guilty ; and, in confequence of this lenity,
Cimon wus only baniflied by the ollracifm. ^
The Athenian pow'er was nowr rifen to fuch a height,
that all the other Hates of Peloponnefus looked upon
this republic with a jealous eye, and were continually'
watching every opportunity of making war upon it
when the Hate was engaged in troublefome affairs, and
feemed to be lefs able to refin. Thefe attempts, how’¬
ever, fo far from leflening, generally contributed to in-
creafe, the power of the Athenians ; but in the year
before Chrifl 458, the republic entered into a war w ith War be-
Sparta, ,which was fcarce put an end to but by the de-lween
Arudlion of the city of Athens. For this war, there
w7as no recent provocation on the part of the Spartans.
They had fent a great army to afilil the Dorians againH
the Phocians, and the Athenians took this opportunity
to revenge themfelves of former quarrels. Having
therefore drawn in the Argives and Theffalians to be
their confederates, they polled themfelves on the iflh-
mus, fo that the Spartan army could not return with¬
out engaging them. The Athenians and their con¬
federates amounted to 74,000 and the Spartans to
11,500. The Spartan general, however, not very will¬
ing to hazard a battle, turned afide to Tanagra, a city
in Bceotia, where fome of the Athenians vrho inclined
to arillocracy entered into a correfpondence with him.
But before their defigns w’ere ripe for execution, the
Athenian army marched wdth great expedition to Ta- I0?
nagra, fo that a battle became inevitable. When tlmdefeated”5
armies were drawn up in order of battle, Cimon, pre-
fented himfelf before his countrymen in complete ar¬
mour, and went to take poll among thofe of his own
tribe, but the popular party railed fuch a clamour
againH him, that he was forced «to retire. Before he
departed, however, he exhorted Euthippus and the reH
of his friends to behave in fuch a manner that they
G g 2 might
99
A T T [2
Auica. might wipe off the afperfion thrown upon him, as if he
had defigned to betray his country’s caule to the La¬
cedemonians. Euthippus defired him to leave his ar¬
mour, which he did ; and a battle enfuing, the Athe¬
nians were defeated with great lofs, and Euthippus with
the reft of Cimon’s friends wrere all killed in defence
of his armour which they had furrounded. Another
engagement loan followed, wherein both armies fuffer-
ed fo much, that they were glad to conclude a (hoit
truce, that each might have time to recruit their Ihat-
I0I tered forces.
They gain The fcale of fortune now feemed to turn in favour
great ad- of the Athenians. The Thebans, wrho had been de-
ovei^the Pr^vec^ t;^e c°mrrtand of Bceotia on account of their
Spartans having fided with Xerxes, were now reftored to it by
the Lacedemonians. At this the Athenians w7ere lb
dilpleafed, that they fent an army under Myronidesthe
fon of Callias into Boeotia to overturn all that had been
done. That general was met by the Thebans and their
allies, who compofed a numerous and well-difciplined
army. Neverthelefs, though the Athenians army was
but an handful in comparifon of their enemies, Myro-
, nides gained a complete victory over the allies, in fome
fenfe more glorious than either that of Marathon or
Plataea. In thefe battles they had fought again!! effe¬
minate and ill-difciplined Perfians, but now they en¬
countered and defeated a fuperior army compofed of
the braveft Greeks. After this victory, Myronides
marched to Tanagra 5 which he took by ftorm, and ra¬
zed to the ground : he then plundered Boeotia j defeat¬
ed another army which the Boeotians had drawn to¬
gether to oppofe him : then fell upon the Locrians ;
and, having penetrated into Theflaly, chaftifed the in¬
habitants of that country far having revolted from the
Athenians j and from thence returned to Athens laden
with riches and glory.
The next year Tolmides the Athenian admiral in¬
vaded Laconia, where he made himfelf mafter of feve-
ral places •, and on the back of this, Pericles invaded
Peloponnefus with great fuccefs, burning, fpoiling, or
IOj taking, whatever places he attempted. On his return
Cimon re- he found the people greatly out of humour on account
called. 0f Cimon’s baniftiment; fo he was immediately re¬
called.
Cimon was no fooner returned than he fell to his old
employment of plundering the Perfians 5 and, accord¬
ing to Plutarch, he had now nothing lefs in view than
the conqueft of the wdiole Perfian empire. The Per-
lian monarch finding he could have no reft, at laft fent
orders to Artabazus and Megabizus, his commanders,
to conclude a treaty 5 which wTas done on the following
conditions : 1. That the Greek cities in Alia Ihould be
free, and governed by their own laws. 2. That the Per¬
fians ftaould fend no army within three days journey of
the fea. 3. That no Perfian Ihip of war fhould fail be-
tw’een Thefalis and Gyrene, the former a city of Pam-
phylia, and the latter of Lycia.
His death. While this treaty was carrying on Cimon died, whe¬
ther of ficknefs or of a wound he had received is not
known j and after his death the Athenian affairs be¬
gan to fall into confufion. It vras now the misfortune
of this-ftate to be alike hated by her enemies and allies}
the confequence of which was, that the latter were per¬
petually revolting whenever they thought they had an
opportunity of doing fo with impunity. The Mega-
36] ATT
rians, at this time, who had been long under the pro- Attica,
tectlon or dominion of Athens, thought proper for —-v-——
fome reafon or other to difclaim all dependence on
their former proteftors, and have recourfe to Sparta,
with which ftate they entered into a ftribl alliance.
This the Athenians revenged by ravaging the country
of the Megarians } which loon brought on a renewal
of the Lacedemonian war that had been for a little time
fufpended. Pericles, however, procured the return of
the firft Lacedemonian army, without bloodfhed, by
bribing Chandrides the young king of Sparta’s tutor.
In the winter, Tolmides refolved to undertake an expe¬
dition into Bceotia with a fmall body of troops : which
defign he put in execution contrary to the advice of
Pericles •, and his raihnefs was foon punifhed by his own
death and the total defeat of his army. Notwithftand- IG^
ing this misfortune, however, Pericles loon after inva-A thirty
dec! and reduced Euboea: and the Lacedemonians, years truce
finding it was not for their intereft to carry on the^^J*1^
war, concluded a truce with the Athenians for 30n;‘an5>
years.
About this time Pfammiticus, king of Egypt, fent
by wray of prefent to the people of Athens 40,000
buihels of wheat} which proved a great misfortune to
the city: for Pericles, out of fpite to Cimon, who had Cruelty of
children by an Arcadian woman, had preferred a law Pericles,
whereby the Athenians of the half blood were disfran-
chifed } and this law, on account of the diftribution
of the corn above-mentioned, was profecuted with fuch
feverity, that no lefs than 5000 peribns, who till then
had been confidered as free-men, were fold for Haves. Nurn^er 0f
This piece of cruelty has been of great fervice to the the Athe-
critics, as by means of it we know exactly the numbernian citi-
of Athenian citizens, which at this time amounted tozcns*
no more than 14,040 perfons, though Athens was
now aiming at no lefs than erefting an univerfal mo¬
narchy.
Six years after the conclufion of the peace between
Athens and Sparta, a w7ar broke out between the Sa¬
mians and Milefians about the city of Priene, feated
under Mount Mycale in Ionia. How this war came to
affe<ft the Athenians is not certainly known} but, fome-
how or other, this republic was induced to take the part
of the Milefians} and the ifland of Samos was reduced
by Pericles, who eftablifhed there a democracy, and
left an Athenian garrifon. He wras no fooner gone>simI ^rc
however, than the Samians difliking their new formducedby
of government, drove out the garrifon he had left} but Pericles.
Pericles quickly returning, befieged and took their ci¬
ty, demolilhed their walls, and fined them of the whole
expence of the war } part of which he obliged them to
pay down, and took hoftages for the remainder. When
Pericles returned, he procured himfelf to be appointed
to pronounce the public oration in honour of thofe who
fell : which he did with fuch eloquence, that wEen he
came down from the pulpit the women gathered about
him, took him by the hand, and crowned him with
garlands. _ i03
A little after this commenced the war between the War be-
Corcyrians and Corinthians, which by degrees brought twren the
the Athenians into thofe engagements that proved the^°^cJnans
ruin of their ftate. The caufes of this war were the^jHn^rin"
following. An inteftine war breaking out in the little
territory of Epidamnum, a city of Macedonia found¬
ed by the Corcyrians, one party called in to their af-
fiftance
Attica.
109
Corcyrians.
ATT
filtance the Illyrians, and the other the Corcyrians.
The latter neglefting the matter, Corinth was applied
to, as the Corcyrians were a colony from that place.
The Corinthians, partly out of pity to the Epidam-
nians, and partly out of fpleen to the Corcyrians, fent
a very great fleet to the affilfance of the former, by
which means that party which had applied to Corinth
was thoroughly eilablifhed. This being refented by
the Corcyrians, they fent a fleet to Epidamnura to fup-
port the exiles j and accordingly this fleet began to
acd offenfively on its entering the port, the chief com¬
manders having inflruflions to propofe terms of ac¬
commodation, to which the Corinthians would by no
means agree. The next year the Corcyrians defeated
at fea the Corinthians and their allies, and took Epi-
damnum by itorm j after which they wafted the terri¬
tories of the allies of the Corinthians, which greatly
exafperated the latter. At Corinth, therefore, they
began to make great preparations for carrying on the
war, and prefled their confederates to do the fame, that
they might be in a condition to retrieve the honour
they had loft, and humble this ungrateful colony which
had thus infulted her mother city.
The Corcyrians were no fooner acquainted with
thefe proceedings, than they defpatched ambafladors to
Athens with their complaints; and thefe were quickly
followed by others from Corinth on the fame errand.
At firft the people of Athens inclined to favour the
Athens Me? t|iey foon changed their minds, and
with the t00{£ part with the Corcyrians : they contented them-
felves, however, with entering into a defenfive alliance
with that little ftate, whereby they promifed to afiift
each other, in cafe either party fhould be attacked ;
and in confequence of this treaty, they furnifhed the
Corcyrians with ten gallevs, under Lacedremonius the
fon of Cimon, with whom were joined Diotenes and
Proteus as colleagues.
As foon as the feafon of the year permitted, the
Corinthians failed for the coaft of Corcyra with a fleet
of 150 (hips, under the command of Xenoclides, af-
ftfted by four other Corinthian admirals ; each fqua-
dron of their allies being commanded by a chief of
their own. The Corcyrian and Athenian fleet amount¬
ed to 120, but the Athenians had orders to give as
little afliftance as poflible. The aftion was very briflc
for fome time : the Corcyrian right wing broke the
left of the Corinthian fleet •, and forcing fome of the
fliips on fliore, landed, pillaged their camp, and made
a great number of them prifoners: on the other hand,
the Corinthian ftiips in the right wing beat the Cor-
cyrian fliips there, they being but very faintly aflifted
by the Athenians, till the latter were at laft obliged to
defend themfelves, which they did fo well, that the
Corinthians were glad to retire. The next day pre¬
parations were made on both fides for another engage¬
ment ; but 20 ftiips coming from Athens to the aflift¬
ance of the Corcyrians, the Corinthians declined the
combat.
As foon as the Corcyrian wrar broke out, the Athe¬
nians fent orders to the citizens of Potidtea to demolifh
a part of their wall, to fend back the magiftrates they
had received from Corinth, and to give hoftages for
their own behaviour. Potidaea was a town in Mace¬
donia, founded by the Corinthians, but at that time
in alliance with the Athenians.—Perdiccas king of
[ 237 1
ATT
no
Potidtea be
iieged by
the Athe¬
nians.
Macedon, who hated the Athenians, took this cppor- Attua.
tunity to perfuade the Potidaeans to revolt. Accor-w—
dingly they fent ambafladors to Athens to entreat the
revocation of thefe orders •, but at the fame time fent
deputies to Sparta, to join with the Corinthians and
Megarians in their complaints againft the Athenians.
The Athenians upon this fent a confiderable fleet
againft Potidaea, under the command of Calias, a no¬
bleman of great courage. The Corinthians on their
part defpatched one Arifteus with a confiderable body
of troops to the afliftance of that city. An engage¬
ment following, the Athenians were viftors, but with
the lofs of their general. Phormio, who fucceeded in
the command, inverted the city in form, and ftiut up
its port with his fleet ■, but the Potidteans dreading to
fall into the hands of the Athenians, made a nioft ob-
ftinate defence, while in the mean time they warmly
folicited the Corinthians to perform their promifes, and
eneasre the reft of the ftat&s of Pelononnelus in their
quarrel. in
The Lacedemonians having heard what the Corin-The Spar-
thians and other little ftates of Greece bad to faytdnsde-
againft the Athenians, fent ambafladors to the latter, f^a“
demanding reparation for the injuries, with orders, in t;ie injuries
cafe of a refufal, to declare war. The terms demand-ofl'ered to
ed were, in the firft place, the expulflon of thofe A-1'16 flateso^
thenians who were allied to the family of Megacles foGree''c‘
often mentioned. This article was on account of Pe¬
ricles ; for he was the fon of Xanthippus the Athenian
commander at Mycale by Agarifte niece to the famous
Ciylthenes, who corrupted the prieftefs of Apollo in
order to procure the expulfion of the Pififtratidte.
They next infilled that the fiege of Potidtea ihould be
raifed ; thirdly, that the inhabitants of iEgina fhould
be left free 5 and laftly, that a decree made againft the
Megarians, whereby they were forbid the ports and
markets of Athens, ftiould be revoked, and all the
Grecian ftates under the dominion of Athens fet at li¬
berty. > .112
Thefe terms the Athenians were perfuaded by Peri-Their terms
cles to reject. The arguments ufed by him were in fub-rejected by
ftance as follows : That whatever the Lacedemonians of
might pretend as to the juftice of the complaints of the
allies, the true ground of this refentment was the pro-
fperity of the Athenian republic, which the Spartans
always hated, and now fought an opportunity of hum¬
bling : that it muft be owing to the Athenians them¬
felves if this defign fucceeded, becaufe for many rea-
fons Athens was better able to engage in a long and
expenfive war than the Peloponnefians. He then laid
before the people an exadft account of their circum-
ftances 5 putting them in mind, that the treafure
brought from Delos amounted to 1 o,oco talents j and
that though 4000 of thele had been expended on the
ftately gate of their citadel, yet that 6000 were ftill in
hand ; that they were alfo entitled to the fubfidies
paid by the confederate ftates; that the ftatues of their
gods, the Perfian fpoils, &c. were worth immenfe
fums 5 that private men were arrived at vaft fortunes;
and that, confidering their trade by fea, they had a
certain annual increafe of wealth ; that they had on
foot an army of 12,000 men, and in their colonies and
garrifons 17,000 ; that their fleet conftfted of 300 fail;
whereas the Peloponnefians had no fuch advantages.
For thefe reafons he propofed as the moft feafible and
likewife
A T T [ 238 j ATT
Attica, hkewiie the moft equitable fatisfa£lion that could be
: V giveib ^lat they would reverfe their decree againft Me-
gara, if the Lacedemonians would allow free egrefs
fuid regrefs in their city to the Athenians and their al¬
lies 5 that they would leave all thofe ftates free who
were free at the making of the lafl peace with Sparta,
provided the Spartans would alio leave all Hates free
who were under their dominion •, and that future dif-
putes fhould be fubmitted to arbitration. In cafe thefe
offers fhould be rejected, he advifed them to hazard a
war telling them, that they ihould not think they ran
that hazard for a trifle, or retain a fcruple in their
minds as if a fmall matter moved them to it, becaufe
on this fmall matter depended their fafety, and the re¬
putation of their conitancy and refolution ; whereas, if
they yielded in this, the next demand of the Lacede¬
monians would be of a higher nature 5 for having once
difcovered that the Athenians were fubjedt to fear,
they wmuld thence conclude that nothing could be de¬
nied to Sparta j whereas a ftiff denial in this cafe would
teach them to treat Athens for the future on terms of
equality. He enforced thefe reafons by fhowing that
their anceftors had always added on the like principles,
and in all cafes preferred their glory to their eafe, and
their liberty to their poffeffions.
Attempt of This was the origin of the Peloponnefian wrar, which
the The- makes fo great a figure in ancient hiftory. The im-
PA -eT mediate preliminary to general hoflilities was an at¬
tempt of the 'Thebans to furprife Plateea. With this
view they fent Eurymachus with 300 Thebans to affilt
fuch of the Plataeans as they had drawm over to their
intereft, in making themfelves mailers of the place.
In this defign they fucceeded very well at fiilt, the
Plataeans, who had promiled to open the gates, keeping
their words exadtly, fo that they were inftantly in pof-
feffion of the city. The other party, however, per¬
ceiving how fmall a number they had to contend with,
unanimoufly rofe upon them, killed a great many,
and forced the reft to furrender themfelves prifoners
of war. Another party came from Thebes to aflift
their countrymen 5 but they arrived too late : the Pla¬
taeans, however, forefeeing that they would wafte their
country, promifed to reieafe their prifoners if they
114 -would forbear to fpoil their lands. On this the The-
maflacreel. ^aus wit^drew 5 and the Plateeans cruelly put to death
all their prifoners, to the number of 180, with Eury¬
machus their chief, alleging that they had not pro¬
mifed their reieafe but in cafe of peace. The Athe¬
nians, as foon as they had notice of this attempt of
the Thebans, caufed all the Boeotians in their terri¬
tory to be arrefted 5 and when they underftood how
the Platseans had delivered themfelves, they fent a
great convoy of provifions to that city, and a numerous
body of troops to effort their wives and children to
Athens.
Account of Both parties nowr prepared in earneft for war, both
the allies on ^ent airff ardors to the Perfians, and both fought to
both fides. r°ufe their allies. Moll of the Greek ftates inclined to
favour the Spartans, becaufe they a£ted on this occa-
fion as the deliverers of Greece, and becaufe they either
had been, or feared that they would be, opprefled by
the Athenians. With the Spartans joined all the Pe-
loponnefians, except the Argives and part of the A-
chaeans *, without Peloponnefus, the Megarians, Pbo-
cians, Locrians, Boeotians, Ambraciots, Leucadians,
2
and Anacfonans, declared themfelves on their fide. On Attica,
the. other hand, the Chians, Lefbians, Platmans, Mef- "a*
ffnians, Acarnanians, Corcynans, Eacynthians, Cari-
ans, Dorians, Thracians, moil part of the iflands, and
all the Cyclades excepting Melos and Thera, with Eu¬
boea and Samos, joined the Athenians. IT^
The Peloponnefian war commenced 431 years before Firft year
Chi iff. The Lacedemonian army was affembled at of the war.
the ifthmus, and confifted of no lefs than 6o,oco men ;
but before Archidamus king of Sparta, who com¬
manded in chief, would enter Attica, he defpatched a
herald to Athens. The herald was fent back without
any anfvver, by which all hopes of peace w'ere cut off.
As Archidamus -was a friend to Pericles, the latter ap¬
prehended that he might forbear plundering his eftates.
With this he immediately acquainted the people ; tell¬
ing them at the fame time, that in fuch a cafe he made
a preffnt of his lands to the public. He then advifed
the citizens to take no care ot defending their country-
feats, but to attend only to the city, bufy thernfflves
in the equipping of (hips, and fettle a thorough refo-
lution not to be intimidated with the firft evils of war. •.
'This propofal the Athenians readily complied with, and
appointed Pericles commander in chief, with nine more
generals to aflift him.
The firft year, the Spartan army committed great
ravages in Attica, Pericles having no force capable of
oppoling it, and refufing to engage on difadvantageous
terms, notwithftanding prodigious clamours were railed
againft him by his countrymen. The allies, however,
had no great reafon to boaft of the advantages they
gained this year : an Athenian fleet ravaged the coafts
of Peloponnefus ; another infefted the Locrians, drove
out the inhabitants of AEgina, and repeopled the ifland
from Athens. They likewiff reduced Cephalenia, and
fome towns in Acarnania and Leucas which had de¬
clared for the Lacedemonians; and in the autumn,
when the Peleponnefians were retired, Pericles entering
the Megarian territory, did all the milchief that could
be expedled from a provoked enemy.
The fpring of the ffcond year was very fatal to A-Second
thens by a dreadful plague which deftroyed great num-year. A
bers of the citizens, rvhile the Peloponneftans undertlreadfu!
Archidamus wafted every thing abroad. In the midft^^l^af
of thefe diftreffes, however, Pericles retained his cou-"
rage, and would fuffer none of his countrymen to ftir
without the city either to effape the plague or infeft
the enemy. He caufed a great fleet to be equipped,
on board which he embarked 4000 foot and 300 horfe,
with which he failed to Epidaurus. Upon this the
enemy withdrew their forces out of Attica ; but Peri¬
cles was able to do no great matter on account of the
plague, which made lo great havock among his men,
that he brought back to Athens only 15CO of the 4000
he carried out. By this misfortune the Athenians were Athenianj
thrown into defpair j they immediately fued for peace, fue for
which the Spartans were now too proud to grant j thenPeace*
turning their rage upon Pericles, they difmiffed and
fined him. Soon after, Pericles’s children and almoft
all his relations died of the plague j fo that this great
ftatefman was overwhelmed with melancholy, and for
fome time (hut himfelf up from public view : at laft,
through the perfuafiqn of Alcibiades and fome others,
he fhowed himfelf to the people. They received him
with acclamations, and at his requeft repealed the un¬
juft
1
.ATT
[
Attica.
1x9
Perioes re-
quefts the
repeal of his
law.
120
Third year.
Pericles
dies.
121
Platgea
beheged.
122
Fourth
year. Def-
perate at¬
tempt of
the Platae-
ans.
123
Fifth year.
Mitylene,
&c. taken
by the A-
thenians.
juft law lie had made, whereby, all Athenians of the
half blood wei'e disfranchifed, and then reinftated him
in all his former honours. Hereupon he inrolled the
only fon he had left, who before had been counted a
baftard on account of his mother being a Milefian.
This year alfo the iiland of Zacynthus was wafted
by the Peloponneftans j and the city of Potidsea fub-
mitted to the Athenians, after the inhabitants had been
driven to fuch extremity as to feed upon human fleftu
The Athenians permitted the men to depart with one
garment, and the women with two j after which, the
town was repeopled by a colony from Athens.
The third year of the Peloponnefian war was re¬
markable for the death of the great Pericles, who was
taken off by the plague. Platgea alfo was befteged by
Archidamus; but without fuccefs, even though the
greateft part of it was fet on fire 5 the Plataeans x-efol-
ving to i’ubmit to every kind of mifery rather than
abandon the Athenian caufe. In the end, therefore,
the king of Sparta was obliged to turn the fiege into a
blockade 5 and having thrown up an intrenchment for¬
tified with a deep ditch, he left a fufficient number of
men to guard his lines, and then returned back to Pe-
loponnefus.
The following fummer, the Peloponnefians under the
■command of Archidamus invaded Attica, where they
wafted every thing with fire and fword j at the fame
time the whole ifland of Lefbos, except the diftrift of
Methymna, revolted from the Athenians, who here¬
upon invefted the city of Mitylene. All this time the
city of Platsea rvas blocked up by the Peloponnefians 5
and its inhabitants being now greatly diftrefl'ed for want
of provifions, the garrifon, confifting of 400 natives and
80 Athenians, came to the defperate reiolution of for¬
cing a paffage through the enemy’s lines. When they
came to attempt this, however, many of them were in¬
timidated : but 300 perfifted in their refolution ; and
of thefe 212 got iafe through and marched to Athens,
but the reft xvere compelled to retire.
In the beginning of the fifth year, the Peloponne¬
fians fent 40 (hips to the relief of Mitylene ; but with¬
out effeft, for the place had furrendered before the
fleet could come to its affiftance. Paches, the Athe¬
nian commander, likewife chafed away the Peloponne¬
fian fleet upon its arrival , and returning to Lefbos
fent the Lacedemonian minifter, whom he found in Mi¬
tylene, together with a deputation, to Athens. On
their arrival, the Lacedemonian was immediately put
to death ; and in a general affembly of the people, it
was refolved, that all the Mitylenians who were ar¬
rived at man’s eftate ftioukl be put to death, and the
women and children fold for flaves. The next day,
however, this cruel decree was reverfed, and a galley
fent with all expedition to countermand the bloody or¬
ders. This laft veffel, however, could not get before
tlxe other : but Paches, being a man of great humani¬
ty, had taken a day to confider on the orders he haft
received ; during which time the laft mentioned galley
arrived ; in confequence of which, only about 1000 of
the moft forward rebels were put to death ; the walls
of the city were alfo demoliftied, their fhips taken away,
and.their lairds divided among the Athenians, who let
them again to their old mafters at very high rents. The
fame fummer the Athenians feized the ifiand of Mino-
zs, lying over againlt the territory of Megara: and
39 ] _ A T T
likewufe the port of Niftea, which laft they fortified, Attica,
and it proved afterwards a place of the utmoft import-
ance to them. At this time alfo the Plataeans, driven 1-4
to the laft extremity, furrendered to the Lacedemoni-p*at£ea
ans, by whom they were, to the number of 208, in-'ll,~
eluding 25 Athenians, put to death, and their w omen
fold for Haves. _ 'Pheir city was foon after razed by
their implacable enemies the Thebans, wdxo left only
an inn to ftiow wdiere it flood. The fame of Plattea,
however, induced Alexander the Great afterwards to
rebuild it. ^
In this year happened the famous fedition of Cor-Sedition of
cyra, whence other feditions, wdien their eftedts ren- Coicyra
dered them terrible, hare been called Corcyrian. It
hath been already obferved, that the war between the
Corcyrians and Corinthians brought on the general wTar
throughout Peloponnefus. A great number of Corcy¬
rians w?ere in the beginning of this w7ar carried away
prifoners into Peloponnefus, where the chief of them
were very well treated, but the reft fold for flaves.
The reafon of this condudl of the Corinthians was a de-
fign they had formed of engaging thefe Corcyrians to
influence their countrymen to fide with them and their
allies. With this view they treated them with all ima¬
ginable lenity and tendernefs, inftillxng into them by
degrees an hatred of democratic government 3 after
which they were told, that they might obtain their li¬
berty upon condition of ufing all their influence at
home in favour of the allies, and to the prejudice of A-
thens. This the Corcyrians readily promifed and en¬
deavoured to perform. At firft, thofe who were for
an ariftocracy prevailed, and murdered all thofe of the
oppofite party that fell into their hands, in which thev
W'ere aflifted by a fleet of Peloponnefians : but the A-
thenians fending firft one fleet and then another to the
afliftance of the diftrefl'ed party, the Peloponnefians
were forced to withdraw 3 after which the democratic
party fufficiently revenged themfelves, and deftroyeft
their antagonifts without mercy. The wmrft of all was,
that this example once fet, the feveral ftates of Greece
felt in their turns the like commotions, which wei'e al
ways heightened by agents from Sparta and Athens 3
the former endeavouring to fettle ariftocracy, and the
latter democracy, wherever they came.
While the Athenians w7ere thus engaged in a war a^ j.; ,, ~
wherein they w7ere already overmatched, they foolilhly engage in *
engaged in a new one, which in the end proved more war with
fatal than all the reft. The inhabitants of Sicily were Slcl|y’
fplit into two fadions 3 the one called the Doric, at
the head of which was the city of Syracufe ; the other *
the Ionic, which owned the Leontines for their chiefs :
the latter perceiving themfelves too weak without fo¬
reign aid, fent one Georgias, a celebrated orator, to
apply to Athens for relief 3 and he by his fine fpeeches
fo captivated the giddy and inconftant Athenians, that
they ran headlong into a war which they were unable
to maintain while engaged with all the Peloponnefi-
ans. Enticed by this new profpedl, therefore, and
grafping at the conqueft of Sicily,, as well as of aH.
Greece, they fent a fleet to the affiftance of the Le¬
ontines, under the command of Lachetes and Chabrias-3
and they were no fooner failed, than another fleet for
the fame purpofe was begun to be fitted out. Aul this
time the plague continued to rage with great violence
at Athens, cutting off this year 4000 citizens,. b*.
fide3*
ATT
[ 24o ]
ATT
'Attica.
127
Sixth year.
128
Seventh
year.
Pylus forti
tied by the
Athenians.
129
'•Befieged.
130
-Spartan
fleet de-
flroyed.
13*
Treachery
of the
Athenians.
132
They at-
tackSphac-
teria.
, T33
Cleon the
orator
appointed
general.
Tides a much greater number of the meaner fort of
' people.
The fixth year of the Peloponnefian war was remark¬
able for no great exploit : Agis the fon of Archida-
mus, king of Sparta, affembled an army in order to
invade Attica, but was prevented from fo doing by
many great earthquakes which happened throughout
Greece. The next year, however, he entered Attica
with his army, while the Athenians on their part fent
a fleet under the command of Demoflhenes, to infell
the coafts of Peloponnefus. As this fleet palled by La-
-conia, the commander took notice that the promonto¬
ry of Pylus, which was joined to the continent by a
narrow neck of land, had before it a barren illand a-
bout two miles in circumference, in which, however,
there was a good and fafe port, all winds being kept
off by the headland, or by the ifle. Thefe advantages
made him apprehend, that a garrifon left here would
give the Peloponnefians fo much trouble, that they
■would find it more advifable to proteft their own coun¬
try than to invade that of their neighbours. Accord¬
ingly, having raifed a ftrong fortification, he himfelf
with five fliips ftaid to defend it, while the reft of the
fleet proceeded on their intended expedition. On the
news of this event, the Peloponnefian army immedi¬
ately returned to befiege Pylus. When they arrived
before the place they took poffeflion of the harbour,
and then caufed a chofen body of Spartans take poffef-
fion of the illand of Spha&eria, after which they at¬
tacked the fort with great vigour. Demofthenes and
his garrifon defended themfelves with great valour ;
and an Athenian fleet arriving very feafonably, offer¬
ed battle to the Peloponnefian fleet. This being re-
fufed, the Athenians boldly failed into the harbour,
broke and funk moft of the veffels therein, after which
they befieged the Spartans in Sphafteria. The Pelo¬
ponnefians now began to treat with their enemies, and
a truce was concluded during the time that negocia-
tions were carried on at Athens. One of the articles
of this truce was, that the Peloponnefians fhould deli¬
ver up all their Ihips, on condition of having them
pundlually returned in cafe the treaty did not take ef-
fe<ft. The Athenians having heard the Spartan am-
baffadors, were inclined to put an end to this deftruc-
tive war : but Cleon, one of their orators, a warm and
obftinate man, perfuaded his countrymen to infill; on
very unreafonable terms •, upon which the ambaffadors
returned, and by doing fo put an end to the truce.
The Peloponnefians then demanded their veffels ; but
the Athenians refufed to deliver them, under pretence
of their having broke the truce.
Hoftilities being thus recommenced on both fides,
the Lacedemonians attacked the Athenians at Pylus,
vdiile the latter attacked the Spartans at Sphafteria.
The Spartans, though but a handful of men and under
every imaginable difcouragement, behaved vfith fuch
bravery, that the fiege proceeded very flowly, fo that
the people of Athens became very uneafy. They be¬
gan then to wilh they had embraced the offers of the
Spartans, and to rail vehemently againft Cleon, who,
to excufe himfelf, faid, it wmuld be eafy for the gene¬
ral of the forces they were at that time fending, to at¬
tack the Spartans in the ifle, and reduce them at once.
Nicias, who had been appointed to this command, re¬
plied, that if Cleon believed he could do fuch great
things, he would do well to go thither in perfon : the Attica,
latter, imagining this only meant to try him, faid he u—"V——
was ready to go with all his heart $ whereby Nicias
catched him, and declared that he had relinquiflied his
charge. Cleon thereupon faid, that he was no gene¬
ral but Nicias told him that he might become one 3
and the people, pleafed with the controverfy, held the
orator to his word. Cleon then advancing, told them
he was fo little afraid of the enemy, that, with a very
inconfiderable force, he would undertake, in conjunc¬
tion with thofe already at Pylus, to bring to Athens
the Spartans who gave them fo much trouble in 20
days. The people laughed at thefe promifes; however,
they furniflied him with the troops he defired ; and to He takes
their furprife, Cleon brought the Spartans prifoners totlie place.
Athens within the time appointed. ^
This fummer, likewife, an Athenian fleet was fent End of the
to Sicily, with inftructions to put in at Corcyra, and Corcyriatt
aflift the government againft the Lacedemonian fac.lediho11*
tion which ftill fubfifted in that ifland. This they ef¬
fectually performed •, for by their means the exiles fell
into the hands of the other party : thefe they imprifon-
ed 5 and then drew them out by 20 at a time, to fuffer
death, which was inflifted with all the circumftances
of cruelty that party-rage could fuggeft. When only
60 remained, they entreated the Athenians to put them
to death, and not to deliver them up to their country¬
men ; but upon this the Corcyrians furrounded the
place where they were confined, endeavouring to bury
them under their darts; upon which the unhappy cap¬
tives all put an end to their o\vn lives. ^ ^
In the eighth year Nicias reduced the ifle of Cythe-
ra on the coaft of Laconia j as likewife Thyrtea, on year,
the confines of that country. The latter had been gi- Succefs of
ven to the iEginetans when expelled from their owntllc
country by the Athenians : and they were now con¬
demned to death, as inveterate enemies of the Atheni¬
an ftate and nation.—In Sicily, one Hermocrates of
Syracufe perfuaded all the inhabitants of the ifland to
adjuft their differences among themfelves; upon which
the Athenian generals returned home, and for fo doing
two of them were baniihed, and the third fentenced to
pay a heavy fine.
The Athenians next laid fiege to Megara under the
conduft of Hippocrates and Demofthenes j but Brafi-
das a Spartan general coming to its relief, a battle en-
fued, by which, though neither party got the better,
the Lacedemonian faClion prevailed in Megara, and Spartan
many who favoured the Athenians were forced to with- party pre¬
draw. After this, fuch as had been baniihed for ad- vails in
hering to the Lacedemonians were allowed to return,Megara*
on their taking an oath to forget what was paft, and
attempt nothing that might difturb their country. As
foon as they were fettled, however, they forgot their
oath ; and caufing 100 of thofe who were moft obnoxi¬
ous to be apprehended, forced the people to condemn
them to death. They then changed the whole form
of government, introduced an oligarchy, and poffeffed
themfelves of the fupreme power. _ .138
In Boeotia fome commotions were raifed in favour of Athenians
the Athenians •, but their generals Hippocrates and lofe their
Demofthenes being defeated by the oppofite party, allPowerin
hopes ceafed of the Athenian power being eftabliftied £ic;eoua'
in Boeotia. In the mean time Brafidas reduced the ci¬
ty of Arophipolis, which greatly alarmed the Atheni-
ATT
Attica.
. 139
Ninth year.
A truce
concluded
140
Cleon de¬
feated and
killed by
Brafidas.
ans, who thereupon fent new fupplies of men, money,
and fhips to the Macedonian coaft ; but all their care
could not prevent a great defertion from their intereft
in thofe parts, where the valour and conduct of Brafi¬
das carried all before him.
In the ninth year, the Spartans made new propofals
of peace, which the Athenians were now more inclined
to accept than formerly j and finding their affairs very
aK ro unfettled by the lofs of Amphipolis, a truce for
a year was quickly agreed on, while negociations were
in the mean time carrying on for a general peace,
ff his pacific fcheme, however, was very foon over¬
thrown by the following accident in Thrace. The city
of Scione, and that of Menda, revolted to Brafidas ;
who, knowing nothing of the truce, fought to draw
over Potidaea alfo. The Athenians, pretending that
Scione revolted two days after the truce was conclud¬
ed, made heavy complaints, afferting that this was a
breach of the truce, and that both it and Menda ftiould
be reftored to them. This not being effedled by ne¬
gociations, an army was fent againft the two cities,
by which Menda was reduced ; but Scione making an
obftinate defence, the fiege was turned into a bloc¬
kade.
In the tenth year, Brafidas made an attempt upon
Potidaea ; which having failed, the Athenians began to
recover fome courage. The truce expiring on the day
of the Pythian games, Cleon perfuaded the Athenians
to fend an army into Thrace under his own command.
It confiffed of 1200 foot and 300 horfe, all Athenian
citizens, who embarked on board 30 galleys. Bra¬
fidas had an army much inferior ; but obferving that
the Athenian general was become carelefs, and ne¬
glected difcipline, he attacked him. In this engage¬
ment Cleon was killed, and the Athenians were defeated
with the lofs of 600 men, while the Spartans loft only
leven ; but among thefe was their brave commander
Brafidas, whofe death affefted them almoft as much as
the lofs of their army did the Athenians.
the death of Cleon deprived the Athenians of
yearspeace. one of their beft fpeakers, and one who had been very
induftrious in promoting the w7ar, they xvere now much
more difpofed than formerly to hearken to terms of ac¬
commodation. Amongft the Spartans, too, there was
a party, at the head of whom was Pliftonax their king,
who earneftly wilhed for peace ; and as Nicias labour¬
ed no lefs affiduoufly at Athens to bring about this de¬
finable event, a peace was at laft concluded for fifty
years between the two nations. The conditions were,
that a reftitution of places and prifoners fhould be made
on both fides ■, excepting that Nifaea fhould remain to
the Athenians, who had taken it from the Megarians,
and that Plataea ftiould continue with the Thebans, be-
caufe they abfolutely wrould not give it up. The Boeo¬
tians, Corinthians, and Megarians, refufed to be in¬
cluded in this peace : but the reft of the allies yielded
to it; and it w'as accordingly ratified, receiving the
name of the Nician peace, from Nicias who had fo vi-
goroufly promoted it.
By this means, however, tranquillity was far from
being reftored. Such of the flates of Peloponnefus as
v'ere diffatisfied, began immediately to league among
tnemfelves, and to fet on foot a new7 confederacy, the
head of wThich w7as to be the ftate of Argos. The Ta-
cedemonians, too, found it impoffible to perform ex-.
Vol. III. Part I.
[ Hi 1
ATT
Attica.
I41
A fifty
r42
New dif.
vsnteats.
adftly the articles of agreement; the city of Amphipolis
in particular, abfolutely refufed to return under the A-
thenian government ; for which reafon the Athenians
refufed to evacuate Pylus. In the winter, new nego¬
ciations were entered into on all fides, but nothing de¬
termined, and univerfal murmuring and difcontent took
place. Thefe difcontents were not a little heightened Heightened
by Alcibiades, who now began to rival Nicias, and, by Aid-
perceiving the Lacedemonians paid their court moftly blades,
to his rival, took all opportunities to incenfe his coun¬
trymen againft that nation. Nicias, on the other
hand, wdio wiftied for nothing fo much as peace, ufed
all his endeavours to bring about a reconciliation. The
artifices of Alcibiades, howrever, added to the turbu¬
lent and haughty difpofition of both nations, rendered
this impoffible ; fo that though Nicias went on purpofe
to Sparta, he returned without doing any thing.
Alcibiades having thus difpofed every thing accord- His mea-
ing to his wdfties, and a war being inevitable, he began furcs. *or
to take the moft prudent methods for preferving his oi^Attica
country in fafety. With this view he entered into a
league for 100 years with the Argives, W'hich he hoped
would keep the wrar at a diftance ; he next paffed over
into the territories of Argos, at the head of a confi-
derable army ; and laboured, both at that city and at
Patrte, to perfuade the people to build walls to the
fea, that fo they might the more eafily receive afliftance
from the Athenians. But though great preparations
for war were now made, nothing w7as undertaken this
year ; only the Argives thought to have made them-
felves mafters of Epidauius, but were hindered by the
Lacedemonians putting a garrifon into it. r^ .
The next year (the 14th after the Peloponnefian war Fourteenth
was firft begun) a Spartan army, under the command year- War
of Agis, entered the territory of Argos, where the con- renewec1'
federate army lay ; but juft as the engagement was
about to begin, a truce was fuddenly concluded by two
of the Argive generals and the king of Sparta. With
this neither party was pleafed, and both the king and
generals were very ill treated by their citizens. On
the arrival of fome freih troops from Athens, therefore, I4g
the Argives immediately broke the truce ; but the al- Athenians,
lied army was foon after defeated with great {laughter &c- defeat-
by Agis ; notwithftanding which, however, the Eleans e.^ at Man-
and Athenians inverted Epidaurus. In the winter, atinasa-
ftrong party in Argos joined the Lacedemonians ; in
confequence of which that city renounced her alliance
with Athens, and concluded one with Sparta for 50
years. In compliment to their new allies, alfo, the
Argives abolilhed democracy in their city, eftabliftiing
an ariftocracy in its place, and affifted the Lacedemo¬
nians with a confiderable body of troops to force the
Sicyonians to do the fame.
In the beginning of the 15th year, the Argives, with Fifteenth
a levity Seemingly natural to all the, Greeks, renoun->'ear-
ced their alliance with Sparta, aboliflied ariftocracy,
drove all the Lacedemonians out of the city, and re¬
newed their league with Athens. The Athenians, in
the mean time, being convinced of the treachery of
Perdiccas king of Macedon, renounced their alliance
with him, and declared war againft him. r^s
_ Next year Alcibiades terminated the difputes in the Sixteenth
city of Argos, by the banifliment of the Spartan fac- year- , Me~
tion ; after which he failed to the ifiand of Melos, {3°! t;^luCed
whofe inhabitants had afted with the greateft invete- Athenians,
H h racy
ATT
[ 242 ]
ATT
Attica.
149
Seven-
racy agalnft liis countrymen : perceiving, however, that
the reduction of the iiland would be a work of time, he
left a confiderable body of forces there, and returned
to Athens. In his abfence the capital of Melos fur-
rendered at difcretion, and the inhabitants were treat¬
ed with the utmoft cruelty : all the men capable of
bearing- arms being flaughtered, and the women and
children carried into captivity.
In the beginning of the 17th year, Nicias was ap-
teenthyeai. pointed commander of an expedition again!! the Syra-
Athenian cufans, along with Alcibiades and Lamachus as col-
army in leagues. But while the neceffary preparations were ma-
king> a11 thlnSs wrere thrown into confufion by the de-
adtliiefto ^cing °f tke Hernue, or llatues of Mercury, of which
Sparta. there was a great number in the city. The authors of
this facrilege could by no means be difcovered, though
rewards wTere offered for this purpofe : at la!l the fufpi-
cion fell upon Alcibiades; and for this weighty reafon
he was commanded to return from Sicily to take his
trial. Alcibiades, however, knew the temper of his
countrymen too well to trull himfelt to their mercy ;
and therefore, inllead of returning to Athens, he fled
immediately to Sparta, where he met with a gracious
reception; while the infatuated Athenians were feverely
puniftied by the lofs of their army, generals, and fleet,
in Sicily, which the fuperior abilities «of Alcibiades
would in all probability have prevented.
Nineteenth The J9th and 2°th yearS °f the War .Were fpent hy
and the Athenians in equipping a new fleet in order to re¬
twentieth pair their vaft Ioffes : but Alcibiades hurt their inte-
years, &c. reqs very n)UC|1) by perfuading Tiffaphernes the Per-
fian to league with the Spartans again!! them ; at the
fame time he perfuaded feveral of the Ionian flates to
revolt from Athens, but they were in a ftiort time
i5i obliged again to fubmit. Notwithftanding all thefe
Alcibiades fervices, however, Alcibiades had rendered himleif fo
hateful to Agis by debauching his wife, that he foon
found himfelf obliged to fly to the Perfians, where
Tiffaphernes gave him a very favourable reception,
and profited much by his advice, which was, to let
the Greeks weaken one another by their mutual wars,
and that the Perfians ought never to fee one ftate to¬
tally deftroyed, but always to fupport the weaker
party.
When Tiffaphernes had acquiefced with thefe coun-
fels, Alcibiades privately wrote to fome of the officers
nuuui in the Athenian army at Samos, that he had been
democracy treating with the Perfians in behalf of his countrymen,
at Athens, but dicT not choofe to return till the democracy fhould
be abolifhed ; and 'to incline the citizens to comply
with this raeafure, he told them that the Perfian king
difliked a democracy, but would immediately aflift
them if that was abolifhed, and an oligarchy ereaed in
its Head.
On the arrival of Pifander and other deputies from
the army, with the propofals of .Alcibiades, tue Athe¬
nians without hefitation refolved to overturn that de¬
mocracy which they had all along fo flrenuoufly de¬
fended. The iffue of their prefent debate was, that
Pifander with ten deputies fhould return to Alci¬
biades, in order to know on what terms the king of
Perfia would make an alliance with them : but that
cunning Athenian having perceived that Tiffaphernes
was by no means difpofed to afliff the Athenians on
account of their having been lately fuccefsful, he fet
Attica.
flies to
Perfia.
tS2
Propoles
the aboli¬
tion of
up fuch high demands in the king of Perfia’s name,
that the Athenians of themfelves broke off the treaty,
and thus Alcibiades preferved the friendfhip of both
parties.
Pifander having engaged the army at Samos in his
fcheme of overturning democracy, that form of go¬
vernment w’as abolifhed firll in the cities fubjedf to
Athens, and laflly in the capital itfelf. Pilander’s new New .form
fcheme was, That the old form of government fhould of govern-
be totally diffolved : that five prytanes fhould be ele£!-ment
ed : that thefe five fhould choofe 100; and that eachaUlV “ ^ '
©f the hubdred fhould choofe three < that the 400 thus
elefted fhould become a fenate with full power ; but
fhould occafionally confult with 5000 of the moft weal¬
thy citizens, who fhould thenceforward be effeemed
only the people ; and that no authority fhould remain
with the lowefl clafs. Though the people were not
very fond of this change, thofe who conduced it,
being men of great parts, found means to eflablifh it
by force ; for when the people were gone out of the
city to their ordinary employments, the 400, ha¬
ving each a dagger concealed under his veil, attend¬
ed by a guard of 120 men, entered the fenate-houfe,
diffolved the old fenate, and without ceremony turn¬
ed them out; after which the commons, not knowing
whom to fubmit to, or to whom to apply, made no
oppofition.
The fiift ftep of the new governors was to deftroy
all their enemies ; who, however, were not very nu¬
merous, fo that little blood was fhed. d hey next fent
ambaffadors to Agis to fue for peace ; but he, taking
for granted that the Athenians would never defend an
oligarchv, gave no anfwer to the ambaffadors, but im¬
mediately marched towards the capital with a defign to
attack it. On his arrival, howTever, he was quickly »
convinced of his miftake, being repulfed with lofs, and
obliged to retire to his old poll. _ T^
In the mean time the Athenian army declared again The army
for a democracy ; and having recalled Alcibiades, in- declare for
veiled him with full power, and infifted on his irnme-^emo^
diate return to Athens to reftore the ancient govern-
ment. This meafure he refuied to comply wuth, andb^gg.
perfuaded them to flay where they were, in order to
fave Ionia : he alfo prevailed on them to allowr fome
deputies, who had been fent from the new gover¬
nors of Athens, to come and deliver their meffage.
To thefe deputies Alcibiades replied, that they fhould
immediately return to Athens, and acquaint the
that they were commanded immediately to refign their
power and reftore the fenate ; but that the 5000
might retain theirs, provided they ufed it with mode¬
ration. , 155
By this anfwer the city W’as thrown into the utmoft Great
confufion ; but the new government party prevailing,confufion
ambaffadors were defpatched to Sparta with orders toat Athens,
procure peace on any terms. T rns, however, was not
to be effefted ; and^Thrynicus, the head of the em-
baffy, and likewife of the new government party, was
murdered on his return. After his death, Theramenes,
the head of the other party, feized the chiefs of the
4©o ; upon w hich a tumult enfued that had almoll pro¬
ved fatal to the city itfelf. The mob, however, being
at laf! difperfed, the 400 affembled, though in great
fear, and fent deputies to the people, promising to fet
all things to rights. In confequence of this deputa¬
tion.
ATT [ H3 1 ATT
Attica, tion, a day was appointed for convoking a general af-
1 /—■J fembly, and fettling the Hate-, but when that day came,
news was brought that the Lacedemonian fleet appear¬
ed in view, and fleered dire£lly for Salamis. Thus all
was again thrown into confufion ; for the people, in-
flead of deliberating on the fubjefl propofed, ran in
crowds down to the port, and perceiving the Spartans
156 made towards Euboea, a fleet of 36 fnips was immedi-
fleeTde*11 ate^ defpatched under the command of Thymochares,
ftroyed by to engage the enemy. This fleet was utterly defeated,
the Spar- 2 2 of the Athenian fliips being taken, and moft of the
tans. others funk or difabled ; but what was worfe, this de¬
feat was followed by the revolt of all the country of
Euboea except Orcus.
When thefe difmal tidings arrived at Athens, every
thing was given up for loll; and had the Lacedemo¬
nians taken this opportunity of attacking the city,
they had undoubtedly fucceeded, and thus put an end
to the war : but being at all times flow, efpecially in
naval affairs, they gave the Athenians time to equip a
new fleet, and to retrieve their affairs. One good ef-
fe£l of this difafler, howrever, was the putting an end
for a time to the internal difienfions of this turbulent
people j infomuch that Thucydides the hiftorian is of
opinion, that the republic never enjoyed fo much quiet
T'7 as at this time.
ILvpIotts of Alcibiades now fhorved his abilities and inclination
Alcibiades. to ferve country in an eminent manner. By his
intrigues he fo effeftually embroiled the Perfians and
Peloponnefians with each other, that neither party
knew wflrom to truft. Thrafybulus, with 55 flflps,
gained a vidlory over the Peloponnefian fleet confifling
of 73 : after wfliich he took 8 galleys coming from By¬
zantium ; which city had revolted from the Athenians,
but was foon after taken, and the inhabitants feverely
fined. The fleet being afterwards joined by Alcibi¬
ades, nine more of the Peloponnefian galleys were ta¬
ken, the Halicarnaflxans w'ere conilrained to pay a large
fum of money, and Cos was flrongly fortified ; which
tranfaflions ended the 2ill year of the Peloponnefian
war.
In the fucceeding years of this famous war, the
Athenians had at firft great advantages. Thrafybulus
gained a fignal victory at fea •, and Alcibiades gained
tw'o viiffories, one by fea and another by land, in one
i-S took the whole Peloponnefian fleet, and more
The Spar- fp°^ than his men could carry away. The Spartans
tans fue were now humbled in their turn, and fued for peace ;
for peace, but the Athenians were fo intoxicated with their fuc-
cefs, that they lent back the ambaffadors without an an-
IS9 fwer : which they foon had fufficient reafon to repent
They take oh The beginning of the Athenian misfortunes wTas
Pylus. the taking of Pylus by the Spartans. The Athenians
had fent a fleet under the command of one Anyius to
its defence : but he was driven back by contrary
winds ; upon which he wTas condemned to death, be-
caufe he could not caufc the wind blow' from what
quarter he pleafed : this fentence, however, wTas re¬
mitted on his paying a vaft fum of money. This mif-
fortune was quickly follow'ed by another. The Me-
garians furprifed Nyfaea 5 which enraged the Athe¬
nians fo much, that they immediately fent an army in¬
to that country, who defeated the Megarians who op-
pofed them with great daughter, and committed horrid
devastations-.
Thefe misfortunes as yet, however, were overbalan- Attica,
ced by the great adlions of Alcibiades, Thrafybulus,v ^
and Theramenes. When Alcibiades returned, he Alcibhdcs
brought with him a fleet of 2CO Ihips, and fuch a load enters A-
of fpoils as had never been feen in Athens fince thethensin
conclufion of the Perfian war. The people left their triuH1P^>
city deftitute, that they might crowd to the port, to
behold Alcibiades as he landed ; old and young bleffed
him as he palled ; and next day when he made a ha¬
rangue to the affembly, they direcled the record of his
banifliment to be thrown into the fea, abfolved him
from the curfes he lay under, and created him general
with full power. Nor did he feem inclined to indulge I(-r
himfelf in eafe, but foon put to fea again with a fleet He is dif-
of 100 fliips. He had not been long gone, however, graced,
before all this w'as forgot. Alcibiades failed to the
Hellefpont with part of his fleet, leaving the reft un¬
der the command of Antiochus his pilot, but with
Itridl orders to attempt nothing before his return. This
command the pilot paid no regard to, but provoked
Lyfander the Lacedemonian admiral to an engage¬
ment, and in confequence of his temerity was defeated
with the lols of x 5 fliips, himfelf being killed in the
engagement. On the news of this defeat Alcibiades
returned, and endeavoured to provoke the Lacedemo¬
nians to a fecond battle j but this Lyfander prudently
declined ; and in the mean time the Athenians, with
unparalleled ingratitude and inconftancy, deprived Al¬
cibiades of his command, naming ten new generals in
his room. r(j2
I his was thelaft ftep the Athenians had to take for The Athe-
perfefting their ruin. Conon, who fucceeded to thenians gai.n
command, was defeated by Callicratides, Lyfander’s ^re^'lc”
lucceffor; but being afterwards ftrongly reinforced, ^7fix of
the Lacedemonians were entirely defeated with the lofs their gene-
of 77 fliips. Such a viftory might at this time havera!s t0
infpired the Athenians with fome kind of gratitude to-c*eatn-
ward the generals who granted it; but inftead of this,
on pretence of their not having affifted the wounded
during the engagement, eight of them were recalled ;
two were wife enough not to return ; and the fix who
trufted to the juftice of their country were all put to
death. _ l6s
The next year Lyfander was appointed commander They are
of what fleet the Peloponnefians had left, with which utterb' dei-
he took Thafus and Lampfacus. Conon was defpatch- j^ fattler •
ed againff him with 180 fliips, which being greatly ' ‘UUCr5
fuperior to Lyfander’s fleet, that general refufed to
come to an engagement, and was blocked up in the
river TEgos. While the Athenians lay there, they
grew quite idle and carelefs ; infomuch that Alcibiades,
who had built a caftle for himfelf in the neighbour¬
hood, entreated them to be more on their guard, as he
well knew Lyfander’s abilities. They anfwered, that
they wondered at his affurance, who was an exile and
a vagabond, to come and give laws to them j telling
him, that if he gave them any farther trouble, thev
would feize and fend him to Athens. At the. fame
time they looked on viftory as fo certain, that they
confulted what they fliould do with their prifoners";
which, by the advice of Philocles their general, was to
cut oft' all their right hands, or, according to Plutarch,
their right thumbs ; and Adiamantus one of their of¬
ficers rendered himfelf very obnoxious by faying, that
fuch idle difeourfe did not become Athenians. The
H h 2 confequences
Attica.
164
who takes
Athens.
165
Terms of
peace.
i56
The thirty
tyrants.
167
Critias and
Therame-
nes, their
oppofite
characters.
ATT [244 ATT
confequences of fuch conduct may be eafily imagined.
Lyfander fell unexpedtedly upon them, and gained a
moll complete viftory } Conon, with eight galleys
only, efcaping to Cyprus ; after which Lyfander re¬
turned to Lampfacus, where he put to death Philocles
with 3000 of his foldiers, and all the officers except
Adiamantus. This execution being over, he reduced
all the cities fubjeft to Athens ; and with great civi¬
lity fent home their garrifons, that fo the city might
be overftocked with inhabitants, and deftitute of provi-
fions, when he came to befiege it; which he did foon
after by fea, while Agis, with a great army, invefted
it by land.
For a long time the Athenians did not fo much as
delire a peace ; but at laid were forced to fend deputies
to Agis, who fent them to Sparta, where no terms
could be granted except they confented to demolifh
their walls. They next fent to Lyfander, who after a
long attendance referred them to Sparta 5 and thither
Theramenes with fame other deputies was immediately
fent. On their arrival, they found the council of the
confederates fitting, who all except the Spartans gave
their votes that Athens Ihould be utterly deftroyed 5
but they would not confent to the ruin of that city,
which had deferved fo well of Greece. On the return
of Theramenes, peace was concluded, on condition,
that the long walls and the fortifications of the port
ffiould be demolilhed ; that they Ihould give up all
their fhips but 12, receive all they had banilhed, and
follow the fortune of the Lacedemonians. Thefe fe-
vere terms were punctually executed. Lyfander caufed
the w^alls to be pulled down, all the mufic in his army
playing, on that very day of the year on which they
had beat the Perfians at Salamis. He likewife efta-
bliffied an oligarchy exprefsly againft the will of the
people ; and thus the ruin of Athens ended the 27th
year of the Peloponnefian war, and the 404th before
Chrift.
As foon as Lyfander had demoliffied the long walls,
and the fortifications of the Piraeus, he conftituted a
council of thirty, with power, as was pretended, to
make laws, but in truth to fubjugate the ftate. Thefe
are the perfons fo famous in hiflory, under the title of
the thirty tvrants. They were all the creatures of Ly¬
fander 5 who, as they derived their rife from conqueft
and the law of the fword, exercifed their offices in a
fuitable maner ; that is, with the higheft teflimonies
of pride, infolence, and cruelty. Infiead of making
laws, they governed without them ; appointed a fenate
and magiftrates at their will •, and, that they might do
all things without danger of controul, they fent for a
garrifon from Lacedemon \ which was accordingly grant¬
ed them, under the command of Callidius, upon their
promife to pay the foldiers regularly. One of the firft
fteps they took was to puniffi all informers j which,
though fevere, was popular : but when, through flat¬
tery and bribes, they had wholly drawn over Callidius
to their party, they buffered bad men to live in quiet,
and turned their rage againfl, the good.
Critias and Theramenes were at the head of the
thirty, men of the greateft: power and abilities in
Athens. The former was ambitious and cruel with¬
out meafure } the latter was fomewhat more merciful:
the former pufhed on all the bloody fchemes framed by
his confedexatesj and carried into execution many of
his own ; the latter always oppofed them, at firft with Attica.
moderation, at laft with vehemence. He faid, that  ^ “1
power was given them to rule, and not to fpoil, the
commonwealth ; that it became them to aft like Ihep-
herds, not like wolves ; and that they ought to be¬
ware of rendering themfelves at once odious and ridi¬
culous, by attempting to domineer over all, being fuch
a handful of men as they were. The reft, difiiking much
the former part of his difcourfe, catched hold of the lat¬
ter, and immediately , chofe out 3000, whom they made
the reprefentatives of the people, and to whom they
granted this notable privilege, that none of them ffiould
be put to death but by judgment of the fenate, thereby
openly affuming a power of putting any other of the
Athenian citizens to death by their own authority. A
glorious ufe they made of this new affumed privilege ;
for as many as they conjeftured to be no friends to the
government in general, or to any of themfelves in par¬
ticular, they put to death, without caufe, and without
mercy. Theramenes openly oppofing this, and abfo-
lutely refufing to concur in fuch meafures, Critias ac-
cufed him to the fenate as a man of unfteady princi¬
ples, fometimes for the people, fometimes againft them,
always for new things and ftate-revolutions. Thera¬
menes owned, that he had fometimes changed his mea¬
fures, but alleged that he had always done it to ferve
the people. He faid that it was folely with this view
he made the peace with Sparta, and accepted the office
of one of the thirty : that he had never oppofed their
meafures while they cut off the wicked ; but when they
began to deftroy men of fortune and family, then he
owmed he had differed with them, w-hich he conceived
to be no crime againft the ftate. ^3
While Theramenes was fpeaking, Critias withdrew7, Thera-
perceiving that the fenate were thoroughly convinced ofmenes put
the truth of what Theramenes had faid : but he quickly t0 death,
returned with a guard, crying out, that he had ftruck
Theramenes’s name out of the lift of the 3000; that
the fenate had, therefore, no longer cognizance of the
caufe, when the thirty had already judged and con¬
demned him to death. Theramenes perceiving that
they intended to feize him, fled to the altar, which
w7as in the midft of the fenate-houfe, and laying his
hands thereon, faid, “ I do not feek refuge here be-
caufe I expeft to efcape death, or defire it ; but that,
tearing me from the altar, the impious authors of my
murder may intereft the gods in bringing them to fpeedy
judgment, and thereby reftore freedom to my country.”
The guards then dragged him from the altar, and car¬
ried him to the place of execution, where he drank the
poifon with undaunted courage, putting the people in
mind with his laft breath, that as they had ftruck his
name out of the 3000, they might alfo ftrike out any
of theirs. His death was followed by a train of mur¬
ders, fo that, in a ffiort time, 60 of the wmrthieft and
moft eminent citizens of Athens fell by the cruelty of
the thirty. Among thefe, the moft pitied was Ni-
ceratus the fon of Nicias •, a man univerfally beloved
for his goodnefs, and univerfally admired for his vir¬
tues. As for the Spartans, they, lofing their former
generofity, were extremely pleafed with thefe things,
and, by a public decree, commanded that fuch as fled
from the thirty tyrants fhould be carried back bound
to Athens: which extraordinary proceeding frightened
all Greece) but the Argives and Thebans only had
courage
ATT t 245 1 ATT
Attica, courage to oppofe it : the former received the Athe¬
nian exiles with humanity and kindnefs ; the latter pu-
niihed with a mulft fitch of their citizens as did not
rife and refcue the Athenian prifoners, who in purfu-
ance of the Lacedemonian decree were carried bound
through their territories.
Thrafybulus, and fuch as with him had taken fhelter
in the Theban territory, refolved to hazard every thing,
rather than remain perpetual exiles from their country 5
?nd though he had but 30 men on whom he could de¬
pend, yet confidering the victories he had heretofore ob¬
tained in the caufe of his country, he made an irruption
into Attica, where he feized Phyla, a caftle at a very
fmall diftance from Athens, where in a very fhort fpace
his forces were augmented to 700 men ; and though
the tyrants made ufe of the Spartan garrifon in their
endeavours to reduce him and his party, yet Thrafybu¬
lus prevailed in various fkirmifhes, and at lail; obliged
them to break up the blockade of Phyla, which they
had formed. The thirty and their party conceiving it
very advantageous for them to have the poffeffion of
Eleufina, marched thither, and having perfuaded the
people to go unarmed out of their city, that they
might number them, took this opportunity moil inhu¬
manly to murder them. The forces of Thrafybulus in-
creafing daily, he at length poffeffed himfelf of the Pi¬
raeus, which he fortified in the bell manner he could ;
but the tyrants being determined to drive him from
thence, came down againft him with the utmofl force
they could raife. Thrafybulus defended himfelf with
great obftinacy 5 and in the end they were forced to
ji ^ retreat, having loft before the place not only a great
Critias kill-number of their men, but Critias the prefident of the
el- thirty, another of the fame body, and one who had been
a captain of the Piraeus.
When they came to demand the dead from Thrafy¬
bulus, in order for their interment, he caufed a crier
he had with him to make a (hort fpeech in a very loud
voice to the people, entreating them to confider, that
as they were citizens of Athens without, fo thofe againft
whom they fought, and thofe who fought to preferve
themfelves within the fort, were Athenian citizens alfo 5
wherefore, inftead of thinking how to ruin and deftroy
their brethren, they ought rather to confult how all
differences might be compofed, and efpecially ought
to rid themfelves of thofe bloody tyrants, who, in the
ihort time they had had the adminiftration in their
hands, had deftroyed more than had fallen in the Pelo-
ponnefian war. The people, though moved by thefe dif-
\I7I courfes, differed among themfelves •, the confequence of
Theltyrants which was, that they expelled the thirty, and chofe ten
expelled, men out of each tribe to govern in their ftead, w here¬
upon the tyrants retired to Eleufina. The citizens,
however, though they changed the government, made
no agreement with thofe in the Piraeus j but fent away
deputies to Sparta, as did alfo the tyrants from Eleu¬
fina, complaining, that the Athenians had revolted,
and defiring their afiiftance to reduce them. The Spar-
Attempt tans ^ent thereupon a large fum of money to encourage
of the Spar-their confederates, and appointed Lvfander commander
tans to re- in chief, and his brother to be admiral 5 refolving to
duceAthens fencJ fea and land forces to reduce Athens a fecond
time n t”lie ’ ^tending, as moft of the Greek ftates fufpefted,
to add it now to their own dominions. It is very pro¬
169
Thratybu-
lus feizes
Phyla.
bable that this defign of theirs wmuld have taken ef- Attica,
fee!, if Paulanias king of Sparta, envying Lyfander, '
had not refolved to obftrud! it. With this view, he
procured another army to be raifed againft the Athe¬
nians, of wdiich himfelf had the command, and with
which he marched immediately to befiege the Piraeus.
While he lay before the place, and pretended to attack
it, he entered into a private correfpondence with Thra¬
fybulus, informing him what propofitions he fhould
make in order to force the Lacedemonians, who were
fufpedled by their allies, to grant them peace.
The intrigues of Paufanias had all the fuccefs heHowfru-
could wifh. The Ephori who w’ere with him in the camp floated,
concurred in his meafures, fo that in a Ihort fpace a
treaty was concluded on the following terms: That all
the citizens of Athens ftiould be reftored to their houfes
and privileges, excepting the. thirty, the ten which had
fucceeded them and who had adled no lefs tyrannically
than they, and the eleven who during the time of the
oligarchy had been conftituted governors or keepers of
the Piraeus; that all ftiould remain quiet for the fu¬
ture in the city; and that if any wrere afraid to truft to-
this agreement, they fhould have free leave to retire to
Eleufina. Paufanias then marched awray with the Spar¬
tan army, and Thrafybulus at the head of his forces
marched into Athens, where having laid down their
arms, they facrificed with the reft of the citizens in the
temple of Minerva, after which the popular govern¬
ment was reftored. Yet quiet was not thoroughly efta-
blilhed. The exiles at Eleufina having endeavoured
by the help of money to raife an army of foreigners,
by whofe aid they might recover the authority they
had loft : but firft depending on their friends in the
city, they fent fome of the principal perfons amonglt
them as deputies, to treat with the citizens j but ftridlly
inftrudled them to fow jealoufies and excite dilcords
among them. This the latter quickly perceiving, put
thefe perfons to death ; and then remonftrating to thofe
at Eleufina, that thefe contentions would undoubtedly
end either in their orvn or the deftrudlion of their coun¬
try, they offered immediately to pafs an ad! of oblivion,
wrhich they wmuld confirm with an oath.
This being accepted, thofe who had withdrawn re¬
turned to the city, where all differences were adjufted,
and both parties moft religioufly obferved the agree¬
ment they had made, and thereby thoroughly refettled J
the ftate. In this whole tranfadlion, the virtue of Thra-Virtiufof
fybulus deferves chiefly to be admired. When he firftTbrafy-
feized the caftle of Phyla, the tyrants privately offered
to receive him into their number inftead of Theramenes,
and to pardon at his requeft any 1 2 perfons he ftiould
name : but he generoufly anfwered, That his exile was
far more honourable than any authority could be, pur-
chafed on fuch terms 5 and by perfifting in his defign,
accompliftied, as we have feen, the deliverance of his
country. A glorious deliverance it was; fince, as Ifo-
crates informs us, they had put 1400 citizens to death
contrary to and without any form of law, and driven
5000 more into baniftiment ; procuring alfo the death
of Alcibiades, as many think, though at a great diftance
from them.
From this time to the reign of Philip of Macedon, the
Athenians continued in a pretty profperous fituation,,
though they never performed any fuch great exploits
Attica.
* 'Travels
into Greece,
p. 2$, &C.
. 175
Hiftory of
Athens
from the
time of
Alexander
the Great
to the pre-
fent.
176
Athens be-
fieged and
taken by
“Sylla.
ATT [ 24C
as formerly. By that monarch and his fon Alexander
all Greece was in effect fubdued, and the hiftory of all
the Grecian ftates from that time becomes much lefs
interefting. Of the hiftory of Athens from that time
to the preient, the following elegant abridgment is gi¬
ven by Dr Chandler*. “ On the death of Alexander,
the Athenians revolted, but were defeated by Antipa¬
ter, who garrifoned Munychia. They rebelled again,
but the garrifon and oligarchy wTere reinftated. De¬
metrius the Phalerean, who was made governor, beau¬
tified the city, and they erected to him 360 ftatues •,
which on his expulfton they demoliftied, except one
in the Acropolis. Demetrius Poliocertes withdrew the
garrifon, and reftored the democracy $ wdien they deified
him, and lodged him in the Opifthodomos or the back
part of the Parthenon, as a gueft to be entertained by
their goddefs Minerva. Afterwards they decreed, that
the Pineus, with Munychia, fhould be at his difpofal j
and he took the Mufeum. They expelled his garrifon,
and he was perfuaded by Craterus a philofopher to
leave them free. Antigonus Gonatas, the next king,
maintained a garrifon in Athens: but on the death of
his fon' Demetrius, the people, with the afliftance of
Aratus, regained their liberty ; and the Piraeus, Mu¬
nychia, Salamis, and Sunium, on paying a fum of mo¬
ney.
“ Philip, fon of Demetrius, encamping near the city,
deftroying and burning the fepulchres and temples in
the villages, and laying their territory wafte, the Athe¬
nians were reduced to folicit proteftion from the Ro¬
mans, and to receive a garrifon, which remained until
the war with Mithridates king of Pontus, when the
tyrant Ariftion made them revolt.
“ Archelaus the Athenian general, unable to with-
ftand the Roman fury, relinquifhed the /ong walls, and
retreated into the Piraeus and Munychia. Sylla laid
fiege to the Piraeus and to the city, in w7hich Ariftion
commanded. He wras informed that fome perfons had
been overheard taking in the Ceramicus, and blaming
Ariftion for his negledl of the avenues about the Hep-
tachalcos, where the wall was acceflible. Sylla refolved
to ftorm there, and about midnight entered the town at
the gate called Dypylon or the Pirwan ; having levelled
all obftacles in the way between it and the gate of the
Piraeus. Ariftion fled to the Acropolis, but was com¬
pelled to furrender by the want of water; when he was
dragged from the temple of Minerva,, and put to death.
Sylla burned the Piraeus and Munychia, and defaced the
city and fuburbs, not fparing even the fepulchres.
“ The civil war between Caefar and Pompey foon fol¬
lowed, and their natural love of libeity made them
flde with Pompey. Here again they were unfortu¬
nate, for Caefar conquered. But Caefar did not treat
them like Sylla. With that clemency which made fo
amiable part of his character, he difmified them by a
fine allufioh to their illuftrious anceftors, faying, that
he fpared the living for the fake of the dead.
“ Another ftorm followed foon after this yihe wars of
Brutus and Caflius with Auguftus and Antony. Their
partiality for liberty did not here forfake them : they
took part in the conteft with the two patriot Romans,
and eredfted their ftatues near their owm ancient deli¬
verers Harmodius and Ariftogiton, who had flain Hip¬
parchus. But they were ftill unhappy, for their ene¬
mies triumphed.
I
Attica.
1 ATT
“ I hey next joined Antony, who gave them Angina
and Cea, with other iflands. Auguftus was unkind fo'
them ; and they revolted four years before he died.
Under Tiberius the city was declining, but free, and
regarded as an ally of the Romans. The high privi-
ledge of having a liftor to precede the magiftrates was
conferred on it by Germanicus; but he was cenfured
as treating with too much condefcenfion a mixture of
nations, inftead of genuine Athenians, which race was
then confidered as extimft.
“ The emperor Vefpafian reduced Achaia to a pro¬
vince paying tribute and governed by a proconful.
Nerva was more propitious to the Athenians 5 and
Pliny, under Trajan his fucceffor, exhorts Maximus to
be mindful w'hither he was lent, to rule genuine Greece,
a ftate Compofed of free cities; ‘ You wall revere the
gods and heroes their founders. You will refpe£t their
priftine glory, and even their age. You will honour
them fpr the famous deeds, wrhich are truly, nay for
thofe w7hich are fabuloufiy, recorded of them. Remem¬
ber, it is Athens you approach.’ This city was now
entirely dependent on Rome, and wras reduced to fell
Delos and the iflands in its poffefllon. *
“ Hadrian, who was at once emperor and an archon
of Athens, gave the city laws, compiled from Draco,
Solon, and the codes of other legiflators; and difplay-
ed his affeftion for it by unbounded liberality. Athens
reflourifhed, and its beauty w7as renewed. Antoninus
Pius who fucceeded, and Antoninus the philofopher,
were both benefadlors.
“ The barjprians of the north, in the reign of Vale¬
rian, befieging Theflalonica, all Greece was terri¬
fied, and the Athenians reftored their city-wall, which
had been difmantled by Sylla, and afterwards ne-
gle£led.
u Under the next emperor, w7ho was the archon
Gallienus, Athens was befieged, the archontic office
ceafed ; and the ftrategtis or general, who had before
afted as overfeer of the agora or market, then became
the fupreme magiftrate. Under Claudius his fucceffor,
the city wras taken, but foon recovered.
“ It is related, that Conftantine, when emperor,
gloried in the title of general of Athens ; and rejoiced
exceedingly on obtaining from the people the honour
of a ftatuewith an infcription, which he acknowledged
by a yearly gratuity of many bufhels of grain. He
conferred on the governor of Attica and Athens the
title oi grand duke, ptyxs That office was at firft:
annual, but afterwards hereditary. His fon Conftans
beftowed feveral iflands on the city, to fupply it with
corn.
“ In the time of Thecdofius I. 380 years after
Chrift, the Goths laid wafte Theffaly and Epirus $
but Theodore, general of the Acheeans, by his prudent
condu£l preferved the cities of Greece from pillage, and
the inhabitants from being led into captivity. A ftatue
of marble was erefted to hirn at Athens by order of the
city 5 and afterwards one of brafs, by command of the
emperor, as appears from an infcription in a church de¬
dicated to a faint of the fame name, not far from the
French convent. It is on a round pedeftal, which fup-
ports a flat ftone ferving for the holy table. Eudocia
the wife of Theodofius II. was an Athenian.
“ The fatal period now approached, and Athens Aiar;c
was about to experience a conqueror more favage even the Goth.
than
ATT [ h; ] ATT
than Sylla. This was Alaric king of the Goths; who,
under the emperors Arcadius and Honorius, overran
Greece and Italy, facking, pillaging, and deftroying.
Then the Peloponnefian towns were overturned, Arca¬
dia and Lacedemon were laid wafte, the two feas by
the ifthmus were burnilhed with the flames of Corinth,
and the Athenian matrons -were dragged in chains by-
barbarians. The invaluable treafures of antiquity, it is
related, wTere removed ; the ftately and magnificent
ftrufiures converted into piles of ruin ; and Athens was
dripped of every thing fplendid or remarkable. Syne-
fius, a wniter of that age, compares the city to a viftim,
of wdiich the body had been confumed, and the hide
only remained.
“ After this event, Athens became an unimportant
place, and as obfcure as it once had been famous. We
read that the cities of Hellas w'ere put into a date of
defence by Judinian, who repaired the walls, wdiich at
Corinth had been fubverted by an earthquake, and at
Athens and in Boeotia wrere impaired by age ; and here
w7e take a long farewrel of this city. A chafm of near
700 years enfues in its hidory, except that, about the
year 1x30, it furnifhed Roger the fird king of Sicily
with a number of artificers, wThom he fettled at Palermo,
where they introduced the culture of filk, which then
pafied into Italy. The worms had been brought from
India to Condantinople in the reign of Judinian.
“ Athens, as it were, re-emerges from oblivion in
the 13th century, under Baldwin, but befieged by a
general of Theodorus Lafcaris, the Greek emperor.
It was taken in 1427 by Sultan Morat. Boniface, mar¬
quis of Montferrat, poffefled it with a garrifon ; after
whom it was governed by Delves, of the houfe of Ar-
ragon. On his death it was feized, with Macedonia,
Theffaly, Boeotia, Phocis, and the Peloponnefus, by
Bajazet; and then, with the idand Zante, by the Spa¬
niards of Catalonia in the reign of the Greek emperor
Andronicus Paloeologus the elder. Thefe were difpof-
fefied by Reinerius Acciaioli, a Florentine; who, leaving
no legitimate male iffue, bequeathed it to the date of Ve¬
nice. His natural fon, Antony, to whom he had given
Thebes with Bceotia, expelled the Venetians. He was
fucceeded in the dukedom by his kinfman Nerius, who
was difplaced by his own brother named slntony, but
recovered the government when he died. Nerius, lea¬
ving only an infant fon, wTas fucceeded by his wufe. She
was ejefted by Mahomet on a complaint frpm Francus
fon of the fecond Antony, who confined her at Me-
gara, and made awray with her ; but her fon accufing
him to Mahomet the Second, the Turkifh army under
Omar advanced, and he furrendered the citadel in 1455 ;
the Latins- refufing to fuccour him unlefs the Athe¬
nians would embrace their religious tenets. Mahomet,
it is related, when he had finifhed the war wuth the
defpot of the Morea, four years after, furveyed the city
and Acropolis wTith admiration. The janizariesinformed
him of a confpiracy; and Francus Acciaioli, wdio re¬
mained lord of Boeotia, was put to death. In 1464 the
Venetians landed at the Piraeus, furprifed the city, and
carried off their plunder and captives to Euboea.
“ It is remarkable, that after thefe events Athens was
again in a manner forgotten. So lately as about the
middle of the 16th century, the city w7as commonly be¬
lieved to have been utterly deflroyed, and not to exift,
except a few huts of poor filhermen. Crufius, a learned
and inquifitive German, procured more authentic in¬
formation from his Greek correfpondents refiding in
Turkey, which he publifhed in 1584, to aw'aken curio-
fity and to promote farther difcoveries. One of thefe
letters is from a native of Nauplia, a town near Argos
in the Morea. This writer fays that he had been otten
at Athens, and that it ftill contained many things wor¬
thy to be feen, fome of which he enumerates, and then
fubjoins ; “ But why do I dwell on this place ? It is as
the Ikin of an animal which has been long dead.”
It now remains to give fome idea of the charac¬
ter, government, and religion of this once fo famous
people.
The Athenians, fays Plutarch, are very fubjedl to
violent anger ; but they are foon pacified. They are
likewife eafily impreffed with humanity and compaffion.
That this was their temper, is proved by many hiftori-
cal examples. We fhall produce a few. The fentence
of death pronounced againff the inhabitants of Mity-
lene, and revoked the next day : The condemnation
of Socrates, and that of the ten chiefs, each followed
by quick repentance and moft pungent grief.
The minds of the fame people, adds Plutarch, are
not formed for laborious refearches. They feize a fub ■
feft, as it were, by intuition ; they have not patience
and phlegm enough to examine it gradually and mi¬
nutely. „ This part of their character may feem fur-
prifing and incredible. Artifans, and other people
of their rank, are in general flow of comprehenfion.
But the Athenians of every degree were endowed
with an inconceivable vivacity, penetration, and deli¬
cacy of taile. Even the Athenian foldiers could re¬
peat the fine paffages of the tragedies of Euripides.
Thofe artifans and thofe foldiers affifted at public de¬
bates, were bred to political affairs, and were equally
acute in apprehenfion and in judgment. We may in¬
fer the underftanding of the hearers of Demofthenes
from the genius of his orations, which were laconic
and poignant.
As their inclination, continues Plutarch, leads them
to affiff and fupport people of low condition, they like
difcourfe feafoned with pleafantry, and productive of
mirth. The Athenians patronize people of low de¬
gree ; becaufe from them their liberty is in no danger,
and becaufe fuch patronage tends to fupport a demo-
cratical conftitution. They love pleafantry; which
turn of mind proves that they are a humane focial
people, who have a tafte for raillery and wit, and are
not foured with that referve which marks the defpot or
the (lave.
They take pleafure in hearing themfelves praifed ;
but they can likewife patiently bear raillery and cen-
fure. We know with what art and fuccefs Ariffo-
phanes and Demofthenes applied their praife and their
irony to the Athenian people. When the republic
enjoyed peace, fays the fame Plutarch in another
place, it encouraged the adulation of its orators: but
when it had important affairs to difcufs, when the
ftate was in danger, it became ferious; and preferred
to its eloquent fycophants, the honeft orators who
oppofed its follies and its vices; fuch ingenious and
bold patriots as a Pericles, a Phocion, and a Demol-
thenes.
The Athenians, continues Plutarch, often make
their governors tremble, and ftiow great humanity to
their
ATT 248 ] ATT
Attica, their enemies. They were very attentive to the infor-
” mation and inftruftion of thofe citizens who were mod;
eminent for their policy and eloquence j but they were
on their guard againlt the fuperiority of their talents 5
they often checked their boldnefs, and repreffed their
exuberant reputation and glory. That this was their
temper, we are convinced by the oftracifm: which was
eftabliihed to reltrain the ambition of thofe who had
great talents and influence, and which fpared neither
the greateft nor the bell men. The detellation of ty¬
ranny and of tyrants, which was inherent in the Athe¬
nians, rendered them extremely jealous of their privi¬
leges, made them zealous and a£live in defence of their
liberty, whenever they thought it was violated by men
in power.
As to their enemies, they did not treat them with
rigour. They did not abufe victory by a brutal inhu¬
manity to the vanquifhed. The aft of amnefty, which
they pafled after the ufurpation of the 30 tyrants,
proves that they could eafily forgive injuries. It wras
this mildnefs, this humanity of difpofition, which made
the Athenians fo attentive to the rules of politenefs
and decorum. In their war with Philip, having fei-
zed one of his couriers, they read all the letters he
bore, except one from Olympias to her hulband,
which they fent back unopened. Such was their ve¬
neration of love and conjugal fecrecy ; thofe facred
rights, which no emnity, no hoftility, warrants us to
violate !
The views of conqueff cherifhed by a fmall republic,
were extenlive and aflonifhing but this people, fo
great, fo ambitious in their projefts, were, in other
refpefts, of a different charafter. In the expences of
the table, in drefs, in furniture, in houfes, in fhort, in
private life, they were frugal, fimple, modefl, poor ;
but fumptuous and magnificent whenever the ho¬
nour of the Hate was concerned. Their conqueffs,
their viftories, their riches, their conneftions with
the inhabitants of Afia Minor, never reduced them to
luxury, to riot, to pomp, to profufion. Xenophon
remarks, that a citizen was not diftinguifhed from a
Have by his drefs. The wealthieft citizen, the molt
renowned general, was not afhamed to go himfelf to
market.
The tafte of the Athenians, for all the arts and
fciences, is well known. When they had delivered
themfelves from the tyranny of Pififtratus, and after
this had defeated the vail efforts of the Perfians, they
may be confidered as at the fummit of their national
glory. For more than half a century afterwards they
maintained, without controul, the fovereignty of Greece;
and that afcendant produced a fecurity, which left
their minds at eafe, and gave them leifure to cultivate
every thing liberal or elegant. It was then that Peri¬
cles adorned the city with temples, theatres, and other
beautiful public buildings. Phidias, the great fculp-
tor, was employed as his arehiteft, who, when he had
erefted edifices, adorned them himfelf, and added fla-
tues and baffo-relievos, the admiration of every be¬
holder. It was then that Polignotus and Myro paint¬
ed; that Sophocles and Euripides wrote; and not long
after, that they faw the divine Socrates.
Human affairs are, by nature, prone to change ;
and ftates, as well as individuals, are born to decay.
Jealoufy and ambition infenfibly fomented wars, and
1
fuccefs in thefe wars, as in others, was often various. Attica.
The military ftrength of the Athenians was firft im- v—
paired by the Lacedemonians; after that it was again
humiliated, under Epaminondas, by the Thebans : and
laft of all it was wholly crulhed by the Macedonian,
Philip.
Nor, when their political fovereignty was loft, did
their love of literature and the arts fink along with it.
Juft at the clofe of their golden days of empire flou-
rifhed Xenophon and Plato, the difciples of Socrates,
and from Plato defcended that race of philofophers
called the 0/d Academy. Ariftotle, who was Plato’s
difciple, may be laid not to have invented a new phi-
lofophy, but rather to have tempered the fublime and
rapturous myfteries of his mafter with method, order',
and a ftrifter mode of reafoning. Zeno, who was
himfelf alfo educated in the principles of Platonifm,
only differed from Plato in the comparative eftimate
of things, allowing nothing to be intrinfically good
but virtue, nothing intrinfically bad but vice, and con-
fidering all other things to be in themfelves indifferent.
He too and Ariftotle accurately cultivated logic, but -
in different ways; for Ariftotle chiefly dwTelt upon
the fimple fyllogifm; Zeno upon that which is derived
out of it, the compound or hypothetic. Both too, as
well as other philofophers, cultivated rhetoric along
w-ith logic ; holding a knowledge in both to be requi-
fite for thofe who think of addrefling mankind with
all the efficacy of perfuafion. Zeno elegantly illuftra-
ted the force of thefe two powers by a fimile taken
from the hand : the clofe power of logic he compared
to the fift, or hand compreft ; the diffufe power of lo¬
gic, to the palm, or hand open.
The new' academy was founded by Arcefilas, and
ably maintained by Carneades. From a miftaken imi¬
tation of the great parent of philofophy Socrates (par¬
ticularly as he appears in the dialogues of Plato), be-
caufe Socrates doubted fome things, therefore Arce¬
filas and Carneades doubted all.—Epicurus drew from
another fource; Democritus had taught him atoms and
a void: by the fortuitous concourfe of atoms he fan¬
cied he could form a w^bild ; while by a feigned vene¬
ration he complimented aw'ay his gods, and totally de¬
nied their providential care, left the trouble of it flrould
impair their uninterrupted ftate of blifs. Virtue he
recommended, though not for the fake of virtue, but
pleafure ; pleafure, according to him, being our chief
and fovereign good. See Aristotle, Epicurus,
Plato, Socrates, &c.
We have already mentioned the alliance between
philofophy and rhetoric. This cannot be thought
wonderful, if rhetoric be the art by which men are per-
fuaded, .and if men cannot be perfuaded without a
knowledge of human nature : for what but philofophy
can procure us this knowledge ? It was for this reafon
the ableft Greek philofophers not only taught, but wrote
alfo treatifes upon rhetoric. They had a farther induce¬
ment, and that was the mtrinfic beauty of their lan¬
guage as it was then fpoken among the learned and po¬
lite. They wmuld have been alhamed to have deliver¬
ed philofophy, as it has been too often delivered fince,
in compofitions as clumfy as the common dialeft of the
mere vulgar.
The fame love of elegance, which made them at¬
tend to their ftyle, made them attend even to the pla¬
ces
A*hca.
ATT
ces wliere tlieir philofopby was taught,
vered his le&ures in a place ftiaded with groves, on the
banks of the river Uiffus •, and which, as it once be¬
longed to a perfon called Academus, was called after
his name, the Academy. Ariftotle chofe another fpot
of a fimilar charadler, where there were trees and fhade j
a fpot called the Lyceum. Zeno taught in a portico
or colonnade, dillinguilhed from other buildings of that
fort (of which the Athenians had many) bv the name
of the Variegated Portico, the walls being decorated with
various paintings of Polygnotus and Myro, two ca¬
pital mailers of that tranfeendent period. Epicurus
addreffed his hearers in tbofe well known gardens, call¬
ed, after his own name, ‘The gardens of Epicurus.
Thefe places of public inffitution were called among
the Greeks by the name of Gymnajia> in which, what¬
ever that word might have originally meant, were
taught all thofe exercifes, and all thofe arts, which
tended to cultivate not only the body but the mind.
As man w’as a being confining of both, the Greeks
could not conlider that education as complete, in which
both were not regarded, and both properly formed.
Plence their Gymnafia, with reference to this double
end, were adorned with two flatues, thofe of Mercury
and of Hercules, the corporeal accompliihments being
patronized (as they fuppofed) by the god of ftrength,
tae mental accomplilhments by the god of ingenuity.
It was for the cultivation of every liberal accom-
plilhment that Athens was celebrated (as we have
laid) during many centuries, long after her political
influence was loll and at an end.
She was the place of education, not only for Greeks
but for Romans. It was hither that Horace wasAent
by his father 5 it u^as here that Cicero put his fon Mar¬
cus under Cratippus, one of the ableft philofophers
then belonging to that city.—The fedls of philofo¬
phers which we have already deferibed, were ftill ex-
ifting wThen St Paul came thither. We cannot enough
admire the fuperior eloquence of that apoftle, in his
manner of addreffing fo intelligent an audience. We
cannot enough admire the fublimity of his exordium ;
the propriety of his mentioning an altar which he had
found there 5 and his quotation from Aratus, one of
their wHl known poets. Nor was Athens only cele¬
brated for the relidence of philofophers, and the infti-
tution of youth : men of rank and fortune found plea-
fure in a retreat, which contributed fo much to their
liberal enjoyment.
We ihall finifli this piflure of the Athenians by the
addition of one objeft more, to wdiich every one will
admit they have a right; an objedl which was promi¬
nent and flriking, in all their aflions and in all their
enterprifes : We mean their ardent love of liberty.
I his was their predominant quality ; the main fpring
of their government. From the beginnin " ' ~
fan wrar, they facrificed every thing to t
Greece. They left, without hefitation,    
their houfes, to fight at fea the common enemy, from
whom they were in danger of fervitude. What a glo¬
rious day w?as it for Athens, when all her allies, grow’-
ing flexible to the advantageous offers which were made
to them by the king of Perfia, (lie replied by Anilides,
to the ambaffadors of that monarch,—“ That it was
impofhble for all the gold in the world to tempt the re¬
public of Athens: to prevail with her to fell her liber-
Vol. III. Parti.
[ 249 ] ATT
Plato deli- ty, and that of Greece.” It was by thefe genetotrs Attic*,
fentiments that the Athenians not only became the
bulwark of Greece, but likevufe guarded the reif of
Europe from a Perfian invafion.
Thefe great qualities were blended with great fail¬
ings, feemingly incompatible with patriotifm. For the
Athenians, notwithftanding their tenacious jealoufy of
the rights of their country, were a volatile, inconftant,
capricious people. lSo
There never was a people more attentive to the wor- Religion,
fhip of the gods than the Athenians. The worfhip of
their principal deities was diffufed over all Greece, and
even beyond its limits.
Each temple had its particular religious rites: the
pomp, the ceremonies, the duration, and the fuccef-
fion of the folemn feafts were all appointed by fixed
rules. The worfhip paid to each divinity, whether
public or private, was founded on traditions, or on laws
conllantly obeyed. The feait of Bacchus, the Pana-
thentea, the feaft of the myfteries of Eleufis, were ce¬
lebrated according to eftablilhed rules, moft of which
were as ancient as the feafts themfelves. The old cu-
ftoms, of which the priefts were the guardians, were
oblerved in the temples. It is probable that the priefts
were confulted on affairs in which the worftiip of a
deity was interefted, and that their anfwer was decifive.
We are certain that the Eumolpidm had this authority.
They were the interpreters of the ancient laws on which
the worfhip of Ceres was founded, its magnificence,
and its mode—laws which were not written, as Lyfias
informs us, but were perpetuated by a conftant obferva-
tion. The abufes which had gradually crept into the
celebration of thofe feafts, had given rife to feveral new
regulations; to that of the orator Lycurgus, for ex¬
ample, and to the law of Solon, which enjoined the
fenate to repair to Eleufis on the fecond day of the
feaft : but neither thefe, nor the other particular regu¬
lations which we find in Samuel Petit’s colle&ion of
Attic laws, could make a religious code. There was no
general fyftem which comprehended all the branches
of their religion, which, by combining all its articles,
might regulate their belief and conduft, and dired the
judges in their decifions. rg
Crimes againft religion were only punifhed as they Crimes a.
affeded the ftate ; and confequently they were tried by gainft reli—
the magiftrate. Mere raillery, though fomewhat pro-Sion^hy
fane, was thought produdive of no worfe confequence SlSSf3
than offending the minifters of the gods. The Athe- with feve.
nians acknowledged no other religion than the heredi- rhy*
tary public worlhip 5 no other gods than thofe they
had received from their anceftorsj no other ceremonies
than thofe which had been eftablifhed by the laws of
the ftate, and pradifed by their country from time im¬
memorial. They were only felicitous to preferve this
worfhip, which was clofely interwoven with their go¬
vernment, and made a part of its policy. They were
likewiie attentive to the ceremonial pomp; becaufe or¬
der, the regular vigour of legillation, depends greatly
on the awe imprelfed by externals. But as to the in-
confiftent and monftrous romance of fable, foreign opi¬
nions, popular traditions, and poetical fidions, which
formed a religion quite different from that of the ftate
—in it they were very little interefted, and allowed
every one to think of it as he pleafed.
1 his explanation will reconcile a feeming contradic-
I i tioa
y of the Per-
he liberty of
their cities,
ATT
[ 250 ]
ATT
Attica.
182
Priefts,
their duty.
183
Sacred re¬
venues, See
tion in tlie conduft of the Athenians, who gave great
licenfe to their poets, and feverely puniftied the ci¬
tizens who were guilty of impiety. Ariftophanes,
who made as free with the gods as with the great, was
applauded by the Athenians. They condemned So¬
crates to death, who revered the Deity, but difapproved
the public manner of worlhipping him. The life of
JEfchylus was in danger from a lufpicion that he had
revealed fome of the fecrets of Eleufis in one of his
pieces. The wit of Ariftophanes’s drama was unpu-
niihed.
The priefts were not confined to the care of the al¬
tars 5 they who were veiled with the facerdotal digni¬
ty, which was only incompatible with profeflxons mere¬
ly ufeful and lucrative, might likewife hold the moll
important offices of the commomvealth. This we could
prove by a great number of examples •, we lhall cite
that of Xenophon the illullrious hillorian and philofo-
pher : he was likewife a famous general, and he was a
prielt. He was performing the facerdotal funftion
■when he received the news of his fon’s death, who
was killed at the battle of Mantinea.
The facred minillry was not only compatible with
civil offices, but likewife with the proleffion of arms.
The prielt and the foldier were often blended. Cal-
lias, the prielt of Ceres, fought at Platsea. This cu-
itom was not peculiar to the Athenians. The La¬
cedemonians, after the battle which we have juft men¬
tioned, made three graves for their flain ; one for the
priefts, one for the other Spartans, and one for the
Helots.
As the ordinary bufinefs of life was incompatible
with the facerdotal dignity, the priefts had a revenue
fixed to their office. We know that a part of the victims
%vas their right, and that apartments w^ere affigned
them near the temples. But, befide thefe advantages,
they had a falary proportioned to the dignity of their
functions and to the rank of the deities whom they
ferved. T heir falary was probably paid from the re¬
venue of the temples. Thofe revenues, which kept the
temples in repair, and defrayed the facrificial expences,
were very confiderable. They were of many different
kinds.
A great part of the facred revenues arofe from fines,
which individuals were condemned to pay for various
offences 5 fines, of which the tenth part was appro¬
priated to Minerva Polias, and the fiftieth to the other
gods, and to the heroes whofe names their tribes bore.
Befides, if the Prytanes did not hold the affemblies
conformably with the laws, they w'ere obliged to pay
a fine of 1000 drachms to the goddefs. If the Proe-
dri, i. e. the fenators whofe office it was to lay before
the affembly the matters on which they were to delibe¬
rate, did not difeharge that duty according to the
rules preferibed to them, they were likewife condemned
to pay a fine, which, as the former, was applied to the
ufe of Minerva. By thefe fines her temple mult have
been greatly enriched.
Befides this revenue, which was the common pro¬
perty of the gods, and which varied according to the
number and degrees of the mifdemeanours, the temples
had their permanent revenues : We mean the produce
of the lands which were confecrated to the deities.
We do not here allude to the lands confecrated to the
gods, which were never to be cultivated 5 fuch as the
territory of Cirrha, proferibed by a folemn decree of Attica,
the Amphi&yons ; the land betwixt Megara and At- "
tica, which was confecrated to the goddeffes of Eleu¬
fis, and many others. We wrould fpeak only of thofe
which were cultivated, the fruits of which enriched the
temples.
There were likewife lands belonging to the ftate, the
produce of which was deftined to defray the expence of
the facrifices which were offered in the name of the re¬
public. There were likewife firft-fruits which the pu¬
blic officers levied on all lands, for the ufe of the gods.
All thefe emoluments made a part of the revenue of the
temples.
The gods, befides the revenues immediately apper¬
taining to their temples, had certain rights which w7ere
granted them by particular compaft. The Lepreataer
for inftance, were obliged to pay every year a talent to
Olympian Jupiter, on account of a treaty of alliance
which they made wdth the Eleans in one of their w-ars.
The inhabitants of Epidaurus, to obtain leave from
the Athenians to cut down olive-trees for ftatues,
which the Pythian prieftefs had commanded them to
make, engaged to fend deputies every year to Athens,
to offer facrifices in their name to Minerva and to Nep¬
tune. But this prerogative was rather honorary than
lucrative.
The tenth part of the fpoils taken in war was like¬
wife. the property of Minerva. Sacred veffels wrere
bought with the effefts of the 30 tyrants. In fliort,
the gods were profited by almoft every public accident.
But wffiat contributed moft to enrich the famous tem¬
ples of Greece, was the money which was conftantly
brought to them by individuals, in confequence of
vow’s they had made, or to pay for facrifices which
were offered in their names. The credulity of the
people was an inexhauftible fund. That credulity en¬
riched the temples of Delos and Eleufis, and fupported
the magnificence of Delphi. And thofe immenfe trea-
fures which w’ere the fruit of fuperftition, were often a
prey to avarice.
Thefe revenues were not depofited with the priefts j
nor did they expend them. A moderate falary w’as all
their gain ; and to offer facrifices to the deities whofe
minifters they were, was all their employment.
It is very probable that all the facred revenues w^ere
paid into the hands of officers wffio were appointed to
receive them, and who were to give an account of the
difeharge of their truft. Nay, w^e cannot doubt of
this, after reading a paffage in Ariftotle, who, fpeak-
ing of the officers of the temples, exprefsly mentions
thofe who are intrufted with the money appertaining to
the gods. Citizens, without doubt, of approved inte¬
grity, were chofen to this office j and their duty muft
have been, to keep the temples in repair and order, and
to difburfe and keep an account of the ordinary facred
expences.
As to the folemn feafts, which were incredibly mag¬
nificent, fuch as the feaft of Bacchus, and the Pana-
thenfea, they were celebrated at the expence of the
choregus; i. e. of the chief of the choir of each tribe j
for each tribe had its poet and its muficians, who fung,
emulating each other, hymns in honour of the deity.
The richeft citizens were appointed chiefs of the dif¬
ferent choirs ; and as their office was very expenfive,
to indemnify them in fame degree, the choregus of
the
ATT [ ] ATT
Attica, the vl&orious tribe had the privilege of engraving his
—v~J name on the tripod which that tribe fufpended to the
roof of the temple. This office, though ruinous, was
eagerly folicited; and naturally, in a republican date.
It led to honours, like the curule dignity at Romej
and it greatly tended to ingratiate its poffelTor with a
people who were more affe&ed with pleafures than
with effential fervices, and who, confequently, would
more highly elteem a profufe choregus than a victo¬
rious general.
With regard to the fines, which were in the whole,
or in part, the property of Minerva and of the other
deities, there were at Athens public treafurers ap¬
pointed to receive them. They were ten in number,
and they were nominated by lot. They were called
''Treafurers of the goddefs, or Receivers of the [acred
money. That money they received in the prefence of
the fenatej and they were empowered to diminilh or
to annihilate the fine, if they thought it unjuft. The
ftatue of Minerva, that of the Victories, and the other
invaluable pledges of the duration of the ftate, were de-
pofited with them.
The treafury in which the money confecrated to the
gods was kept, was in the citadel, behind the temple
of Minerva Polias j and from its fituation it was term¬
ed Opiftodomus. It was furrounded with a double wall.
It-had but one door, the key of which was kept by the
Epiftates, or chief of the Prytanes : his dignity was
very confiderable j but it lafted only one day. In this
treafury a regifter was kept, in which were written
the names of all thofe who were indebted to the ftate j
he who owed the fmalleft fine was not omitted. If the
debtors proved infolvent, they were profecuted with ex¬
treme rigour, and often punilhed with a cruelty which
religion could not excufe •, though the intereft of the
gods was the motive, or rather the pretext. The fa-
cred treafurers held a confiderable rank among the ma-
giftrates who received the public finances. Of thefe
magiftrates there were many kinds, as there were many
forts of revenues.
The Athenian priefts did not compofe an order di-
ftinCt and feparate from the other orders of the ftate.
They did not form a body united by particular lawTs,
under a chief whofe authority extended to all his infe¬
riors. The dignity of fovereign pontiff was unknown
at Athens 5 and each of the priefts ferved his particular
temple, unconnected with his brethren. The temples,
indeed, of the principal deities 5 thofe of Minerva, for
inftance, of Neptune, of Ceres, and of Proferpine, had
many minifters ; and in each of them a chief prefided,
who had the title of High Rmej}. The number of fub-
altern minifters was in proportion to the rank of the
deity; but the priefts of one temple were altogether a
feparate fociety from thofe of another. Thus at A-
thens there was a great number of high-priefts, be-
caufe many deities were worftiipped there, whofe fer-
vice required many minifters. The power of each
prieft was coniined to his temple ; and thei'e was no fo¬
vereign pontiff, the minifter general of the gods, and
the prefident at all the fearts.
It naturally follows from this account, that the mi-
niiters ot the gods at Athens were •not judges in matters
of religion. They were neither authorized to take
cognizance of crimes committed againft the deity, nor
to puniffi them. Their fundion was to offer faorifices
to the gods, and to entreat their acceptance of the
adorations of the people. But the punilhment of Attica,
impiety, of facrilege, of the profanation of myfteries,
and of other irreligious crimes, was not entrufted to
their zeal.
The priefts were not only incapable of avenging
crimes againft; religion by a temporal procefs j they
even could not, without an exprefs order either from
the fenate or the people, exercife their right of de¬
voting criminals to the infernal gods. It was in con-
fequence of a civil fentence pronounced againft Alci-
biades, that the Eumolpidae launched their anathema
againft him. It was in virtue of another decree that
they revoked their imprecations, when his countrymen
wanted nis fervice, and therefore reftored him to their
favour.
Religious caufes, according to M. de Bougainville,
fell under the jurifdiftion of the Heliaftse.
The government, though often altered, continued
pretty much on the plan eftabliftied by Solon.
The people of Athens w’ere freemen, fojourners, or 1S4
flaves. The citizens, called in Greek Politai, were ve- PeoP^e.
ry numerous $ but what may feem ftrange, were as ma-^!^,"^'*
ny in the time of Cecrops as in the moft fl®urifhing tr^es
ftate of the commonwealth, hardly ever exceeding
20,000. It was Solon who decreed that none fliould be
accounted free but fuch as were Athenians both by fa¬
ther and mother. After his time it fell into defuetude,
till revived by Pericles } and was again at his inftance
repealed. After the expulfion of the 30 tyrants, Solon’s
law was reftored. A perfon born of a ftranger wras
ftyled Nothos, a baftard j whereas the fon of a free w’o-
man was called Cnefos, i. e. legitimate. There was in
Cynofarges a court of judicature, to which caufes of il¬
legitimacy properly belonged ; and the utmoft care
was taken to prevent any from being enrolled Athe¬
nian citizens, who had not a clear title thereto. The
citizens were divided by Cecrops into four tribes : the
firft called Cecropes, from Cecrops; the fecond, Au¬
tochthon, from a king of that name 5 the third, Adiai,
from A&eus, another king of Athens, or rather from
Acle, which fignifies a fhore; the fourth, Puralia:
thefe names were altered by Cranaus, and again by
Eridlhonius. In the reign of Eriftheus, they were
again changed $ the foldiers w7ere called Ob/itai, the
craftfmen Ergatai, the farmers Georgoi, the graziers
and fhepherds Aigicorai: in this ftate they were when
Solon fettled the commonwealth, and appointed the fe¬
nate to be compofed of 400, 100 out of each tribe.
Clyfthenes increafed the number of the tribes to ten ;
and made the fenate confift of 500, taking 50 out of
each tribe. In fucceeding times, two other tribes were
added. Each tribe wras fubdivided into its Demoi or
wards $ and wuth refpeft to thefe it was that Solon infti-
tuted the public feafts before-mentioned, at which fome-
times the wdiole tribe affembled, fometimes feveral
wards, and fometimes only the inhabitants of one wTard.
The fecond fort of inhabitants we mentioned were
called Mctoicoi, i. e. fojourners; thefe were perfons
who lived always at Athens, yet were not admitted
free denizens: as for fuch as did not conftantly refide
in Athens, they were ftyled Xenoi; i. c. f rangers.
The fojourners were obliged to choofe out of the citi¬
zens protestors, who were ftyled Patrons ; they paid
lervices to the ftate, and befides thefe an annual tribute
of 12 drachms for every man, and fix for every wro-
man j but fuch as had fons, and paid for them, were
I i 2 exempted.
ATT [2
Attica, exempted. If people fell to poverty, and were not
v able to pay the tribute, they were feized by the tax-
mafters, and actually fold for Haves j which, as Dio¬
genes Laertius tells us, was the fate of Xenocrates the
philofopher. The fojourners in Attica were under the
lame law as thofe in Athens. As to fervants, they
were freemen, wrho through indigency w-ere driven to
receive wages, and while they wrere in this Hate had no
vote in the aiTembly. As to Haves, they were abfo-
lutely the property of their mailers, and as fuch were
ufed as they thought fit: They wrere forbidden to wear
clothes, or to cut their hair like their mailers j and,
which is indeed amazing, Solon prohibited them to
love boys, as if that had been honourable : They were
likewife debarred from anointing or perfuming them-
felves, and from worHiipping certain deities: They
were not allo'.ved to be called by honourable names j
and in mod other refpe61s were ufed like dogs. Thev
lligmatized them at their pleafure, that is, branded
them with letters in the forehead and elfewhere. How¬
ever, Thefeus’s temple wTas allow’ed them as a fanfluary,
whither, if they W’ere exceedingly ill ufed, they might
and thereby oblige their owners to let them be
transferred to another mailer. In this and many other
refpefls the Athenian Haves were in a much better con¬
dition than thofe throughout the reft of Greece : they
were permitted to get eftates for themfelves, giving a
fmall premium to their mailers, wdio were obliged to
make them free if they could pay their ranfom •, thev
likewife obtained the fame favour from the kindnefs of
their mailers, or for having rendered military fervices
to the Hates. When they wrere made free, they were
obliged to choofe patrons ; and had likewife the privi¬
lege of choofing a curator, wdio, in cafe their patrons
t?5 injured them, was bound to defend them.
General af- The general aftembly of the people, wdiich Solon
lembiy o, matje dernier refort, wras called the Ecc/ejia ; and
. .e peop e. con£^etj 0p freemen of Athens, excepting fuch
as were atimoi or infamous. The meetings of thefe af-
femblies were either ordinary or extraordinary. The
ordinary were fuch as were appointed by lawr, the ex¬
traordinary fuch as neceftity required. Of the firft
there wrere four in 3 9 days. In the firft afiembly they
approved or rejected magiftrates, heard propofals for
the public good, and certain caufes. In the fecond
they received petitions, and heard every man’s judge¬
ment on the matters that wTere before them. In tbu
third they gave audience to foreign ambafladors. The
fourth was employed altogether in affairs relating to
the gods and their worlhip. The extraordinary meet¬
ings were appointed by the magiftrates when occafion
required, whereas to the ordinary affemblies the peo¬
ple came of their owm accord. The firft were held ei¬
ther in the market-place, in the Pnyx a place near the
citadel, or in the theatre of Bacchus: as to the latter,
the magiftrates wdio appointed the extraordinary meet¬
ing appointed alfo the place where it fliould be held.
If any ludden tempell rofe, or any earthquake hap¬
pened, or any fign notorioully inaufpicious appeared,
the aflembly was immediately adjourned, to prevent the
people from apprehending unhappy confequences from
their deliberations. But if the wTeather was fair and
ferene, and nothing happened out of the ordinary courfe
of things, they proceeded to purify the place where
the affembly was held, which was done by fprinklbg
52 ] ATT
it round with the blood of young pigs j then the crier Attica,
made a folemn prayer for the prol’perity of the republic,-v—
and that heaven would bellow a happy iflue on their
counfels and undertakings: he then pronounced a bit¬
ter execration againft any who Ihould in that affembly
propound what might be difadvantageous to the Hate.
Thefe ceremonies being over, they proceeded to buft-
nefs. Ig(f
There were feveral magiftrates who had the overfee-Method of
ing and regulating thefe affemblies. Thefe were firft, giving theit
the Epiftate, or prefident of the affembly, who vvas 0l,‘n‘0ns*
chofen by lot out of the Proedri : his office was to give
the fignal for the people’s voting. Next to him were
the Prytanes, i. e. a committee of the fenate, who of
courfe were prefent on this occafion : by their order a
ptogramma, or fcheme of the bufinefs to be propofed
at the affembly, was previouHy fet up in feme public
place, that every man might know what bufinefs to
apply his thoughts to. The Proedri were nine in num¬
ber, appointed by lots out of all the tribes to which the
Prytanes did not belong : they had the right of pro-
pofmg to the people w hat they were to deliberate upon,
and their office ended with the affembly ; there fat
with them affeffors, who were to take care that no¬
thing they propoled was detrimental to the common¬
wealth. The firll Hep to bufinefs wras the crier’s read¬
ing the decree of the lenate whereon the affembly was
to deliberate j when he had finiflied this, he made pro¬
clamation in thefe words : IVho of the men above 50
will make an oration? When the old men had done
fpeaking, the crier made proclamation again that any
Athenian might then offer his fentiments, whom the
law allowed fo to do ; that is, all fuch as were above
30 years old, and were not infamous. If fuch a one
rofe up to fpeak, the Prytanes interpofed, and bid him
be filent; and if he did not obey them, the liffiors pull¬
ed him down by furce. When the debates were over,
the prefident permitted the people to vote 5 which they
did by calling firft beans, but in after times pebbles,
into certain veffels: thefe were counted, and then it
was declared that the decree of the fenate was either
reje&ed or approved : after which, the Prytanes dif-
miffed the affembly. -
The fenate was inftituted by Solon to prevent thexhe ienate*
dangerous confequences of leaving the fupreme power
in the people. At the time of his inftitution, it was to
confill of 400, 100 out of each tribe \ it was increafed
to 500, when the tribes were augmented to 10 ; and
when they came to 12, it was alfo fwelled to 600.
They were eleffied by lots after this manner : At a day
appointed, towards the clofe of the year, the prefident
of each tribe gave in a lift of fuch perfons belonging
thereto, as were fit for and defired to appear for this
dignity : thefe names were engraven on tables of brafs,
and a number of beans equal to the number of the
amount of them, among which were 100 white ones,
put into a veffel ; and then the names ol the candidates
and the beans were drawn one by one, and fuch as
were drawn by the white beans were received into the
fenate. After the fenate was defied, they proceeded
to appoint the officers who were to prefide in the ie-
nate : thefe were the Prytanes before-mentioned ; and
they were defied thus: The names of the ten tribes
were thrown into one veffd, and nine black beans and
a white one into another veffd. Then the names of the
tribes.
ATT [2
Attica, tribes were drawn with the beans. The tribe to which
<  —the white bean anfwered, prefided firft j and the reft
rgg according to the order in which they were drawn.
Prytanes. The Prytanes, while the fenate confifted of 500,
were 50 in number. For the farther avoiding of con-
fulion, therefore, 10 of thefe prelided a week, during
which fpace they were called Proedri; and out of thefe
an Epiftate or prefident w7as chofen, w'hofe office lafted
but one day, and by law no man could hold it more
than once : the reafon of this w7as, that he had in his
cuftody the public feal, the keys of the citadel, and
the charge of the exchequer. The reader muft di-
ftinguilh between the Epiftates and Proedri laft men¬
tioned, and thofe fpoken of in the former paragraph,
becaufe, though their titles were the fame, their offices
were perfectly diftindl. The fenate aflembled by di¬
rection of the Prytanes once every day, excepting fe-
ftivals, and fometimes oftener in the fenate-houfe, which
189 was thence called Prytaneum.
Laws how When a member of the fenate made a motion for a
ettabhihed, ngW law? it was immediately engraven on tablets, that
the members when they came next might be prepared
to fpeak to it. At the fubfequent affembly the Epi¬
ftates opened the matter ; after which every fenator
that pleafed delivered his fentiments ; then any of the
Prytanes drew up the decree, and repeated it aloud :
after which they proceeded to vote ; and if there was
a majority of white beans, then it became pfephifmay
and was afterwards propounded to the people : if they
approved it, it became a law ; otherwife it was of no
force longer than the fenate who decreed it fubfifted.
The power of the fenate wras very great ; for they took
the account of magi Urates at the expiration of their of¬
fices ; they direCted the provifions made for poor citi¬
zens out of the public treafure ; they had the fuperin-
tendency of public prifons, and a power of punifhing
fuch as committed a£ls morally evil, though not prohi¬
bited by any law ; they had the care likewife of the
fleet ; and befides all thefe they had many other branch¬
es of authority, which it is not neceflfary for us to men¬
tion. Before they took their feats, they were con-
ftrained to undergo a very ftriCt examination, wherein
the whole courfe of their lives was inquired into ; and
if the leaft flur on their reputation appeared, they were
fet afide. When this examination was over, they took
an oath, whereby they bound themfelves to promote in
all their counfels the public good, to advife nothing
contrary to the laws, and to execute their fumftions ex-
aiftly. The higheft fine the fenate could impofe was
500 drachms: if they thought the offender deferved
a heavier mulft, they then tranfmitted the caufe to the
Thefmothetm, who punilhed them as they thought fit.
The fenators, when their year w7as out, gave an ac¬
count of their management to the people : but that
they might have the lefs to do, they always puniThed
fuch of their number as they found had offended by
expulfion'; and in this they were mighty exaft. Yet
an expelled fenator was notwuthftanding eligible to any
other office, the moft trivial omiffion being fufficient
to occasion a difmiffion from the fenatorial dignity j
and therefore, when the tribes chofe their fenators,
they alfo chofe a certain number of fubfidiaries, out of
which, when a feuator was expelled, another was fub-
ilituted it> his place. Each fenator was allowed a
drachm every day : for ityyas a conftaut rule with the
>3 1 AT T
Athenians, that the public ought to pay for every man's Attica,
time ; and therefore fuch of the poor Athenians as *
thought fit to demand it, had three obeli for going to
the affembly. If during their adminiftration any {hips
of war were built, the fenators had crowns decreed
them ; but if not, they were forbid to fue for them.
Next to the fenate was the court of Areopagus j
for a defeription of which fee that article. 190
The chief magiftrates of Athens were Archons, and Archon«,
inferior to them there were many others j of whom it
will be neceffary to mention fome. In the firft place h’
they had Nomophylaces, who were alfo ftyled ihe ele-
ven, becaufe they were fo many in number, one chofen
out of each tribe, and a clerk or fecretary who made
up the eleventh. Their duty it was to look to the exe¬
cution of the laws : they had authority to feize robbers
and other capital offenders ; and if they confeffed, to
put them to death. Dr Potter thinks they refembled
our fheriffs. The Phylarchi were the prefidents of the
Athenian tribes ; but in time this became a military
title. The Philobafileus was an officer in each tribe,
who did the fame things within his jurifdidtion as the
Bafileus did with refpeft to the ftate. The Demarchi
were the principal magiftrates in wards. The Lexar-
chi were fix in number, and were bound to take care
that the people came duly to the aflemblies; in their
cuftody was the public regifter of the citizens names.
They had under them Toxotae, who were liflors or
bailiffs; they were fometimes 1000 in number : thefe
men were neceffary : but, like moft of their fort, were
in a manner infamous, as may be gathered from the
comedies of Ariftophanes y they were generally Scy¬
thians, raw-boned, brawny fellows, ready to execute
any thing they were commanded. The Nomothetic
were 1000 in number; their bufinefs was to watch
over and infpeft into the laws. There were two forts
of orators in the fervice of the ftate. Some were ap¬
pointed to defend an old law, when a motion was made
to repeal it; thefe had their fee from the ftate, but the
fame man was incapable of being elefted twice. Be¬
fides thefe, there were 10 fettled orators called Rheto-
res, defied by lot ; their bufinefs was to plead public
caufes In the fenate houfe. For this they had their Ha¬
ted fees; and with refpefl to their qualifications, the 191-
law run thus: “ Let no one be a public orator whofiawsre~
bath ft ruck his parents, denied them maintenance, or gardinS-
ffiut them out of his doors; who hath refufed to ferve0nit°1'i'
in the army; who hath thrown away his fhield ; who
hath been acidified to lewd women, notorioufly effe¬
minate, or has run out his patrimony. If any man who
has been guilty of thefe crimes dare to deliver an ora¬
tion, let him be brought to trial upon the fpot. Let
an orator have children lawfully begotten, and au
eftate within Attica ; if in his oration he talks imperti¬
nently, makes idle repetitions, affefls an unbecoming
raillery, digreffes from the point in queftion, or, after
the affembly is over, abufes the prefident, let the P10-
edri fine him 50 drachms ; and if that is not thought
enough, let him be brought before the next affemblv
and fined again.” v Ir,
We {hall conclude this draught of the Athenian go- Courts
vernment with an account of their courts of jufiice, juftK'r"
which, exclufive of the Areopagus, were 10 in num¬
ber ; four had cognizance of criminal, and fix of civil
caufes, XLefe ig courts tvere numbered with the 10
£uit:
ATT [ 254 ] ATT
Attica. &rft letters of the alphabet, and were thence ftyled,
—v—Alpha, Beta, Gamma, &c. When an Athenian was
at leifure to hear caufes, he wrote his own name, that
of his father, and the ward to which he belonged, up¬
on a tablet •, this he prefented to the Thefmothetse,
who returned it again to him with another tablet, with
the letter which fell to his lot j then he went to the
crier of the court, who prefented him a fceptre, and
gave him admillion. When the caufcs were over, eve-
ry judge went and delivered his fceptre to the Pryta-
nes, and received a ftated fee for every caufe that was
tried. But this was intended only to compenfate their
lofs of time ; fo, that there might be no appearance of
covetoufnefs, a man was forbid to fit in two courts on
the fame day. The firft criminal court after the Areo¬
pagus, w'as that of the Ephetce. It confifted of 51 mem¬
bers, all upwards of 51 years old. Draco gave it a
very extenfive jurifdiftion j but Solon took aw'ay from
them the power of judging in any other caufes than
thofe of manflaughter, accidental killing, and lying in
wait to dellroy : the Bafileus entered all caufes in this
court. The fecond criminal court w-as called Delphi-
mum, bpcaufe it was held in the temple of Apollo Del»
phinius •, it had cognizance of fuch murders as were
confeffcd by the criminal, but at the fame time jufti-
fied under fome pretence or other. The Prytaneum
was the third criminal court. It held plea of fuch cafes
where death enfued from inanimate things: caufes were
heard here with the fame folemnity as in other courts j
and on judgment given, the thing, whatever it was,
that had occalioned the death of a man, was thrown
out of the territory of Athens. The laft criminal court
was ftyled Phreatum. It fat in a place not far from
the fea (hore j and fuch perfons were brought before
this court as had committed murders in their own coun¬
try and fled to Attica j the proceedings of this court
w'ere fo fevere, that they did not permit the criminal
to come on ftiore, but obliged him to plead his caufe
in his vefTel; and if he w^as found guilty, he was com¬
mitted to the mercy of the winds and feas.
Of the judicatures for hearing civil caufes, the firft
was the Parabajlon, fo called, as fome think, becaufe
in it no matter could be heard if the caufe of aftion
was above one drachm. The Cainon, or new court,
was the fecond "tribunal. The third w^as ftyled the
court of Lycus, becaufe it aflembled in a temple dedi¬
cated to that hero, whofe ftatue, reprefented with the
face of a wolf, was fet up in all courts of juftice. The
Trigonon was fo called, becaufe it w^as triangular in its
form. The court Metidius derived its appellation from
the architeft who built it. The fixth and laft court
was called Hel'uea ; it was by far the greateft, and is
generally conceived to have derived its name from the
judges fitting in the open air expofed to the fun. All
the Athenians who were free citizens were allowed by
law to fit in thefe courts as judges •, but before they
took their feats were fworn by Apollo Patrius, Ceres,
and Jupiter the king, that they would decide all things
righteoufly and according to law, where there was any
law to guide them $ and by the rules of natural equity,
where there was none. The Helaeaftic court confided
at leaft of 50, but its ufual number w-as 500, judges j
when caufes of very great confequence wrere to be tried,
a 000 fat therein j and now and then the judges were
Increafed to 1500, and even to 200c. There were
1
many inferior courts in Athens for the decifion of tri- Atticus,
vial caufes } but of thefe there is no neceftity of fpeak- , AttlIa-
ing, fince we defign no more than a fuccinft view of *
the Athenian republic, as it was fettled by and in con¬
fequence of Solon’s laws.
ATTICUS, Titus Pomponius, one of the molt
honourable men of ancient Rome. He underftood the
art of managing himfelf with fuch addrefs, that with¬
out leaving his ftate of neutrality, he preferved the
efteem and affeftion of all parties. His ftrift friendftiip"
with Cicero did not hinder him from having great in¬
timacy with Hortenfius. The contefts at Rome be¬
tween Cinna’s party and that of Marius induced him
to go to Athens, where he continued for a long time.
He was very fond of polite learning, and kept at his
houfe feveral librarians and readers. He might have
obtained the moft conliderable polls in the government j
but chofe rather not to meddle, becaufe in the corrup¬
tion and faction which then prevailed he could not dif-
charge them according to the laws. He wrote Annals.
He married his daughter to Agrippa ; and attained to
the age of 77.
ATTILA, king of the Huns, furnamed thefcourge
of God, lived in the 5th century. He may be ranked
amongft the greateft conquerors, lince there was fcarce-
ly any province in Europe which did not feel the weight
of his victorious arms.
Attila deduced his noble, perhaps his regal, de- Gibbons
fcent from the ancient Huns, who had formerly con- Rome,
tended with the monarchs of China. His features, ac-vo^' 1“*
cording to the obfervation of a Gothic hiftorian, bore^'
the ftamp of his national origin : and the portrait of
Attila exhibits the genuine deformity of a modern
Calmuck 5 a large head, a fwarthy complexion, fmall
deep-feated eyes, a flat nofe, a few hairs in the place
of a beard, broad ftioulders, and a ftiort fquare body,
of nervous ftrength, though of a difproportioned form.
The haughty ftep and demeanour of thfe king of the
Huns exprefled the confcioufnefs of his fuperiority
above the reft of mankind j and he had a cuftom of
fiercely rolling his eyes, as- if he wifhed to enjoy the
terror which he infpired. Yet this favage hero was
not inacceflible to pity ; his fuppliant enemies might
confide in the aflurance of peace or pardon *, and At¬
tila was confidered by his fubjefts as a juft and indul¬
gent mailer. He delighted in w-ar : but, after he had
afcended the throne in a mature age, his head, rather
than his hand, achieved the conqueft of the north ;
and the fame of an adventurous foldier was ufefully ex¬
changed for that of a prudent and iuccefsful general.
The effefts of perfonal valour are fo inconfiderable,
except in poetry or romance, that victory, even among
barbarians, mult depend on the degree of Ikill, with
which the paflions of the multitude are combined and
guided for the fervice of a Angle man. The arts of
Attila w-ere Ikilfully adapted to the charafter of his
age and country. It was natural enough, that the
Scythians Ihould adore, with peculiar devotion, the
god of wTar ; but as they were incapable of forming
either an abftraCl idea, or a corporeal reprefentation,
they worfhipped their tutelar deity under the fymbol of
an iron fcimitar. One of the Ihepherds of the Huns
perceived, that a heifer, who was grazing, had wound¬
ed herfelf in the foot •, and curioully followed the track
of the blood, till he difcovergd, among the long grafs,
ATT [ 2J5 J AT T
Attila. the point of an ancient fword ; which he dug out of
the ground, and prefented to Attila. That magnani¬
mous, or rather that artful, prince, accepted with pi¬
ous gratitude this celeftial favour 3 and, as the right¬
ful poffeffor of the fword of Mars, aflerted his divine
and indefeahble claim to the dominion of the earth. If
the rites of Scythia were praftifed on this folemn occa-
lion, a lofty altar, or rather pile of faggots, 300 yards
in length and in breadth, was raifed in a fpacious
plain ; and the fword of Mars was placed erefl on the
fummit of this ruftic -altar, which was annually confe-
crated by the blood of Iheep, horfes, and of the hun¬
dredth captive. Whether human f^crifices formed any
part of the worfhip of Attila, or whether he propitiat¬
ed the god of war with the viftims which he continu¬
ally offered in the field of battle, the favourite of Mars
foon acquired a facred charafter, which rendered his
conquefts more eafy and more permanent 3 and the
barbarian princes confefied, in the language of devo¬
tion or flattery, that they could not prefume to gaze
with a fteady eye on the divine majefty of the king of
the Huns. His brother Bleda, who reigned over a
confiderable part of the nation, was compelled to re-
fign his fceptre and his life. Yet even this cruel a£l
was attributed to a fupernatural impulfe 3 and the vi¬
gour with which Attila wielded the fword of Mars,
convinced the world that it had been referved alone
for his invincible arm. But the extent of his empire
affords the only remaining evidence of the number and
importance of his vidlories 3 and the Scythian monarch,
however ignorant of the value of fcience and philofo-
phy, might perhaps lament that his illiterate fubjefts
were deftitute of the art which’ could perpetuate the
memory of his exploits.
If a line of feparation were drawn between the civi¬
lized and the favage climates of the globe 3 between
the inhabitants of cities ivho cultivated the earth and
the hunters and fhepherds who dwelt in tents 3 Attila
might afpire to the title of fupreme and foie monarch
of the Barbarians. He alone, among the conquerors
of ancient and modern times, united the two mighty
kingdoms of Germany and Scythia 3 and thofe vague
appellations, when they are applied to his reign, may
be underflood with an extenfive latitude. Thuringia,
which flretched beyond its actual limits as far as the
Danube, was in the number of his provinces : he in-
terpofed, with the weight of a powerful neighbour, in
the domeftic affairs of the Franks 3 and one of his lieu¬
tenants chaflifed, and almoll exterminated, the Bur¬
gundians of the Rhine. He fubdued the iflands of the
ocean, the kingdoms of Scandinavia, encompaffed and
^ divided by the waters of the Baltic 3 and the Huns
might derive a tribute of furs from that northern re¬
gion, which has been protected from all other conque¬
rors by the feverity of the climate, and the courage of
the natives. Towards the eafl, it is difficult to cir-
cumfcribe the dominion of Attila over the Scythian de¬
fects : yet we may be affured, that he reigned on the
banks of the Volga 3 that the king of the Huns was
dreaded, not only as a warrior, but as a magician 3
that he infulted and vanquiffied the khan of the formi¬
dable Geougen 3 and that he fent ambaffadors to nego-
ciate an equal alliance with the empire of China. In
the proud review of the nations who acknowledged the
fovereignty of Attila, and who never entertained du-
-ring his lifetime the thought of a revolt, the Gepidse Attire
and the Oflrogoths were diftinguifhed by their num- ^
bers, their bravery, and the perfonal merit of their ^
chiefs. The renowned Ardaric king of the Gepidae,
was the faithful and fagacious counlellor of the mo¬
narch 3 who efteemed his intrepid genius, whilft he lo¬
ved the mild and difcreet virtues of the noble Walamir
king of the Oftrogoths. The crowd of the vulgar
kings, the leaders of fo many martial tribes, who ferv-
ed under the ftandard of Attila, were ranged in the
fubmiffive order of guards and domeftics round the per-'
fon of their mailer. They watched his nod 3 they
trembled at his frown 3 and at the firil fignal of his
will, they executed without murmur or hefitation his
item and abfolute commands. In time of peace, the
dependent princes, with their national troops, attended
the royal camp in regular fucceffion 3 but when Attila
colle&ed his military force, he was able to bring into
the field an army of five, or, according to another ac¬
count, of feven hundred thoufand Barbarians.
The death of Attila was attended with fingular cir-
cumftances. He had married a new wife, a beautiful
virgin named lldico. His nuptials were celebrated
with great feftivity, at his palace beyond the Danube,
and he retired late to bed oppreffed with wine. In
the night, a blood-veffel burft in his lungs, which fuf-
focated him. The bride was found in the morning fit¬
ting by the bedfide, lamenting his death and her own
danger. The body of Attila was expofed in the plain, .
wffiile the Huns, finging funeral fongs to his praife,
marched round it in martial order. The body, enclo-
fed in three coffins, of gold, filver, andiron, was pri¬
vately interred during the night 3 and to prevent the
violation of his remains by the difcovery of the place
where he was buried, all the captive flaves who were
employed in the folemnity were barbaroufiy maffacred.
This happened about the year 453. With Attila end¬
ed the empire of the Huns. His fons, by dilfenfion
a;id civil war, mutually deftroyed each other, or were
difpoffeffed by more powerful and independent chief¬
tains.
For a farther account of his exploits, fee the article
Huns.
ATTIRE, in Hunting, fignifies the head or horns
of a deer. The attire of a Hag, if perfefl, confifls of
bur, pearls, beam, gutters, antler, fur-antler, royal,
fur-royal, and crotches ; of a buck, of the bur, beam,
brow-antler, advancer, palm, and fpellers.
ATTITUDE, in Painting and Sculpture, the ge-
fture of a figure or ftatue 3 or it is fuch a difpofition of
their parts as ferves to exprefs the aftion and fentiments
of the perfon reprefented.
ATTIUM, in Ancient Geography, a promontory on
the north-weft of Corfica, (Ptolemy). It ftill retains
fome traces of its ancient name, being now called Pun-
ta di Acciuolo (Cluverius).
ATTLERURY, a town in the county of Norfolk
in England. E. Long. o. 40. N. Lat. 52. 23.
ATTOLLENS, in Anatomy, an appellation given
to feveral mufcles, otherwife called levatores and ele-
vatores. See Anatomy, Table of the Mufcles.
ATTORNEY AT law, anfwers to the Procurator
or Proflor of the civilians and canonifts: And he is
one who is put in the place, ftead, or turn, of ano¬
ther, to manage his matters of law. Formerly every
fuitor
ATT l 2
y- Hiltor was obliged to appear in perfon, to profecute or
deiend his fuit (according to the old Gothic conftitu-
tion), unlefs by fpecial licenfe under the king’s letters
patent. This is ftill the law in criminal cafes. And
an idiot cannot to this day appear by attorney, but in
perfon ; for he hath not difcretion to enable him to
appoint a proper fubftitute : and upon his being brought
before the court in fo defencelefs a condition, the judg¬
es are bound to take care of his interefls, and they fhall
admit the beft plea in his behalf that any one prefent
can fuggeft. But, as in the Roman law, a/m o/irn in
z/fu fuiflci, alterius nomine agi non pojfe, fed quia hoc
non minimum incommod'd at em habebat, cceperunt homines
per procuratores litigare; fo, with us, on the fame
principle of convenience, it is now permitted in gene¬
ral, by divers ancient llatutes, whereof the firll is Ifa-
tute Weft. 2. c. 10. that attorneys may be made to
profecute or defend any aftion in the abfence of the
parties to the fuit. Thefe attorneys are now formed
-into a regular corps ; they are admitted to the execu¬
tion of their office by the fuperior courts of Weftmin-
iter hall; and are in all points officers of the refpec-
tive courts in which they are admitted ; and as they
have many privileges on account of their attendance
there, fo they are peculiarly fubjedl to the cenfure and
auimadverfion of the judges. No man can praclife as
an attorney in any of thofe courts, but fuch as is ad¬
mitted and fworn an attorney of that particular court:
an attorney of the court of king’s bench cannot prac-
tiie in the court of common pleas; nor vice verfa.
To praiftife in the court of chancery, it is alfo necef-
fary to be admitted a folicitor therein : and by the fta-
tute 2 2 Geo. II. c. 46. no perfon ftiall aft as an attor¬
ney at the court of quarter-feffions, but fuch as has
been regularly admitted in fome fuperior court of re¬
cord. So early as the ftatute 4 Hen. IV. c. 18. it
was enafted, that attorneys ffiould be examined by the
judges, and none admitted but fuch as wrere virtuous,
learned, and fworn to do their duty. And many fub-
fequent ftatutes have laid them under farther regula¬
tions.
Letter of attorney pays by different afts, 6s. By
25 Geo. III. c. 80. the following duties are to be paid
by every folicitor, attorney, notary, proftor, agent,
or procurator, viz. for every warrant to profecute for
a debt of 40s. or to defend, a ftamp duty of 2s. 6d.
And they are to take out certificates annually 5 and
if refident in London, Weftminfter, the bills of mor¬
tality, or Edinburgh, they are now obliged to pay
5I. for the fame ; and in every other part of Great Bri¬
tain, 3I. The duties are under the management of
the commiffioners of ftamps : and every afting folici¬
tor, and other perfons as above, ffiall annually deliver
in a note of his name and refidence, to the proper offi¬
cer of the court in which he praftifes ; the entering
officers are to certify notes delivered, and iffue annual
certificates, ftamped as above, which muft be renewed
ten days before the expiration. Refufing to iffue, or
improperly iffuing certificates, is a penalty of 50I. and
.damages to the party aggrieved. Afting without a
certificate, or giving in a falfe place of refidence, is
a penalty of 50I. and incapacity to fue for fees due.
A ftamped memorandum ffiall be given to the proper
officer, of the names of the parties in every aftion 5
and in fuch cafes as ufed to require precipes. Officers
2
56 ] ATT
who receive ftamped memorandums, are to file the Attotitfi-
lame, on penalty of 50I. and perfons not afting con- ment,
formable to this aft forfeit 5I. Attradhori.
sltvoRNEr Genera/, is a great officer under the king, 'v '
made by letters patent. It is his place to exhibit in¬
formations, and profecute for the crown, in matters
criminal ; and to file bills in the exchequer, for any
thing concerning the king in inheritance or profits j
and others may bring bills againft the king’s attorney.
Plis proper place in court, upon any fpecial matters of
a criminal nature, wherein his attendance is required,
is under the judges on the left hand of the clerk of the
crown : but this is only upon folemn and extraordina¬
ry occafions ; for ufually he does not fit here, but
within the bar in the face of the court.
ATIOURNMENT, or Attornment, in Lave,
a transfer from one lord to another of the homage and
fervice a tenant makes ; or that acknowledgment of
duty to .a new lord.
ATTRACTION, in Natural Philofophy, a gene¬
ral term uied to denote the caufe by which bodies tend
towards each other, and cohere till feparated by fome
other power.
The principle of attraftion, in the Newtonian fenfe
of it, feems to have been firft furmifed by Copernicus.,
“ As for gravity,” fays Copernicus, “ I confider it as
nothing more than a certain natural appetence {appe*
tentin') that the Creator has impreffed upon all the
parts of matter, in order to their uniting or coalefcing
into a globular form, for their better prefervation j and
it is credible that the fame power is alfo inherent in
the fun and moon, and planets, that thofe bodies may
conftantly retain that round figure in which we be¬
hold them.” t)e Rev. Orb. Ccelefi. lib. i. cap. 9. And
Kepler calls gravity a edrporeal and mutual affeftion
between fimilar bodies, in order to their union. Af.
Nov. in Introd. And he pronounces more pofitively,
that no bodies whatfoever were abfolutely light, but
oifly relatively fo ; and confequently, that all matter
was fubjefted to the law7 of gravitation. Ibid.
The firft in this country who adopted the notion of
attraftion was Dr Gilbert, in his book Dc Magnete ;
and the next was the celebrated Lord Bacon, Nov.
Organ, lib. ii. aphor. 36. 45. 48. Sylv. cent. i. exp. 33.
In France it was received by Fermat and Roberval j
and in Italy by Galileo and Borelli. But till Sir Ifaac
Newton appeared, this principle was very imperfeftly
defined and applied.
It muft be obferved, that though this great author
makes ufe of the word attraftion, in common with the
fchool philofophers j yet he very ftudioufly diftinguiflies
between the ideas. The ancient attraftion was fup-
pofed a kind of quality, inherent in certain bodies
themfelves, and arifing from their particular or fpecific
forms. The Newtonian attraftion is a more indefinite
principle ; denoting not any particular kind or man¬
ner of aftion, nor the phyfical caftfe of fuch aftion $
but only a tendency in the general, a conatus accedendi,
to whatever caufe, phyfical or metaphyfical, fuch ef-
feft be owing} whether to a power inherent in the
bodies themfelves, or to the impulfe of an external
agent. Accordingly, that author, in his Philofoph.
Nat. Prin. Math, notes, “ that he ufes the words
attraBion, impulfe, and propenfion to the centre, indif¬
ferently ; and cautions the reader not to imagine that
hT
ATT
AUra&ion. by attraction he exprefles the modus of the aftion, or
'T the efficient caufe thereof, as if there were any proper
poweis in the centres, which in reality are only ma¬
thematical points 5 or as if centres could attiadf.”
lib. i. p. 5. So he “ confiders centripetal powers as
attraftions, though, phyfically fpeaking, it were per¬
haps more juft to call them impulfes.” lb. p. 147. He
adds, “ that what he calls attraction may poflibly be
effeCled by impulfe, though not a common or corporeal
impulfe, or after fome other manner unknown to us.”
Optic, p. 322.
Attraction, if confidered as a quality arifing from
the fpecific forms of bodies, ought, together with fym-
pathy, antipathy, and the whole tribe of occult quali¬
ties, to be exploded. But when we have fet thefe
afide, there will remain innumerable phenomena of na¬
ture, and particularly the gravity or weight of bodies,
or their tendency to a centre, which argue a principle
of aCtion feemingly diftinCt from impulfe, where at
leaft there is no fenfible impulfion concerned. Nay,
what is more, this aftion in fome refpeCls differs from
all impulfion we know of; impulfe being always
found to aft in proportion -to the furfaces of bodies,
whereas gravity afts according to their folid content,
and confequently muft arife from fome caufe that pe¬
netrates or pervades the whole fubftance thereof. This
unknown principle, unknown we mean in refpeft of its
caufe, for its phenomena and effefts are moft obvious,
with all the fpecies and modifications thereof, we call
-atiraBion ; which is a general name, under which all
mutual tendencies, where no phyfical impulfe appears,
and which cannot therefore be accounted for from any
known laws of nature, may be ranged.
And hence arife divers particular kinds of attrac¬
tion 5 as, Gravity, Magnetifm, E/e&ricity, &c. which
are fo many different principles afting by different
laws, and only agreeing in this, that we do not fee any
phyfical caufes thereof; but that, as to our fenfes, they
may really arife from fome power or efficacy in fuch
bodies, whereby they are enabled to aft even upon di-
ftant bodies, though our reafon abfolutely difallows of
any fuch aftion.
Attraftion may be divided, with refpeft to the-law
it obferves, into two kinds.
r. That which extends to a fenfible diftance. Such
are the attraftion of gravity, found in all bodies ; and
the attraftion of magnetifm and eleftricity, found in
particular bodies. The feveral laws and phenomena of
each, fee under their refpeftive articles.
The attraftion of gravity, called alfo among mathe¬
maticians the centripetal force, is one of the greateft
and moft univerfal principles in all nature. We fee
and feel it operate on bodies near the earth, and find
by obfervation that the fame power (i. e. a power
which afts m the fame manner, and by the fame rules,
viz. always proportionably to the quantities of matter,
and as the fquares of the diftances reciprocally) does
alfo obtain in the moon, and the other planets primary
and fecondary, as well as in the comets ; and even that
this is the very power whereby they are all retained in
their orbits, &c. And hence, as gravity is found in
all the bodies which come under our obfervation, it is
cafily inferred, by one of the fettled rules of philofo-
phizing, that it obtains in all others : and as it is found
to be as the quantity of matter in each body, it muft
Vol. III. Part I.
2J7 ] ATT
be in every particle thereof; and hence every particle Attraftion.
in nature is proved to attraft every other particle, &c. —v—’
See Attraction, Astronomy Index.
From this attraftion arifes all the motion, and con¬
fequently all the mutation, in the material world. By
this heavy bodies defcend, and light ones afcend j by
this projeftiles are direfted, vapours and exhalations
rife, and rains, &c. fall. By this rivers glide, 'the air
preffes, the ocean fwells, 8tc. In effeft, the motions
arifing from this principle make the fubjeft of that ex-
tenfive branch of mathematics, called mechanics or Jla-
tics, with the parts or appendages thereof, hydroftatics,
pneumatics, &c.
2. That which does not extend to fenfible diftances.
Such is found to obtain in the minute particles where¬
of bodies are compofed, which attraft each other at
or extremely near the point of contaft, with a force
much fuperior to that of gravity, but which at any
diftance from it decreafes much fafter than the power
of gravity. This power a late ingenious author choofes
to call the attraBion of cohefon, as being that whereby
the atoms or infenfible particles of bodies are united
into fenfible maffes.
This latter kind of attraftion owns Sir Ifaac New¬
ton for its difcoverer 5 as the former does for its im¬
prover. The laws of motion, percuflion, &c. in fen¬
fible bodies under various circumftances, as falling,
projefted, &c. afcertained by the later philofophers, do
not reach to thofe more remote inteftine motions of
the component particles of the fame bodies, whereon
the changes of the texture, colour, properties, &c. of
bodies depend : fo that our philofophy, if it were on¬
ly founded on the principle of gravitation, and carried
fo far as that would lead us, would neceffarily be very
deficient.
But befide the common laws of fenfible maffes, the
minute parts they are compofed of are found fubjeft
to fome others, which have been but lately taken no¬
tice of, and are even yet imperfeftly known. Sir Ifaac
Newton, to whofe happy penetration we owe the hint,
contents himfelf to eftablifh that there are fuch mo¬
tions in the minima natura, and that they flow from
certain powers or forces, not reducible to any of thofe
in the great world. In virtue of thefe powers, he
fhows, “ That the fmall particles aft on one another
even at a diftance j and that many of the phenomena
of nature are the refult thereof. Senfible bodies, we
have already obferved, aft on one another divers
ways: and as we thus perceive the tenor and courfe
of nature, it appears highly probable that there may
be other powers of the like kind ; nature being very
uniform and confiftent with herfelf. Thofe juft men¬
tioned reach to fenfible diftances, and fo have been
obferved by vulgar eyes 5 but there may be others
which reach to fuch fmall diftances as have hitherto
efcaped obfervation 5 and it is probable eleftricity may
reach to fuch diftances, even without being excited by
friftion.
The great author juft mentioned proceeds to confirm
the reality of thefe fufpicions from a great number of
phenomena and experiments, which plainly argue fuch
powers and aftions between the particles, e. g. of falts
and water, fulphuric acid and w-ater, nitre acid and
iron, fulphuric acid and nitre. He alfo lhowrs, that
thefe powers, See. are unequally ftrong between diffe-
K k rent
A T
Attra&ion. rent bodies ; ftronger, e. g,
# " potafli and thofe of nitric acid than thofe of filver, be¬
tween nitric acid and zinc than iron, between iron
and copper than filver or mercury. So fulphuric acid
a£ts on water, but more on iron or copper, &c.
The other experiments which countenance the exig¬
ence of fuch principle of attraction in the particles of
matter are innumerable.
Thefe aCtions, in virtue whereof the particles of the
bodies above mentioned tend towards each other, the
author calls by a general indefinite name attraciion ;
which is equally applicable to all aCtions whereby di-
Itant bodies tend towards one another, whether by im-
pulfe or by any other more latent power : and from
hence he accounts for an infinity of phenomena, other-
wife inexplicable, to which the principle of gravity is
inadequate.
“ Thus (adds our author) will nature be found very
conformable to herfelf and very lixnple ; performing
all the great motions of the heavenly bodies by
the attraction of gravity, which intercides thofe bo¬
dies, and* alraoft all the fmall ones of their parts, by
feme other attraClive power diffufed through the par¬
ticles thereof. Without fuch principles, there never
would have been any motion in the world; and with¬
out the continuance thereof, motion would foon perifh,
there being otherwife a great decreafe or diminution
thereof, which is only fupplied by thefe aClive princi¬
ples.
We need not fay how unjuft it is in the generality
of foreign philofophers to declare againft a principle
which furnifhes fo beautiful a viewr, for no other reafon
but becaufe they cannot conceive how one body fhould
on another at a diftance. It is certain, philofopby
allowTs of no aflion but what is by immediate contact
and impulfion (for bow can a body exert any a<ftive
power there where it does not exift ? to fuppofe this of
any thing, even the Supreme Being himfelf, would per¬
haps imply a contradi&ion): yet we fee effefts without
feeing any fuch impulfe ; and where there are effects,
we can eafily infer there are caufes whether we fee
them or not. But a man may confider fuch effects
without entering into the confideration of the caufes,
as indeed it feems the bufinefs of a philofopher to
do : for to exclude a number of phenomena which we
do fee, will be to leave a great chafm in the hiftory
of nature p and to argue about actions which we do
not fee, will be to build caftles in the air.—It follows,
therefore, that the phenomena of attraftion are matter
of phyfical confideration, and as fuch entitled to a fhare
in the fyftem of phyftcs : but that the caufes thereof
will only become fo when they become fenfible, z. e.
when they appear to be the effeft of fome other higher
caufes (for a caufe is no otherwife feen than as itfelf is
an effedl, fo that the firft caufe muft from the nature
of things be invifible) : we are therefore at liberty to
fuppofe the caufes of attraftions what we pleafe, with¬
out any injury to the effects.—The illuftrious author
himfelf feems a little irrefolute as to the caufes ; incli¬
ning fometimes to attribute gravity to the action of
an immaterial caufe {Optics, p. 343, &c.) and fome¬
times to that of a material one (lb. p. 325.)
In his philofophy, the refearch into caufes is the laft
thing, and never comes under confideration till the
laws and phenomena of the effect be fettled ; it being
T [ 258 ] ATT
. between the particles of to thele phenomena that the caufe is to be accommo- Attraction
datedi I he caufe even of any, the groffeft and moft j!
fenftble a&ion, is not adequately known. How im- AttnhutCj,
pulfe or percuffion itfelf produces its effe&s, i. e. how *
motion is communicated by body to body, confounds
the deepeft philofophers; yet is impulfe received not
only into philofophy, but into mathematics : and ac¬
cordingly the laws and phenomena of its effects make
the greateft part of common mechanics.
The other fpccies of attraction, therefore, in which
no impulfe is remarkable, when their phenomena are
fufficiently afeertained, have the fame title to be pro¬
moted from phyfical to mathematical confideration ;
and this without any previous inquiry into their caufes,
•which our conceptions may not be proportionate to :
let their caufes be occult, as all caufes ftriCtly fpeaking
are, fo that their effects, which alone immediately
concern us, be but apparent.
Our great philofopher, then, far from adulterating
fcience with any thing foreign or metapbyfical, as
many have reproached him with doing, has the glory
of having thrown every thing of this kind out of his
fyftem, and of having opened a new fource ol fublimer
mechanics, which duly cultivated might be of infinite¬
ly greater extent than all the mechanics yet known.
It is hence alone we muft expeft to learn the manner
of the changes, productions, generations, corruptions,
&c. of natural things ; with all that feene of wonders
opened to us by the operations of chemiftry.
Some of our own countrymen have profecuted the
difeovery with laudable zeal : Hr Keill particularly has
endeavoured to deduce fome of the laws of this new
aCtion, and applied them to folve divers of the more
general phenomena of bodies, as cohefion, fluidity,
elafticity, foftnefs, fermentation, coagulation, &c.; and
Hr Freind, feconding him, has made a further appli¬
cation of the fame principles, to account at once for
almoft all the phenomena that chemiftry prefents : fo
that fome philofophers are inclined to think that the
new mechanics ftiouid feem already raifed to a com¬
plete fcience, and that nothing now can occur but
what we have an immediate folution of from the at¬
traClive force.
But this feems a little too precipitate : A principle
fo fertile fhould have been further explored ; its parti¬
cular laws, limits, &c. more induftrioufly deteCled and
laid down, before we had proceeded to the application.
Attraction in the grofs is fo complex a thing, that it
may folve a thoufand different phenomena alike. The
notion is but one degree more fimple and precife than
aCtion itfelf; and, till more of its properties are afeer¬
tained, it were better to apply it lefs and ftudy it
more. It may be added, that fome of Sir liaac New¬
ton’s followers have been charged with falling into that
error which he induftrioufly avoided, viz. of confidcr-
ing attraClion as a caufe or aCtive property in bodies,
not merely as a phenomenon or effeCt.
Attraction of Mountains. See Mountains.
Elefiive Attraction. See Chemistry Index.
ATTREBATII. See Atrebatii.
ATTRIBUTE, in a general fenfe, that which
agrees with fome perfon or thing ; or a quality deter¬
mining fomething to be after a certain manner. Thus,
underftanding is an attribute of mind, and extenfion
an attribute of body.. That attribute which the mind
conceives.
A V A [ 2j
Attributes conceives as the foundation of all the reft, is called its
II ejfcntial attribute ; thus extenfmn is by fome, and foli-
. , dity by others, elleemed the effential attribute of body
or matter.
ATTRIBUTES, in Theology, the feveral qualities
or perfections of the Divine nature.
Attributes, in Logic, are the predicates ol any
fubjeCl, or what may be affirmed or denied of any
thing.
* Attributes, in Painting and Sculpture, are fym-
bols added to feveral figures, to intimate their parti¬
cular oilice and charaCler. Thus the eagle is an attri¬
bute of Jupiter ; a peacock, of Juno ; a caduce, of
Mercury ; a club, of Hercules j and a palm, of Vic¬
tory.
ATTRIBUTIVES, in Grammar, are words which
are fignificant of attributes ; and thus include adjectives;
verbs, and particles, which are attributes of fubftances $
and adverbs, which denote the attributes only of attri¬
butes. Mr Harris, who has introduced this diftribu-
tion of words, denominates the former attributives of
the firjl order, and the latter attributives of the fecond
order.
ATTRITION, the rubbing or ftriking of bodies
one againft another, fo as to throw off fome of their
fuperficial particles.
AT UR At,, an ancient town in the diftricl of No-
vempopulana in Aquitania, on the river Aturus ; now
Aire in Gafeony, on the Adour. E. Long. o. 3.
N. Lat. 43. 40.
AVA, a kingdom of Afia, in the peninfula beyond
the Ganges. The king is Very powerful, his domi¬
nions being bounded by Mogulllan on the tveft, Siam,
on the fouth, Tonquin and Cochin China on the eaft,
and by Tibet and China on the north. Several large
rivers run through this country, which annually over¬
flow their banks like the Nile, and thus render it ex¬
tremely fertile. Here are mines of lead and copper,
together with fpme of gold and filver, befides large
quantities of the fineft oriental rubies, fapphires, eme¬
ralds, &c. See Asia, N° 81. &c.
Ava, formerly the metropolis of the kingdom of the
fame name, is fituated in E. Long. 96. 30. N. Lat.
21. o. It is pretty large; the houfes built with timber
or bamboo canes, with thatched roofs, and floors made
of teak plank or fplit bamboo. The ftreets are very
ftraight, with rows of trees planted on each fide. The
king’s palace is an exaft quadrangle, each fide of
which is 800 paces, and is furrounded with a brick
wall; but the palace itfelf is of ftone. It has four
gates : the golden gate, through which all ambaffadors
enter ; the gate of juftice, through which the people
bring petitions, accufations, or complaints ; the gate of
grace, through which thofe pafs wffio have received any
favours, or have been acquitted of crimes laid to their
charge; and the gate of ftate, through which his
majefty himfelf paffes when he fhows himfelf to the
people.
AVA ava, a plant fo called by the inhabitants of
Otaheite, in the South-Sea, from the leaves of which
they exprefs an intoxicating juice. It is drunk very
freely by the chiefs and other confiderable perfons,
who vie with each other in drinking the greateft num¬
ber of draughts, each draught being about a pint; but
it is carefully kept from their women.
9 ] A U B
AVADOUTAS, a fedt of Indian Bramins, who Avado\rts4
in aufterity furpafs all the reft. The other fefls retain IJ
earthen veffels for holding their provifions, and a flick , , ‘
to lean on : but none of thefe are ufed by the Avadou-
tas; they only cover their nakednefs with a piece of
cloth ; and fome of them lay even that afide, and go
ftark naked, befmearing their bodies with cow-dung.
When hungry, fome go into houfes, and, without
fpeaking, hold out their hand ; eating on the fpot
whatever is given them. Others retire to the fides
oi holy rivers, and there expeft the peafants to bring
them provifions, which they generally do very liber-
rally.
AVAIL of Marriage, in Scots Law, that cafualty
in wardholding, by which the fuperior w7as entitled to
a certain fum from his vaffal, upon his attaining the age
of puberty, as the value or avail of his tocher.
AVALANCHES, a name given to prodigious
fnow-balls that frequently roll down the mountains in
Savoy, particularly Mount Blanc, to the extreme dan¬
ger of fuch adventurous travellers as attempt to afeend
thofe ftupendous heights. 4 Some of the avalanches are
about 200 feet diameter; being fragments of the ice-
rocks which break by their owm weight from the tops
of the precipices. See Mount Blanc.
AVALON, a fmall but ancient city of Burgundy
in France, about 500 paces long and 300 Broad.
E. Long. 3. 5. N. Lat. 47. 38.
AVAN I A, in the Turkilh legiflature, a fine for
crimes and on deaths, paid to the governor of the place.
In the places wherein feveral nations live together un¬
der a Turkifh governor, he takes this profitable me¬
thod of puniffiing all crimes among the Chriftians or
Jews, unlefs it be the murder of a Turk.
AVARICUM, an ancient town of the Bituriges
in Gallia Celtica, fituated on the rivulet Avara, in a very
fertile foil (Ccefar). Now Bourges, in Berry. E. Long.
2. 30. N. Lat. 47. 10.'
AVAST, in the fea language, a term requiring to
flop or to ftay.
AVAUNCHERS, among hunters, the fecond
branches of a deer’s horns.
AUBAGNE, a town of Provence in France, fitua¬
ted on the river Veaune, on the road from Marfeilles
to Toulon. The ftates formerly held their feffions at
this place. E. Long. 5. 52. N. Lat. 43. 17.
AUBAINE, in the old cuftoms of France, a right
veiled in the king of being heir to a foreigner that dies
within his dominions.
By this right the French king claimed the inheri¬
tance of all foreigners that died wuthin his dominions, not-
withftanding of any teftament the deceafed could make.
An ambaffador w as not fubjehl to the right of aubaine;
and the Swifs, Savoyards, Scots, and Portuguefe wrere
alfo exempted, being deemed natives and regnicoles.
AUBENAS, a town of France, in the department
of Ardeche, fituated on the river Ardeche, at the foot
of the mountains called the Ccvennes. E. Long. 4. 32.
N. Lat. 44. 40.
AUBENTON, a towm of France, in the depart¬
ment of Aifne, fituated on the river Aube. E. Long.
4. 25. N. Lat. 49. 51.
AUBETERRE, a town of France in the Angumois,
on the river Dronne. E. Long., o. 10. N. Lat. 45. 15.
AUBIGNE, a town of France, in the department
K k 2 of
A U B [ 260 ] A U D
Aubigney ot Cher, utuated on the river Verre, in a flat and agree-
Auiv-ev a^e country- Surrounded with high ftrong walls,
——v—wide ditches, and high counterfcarps. The caftle is
within the town, and is very handfome. E. Long. 2.
20. N. Lat. 47. 29.
AUBIGNEY, a dukedom in France belonging to
the dukes of Richmond in England j confirmed to the
prefent duke, and regiltered in the parliament of Pa¬
ris I777.
AUBIN du comier, a town of France, in the de¬
partment of Me and Vilaine. W. Long. 1. 15. N.
Lat. 48. 15.
Aubin, in Horfemanjhip, a broken kind of gait,
between an amble and a gallop, accounted a defecl.
AUBONNE, a town of Switzerland, in the can¬
ton of Bern. E. Long. 5. 54. N. Lat. 48. 30. It
is fituated near a river of the fame name, feven miles
north of the lake of Geneva, upon an eminence which
has a gentle declivity, at the foot of which runs the
river with an impetuous torrent. The town is built in
the form of an amphitheatre ; on the upper part of
which llands a very handfome caftle with a fine court,
and a portico Supported by pillars of a Angle ftone
each; above there is a covered gallery that runs round
the court; and as the caftle Hands high, there is a moft
delightful profpe£I, not only of the town and neigh¬
bouring fields, but of the whole lake of Geneva and
the land that Surrounds it. At Thonen, in Savoy, on
the other fide of the lake, is a towm covered with tin,
which makes a glittering appearance when the fun is in
a certain pofition; and the caftle of Aubonne has like-
wife a tower of the fame kind, which at certain hours
makes a fimilar appearance to the Savoyards. The
bailiage of Aubonne contains Several villages wdrich
are moftly at the foot of the mountain [ura. In one
part of this mountain there is a very deep cave, where¬
in thofe that go down find a natural and perpetual ice-
houfe. At the bottom is heard a great noife like that
of a Subterraneous river, which is fuppofed to be that
of the river Aubonne, becaufe it firft appears, with fe-
veral Sources, about 100 paces from the foot of that
mountain.
AUBREY, John, a famous Englilh antiquary, de-
fcended from an ancient family in Wiltlhire, was born
in 1626. He made the hiftory and antiquities of
England his peculiar ftudy and delight ; and contri¬
buted considerable afliftance to the famous Monajlicon
Anglicanum. He fucceeded to feveral good eftates ;
but law-fuits and other misfortunes confumed them
all, fo that he was reduced to abfolute want. In this
extremity he found a valuable benefadfrefs in the Lady
Long of Draycot in Wilts, who gave him an apart¬
ment in her houfe, and Supported him to his death,
which happened about the year 1700. He vras a man
of confiderable ability, learning, and application, a
good Latin poet, an excellent naturalift, but Somewhat
credulous, and tin6lured with fuperftition. He left
many works behind him. He wrote, 1. Mifcellanies.
2. A Perambulation of the county of Surry, in five
volumes, oclavo. 3. The Life of Mr Hobbes of
Malmfbury, 4. Monumenta Britannica, or a difcourfe
concerning Stonehenge, and Roll-Rich ftones in Ox-
fordftiire. 5. Archite&onica Sacra ; and Several other
works ftill in manufcript.
AUBURN, a market-town in Wiltfliire, in Eng- Auburn
land. W. Long. r. 20. N. Lat. 53. 20. i!
AUBUSSON, a Small towm of France, in the pro- Aluliencc-,
vince of La Marche, and the government of the Lyon- ^
nois, now the department of Creufe. Its lituation is
very irregular, on the river Creufe, in a bottom Sur¬
rounded with rocks and mountains. A manufa£lure
of tapeftry is carried on here, by which the towm is ren¬
dered very populous. £. Long. 2. 15. N. Lat. qj’.
58-
AUCAUGREL, the capital of the kingdom of
Adel in Africa, Seated on a mountain. E. Long. 44.
25. N. Lat. 9. 10.
AUCH, a city of France, the capital of the coun¬
ty of Armagnac, now7 the department of Gers, and the
metropolis of all Gafcony. The archbifliop formerly
affumed the title of primate of Aquitain. It lies on the
Summit and declivity of a very fteep hill, which is Sur¬
rounded by other hills that rife at a Imall diftance ; and
through the vale below runs a rivulet, called the Gers.
The inhabitants are about 6000 ; the buildings are mo¬
dern and elegant; the ftreets, though in general narrow7,
yet are clean and wmll paved. In the centre of the
city Hands the cathedral, which is one of the moft mag¬
nificent in France, both as to its conftru&ion and the
internal decorations. The painted windows are only
inferior to thofe of Gouda in Holland. The chapels
are of equal beauty, and ornamented at a prodigious
expence. The revenues of the fee of Auch amount
annually to three hundred thoufand livres. The palace
is a very handfome building ; and its apartments are
furnifhed wdth a voluptuous Splendor, rather becoming
a temporal than a Ipiritual prince. E. Long. o. 40.
N. Lat. 43. 40.
AUCTION, a kind of public Sale, very much in
ufe for houfehold goods, books, plate, &c. By this
method of Sale the higheft bidder is always the buyer.
This was originally a kind of Sale among the ancient
Romans, performed by the public crier fub hafla, i. e.
under a Spear ftuck up on that occafion, and by Some.
magiftrate, who made good the Sale by delivery of the
goods.
AUDEANISM, the Same with anthropomorphifm.
See Anthropomorphites.
AUDEUS, the chief of the Audeans, obtained
the name of a heretic, and the punilhment of ba-
nifhment, for celebrating Eafter in the manner of
the Jews, and attributing a human form to the Dei¬
ty. He died in the country of the Goths, about the
year 370.
AUDIENCE given to ambaffhdors, a ceremony
obferved in courts at the admiflion of ambaffadors or
public minifters to a hearing.
In England, audience is given to ambaffadors in the
prefence chamber ; to envoys and refidents, in a gal¬
lery, clofet, or in any place where the king happens to
be. Upon being admitted, as is the cuftom of all
courts, they make three bows; after which they cover
and fit down ; but not before the king is covered and
fat down, and has given them the Sign to put on their
hats. When the king does not care to have them co¬
vered, and fit, he himfelf Hands uncovered ; which is
taken as a flight. At Conftantinople, minifters ufually
have audience of the prime vizier.
Audi esc e
1
A U D [ 261 ] A U D
Audience Audience is alfo the name of a court of juftice.
II eftabliihed in the Vv eft-indies by the Spaniards, an-
Auditore?.^ pwer|ng parliament in France. Thefe
courts take in feveral provinces, called alfo audien¬
ces, from the name of the tribunal to which they be¬
long.
Audience is alfo the name of an ecclefiaftical court
held by the archbifhop of Canterbury, wherein difle-
rences upon ele&ions, confecrations, inftitutions, mar¬
riages, &c. are heard.
AUDIENDO & terminando, a writ, or rather
a commiffion to certain perlbns, when any infurreftiou
or great riot is committed in any place, for the appea¬
ling and punilhment thereof.
AUDIENTES, or Auditores, in Church Hijlory,
an order of catechumens ; confiding of thofe newly in-
ftru&ed in the myfteries of the Chriftian religion, and
not yet admitted to baptifm.
AUDIT, a regular hearing and examination of an
account by fome proper officers, appointed for that
purpofe.
AUDITOR, in a general fenfe, a hearer, or one
who liftens or attends to any thing.
Auditor, according to our Law, is an officer of the
king, or fome other great perfon, who, by examining
yearly the accounts of the under officers, makes up a
general book, with the difference between their re¬
ceipts and charges, and their allowances to alloca¬
tions.
Auditor of the Receipts, is an officer of the exche¬
quer who files the tellers bills, makes an entry of
them, and gives the lord treafurer a certificate of the
money received the week before. He alfo makes de¬
bentures to every teller, before they receive any money,
and takes their accounts. He keeps the black book
of receipts, and the treafurer’s key of the treafury,
and fees every teller’s money locked up in the new
treafury.
Auditors of the Revenue, or of the exchequer, offi¬
cers who take the accounts of thofe who colledt the re¬
venues and taxes raifed by parliament, and take the ac¬
counts of the ffieriffs, efeheators, colledlors, tenants,
and cuftomers, and fet them down in a book, and per-
fedl them.
Auditors of the Pre/I and Impref, officers of the ex¬
chequer, who take and make up the accounts of Ire¬
land, Berwick, the mint, and of any money impreffed
to any man for the king’s fervice. They received poun¬
dage on all accounts palled by them, which amounted
to a prodigious fum, efpecially in time of war. But
the office is now aboliffied, and 7000I. a-year given to
the incumbents.
Auditors Collegiate, Conventual, Sic. officers for¬
merly appointed in colleges, See. to examine and pafs
their accounts.
AUDITORES, in Church Hi/lory. See Audi-
entes.
The auditores formed one branch of the Manichean
feft, which was divided into ele& and auditors; cor-
refponding, according to fome writers, to clergy and
laity; and, according to others, to the faithful and cvz-
techumens among the Catholics. By the Manichean
rule, a different courfe of life was preferibed to the
eleSl from that of the auditors. The latter might eat
fleffi, drink wine, bathe, marry, traffic, polfefs eflates, Audito-
bear magiftracy, and the like 5 all which things were r‘uni
forbidden to the elebl. The auditors were obliged to ^uiran
maintain the cleft, and kneeled down to alk their blef- ■ ■ y— »
ling. Beaufobre obferves, that the eleft were eccleli-
aftics, and in general fuch as made profeffion of ob-
ferving certain counfels, called evangelic; fuch as the
clergy and monks j and they were called theperfeB by
Theodoret. The auditors were the laity, and fo deno¬
minated, becaufe they heard in the church, whilft
others taught and inflrufted.
AUDI 1 ORIUM, in the ancient churches, was that
part of the church where the audientes Hood to hear
and be inftrufled.
The auditorium was that part now called navis ec-
defee*. In the primitive times, the church was fo * See JVWfv
ftrifl in keeping the people together in that place, that
the perfon who went from thence in fermon-time was
ordered by the council of Carthage to be excommuni¬
cated.
AUDITORY, fomething relating to the fenfe of
hearing.
Auditory, or Audience, an alfembly of people
who attended to hear a perfon who fpeaks in public.
Auditory is alfo ufed for the bench whereon ama-
giflrate or judge hears caufes.
Auditory, in Ancient Churches. See Audito
R1UM.
Auditory Pajfage, {meatus auditorius'), in Ana¬
tomy; the entrance of the ear. See Anatomy, In¬
dex.
Auditory Nerves. See Anatomy Index.
AUDRAN, c laude, a French engraver, the firft
of the celebrated artilts of that name, was the fon of
Lewis Audran, an officer belonging to the wrolf-hun-
ters, in the reign of Henry IV. of France j and was
born at Paris in I592* He never made any great pro-
grefs in that art j fo that his prints are held in little or
no eftimation. Yet though he acquired no great re¬
putation by his own works, it was no fmall honour to
him to be the father of three great artills, Germain,
Claude, and Girard ; the laft of whom has immorta¬
lized the name of the family. Claude Audran retir¬
ed from Paris to Lyons, where he refided, and died
in 1677.
Au dran, Carl, a very eminent engraver, was bro¬
ther to the preceding, though fome affert he was only
his coufin-german 5 and was born at Paris in 1594. In
his infancy he difeovered much tafte, and a great difpo-
fition for the arts; and to perfect himfelf in engrav¬
ing, which he appears to have been chiefly fond of,
he went to Rome, where he produced feveral prints
that did him great honour. At his return, he adopt¬
ed that fpecies of engraving which is performed with
the graver only. He fettled at Paris, where he died
in 1674, without having ever been married. The
Abbe Marolles, who always fpeaks of this artift with
great praife, attributes 130 prints to him: amongft
which, the annunciation, a middle-lized plate, upright,
from Hannibal Carracci; and the ajfumption, in a
circle, from Domenichino, are the moll efteemed.
In the early part of his life he marked his prints
with C, or the name of Carl, till his brother Claude
publilhed fome plates wuth the initial only of his bap-
tifma'L
A U D [ 262 ] A U D
Audran. tifmal name ; when, for diftinftion’s fake, he ufed the
1 letter K, or wrote his name Karl, with the K inftead
of the C.
Audran, Germain, the eldeft fon of Claude, men¬
tioned in the preceding article but one, was born in
1631 at Lyons, where his parents then refided. Not
content with the inftmdlions of his father, he went to
Paris, and perfe&ed himfelf under his uncle Carl ; fo
that, upon his return to Lyons, he publiihed feveral
prints which did great honour to his graver. His me¬
rit was in fuch ellimation, that he was made a mem¬
ber of the academy eftablifhed in that town, and cho-
fen a profeffor. He died at Lyons in 1710, and left
behind him four fons, all artills; namely, Claude, Be-
noift, John, and Louis.
Audran, Claude, the fecond of this name, and fe~
cond fon to Claude above-mentioned, wras born at
Lyons in 1639, and went to Rome to lludy paint¬
ing ; where he fucceeded fo well, that at his return he
was employed by Le Brun to afliit him in the battles
of Alexander, which he wras then painting for the king
of France. Fie was received into the Royal Academy
in the year 1675, and died unmarried at Paris in
1684. His virtues (fays Abbe Fontenai) were as
praifeworthy as his talents were great. M. Pleineken
mentions this artiil as an engraver, without fpecifying
any of his works in that line.
Audran, Girard, or Garard, the mofl: celebrated
artitl of the whole family of the Audrans, was the
third fon of Claude Audran mentioned in a preceding
article, and born at Lyons in 164O. He learned
from his father the firft principles of delign and engra¬
ving ; and following the example of his brother, he
left Lyons and went to Paris, where his genius foon
began to manifeft itfelf. His reputation there brought
him to the knowdedge of Le Brun, who employed him
to engrave the battles of Conjlatitine, and the triumph of
that emperor ; and for thefe works he obtained apart¬
ments at the Gobelins^ At Rome, wdiither he went
for improvement, he is faid to have ftudied under Carlo
Maratti, in order to perfedl himfelf in drawing ; and
in that city, wdiere he refided three years, he engraved
feveral fine plates. M. Colbert, that great encourager
of the arts, was fo ftruck with the beauty of Audran’s
works whilft he refided at Rome, that he perfuaded
Louis XIV. to recal him. On his return, he applied
himfelf afiiduoufly to engraving ; and was appointed
engraver to the king, from whom he received great
encouragement. In the year 1681 he was named coun-
fellor of the Royal Academy 5 and died at Paris in
1703. He had been married j but left no male iflue
behind him.
Strutt's The great excellency of this artift above that of any
JDiclioiusry. other engraver w'as, that though he drew' admirably
himfelf, yet he contra&ed no manner of his own ; but
tranferibed on copper limply, with great truth and
fpirit, the fryle of the mailer whofe pictures he copied.
On viewing his prints you lofe fight of the engraver,
and naturally fay, it is Le Brun, it is Pouffin, it is
Mignard, or it is Le Sueur, &c. as you turn to the
prints which he engraved from thofe mailers. Let
■any one examine the battles above-mentioned from
Le Brun, the prefervation of the young Pyrrhus from
Nicholas PoulTin, the pe/l from Mignard, and the mar-
tvrdoni'of St Lawrence from Le Sueur, and then judge
candidly of the truth of this obfervation. The fol- A
lowing judicious obfervations by the Abbe Fontenai/—
taken chiefly from M. Bafan, with fome fmall varia¬
tion and additions, wall fully illullrate the merits of
Gerard Audran. “ This fublime artift, far from con¬
ceiving that a fervile arrangement of ftrokes, and the
too frequently cold and affedled clearnefs of the gra¬
ver, were the great eflentials of hiftorical engraving,
gave worth to his wmrks by a bold mixture of free
hatchings and dots, placed together apparently without
order, but with an inimitable degree of talle ; and has
left to poflerity moll admirable examples of the llyle
in which grand compofitions ought to be treated. His
greateft wmrks, which have not a very flattering ap¬
pearance t® the ignorant eye, are the admiration of
true connoiffeurs and perfons of fine talle. Fie ac¬
quired the moll profound knowledge of the art by the
conllant attention and fludy which he bellowed upon
the fcience of defign, and the frequent ufe he made of
painting from nature. This great man always knew
how to penetrate into the genius of the painter he
copied from’*, often improved upon, and fometimes
even furpaffed him. Without exception, he was the
moll celebrated engraver that ever exilled in the hillo-
rical line. We have feveral fubjedls wdrich he engra¬
ved from his owm defigns, that manifelled as much talle
as character and facility. But, in the battles of Alex¬
ander, he furpafied even the expectations of Le Brun
himfelf.” Thefe confilt of three very large prints,
lengthwife, each confilting of four plates, which join
together, from Le Brun 5 namely, the paffage of the
Granicus; the battle of Arbela ; Porus brought to Al¬
exander, after his defeat. To this fet are added two
more large prints lengthwife, on two plates each, alfo
from Le Brun, as follow : Alexander entering the tent
of Darius ; and The triumphal entry of Alexander into
Babylon. The former was engraved by Gerard Fde-
link, and the latter by Gerard Audran. It is to be
remarked of all thefe plates, that thofe impreflions
are generally moll elteemed which have the name of
Goyton the printer marked upon them. The Pefl,
from Peter Mignard, a large plate, lengthwife, alfo
deferves particular notice. In the firll impreflions, the
figure in the clouds is Juno with her peacock behind
her $ in the latter, the peacock is obliterated, and the
wungs of an angel are added to the figure.
Audran, Benoit, the fecond fon of Germain Au¬
dran, w?as born at Lyons in 1661, where he learn¬
ed the firll principles of defign and engraving under
the inllruClion of his father. But foon after going to
Paris, his uncle Gerard Audran took him under his
tuition ; and Benoit fo greatly profited by his inllruc-
tions, that though he never equalled the fublime llyle
of his tutor, yet he defervedly acquired great reputa¬
tion. Nay, the Abbe Fontenai adds this eulogium :
“We admire in his wmrks a lhare of thofe beauties
which we find in the engravings of the illullrious Ge¬
rard.” He was honoured with the appellation of the
king’s engraver, and received the royal penfion. He
w as made an academician, and admitted into the coun¬
cil in 1715. He died unmarried at Louzouer, wFere
he had an ellate, in 1721. His manner was founded
upon the bold clear llyle of his uncle. His outlines
were firm and determined ; his drawing correCl $ the
heads of his figures are in general very expreflive j and
A U D [ 263 ] A V E
Audran. the other extremities well marked. His works, when
 v '1" “,J compared with thofe of his uncle, appear to want that
mellownefs and harmony which are fo confpicuous in
the latter; they are more dry •, and the round dots
with which he finilhed his flelh upon the lights are of¬
ten too predominant. In his moil finilhed plates, we
find the mechanical part of the engraving extremely
neat, and managed with great taife and judgment.
Among his neatelf prints may be reckoned that which
reprefents AlexanderJlch, drinking from the cup which
his phyfician prefents to him: a circular plate, from
Le Sueur.
Audran, 'john^ the third fon of Germain Audran,
was born at Lyons in 1667 and, after having receiv¬
ed inltruftions from his father, went to Paris to perfedf
himfelf in the art of engraving under his uncle Gerard
Audran. At the age of 20 years, the genius of this
great artift began to difplay itfelf in a furprifing man¬
ner j and his future fuccefs was fuch, that in 1 7°7, he
obtained the title of engraver to the king, and had a
penfion alloived him by his majelly, with apartments
in the Gobelins ; and the following year he was made
a member of the Royal Academy. He was 80 years
of age before he quitted the graver •, and near 90 when
he died at his apartments affigned him by the king.
He left three fons behind him •, one of whom was alfo
an engraver, as we ihall fee below. “ The moft ma-
flerly and bell prints of this artift (in Mr Strutt’s opi¬
nion) are thole which are not fo pleafing to the eye at
firft fight. In thefe the etching conftitutes a great part;
and he has finifhed them in a bold rough ftyle. The
fcientific hand of the mafter appears in them on exami¬
nation. The drawing of the human figure, 'where it is
fhown, is correft. The heads are expreftive and fine¬
ly finilhed \ the other extremities ■well marked. He
has not, however, equalled his uncle. He wants that
harmony in the effeft $ his lights are too much and too
equally covered 5 and there is not fufficient difference
between the ftyle in which he has engraved his back
grounds and his draperies. This obfervation refers to
a fine print by him of Athaliah, and fuch as he engra¬
ved in that ftyle. At other times he feems almoft to
have quitted the point, and fubftituted the graver.
But here I think he has not fo well fucceeded. The
effeft is cold and filvery : fee, for example, the Atidro-
tnache from Sylveftre. One of his belt finifhed prints,
in this neat ftyle, feems to me to be Cupid and Pfyche
from Ant. Coy pel.”
AuDran, Louis, the laft fon of Germain Audran,
was bom at Lyons in 1670; from whence he went to
Paris, after the example of his brothers, to complete
his ftudies in the fchool of his uncle Gerard. He died
luddenly at Paris in 1712, before he had produced
any great number of prints by his own hand. He
afufted, it is prefumed, his brothers in their more ex-
ten five works. Among the moft efteemed prints by
this artift are the [even ads of mercy, on feven middling
fized plates, lengthwife, from Sebaftian Bourdon.
Audran, Benoit, the fecond engraver of that name,
was the fon of John Audran, and nephew to the for¬
mer Benoit: and was alfo eftablilhed at Paris. He
engraved but a few plates. It is neceflary, however,
to be careful not to confound him with his uncle.
But a little attention will eafily prevent this miftake ;
for the. fecond Benoit is y a Illy inferior to the firft in
point of merit. We have fome few portraits by this
artift } and among other plates, the defeent from the
crofs, from a piflure of Pouftin. ^
AVEIRO, a confiderable city of Portugal, feated
near the head of a fmall gulf formed by the tide at the
mouth cf the river Vouga. This river forms a fmall
haven with a bar, over which veffels may pafs that do
not draw above eight or nine feet wrater. The city
Hands in a long plain well watered, and very fertile.
This plain is nine miles broad, from Porto to Coimbra;
and is bounded on the eaft by a chain of mountains
called Sara cPAlcoba, which reach from the one town
to the other. Near this city there is fait made in fuf¬
ficient quantity to ferve two or three provinces. Elere
is a remarkable nunnery, where none are received but
the daughters of the ancient nobility. The inhabitants,
of Aveiro have the Angular privilege, that no ftranger
whatever can pafs a night there -without leave of the
magiftrate. W. Long. 9. 8. N. L. 40. 30.
AVELLANE, in Heraldry, a crofs, the quarters
of which fomewhat refemble a filbert-nut. Sylvanus
Morgan fays, that it is the crofs which enfigns the
mound of authority, or the fovereign’s globe.
AVELLINO, a city of Italy, in the kingdom of
Naples, with a bifhop’s fee. It was almoft ruined by
an earthquake in 1694. It is, however, at prelent a
pretty confiderable place, extending a mile in length
down the declivity of a hill, with ugly ftreets, but to¬
lerable houfes. The churches have nothing to recom¬
mend them, being crowded with monftrous ornaments,
in a barbarous ftyle, which the Neapolitans feem to
have borrowed from the Spaniards. The cathedral is
a poor building, in a wretched fituation, with little to
attract the eye. The good people here need not run
to Naples to fee the blood of St Januarius : for they
have a ftatue of St Lawrence, with a phial of his.
blood, which for eight days in Auguft entertains them
with a fimilar miraculous liquefaction. Their only edi¬
fice of note is a public granary, of the Compofite or¬
der, adorned with antique ftatues, and a very elegant
bronze one of Charles II. of Spain, while a boy, caft:
by Cavalier Cofimo. The number of inhabitants
amounts to 8000, fome fay 10,coo. The biihop’s re¬
venue is about 6000 ducats (iizcl.) a-year. The
magiftracy confifts of a Syndic and four Ektti, all
annual; which offices are engroffed by a certain num¬
ber of families of fome diftimftion, that neither inter¬
marry nor afibciate with the reft of the burghers. There
is a confiderable manufacture of cloth here of various
qualities and colours, but chiefly blue. Many wealthy
merchants have a concern in this bufinefs, fome with a
capital of eighty thoufand ducats (f 5,000].) The
poor rvomen who fpin the wool mult work very hard
to earn above four grana a-day. The fecond article of"
trade is maccaroni and pafte of many kinds, which be¬
ing of an excellent quality, are in high repute all over
the country. Wooden chairs are alfo made and fold
here in great quantities. Avellino abounds with pro-
vifions of every fort ; each ftreet is fupplied with whole-
fome water; the wine is but indifferent. The foil of
this diftriCl, which confifts chiefly of volcanic fubftar;-
ces, produces little corn, but fruit in abundance, of
which the apple is defervedly held in great efteem.
The moft profitable, however, of all its fruit-trees is the
ha'4ek Nut buflies cover, the face ofithe valley, and in.
good
Aveiro
I!
Aveliino.
s
A V E [ 264 ]
Ave-Maria goof’l years bring in a profit of fixty thoufand ducats the reft of his life
£ ventine (I1-250^*) The nuts are moftly of the large round
^ fpecies of filbert, which we call Spanijh. Thefe buihes
were originally imported into Italy from Pontus, and
known among the Romans by the appellation of Nux
Pontica, which in procefs of time w'as changed into
that of Nux Avellana, from the place where they had
been propagated wuth the greateft luccefs. The pro¬
prietors plant them in rows, and by dreffing, form them
into large buihes of many ftems. Every year they re-
frelh the roots with new earth, and prune off the drag¬
gling Ihoots with great attention.
AVE-MARIA, the angel Gabriel’s falutation of
the Virgin Mary, when he brought her the tidings of
the incarnation.—It is become a prayer or form of de¬
votion in the Romilh church. The chaplets and ro-
faries are divided into fo many aX'e-marias, and fo many
pater-nofters, to which the Papifts afcribe a wonderful
efficacy.
AVENA, oats. See Botany Index.
AVENACEOUS, fomething belonging to or par¬
taking of the nature of oats.
AVENAGE, in Law, a certain quantity of oats paid
by a tenant to a landlord, inftead of rent or fome other
duties.
AVENCHE, an ancient city of Switzerland, in the
canton of Bern, formerly the capital of all Switzerland,
but now {hows its former greatnefs only by its ruins.
E. Long. 7. 7. N. Lat. 46. 50.
AVENES, a fmall but ftrong town in French Flan¬
ders, in the county of Hainault, feated on the river
Thefpis. It contains about 2500 inhabitants; but the
houfes are wrechedly built, and the ftreets irregular.
It was fortified by M. Vauban in a ftrong regular man¬
ner. About this place is a prodigious number of
white ftones proper for building, and ufed by fculptors
for ftatues : they are known by the name of Stones of
Avenes. E. Long. 3. 40. N. Lat. 50. IO.
AVENIO, an ancient town of the Cavares, and one
of the moft opulent in Gallia Narbonenfis $ now Avig¬
non, in Provence. See Avignon.
AVENOR, an officer belonging to the king’s ftables,
who provides oats for the horfes. He a&s by warrant
from the mafter of the horfe.
AVENS, in Botany. See Cariophyllus.
AVEN FINE, John, author of the Annals of Ba¬
varia, was born of mean parentage, in the year 1466,
at Abenfperg in the country juft named. He ftudied
firft at Ingolftadt, and afterwards in the univerfity of
Paris. In 1503, he privately taught eloquence and
poetry at Vienna 5 and in 1507 he publicly taught
Greek at Cracow in Poland. In 1509, he read leisures
on fome of Cicero’s works at Ingoldftadt: and in 1512,
was appointed to be preceptor to Prince Louis and
Prince Erneft, fons of Albert the Wife, duke of Bava¬
ria, and travelled with the latter of thefe two princes.
After this he undertook to write the annals of Bava¬
ria ; being encouraged by the dukes of that name, who
fettled a penfion upon him, and gave him hopes that
they would defray the charges of the book. This work,
which gained its author great reputation, was firft
publilhed in 1554, by Jerome Zieglerus, profeffbr of
poetry in the univerfity of Ingoldftadt; and afterwards
at Bafil in 1580, by Nicholas Cifner. An affront which
Aventine received in the year 1529, ftuck by him all
1
A V E
he was forcibly taken out of his Aventimis
fifter’s houfe at Abenfperg , and hurried to jail
true caufe of which violence was never known : but it
wmuld probably have been carried to a much greater
length, had not the duke of Bavaria interpofed, and
taken this learned man into his proteftion. Mr Bayle
remarks, that the incurable melancholy which from this
time pofleffed Aventine, was fo far from determining
him to lead a life of celibacy, as he had done till he was
64, that it induced him perhaps to think of marrying.
The violence of his new paffion was not, however, fo
great, but that it fuffered him to advife with two of his
friends, and confult certain paffages of the Bible rela¬
tive to marriage, The refult was, that it was beft for
him to marry ; and having already loft too much time,
confidering his age, he took the firft woman he met
with, who happened to be his own maid, ill-tempered,
ugly, and extremely poor. He died in 1534, aged 68 j
leaving one daughter, who was then but two months
old. He had a Ton, who died before.
AVENTINUS mons, one of the feven hills on
which ancient Rome flood. The origin of the name
Aveminus is uncertain : but this hill was alfo called
Murcius, from Murcia the goddefs of floth, who had
a little chapel there •, and Coilis Diana-, from the temple
of Diana 5 likewife Remonius, from Remus, who want¬
ed to build the city, and who was buried there. It
was taken within the compafs of the city by Ancus
Martins. To the eaft it had the city walls j to the
fouth, the Campus Figulinus ; to the weft, the Tiber j
and to the north, Mons Palatinus, in circuit two miles
and a quarter.
AVENTURE, *n Law Books, means a mifchance
caufing the death of a perfon without felony.
AVENUE, in Gardening, a walk planted on each
fide with trees, and leading to a houfe, garden-gate,
wood, &c. and generally terminated by fome diftant
objedl.
All avenues that lead to a houfe ought to be at
leaft as wide as the whole front of the houfe, if wider
they are better ftill; and avenues to woods and pro-
fpedfs ought not to be lefs than 60 feet wude. The
trees Ihould not be planted nearer to one another than
35 feet, efpecially if they are trees of a fpreading
kind •, and the fame ought to be the diftance, if they
are for a regular grove.
The trees moft proper for avenues with us, are the
Englilh elm, the lime, the horle-chefnut, the common
chefnut, the beech, and the abele. The Englilh elm
will do in all grounds, except fuch as are very wet and
(hallow and this is preferred to all other trees, be-
caufe it will bear cutting, heading, or lopping in any
manner, better than moft others. The rough or fmooth
Dutch elm is approved by fome, becaufe of its quick
growth. This is a tree which will bear removing very
well •, it is alfo green almoft as foon as any plant what¬
ever in fpring, and continues fo as long as any, and it
makes an incomparable hedge, and is preferable to all
other trees for lofty efpaliers. The lime is valued for
its natural growth and fine ffiade. The horfe-chefnut
is proper for all places that are not too much expofed
to rough winds. The common chefnut wall do very
well in a good (oil ; and riles to a confiderable height,
when planted fomewhat clofe } though, when it Hands
fingle, it is rather inclined to fpread than to grow tall.
The
A V E [ 2
Avenzoar. The beech is a beautiful tree, and naturally grows well
v ' with us in its wild Hate ; but it is lefs to be chofen for
avenues than the before-mentioned, becaufe it does not
bear tranfplanting well, but is very fubjeft to mifcarry.
Laftly, the abele is fit for any foil, and is the quickell
grower of any foreft-tree. 'it feldom fails in tranf¬
planting* and fucceeds very well in wet foils, in which
the others are apt to fail. The oak is but little ufed
for avenues, becaufe of its flow growth.
I he old method of planting avenues was with re¬
gular rows of trees, and this has been always kept to
till of late : but we have now a much more magnifi¬
cent way of planting avenues 5 this is by fetting the
trees in clumps, or platoons, making the opening
much wider than before, and placing the clumps of
trees at about 300 feet diflant from one another. In
each of thefe clumps there fiiould be planted either fe-
ven or nine trees ; but it is to be obferved, that this is
only to be praftifed where the avenue is to be of fome
confiderable length, for in fhort walks this will not ap¬
pear fo fightly as fingle rows of trees. The avenues
made by clumps are fitted: of all for parks. The trees
in each clump fhould be planted about 30 feet afunder;
and a trench fhould be thrown up round the whole
clump, to prevent the deer from coming to the trees to
bark them.
AVENZOAR, ABU MERWAN ABDALMALEC EBN
zohr, an eminent Arabian phyfician, flouriihed about
the end of the eleventh or the beginning of the twelfth
century. He was of noble defcent, and born at Se¬
ville, the capital of Andalufia, where he exercifed his
profeffion with great reputation. His grandfather
and father w*ere both phyficians. The large eftate
he inherited from his anceftors, fet him above prac-
tifing altogether for gain : he therefore took no fees
from the poor, or from artificers, though he refufed not
the prefents of princes and great men. His liberality
was extended even to his enemies ; for which reafon he
ufed to fay, that they hated him not for any fault of
his, but rather put of envy. Dr Freind writes, that he
lived to the age of 135 ; that he began to pra&ife at
40, or (as others fay) at 20 ; and had the advantage
of a longer experience than almoft any one ever had,
for he enjoyed perfeft health to his laft hour. He left
a Ion, known alfo by the name of Ebn Zohr, who fol¬
lowed his father’s profeffion, was in great favour with
A1 Manzur emperor of Morocco, and wrote feveral
treatifes of phyfic.
Avenzoar w*as cotemporary with Averroes, who, ac¬
cording to Leo Africanus, heard the ledures of the
former, and learned phyfic of him 5 this feems the
more probable, becaufe Averroes more than once gives
Avenzoar a very high and deferved encomium, calling
him admirable, glorious, the treafure of all knowledge,
and the mojl fupreme in phyfic frotn the time of Galen to
his own. Avenzoar, notwithftanding, is by the genera¬
lity of writers reckoned an empiric : But Dr Freind
obferves, that this charader fuits him lefs than any of
the reft of the Arabians. “ He was bred,” continues
that author, “ in a phyfical family, his father and
grandfather being both praditioners, whom he always
remembers with great gratitude and honour. We have
his owti teftimony that he had a regular education j and
that he not only learned what properly belongs to a
phyfician, but, out of a great defire of knowledge,
Vol. III. Part I. 0
65 ] A V E
every thing befides which relates to pharmacy or fur- Average
gery.” Dr Freind afterwards obferves, “ that he was il
averfe to quackery, and rejeds the idle fuperftitions of AverniH'
aftrologers; and throughout all his works profelTes him-
lelf 10 much of the dogmatical or rational fed, which
■was diredly oppofite to the empirical, that he has a
great deal of reafoning about the caufes and fymp-
toms of diftempers j and as in his theory he chiefly, if
not only, followrs Galen, fo he quotes him upon all
occafions, oftener than the reft of the Arabians do.
Notwithftanding he is fo Galenical, there are feveral
particulars in him which feldom or every occur in other
authors ; and there are fome cafes which he relates
from his own experience, which are worth perufing.”
He wrote a book entitled, Tayafiir fi'lmSdawdt w'al-
tadbir, i. e. “ I he method of preparing medicines and
dietwhich is much efteemed. This work was trani-
lated into Hebrew, in the year of Chrift 1 280, and
thence into Latin by Paravicius, whofe verfion has had
leveral editions. I he author added a fupplement to
it, under the. title of "jdme, or a ColleBion. He alfo
wrote a treatife Fdladwiyat wd'laughdiyat, i. e. “ Of
Medicines and Food j” wherein he treats of their qua¬
lities.
AVERAGE, in Commerce, fignifies the accidents
and misfortunes which happen to Ihips and their car¬
goes, from the time of their loading and failing to
their return and unloading 5 and is divided into three
kinds. 1. I he Ample or particular average, which
confifts in the extraordinary expences incurred for the
fhip alone, or for the merchandifes alone. Such is the
lofs of anchors, mafts, and rigging, occafioned by the
common accidents at fea 5 the damages which happen
tp merchants by ftorm, prize, ffiipwreck, wet, or rot-
ting ; all which muft be borne and paid by the thing
which fuffered the damage. 2. The large and common
average, being thofe expences incurred, and damages
fuftained, for the common good and fecurity both of
the merchandifes and veffels, confequently to be borne
by the ftiip and cargo, and to be regulated upon the
whole. Of this number are the goods or money gi¬
ven for the ranfom of the fhip and cargo, things
thrown overboard for the fafety of the ftiip, the ex¬
pences for unloading for entering into a river or har¬
bour, and the provifions and hire of the failors when
the fhip is put under an embargo. 3. The final 1 aver-
ages, which are the expences for towing and piloting
the fhip out of or into harbours, creeks, or rivers, one
third of which muft be charged to the fhip, and’ two
thirds to the cargo.
Average is more particularly ufed for a certain con¬
tribution that merchants make proportionably to their
Ioffes, who have had their goods call into the fea in
the time of a tempeft. It alfo fignifies a fmall duty
which thofe merchants, who fend goods in another
man’s fhip, pay to the mafter for his care of them over
and above the freight. Hence it is expreffed in the
bills of lading,, paying fo much freight for the faid
goods, with primage and average accuftomed.
AY ERDUPOIS. See Avoirdupois.
^ AVERNUS, a lake of Campania in Italy, near \
Baiae,. famous, among the ancients for its poifonous
qualities.. It is defcribed by Strabo as lying within
the Lucrine bay, deep and darkfome, furrounded with
fteep banks that hang threatening over it, and only
L 1 acceffible
J\ vernus.
A V E [2
accedible by tile narrow paffage through which you
fail in. Black aged groves ftretched their boughs over
the w’atery abyfs, and wuth impenetrable foliage exclu¬
ded almott every ray of wholefome light j mephitic
vapours afeending from the hot bowels of the earth,
being denied free paffage t© the upper atmofphere,
floated along the furface in poifonous mills. Thefe
circumftances produced horrors fit for fuch gloomy
deities} a colony of Cimmerians, as well fuited to the
rites as the place itfelf, cut dwellings in the bofom of
the furrounding hills, and officiated as priefts of Tar¬
tarus. Superftition always delighting in dark ideas,
early and eagerly feized upon this fpot, and hither fhe
led her trembling votaries to celebrate her difmal or¬
gies ; here Hie evoked the manes of departed heroes—
here fhe offered facrifices to the gods of hell, and at¬
tempted to dive into the fecrets of futurity. Poets
enlarged upon the popular theme, and painted its aw¬
ful feenery with the ftrongeft colours of their art. Ho¬
mer brings Ulyffes to Avernus, as to the mouth of the
infernal abodes ; and in imitation of the Grecian bard,
Virgil conducts his hero to the fame ground. Who¬
ever failed thither, firft did facrifice ; and endeavoured
to propitiate the infernal powders, with the affiflance of
fome prieifs who attended upon the place, and directed
the myflic performance. Within, a fountain of pure
water broke out juft over the fea, which was fancied
to be a vein of the river Styx ; near this fountain w^as
the oracle : and the hot waters freo^ent in thofe parts
were fuppofed to be branches of the burning Phlege-
thon. The poifonous efHuvia from this lake were faid
to be fo ftrong, that they proved fatal to birds endea¬
vouring to fly over it. Virgil aferibes the exhalation
not to'the lake itfelf, but to the cavern near it, which
was called Avernus or Cave of the Sibyl, and through
which the poets feigned a defeent to hell. Hence the
proper name of the lake is Lacus Averm, the u lake
near the cavern,” as it is called by fome ancient au¬
thors.
The holinefs of thefe (hades remained unimpeached
for many ages : Hannibal marched his army to offer
incenfe at this altar ; but it may be fufpefted he was
led to this acl of devotion rather by the hopes of fur-
prifing the garrifon of Puteoli, than by his piety. Af¬
ter a long reign of undifturbed gloom and celebrity, a
fudden glare of light was let in upon Avernus •, the
horrors were difpelled, and with them van idled the
fanftity of the lake : the axe of Agrippa brought its
foreft to the ground, difturbed its fleepy waters wnth
fiiips, and gave room for all its malignant effluvia to
efcape. The virulence of thefe exhalations, as deferib-
ed by ancient authors, has' appeared fo very extraordi¬
nary, that modern writers, who know the place in a
cleared ftate only, charge thefe accounts with exagge¬
ration : but Mr Swinburn thinks them entitled to more
refpeft } for even now, he obferves the air is feverilh
and dangerous, as the jaundiced faces of the vine-dref-
fers, who have fucceeded the Sibyls and the Cimmeri¬
ans in the poffefiion of the temple, moft ruefully tefti-
fy. Boccacio relates, that, during his reiidence at the
Neapolitan court, the furface of this lake was ludden-
lv covered with dead fifh, black and finged, as if kill¬
ed by fome fubaqueous eruption of fire.
At prefent the lake abounds with tench ; the Lu-
crine with eels. The change of fortune in thefe lakes
66 ] AYE
is fingular : In the fplendid days of imperial Pvome Averrhca
the Lucrine was the chofen fpot for the brilliant par-
ties of pleafure of a voluptuous court : now, a (limy1
bed of ruihes covers the mattered pools of this once
beautiful (beet of water \ while the once dufky Aver¬
nus is clear and ferene, offering a moft alluring furface
and charming feene for fimilar amufements. Oppofite
to the temple is a cave ufually ftyled the Sibyl’s grotto ;
but apparently more likely to have been the mouth of
a communication between Cuma and Avernus, than
the abode of a prophetefs *, efpecially as the Sibyl is
pofitively faid by hiftorians to have dwelt in a cavern
under the Cumesm citadel.
AVERRHOA. See Botany Index.
AVERROE5, one of the moll lubtile philofophers
that ever appeared among the Arabians, ffouriihed at
the end of th£ iith and beginning of the i 2th centu¬
ry. He was the fon of the high-prieft and chief judge
of Corduba in Spain : he was educated in the univer-
fity of Morocco ; and ftudied natural philofophy, me¬
dicine, mathematics, law, and divinity. After the
death of his father, he enjoyed his polls *, but notwith-
ftanding his being exceeding rich, his liberality to men
of letters in neceffity, whether they w-ere his friends or
his enemies, made him always in debt. He was after¬
wards llripped of all his polls, and throwm into prifon,
for herefy j but the oppreflions of the judge who fuc¬
ceeded him, caufed him to be reftored to his former
employments.
He died at Morocco in the year 1206. He was
exceffively fat, though he ate. but once a day. He fpent
all his nights in the iludy of philofophy 5 and when he
was fatigued, amufed himfelf wnth reading poetry or
hiftory. He wras never feen to play at any game* or
to partake in any diverfion. He was extremely fond
of Ariftotle’s wTorks, and wrote commentaries on them ;
whence he was llyled, the commentator, by way of
eminence. He likewife wrote a work on the whole art
of phyfic, and many amorous verfes 5 but wThen he
grew old, he threw thefe laft into the fire. His other
poems are loft, except a fmall piece, in which he fays,
“ That when he wTas young, he a£led againft his rea-
fon ; but that when he w’as in years, he followed its
didlates upon which he utters this with ; “ Would
to God I had been born old, and that in my youth I
had been in a ftate of perfeftion !” As to religion, his
opinions were, that Chriftianity is abfurd ; Judaifm,
the religion of children ; Mahometanifm, the religion
of fwine.
AVERROISTS, a fe£f of peripatetic philofophers,
who appeared in Italy fome time before the reftoration
of learning, and attacked the immortality of the foul.
They took their denomination from Averroes, the
celebrated interpreter of Ariftotle (fee the preceding
article), from whom they borrowed their diftinguifliing
do£trine.
The Averroifts, who held the foul wTas mortal, ac¬
cording to reafon or philofophy, yet pretended to fub-
mit to the Chriftian theology, which declares it im¬
mortal. But the diftinflion was held fufpicious 5 and
this divorce of faith from reafon wras reje&ed by the
doblors of that time, and condemned by the laft coun¬
cil of the Lateran under Leo X.
AVERRUNCI (dei) •, certain gods, whofebufinefs
it was, according to the Pagan theology, to avert mif-
fortunes.
A U G
[ ^7
A U G
Auge.
Ayerfa fortunes, Apollo and Hercules were of tire number
of thefe gods among the Greeks j and Caftor and Pol¬
lux among the Romans.
AVERS A, a town of Italy in the kingdom of
Naples, with a bilhop’s fee. It is lituated in a very
fine plain, in E. Long. 14. 20. N. Lat. 41. o.
AVERSION, according to Lord Karnes, is oppofed
to offe&ion, and not to dejire, as it commonly is. We
have an affection to one perfon ; we have an averfion to
another •, the former difpofes us to do good to its ob¬
ject, the latter to do ill.
AVERTI, in Horfemanjlnp, is applied to a regular
ftep or motion enjoined in the leflons. In this ienfe
they fay pas averte, fometimes pas ccouie, and pas
d'ccole, which all denote the fame. The wTord is
mere French, and fignifies advifed.
AVES, one of the Carribbee iflands, 451 miles fouth
of Porto Rico, with a good harbour for careening of
fhips. It is fo called from the great number of birds
that frequent it. There is another of the fame name
lying to the northward of this, in N. Lat. 15.0.; and
a third near the eaftern coaft of Newfoundland, in
N. Lat. 50. 5'.
sdrES, Birds, the name of Linnaeus’s fecond clafs of
animals. See Ornithology.
AVESBURY, Robert, an Engliffi hiftorian, of
whom little more is known than that he was keeper
of the regiffery of the court of Canterbury in the reign
of Edward III. and confequently that he lived in the
14th century. He wrote, Memorabilia gejla magnijici
rag is Anglia domini Edwardi tertu pojl conquejlum, pro-
cerumque ; taclis primitus quibufdam gejhs de tempore
patris fui domini Edwardi fecundi, quee in regms An¬
glia:, Scotia:, et Francice, ac in Aquitama et Britan¬
nia, non butnana fed Dei potentia, contigerunt, per Ko-
bertam de Avejhury. This hiftory ends with the bat¬
tle of Poidtiers, about the year 1356. It continued in
manufeript till the year 1720, when it w^as printed by
t.he induftrious Thomas Hearne at Oxford, from a ma¬
nufeript belonging to Sir Thomas Seabright. It is
' now become very fcarce.
AVEZZANO, a towm of Italy in the kingdom of
Naples in the Farther Abruzzo. It is built on an al-
moft imperceptible declivity, one mile from the lake
of Celano, to wdiich an avenue of poplars leads from
the baronial caftle. This edifice Hands at a little di-
ilance from the town, is fquare, and flanked with tow¬
ers ; it was eredted by Virginio Orfmi, to which fa¬
mily this and many other great lordfliips belonged, be¬
fore they w'ere wrefted from them in times of civil war,
and transferred to the Colonnas. Avezzano was found¬
ed in 860, and contains 2700 inhabitants, and two re¬
ligious communities within its walls, which are indeed
in a ruinous condition. The houfes are in general
mean } but there are fome large buildings and opulent
families of the clafs of gentlemen, not poileffed of fees
held in capita.
AUGE, a territory of Normandy in France, which
gives title to a vifeount. It extends from I alaife and
Argenton as far as the fea, between the rivers Dives,
Vie, and Tongues. The arable land is ftift', and pro¬
duces but little good corn : but they fow fainfoin j
which fuccecds fo well that they have five good crops
fucceflively : they likewife fow flax and hemp-, and have
a vaft quantity of apples, with w’hicli they make cy-
Augiburg.
der. Hones are bred here in great numbers ; npd Angen-.
the inhabitants fatten the oxen which come from Poic-
tou and Britznny.
AUGEAS, in Fabulous Hijiory, w-as king of Elis,
and particularly famed for his liable, which contained
3000 oxen, and had not been cleaned for 30 years.
Hercules was defired to clear awTay the filth from this
liable in one day } and Augeas promifed, if he per-
fomred it, to give him a tenth part of the cattle. Phis
talk Hercules is faid to have executed by turning the
courfe of the river Alpheus through the liable ; when
Augeas refufing to Hand by his engagement, Hercules
flew him with his arrows, and gave his kingdom to
Phyleus his fon, who had fliown an abhorrence of his
father’s infincerity.
AUGMENT, in Grammar, an accident of certain
tenfes of Greek verbs, being either the prefixing of a
fyllable, ^>r an increafe of the quantity of the initial
vowels.
AUGMENTATION, in a general fenfe, is the aft
of adding or joining fomething to another with a de-
fign to render it large.
Augmentation is alfo ufed for the additament or
thing added.
Augmentation was alfo the name of a court ereT-
ed 27 Hen. VIII. fo called from the augmentation of
the revenues of the crown, by the fuppreflicn of reli¬
gious houfes 5 and the office Hill remains, wherein
there are many curious records, though the court has
been diffolved long fince.
Augmentation, in Heraldry, are additional char¬
ges to a coat-armour, frequently given as particular
marks of honour, and generally borne either in the ef-
cutcheon or a conton ; as have all the baronets of
England, who have borne the arms of the province of
Ulfler in Ireland.
AUGRE, or Awgre, an inffrument ufed by car¬
penters and joiners to bore large round holes ; and con-
fifling of a wooden handle, and an iron blade termi¬
nated at bottom with a Heel bit.
AUGSBURG, a city of Germany, capital of the
circle of Suabia, feated near the confluence of the
Ardech and Lech, in one of the moff beautiful plains
that can be imagined. It is one of the largefl and
handfomeff cities of the empire ; but the fortifications
are after the old manner, and very irregular j the Hreets
are broad and Hraight; the houfes moflly of timber,
plaflered and whitened without, or adorned with paint¬
ings ; the reff are of freeflone ; the churches and foun¬
tains are generally ornamented with fine figures of brafs.
Many of the churches are flately, and adorned within
with curious workmanfhip and paintings. I hat part
of the city eredled by the noble family of the Fuggers,
who are lords of the adjacent country, ccnfiffs of feve-
ral flreets crofswife, containing 106 houfes : tne poor
people that inhabit them are maintained by an annual
penfion. Its magnificent town-houfe is little inferior
to that of Amfferdam, it being a vaff fquare Hone
building, with a marble portico 5 at the top of the
front, within the pediment, is a large fpread eagle,
holding a feeptre and globe in its talons, of brafs
gilt, faid to weigh 2200 weight; the great portal is cf
a very beautiful reddifi marble, over which is a balcony
of the fame colour, fupported by two pillars of white
marble j over the gate there are two large griffins of
L 1 2 brafs;
AUG [ 268 ]• AUG
Augfburg
brafs moft of the rooms are wahifcotted and ceiled
with very fine timber : the great hall is very magnifi¬
cent, and paved with marble 5 it is 110 leet long, 58
broad, and 52 high, and its roof is fupported by eight
columns of red marble the ceiling of the upper wall
is of very curious workmanlhip of polilhed afir, confift-
ing of compartments, the fquares and pannels of which
are enriched with gilded fculptures, and filled with
piftures and other ornaments; this is likewife fupport¬
ed by eight pillars writh bafes and chapiters of brafs :
the other rooms are handfomely adorned with very fine
paintings.
In the fquare, near the town-houfe, is the fountain
of Auguftus, which is a marble bafon, furrounded wdth
iron balluftrades finely wrought: at the four corners are
four brafs flatues as big as the life, two of which are vro-
men and two men; in the middle of the bafon is a pede-
ftai, at the foot of which are four large fphinxes fquirt-
ing water out of their breafts j a little above thefe are
four infants holding four dolphins in their arms, which
pour water out of their mouths ; and over thefe infants
are feftoons and pine-apples all of brafs ; upon the pe-
deftal is the ftatue of Auguftus as large as the life.
The fountain mofc remarkable next to this is that of
Hercules, which is a hexagon bafon with feveral brafs
figures, particularly Hercules engaging the hydra.
Another curiofity is the fecret gate, which w?as contri¬
ved to let in perfons fafely in time of war : it has fo
many engines and divifions with gates and keys, and
apartments for guards at fome diftance from each other,
where paffengers are examined, that it is impoftible for
the town to be furprifed this way j the gates are bolted
and unbolted, opened and ftvut, by unfeen operators,
infomuch that it looks like enchantment. The W'ater-
towers are alfo very curious, of wThich there are three
feated on a branch of the river Lech, wdiich runs through
the city in luch a torrent as to drive many mills, which
■work a number of pumps that raife the water in large
leaden pipes to the tops of the towers •, one of thefe
lends water to the public fountains, and the reft to
near 1000 houfes in the city.
The Lutherans have a college here, which is a vaft
fquare building, with a fine clock on the top of the
front. In this there are feven different claffes, a hall
for public difputations, and a theatre for dramatic re-
prefentations. The cathedral is a large, gloomy. Go¬
thic building, with two fpire fteeples •, it is adorned
with paintings upon whimfical fubjedts, and has a
great gate all of brafs, over w’hich are feveral feripture
paffages well reprefented in baffo-relievo. The Jefuits
had a fplendid college here, v/ith a church full of gild¬
ing, painting, and carving-, and a fine library. Though
half the inhabitants are Lutherans, there are a great
many Popifh proceffions. There are no Jews in the
town, nor are they fuffered to lie there j but they in¬
habit a village at about a league diftance, and pay fo
much an hour for the liberty of trading in the day¬
time. The Benedi&ine abbey is a vaft Gothic build¬
ing, the ceiling of which is faid to be the higheft in
Germany, and overlooks all the reft of the churches -,
it is adorned with feveral ftatues, and has one very grand
altar. The church of St Croix is one of the hand-
fomeft in Augftrurg for architefture, painting, fculpture,
gilding, and a fine fpire.
The inhabitants look upon Auguftus Caefar as the
founder of the town : it is true, that that emperor fent Angflnirg.
a colony there; but the town was already founded,' y--1 —*
though he gave it the name of dugujla Vindelicorutn.
Augfburg, indeed, is one of the oldeft towns in Ger¬
many, and one of the moft remarkable of them, as it
is there and at Nuremberg that you meet with the
oldeft marks of German art and induftry. In the 14th
and 15th centuries, the commerce of this town was
the moft extenfive of any part of fouth Germany, and
contributed much to the civilization of the country by
the works of art and variety of neceffaries to the com¬
fort and convenience of life which it was the means of
introducing. Many things originated in this towm
which have had a great influence on the happinefs of
mankind. Not to mention the many important diets
of the empire held here ; here, in 952, did a council
confirm the order for the celibacy of priefts ; here, in
1530, was the confeflion of faith of the Proteftants
laid before the emperor and other eftates of Germany ;
and here, in 1555, wras figned the famous treaty of
peace, by which religious liberty w7as fecured to Ger¬
many.
Though the Proteftants were very pow'erful at Augf¬
burg, they could not keep their ground : for the Ba¬
varians drove them from thence : but Guftavus Adol¬
phus reftored them again in 1632 ; fince which time they
have continued there, and ftiare the government with
the Catholics. In 1703, the eleiftor of Bavaria took
the city after a fiege of feven days, and demoliflied the
fortifications : however the battle of Hochftedt refto¬
red their liberty, wdrich they yet enjoy under the go¬
vernment of their own magiftrates, the biftiop having
no temporal dominion in the city. The chapter is com-
pofed of perfons of quality, who are to bring proofs of
their nobility. The canons have a right of eledling
their own biflrop, w-ho is a fovereign, in the fame man¬
ner as feveral of the German bifhops.
The police of the place is very good : and though
the tmvn has no territory, it has no debts. Augfburg
is, however, no longer what it wras. It no longer
has a Fugger and a Welfer in it to lend the emperor
millions. In this large and handfome town, formerly
one of the greateft trading towns in Germany, there are
no merchants at prefent to be found wdio have capitals
of more than 20,000k The others, moft of wfliom muft
have their coaches, go creeping on with capitals of
3000I. or 4000I. and do the bufinefs of brokers and
commiflioners. Some houfes, however, carry on a lit¬
tle banking trade ; and the way through Tyrol and
Graubundten occafions fome little exchange betw-een
this place and Germany. After thefe brokers and
and doers of bufinefs by commiffion, the engravers, fta-
tuaries, and painters, are the moft reputable of the la¬
bouring part of the city. Their produdlions, like the
toys of Nuremberg, go everywhere. There are al¬
ways fome people of genius amongft them ; but the
fmall demand for their art affords them fo little en¬
couragement, that to prevent ftarving they are moftly
confined to the fmall religious wmrks which are done
elfewhere by Capuchin monks. They furnifh all Ger¬
many wdth little pidlures for prayer books, and to
hang in the citizens houfes. There is an academy of
arts inftituted here under the protedlion of the magi¬
ftrates : the principal aim of which is to produce good
mechanics, and preferve the manufaclures of the city*
This
AUG [ 269 ] AUG
Augfburg This town, which is 9^ miles in circumference,
I! contains, according to Mr Riefbeck, hardly 30,000
Augurale jn]ia|J;tants . ]y5[r Nicolai makes them about
' v 'bj^00.0-. ... p #
This city has its drinking water from the river Lech,
which runs at fome diftance from it; and the aqueduds
which convey the wTater are much to be admired. As the
court of Bavaria has it in its power to cut off this indil-
penfable neceffary, by threatening the town with doing
fo, it often lays it under contribution. But as it has, be-
fides this, other means of keeping the high council in
a tfate of dependence, to fecure itfelf from this oppref-
fion, the city feeks the emperor’s protection, upon
whom it makes itfelf as dependent on the other fide,
fo as to be indeed only a ball which both courts play
with. The emperor’s minifter to the circle of Suabia
generally refides here, and by fo doing fecures to his
court a perpetual influence. There are always Auftrian
and Pruffian recruiting parties quartered here, and the
partiality of the government to the former is very re¬
markable. In the war of 1756, the citizens were di¬
vided into equal parties for the two courts. The Ca¬
tholics confidered the emperor as their god, and the
Proteftants did the fame by the king of Pruffia. The
flame of religion had almoff kindled a bloody civil war
amongft them.—The bifhop takes his name from this
town, but refides at Dillingen. He has an income of
about 20,0001. per annum. As a proof of the catho-
licifm of this place, the Pope throughout his whole
progrefs met nowhere with fuch honours as he did
here. This he owed to his friends the Jefuits, wdio
have ftill great influence. E. Long. 10. 58. N. Lat.
48. 24. ^
Augsburg ConfeJJion, denotes a celebrated confeffion
of faith drawn up by Luther and Melanflhon, on be¬
half of themfelves and other ancient reformers, and
prefented in 1530 to the emperor Charles V. at the
diet of Augufta or Augfburg, in the name of the
evangelic body. This confeflion contains 28 chapters;
of which the greateft part is employed in reprefenting,
with perfpicuity and truth, the religious opinions of
the Proteftants, and the reft in pointing out the er¬
rors and abufes that occafioned their feparation from
the church of Rome.
AUGUR, an officer among the Romans appointed
to foretel future events, by the chattering, flight, and
feeding of birds. There was a college or community
of them, confifting originally of three members with
refpeff to the three tribes, the Luceres, Ramnenfes, and
Tatienfes : afterwards the number was increafed to
nine, four of whom rvere patricians and five plebeians.
They bore an augural ftaff or wand, as the enfign of
their authority ; and their dignity was fo much re-
fpedled, that they were never depofed, or any fubfti-
tuted in their place, though they (hould be convifled
of the moft enormous crimes. See Augury.
AUGURAL, fomething relating to the augurs.—
The augural inftruments are reprefented on feveral an¬
cient medals.
Augural Supper, that given by a prieft on his firft
admiffion into the order, called alfo by Varro Adji-
clalis.
Augural Boohs, thofe wherein the difcipline and
rules of augury w^ere laid down.
AUGURALE, the place in a camp where the ge¬
neral took aufpicia. This anfwered to the Augurato- Augurale
rium in the city. A(i
Augurale is alfo ufed in Seneca for the enfign or g A
badge of an augur, as the htuus.
AU CURATOR IUM, a building on the Palatine
mount, where public auguries were taken.
AUGURY, in its proper fenfe, the art of fore¬
telling future events by obfervations taken from the
chattering, finging, feeding, and flight, of birds;
though it is ufed by fome writers in a more general
fignification, as comprifing all the different kinds of di¬
vination.
Augury w'as a very ancient fuperftition. We know
from Hefiod, that hufbandry was in part regulated by
the coming or going of birds : and moft probably it
had been in ufe long before his time, as aftronomy was
then in its infancy. In procefs of time, thefe animals,
feem to have gained a greater and very wonderful au¬
thority, till at laft no affair of confequence, either of
private or public concern, was undertaken without
confulting them. They rvere looked upon as the in¬
terpreters of the gods ; and thofe who were qualified
to underftand their oracles wTere held among the chief
men in the Greek and Roman ftates, and became the
affeffors of kings, and even of Jupiter himfelf. How¬
ever abfurd fuch an inftitution as a college of augurs
may appear in our eyes, yet, like all other extrava¬
gant inftitutions, it had in part its origin from nature.
When men confidered the wonderful migration of
birds, how they difappeared at once, and appeared
again at ftated times, and could give no guefs where
they went, it was almoft natural to fuppofe, that they
retired fomewhere out of the fphere of this earth, and
perhaps approached the ethereal regions, where they
might converfe with the gods, and thence be enabled
to predift events. It was almoft natural for a fuper-
ftitious people to imagine this; at leaft to believe it, as
foon as fome impoftor was impudent enough to affert
it. Add to this, that the difpofition in fome birds to
imitate the human voice, muft contribute much to the
confirmation of fuch a doctrine. This inftitution of
augury feems to have been much more ancient than
that of arufpicy; for we find many inftances of the for¬
mer in Homer, but not a fingle one of the latter, though
frequent mention is made of facrifices in that author.
From the whole of what has been obferved, it feems
probable that natural augury gave rife to religious au¬
gury, and this to arufpicy, as the mind of man makes
a very eafy tranfition from a little truth to a great deal
of error.
A paffage in Ariftophanes gave the hint for thefe
obfervations. In the comedy of the Birds, he makes
one of them fay this : ‘ The greateft blefiings which
can happen to you, mortals, are derived from us ; firft;
we ftrow you the feafons, viz. fpring, winter, au¬
tumn. The crane points out the time for lowing,
when fire flies with her warning notes into Egypt; lire
bids the faiior hang up his rudder and take his reft,
and every prudent man provide himfelf with winter
garments. Next the kite appearing, proclaims another
leafon, viz. when it is time to {hear his ftieep. After
that the fwallow informs you when it is time to put on
fummer clothes. We are to you, (adds the chorus),
Ammon, Dodona, Apollo : for, after confulting us,
you undertake every thing ; merchandife, purchafes,
marriages, ,
AUG [27
marriages, Sec.’ Now, it feems not improbable, that
the fame tranfition was made in the fpeculations of
men which appears in the poet’s words; and that they
were ealily induced to think, that the furprifing fore¬
fight of birds, as to the time of migration, indicated
fomething of a divine nature in them 3 which opinion
Virgil, as an Epicurean, thinks fit to enter his proteft
againlt, when he fays,
Haud equulem credo, quia Jit divinitas iiiis
Ingenium.
But to return to Ariftophanes. The firft part of
the chorus, from whence the fore-cited paffage is ta¬
ken, feems, with all its wildnefs, to contain the fabu¬
lous cant, which the augurs made ufe of in order to
account for their impudent impofitions on mankind.
It fets out with a cofmogony \ and fays. That in the
beginning were Chaos and Night, and Erebus and
Tartarus : That there was neither water, nor air, nor
fky : T hat Night laid an egg, from whence, after a
time, Love arofe : That Love, in conjunction with
Erebus, produced a third kind ; and that they were
the firft of the immortal race, &c.
AUGUST, (augujlus), in a general fenfe, fome¬
thing majeftic, venerable, or facred. The appellation
was firft conferred by the Roman fenate upon Odlavius,
after his being confirmed by them in the fovereign
power. It was conceived as exprefling fomething di¬
vine, or elevated above the pitch of mankind, being de¬
rived from the verb aitgeo, “ I increafe,” tanquam fu-
pra humanam fortem audius. See Augustus.
August, in Chronology, the eighth month of our
year, containing 31 days. Auguft was dedicated to
the honour of Auguftus Caefar, becaufe, in the fame
month, he wras created conful, thrice triumphed in
Rome, fubdued Egypt to the Roman empire, and
made an end of civil wars, being before called Sextilis,
or the lixth month from March.
AUGUSTA, or Austa, an ifland in the Adria¬
tic fea on the coaft of Dalmatia, near Ragufa, fubjetft
to Venice. E. Long. 17. 50. N. Lat. 42. 35.
Augusta, a town of Georgia in North America.
See Georgia.
Augusta Aufciorum, a town of Aquitania, fo na¬
med out of compliment to Auguftus, being originally
called Chmberrum, which name it afterwards refumed.
In the middle age, it took the name of the people,
Aufci; and is now called Auch, the capital of Gaf-
cony.
Augusta Emerita, a town of Lufitania on the river
Anas, the capital of the province ; a colony of the
Emeriti, or fuch foldiers as had ferved out their legal
time, -were men of experience, or had received marks
of favour. The colony was founded by Auguftus : and
is now called Merida, a city of Spain, in Eftremadura,
on the river Guadiana. See Merida.
Augusta Pretoria, a town and colony of Gallia
Cifalpina, and capital of the Salafli ; feated at the foot
of the Alpes Graiaa^n the Duria. 'Eiosw Aoijle'm Pied¬
mont. SeeAousTE.
Augusta Rauracorum, a town of Gallia Belgicay
now a fmall village called Augujl, at the bend of the
Rhine northwards, but from the ruins, which are Hill
to be feen, appears to have been a confiderable
Auauftin.
o ] AUG
colony, at the diilance of fix miles from Bafil to the Auguft a
eaft.
Augusta Suejjfinum, a town of Gallia Eelgica'on
the Axona; fo called from Auguftus, and with great'
probability fuppofed to be the Noviodunum Sucflbnum
of Csefar. Now SoiJJons, on the river Aifire, in the
Me of France. See So is so ns.
Augusta Taurinorum, a town of the Taurini at the
foot of the Alps, where the Duria Minor falls into the
Po j now lunn, the capital of Piedmont.
Augusta Treba, a town of the JEqui, near the
fpring of the river Anio in Italy ; now Ereui, in Um¬
bria, or in the eaft of the Campagna di Roma.
Augusta Trevirorum, a town of the Treviri, a
people inhabiting between the Rhine and the Meufe,
but especially about the Mofelle ; now Eriers, or
Treves, in the circle of the Lower Rhine, on the Mo¬
felle.
Augusta Vindelicornm, a town of the Licates on
the Licus; called by Tacitus a noble colony of Rha~
tkt; now Augsburg, capital of Suabia.
Augusta Hijloria, is the hiftory of the Roman em¬
perors from the time of Adrian to Carinus, that is,
from the year of our Lord 177 to 285, compofed by
fix Latin writers, All. Spartiimus, Julius Capitolinus,
All. Lampridius, Vulcatius Gallicanus, Trebellius JPol-
lio, and Flavius Vopifcus. *
AUGUSTALES, in Roman Antiquity, an epithet
given to the flamens or priefts appointed to facrifice to
Auguftus after his deification \ and alfo to the ludi or
games celebrated in honour of the fame prince on the
fourth of the ides of Oditober.
AUGUST ALIA, a feftival inftituted by the Ro¬
mans in honour of Auguftus Caefar, on his return to
Rome, after having fettled peace in Sicily, Greece,
Syria, Afia, and Parthia 5 on which occafion they like-
wife built an altar to him, inlcribed Fortunce reduci.
AUQUSTALIS pr/efectus, a title peculiar to a
Roman magiftrate who governed Egypt, wfith a pow’er
much like that of a proconful in other provinces.
AUGUSTAN Confession. See Augsburg Con-
fejjton.
AUGUSTIN, or Austin, St, the .firft arch-
bifliop of Canterbury, was originally a monk in the
convent of St Andrew at Rome, and educated under
St Gregory, afterwards Pope Gregory I. by wdiom he
was defpatched into Britain with 40 other monks of the
fame order, about the year 596, to convert the Eng-
liih Saxons to Chriftianity. They landed in the iile of
Thanet •, and having fent fome French interpreters to
King Ethelbert with an account of their errand, the
king gave them leave to convert as many of his fub-
je£ls as they could, and afligned their place of refi-
dence, at Dorovernum, fince called Canterbury; to
v/hich they w ere confined till the king himfelf was con-
. verted, wdrofe example had a powerful influence in pro¬
moting the converfion of his fubje£ls ; but though he
was extremely pleafed at their becoming Chriftians, he
never attempted to compel them. He defpatched a
prieft and a monk to Rome, to acquaint the pope with
the fuccefs of his million, and to defire his refolution
of certain queftions. Thefe men brought back with
them a pall, and feveral books, vefiments, utenfils, and
ornaments for the churches. His holinefs, by the lame
meflengers,
AUG [ 27
Aaguftlne. meflenger?, gave Auguftin direftxons concerning the
^ fettling of epifcopal fees in Bfitain ; and ordered him
not to pull down the idol-tem>dies, but to convert them
into Chriftian churches •, only detlroying the idols, and
fprinkling the place with holy water, that the natives,
by frequenting the temples they had been al'.vays ac-
cuitomed to, might be the lefs (hocked at their entrance
into Chriftianity. Auguftin relided principally at Can¬
terbury, which thus became the metropolitan church
• of England ; and having eftabliftied biihops in feveral
of the cities, he died on the 26th May, 607. The
Popifti writers afcribe feveral miracles to him. The
obfervation of the feftival of St Auguftin was firft en¬
joined in a fynod held under Cuthbert archbifhop of
Canterbury, and afterwards by the pope’s bull in the
reign of King Edward III.
AUGUSTINE, St, an illuftrious father of the
church, was born at Thagafte, a city of Numidia, on
the 13th of November 354. His father, a burgefs
of that city, was called Patricias; and his mother,
Monica, who being a woman of great virtue, inftrudfed
him in the principles of the Chriftian religion. In
his early youth he was in the rank of the catechumens j
and falling dangeroufly ill, earneftly defired to be bap¬
tized •, but the violence of the diftemper ceafing, his
baptifm was delayed. His father, who was not yet
baptized, made him ftudy at Thagafte, Madaura, and
afterwards at Carthage. Auguftine having read Ci¬
cero’s books of philofophy, began to entertain a love
for wifdom, and applied himfelf to the ftudy of the
Holy Scriptures ', neverthelefs, he differed himfelf to
be feduced by the Manicheans. At the age of 19,
he returned to Thagafte, and taught grammar, and
alfo frequented the bar : he afterwards taught rhetoric
at Carthage with applaufe. The infolence of the
fcholars at Carthage made him take a refolution to go
to Rome, though againft his mother’s will. Here alfo
he had many fcholars •, but diff!king them, he quitted
Rome, and fettled at Milan, and was chofen public
profeffor of rhetoric in that city. Here he had oppor¬
tunities of hearing the fermons of St Ambrofe, which,
together w7ith the ftudy of St Paul’s epiftles, and the
converfion of two of his friends, determined him to
retraft his errors, and quit the feft of the Manicheans;
this was in the 32ft year of his age. In the vacation of
the year 386, he retired to the houfe of a friend of his,
named Verecundus, where he ferioufly applied himfelf
to the ftudy of the Chriftian religion, in order to pre¬
pare himfelf for baptifm, -which he received at Eafter
in the year 387. Soon after this, his mother came to
fee him at Milan, and invite him back to Carthage ; but
at Oftia, whither he wTent to embark in order to his
return, (he died. Pie arrived in Africa about the end
of the year 388 *, and having obtained a garden-plot
without the walls of the city of Hippo, he affociated
himfelf with 11 other perfons of eminent famflity, who
diftinguiftied themfelves by wearing leathern girdles,
and lived there in a monaftic way for the fpace of three
years, exerciling themfelves in falling, prayer, ftudy,
and meditation, day and night : from hence fprung
up the Auguftine friars, or eremites of St Auguftine,
being the firft order of mendicants ; thofe of St Jerome,
the Carmelites, a»d others, being but branches of this
of St Auguftine. About this time, or before, Vale¬
rius bifhop of Hippo, againft his .will, ordained him
i ] AUG
prieil : nevcrthelefs, he continued to refide in his little Auguftine
monaftery, with his brethren, who, renouncing, all
property, poffeffed their goods in common. Valerius, f v- *'
who had appointed St Auguftine to preach in his place,
allowed him to do it in his prefence, contrary to the
cuftom of the churches in Africa. He explained the
creed, in a general council of Africa, held in 393’
'Two years after, Valerius, fearing he might be pre¬
ferred to be bifhop of another church, appointed him
his coadjutor or colleague, and cauted him to be or¬
dained bilhop of Hippo, by Megalus biftiop of Ca-
lame, then primate of Numidia. St Auguftine died
the 28th day of Auguft, 430, aged 76 years, having
had the misfortune to fee his country invaded by the
Vandals, and the city where he was bilhop befieged
for feven months.
The works of St Auguftine make ten volumes : the
bell edition of them is that of Maurin, printed at
Antwerp, in 1700. They are but little read at this
time, except by the clergy of the Greek church and
in the Spanilh univerlities. The bookfellers of Lon¬
don receive frequent commiffions for them, and indeed
for the moft of the fathers, from Ruftia, and alfo from
Spain.
Augustine, St, a fort of North America, on the
eaft coaft of Cape Florida, fituated in W. Long. 81.
10. N. Lat. 30. o. This fort was built by the Spa¬
niards ; who were fcarce well eftablilhed there when
they were attacked by Sir Francis Drake in 1586, wTho
reduced and pillaged the fort and town adjacent. In
1665, it underwent a fimilar fate, being attacked by
Captain Davis at the head of a confiderable company
of bucaniers. In 1702 an attempt was made by
Colonel More to annex St Auguftine to the Britilh do¬
minions. He invefted it with only 500 Englilh and
700 Indians 5 which fmall force, however, would have
been fufficient to reduce the place, had not fuccours
arrived when it was on the point of lurrendering. Even
then, it is thought that he might have defeated the re¬
inforcement ryhich arrived •, but he chofe to raife the
liege, and retire with precipitation. In 1740, another
unfuccefsful attempt was made on this fort by General
Oglethorpe : it was, however, together with the whole
country of- Florida, ceded to Great Britain by the
the treaty of Paris in 1763 5 but has fince been re-
ftored to Spain by the treaty of peace 1783.
Augustine, a cape of South America. W. Long.
35. 4. S. Lat. 8. 30.
AUGUSTINS, or Augustinians, an order of
religious •, thus called from St Auguftin, whofe rule
they obferve. The Auguftins, popularly alfo called
Auftin friars, were originally hermits, whom Pope
Alexander IV. firft congregated into one body, under
their general Lanfranc, in 1256. Soon after their in-
ftitution, this order was brought into England, where
they had about thirty-two houfes at the time of their
fuppreftion.
The Auguftins are clothed in black, and make one
of the four orders of mendicants. From thefe arofe a
reform, under the denomination of bare-foot Auguftins,
or Minarets, or Friars minor.
There are alfo canons regular of St Auguftin, who
are clothed in white, excepting their cope, which is
black. At Paris they were known under the denomination
of religious of Genevieve j that abbey was the chief
of
AUG [2
Au^uflu of tlie order. There are alfo nuns and canoneffes, who
m^ns obferve the rules of St Auguftin.
Augu&u?. Augustinians are alfothofe divines who maintain,
|'=——v—w on the authority of St Auguflin, that grace is effec¬
tual from its nature, abfolutely and morally, and not re¬
latively and gradually. They are divided into rigid and
relaxed.
AUGUSTOBONA, a city of the Tricaffers in
ancient Gaul, from whom it was afterwards called 7W-
cajjes, and Trecajfa; and flill farther corrupted to
Thraca, or Treci; whence the modern name Troyes,
in Champagne, on the Seine. See Troyes.
AUGUST ODLTNUM, the capital of the TEdui,
where there was a famous academy or fchool for the
education of youth ; now Auftun, jor Autun, in the
duchy of Burgundy, on the Arroux. See Autun.
AUGUSTOMAGUS, an ancient town of Gallia
Belgica ; now Sends, in the Ille of France. E. Long.
2. 30. N. Lat. 49. 10.
AUGUSTORITUM, \w Ancient Geography, accord-
to fome authors the capital of the Pi&ones, afterwards
called PiSiavi; now PoiBiers. But by Antonine’s Itiner¬
ary from Burdigala to Argantomagus (or Argenton, as
it is interpreted by many), it can be no other but the
capital of the Lemovices, now Litnoges, fituated be¬
tween Vefunna of the Petrocorii, or Perigeux, and
Argantomagus. E. Long. 1. 22. Lat. 45. 52.
AUGUSTOW, a fmall but ftrong town of Poland,
in the duchy and palatinate of Polakia, feated on the
river Narieu. E. Long. 24. 2. N. Lat. 53. 25.
AUGUSTUS, Fort, a fmall fortrefs feated on a
plain at the head of Lochnefs in Scotland, between
the rivers Taarf and Oich •, the laft is a confiderable
ilream, and has over it a Hone bridge of three arches.
The fort conlifts of four baftions : within is the go¬
vernor’s houfe, and barracks for 400 men ; it w7as ta¬
ken by the rebels in 1746, who immediately deferted
it after demolilhing what they could. The name of
this fort in Erfe is Kill Chumin, or the burial place of
the Cummins. It lies on the road to the ille of
Sky, which is about 52 miles off j but on the wdiole
way there is not a place fit for the reception of man or
horfe.
Augustus, the appellation conferred upon Cae-
far Osffavianus, the firft Roman emperor. See Octa-
vianus and Rome.
The obfcure name of OBavianus, Mr Gibbon ob-
ferves, he derived from a mean family, in the little
town of Aricia. It was llained wuth the blood of the
profcription ; and he was defirous, had it been pofiible,
to erafe all memory of his former life. The illuftrious
furname of Ceefar he had affumed, as the adopted fon
of the diflator 5 but he had too much good fenfe either
to hope to be confounded, or to wilh to be compared,
with that extraordinary man. It was propofed in the
fenate, to dignify their minirter wdth a new appella¬
tion ; and after a very ferious difcufiion, that of Au-
gufus wTas chofen among feveral others, as being the
moll exprelfive of the character of peace and fan&ity,
which he uniformly affected. Augujlus was therefore
a perfonal, Ccr/ar* family, diltinftion. The former ihould
naturally have expired with the prince’on wLom it w'as
bellowed : and however the latter was diffufed by adop¬
tion and female alliance, Nero was the lalt prince who
I
72 ] AVI
could allege any hereditary claims to the honour of the
Julian line. But at the time of his death, the practice
of a century hadinfeparably connefted thofe appellations
with the imperial dignity, and they have been preferved
by a long fucceflion of emperors, Romans, Greeks,
Franks, and Germans, from the fall of the republic to
the prefent time. A diltinftion was, however, foon
introduced. The facred title of Augujlus was always
referved for the monarch-, the name of (Afar was more
freely communicated to his relations ; and from the
reign of Hadrian at leaff, was appropriated to the fe-
cond perfon in the Hate, who was confidered as the
prefumptive heir of the empire.
AVIARY, a place fet apart for feeding and propa¬
gating birds. It fhould be fo large as to give the
birds fome freedom of flight ; and turfed, to avoid the
appearance of foulnefs on the floor-
AVICENNA, or Avicenes, the prince of Arabian
philofophers and phyficians, was born at Aliena, a
village in the neighhourhood of Bokhara. His father
w-as from Balkh in Perfia, and had married at Bokhara.
The firll years of Avicenna were devoted to the ftudy
of the Koran and the belles lettres. He foon fliow-
ed what he was likely to become afterwards ; and the
progrefs he made was fo rapid, that when he was but
ten years old, he was perfectly intelligent in the moll
hidden fenfes of the Koran.
Abou-Abdoullah, a native of Napoulous in Syria,
at that time profeffed philofophy at Bokhara with the
greatell reputation. Avicenna ftudied under him the
principles of logic ; but foon, difgulted with the flow
manner of the fchools, he fet about ftudying alone,
and read all the authors that had written on philofophy,
without any other help than that of their commenta¬
tors. Mathematics had no fewer charms for him ; and
after reading the firlt fix propofitions of Euclid, he
got alone to the laft, having made himfelf perfect ma¬
iler of them, and treafured up all of them equally in
his memory.
Poffeffed wdth an extreme avidity to be acquainted
with all forts of fciences, he likewufe devoted himfelf
to the ftudy of medicine. Perfuaded that this divine
art confifts as much in practice as in theory, he fought
all opportunities of feeing the fick ; and afterwards
confeffed, that he had learned more from experience
than from all the old books he had read. He was now in
his 16th year, and already was celebrated for being
the light of his age. He refolved at this age to refume
his ftudies of philofophy, which medicine had made
him negledl : and he fpent a year and a half in this
painful labour, without ever fleeping all this time a
whole night together. If he felt himfelf oppreffed
by fieep, or exhaufted by ftudy, a glafs of wine re-
frefhed his wafted fpirits, and gave him new vigour for
ftudy ; if in fpite of him his eyes for a few minutes
{hut out the light, it then happened to him to recoi¬
led! and meditate upon all the things that had occu¬
pied his thoughts before fleep. At the age of 21, he
conceived the bold defign of incorporating, in one
work, all the objedts of human know ledge ; and carried
it into execution in an Encyclopedic of 20 volumes, to
which he gave the title of the Utility of Utilities.
Several great princes had been taken dangeroufiy ill,
and Avicenna was the only one that could know their
ailments
AVI [‘ 2
Avicenna, ailments and cure them. His reputation increafed dai-
iy) and all the kings of Alia defired to retain him in
their families.
Mahmud, the fon of Sabektekin, the firft fultan of
the dynafty of the Samanides, was then the moft
powerful prince of the call. Imagining that an im¬
plicit obedience fhould be paid by all manner of per-
fons to the injumfHons of his will, he wrote a haughty
letter to Mamun fultan of Kharazm, ordering him to
fend Avicenna to him, who was at his court, with fe-
veral other learned men. Philofophy, the friend of li¬
berty and independence, looks down with fcorn on the
Ihackles of compulfion and reftraint. Avicenes, ac-
cuftomed to the moft flattering diftinftions among the
great, could not endure the imperious manner of Mah¬
mud’s inviting him to his court, and refufed to go
there. But the fultan of Kharazm, who dreaded his
refentment, obliged the philofopher to depart with
others whom that prince had demanded to be fent to
him.
Avicenna pretended to obey ; but inftead of repair¬
ing to Gazna, he took the route of Giorgian. Mah¬
mud, who had gloried in the thoughts of keeping him
at his palace, was greatly irritated at his flight. He
defpatched portraits done in crayons of this philofo¬
pher to all the princes of Alia, with orders to have him
conduced to Gazna, if he appeared in their courts.
But Avicenna had fortunately efcaped the moft dili¬
gent fearch after him. He arrived in the capital of
Giorgian, where under a difguifed name he performed
many admirable cures.
Cabous then reigned in that country. A nephew,
whom he was extremely fond of, being fallen fick, the
moft able phyficians were called in, and none of them
were able to know his ailment, or give him any eafe.
A\ icenna was at laft confulted. So foon as he had felt
the young prince’s pulfe, he was confident with him-
felf, that his illnefs proceeded from a violent love,
which he dared not to declare. Avicenna commanded
the perfon who had the care of the different apart¬
ments in the palace, to name them all in their refpe&ive
order. A more lively motion in the prince’s pulfe,
at hearing mentioned one of thefe apartments, betray¬
ed a part of his fecret. The keeper then had orders
to name all the (laves that inhabited that apartment.
At the name of one of thofe beauties, the young Ca¬
bous could not contain himfelf j an extraordinary beat¬
ing of his pulfe completed the difcovery of what he
in vain defired to keep concealed. Avicenes, now
fully affured that this (lave was the caufe of the prince’s
illnefs, declared, that fhe alone had the power to cure
him.
The fultan’s confent was neceflary, and he of courfe
was curious to fee his nephew’s phyfician. He had
fcarce looked at him, when he knew in his features
thofe of the crayoned portrait fent him by Mahmud j
but Cabous, far from forcing Avicenna to repair to
Gazna, retained him for fome time with him, and
Teaped honours and prefents on him.
1 his philofopher pafled afterwards into the court of
Nedjmeddevle, fultan of the race of the Bouides.
Being appointed firft phyfician to that prince, he found
means to gain his confidence to fo great a degree, that
he raifed him to the poft of grand vifir. But he did
not long enjoy that illuftrious dignity. Too great an
Vol. III. Part I.
73 1 AVI
attachment to pleafures, efpecially thofe of love and Avicenna,
the table, made him lofe at the fame time his poft and 1
his mailer’s favour. From that time Avicenna felt all
the rigours of adverfity, which he had brought upon
himfelf by his ill condudl. He wandered about as a
fugitive, and was often obliged to fhift the place of his
habitation to fecure his life from danger. He died at
Hamadan, aged 58 years, in the 428th year of the
Hegira, and of Chrift 1036.
The pevfedl knowledge he had of phyfic did not fe¬
cure him from the ailments that afflidl human nature.
He was attacked by feveral maladies in the courfe of
his life, and particularly was very fubjedl to the co¬
lic. His exceffes in pleafures, and his infirmities,
made a poet fay who wrote his epitaph, that the pro¬
found ftudy of philofophy had not taught him good
morals, nor that of medicine the art of preferving his
own health.
No one compofed with greater facility than Avicen¬
na, writing, when he fat down to it, 50 pages gene¬
rally in a day, without fatiguing himfelf. The doc¬
tors of Schiras, having made a collection of objections
againlt one of his metaphyfical works, fent it to him
at Ifpahan by Cafem. This learned man, not arriving
till towards evening, came to Avicenna’s houfe, with
whom he fat difcourfing till midnight. When Cafem
had retired, he wrote an anfwer to the objections of the
Schirazians, and finifhed it before funrife. He imme¬
diately delivered it to Cafem, telling him, that he had
made all poflible defpatch in order not to detain him
any longer at Ifpahan.
Avicenna, after his death, enjoyed fo great a repu¬
tation, that till the 12th century he was preferred for
the ftudy of philofophy and medicine to all his prede-
celfors. His works were the only writings in vogue in
fchools, even in Europe. The following are the titles.
I. Of the Utility and Advantage of Science, twenty
books. 2. Of Innocence and Criminality, two books.
3. Of Health and Remedies, eighteen books. 4. Ca¬
nons of Phyfic, fourteen books. 6. On Aftronomical
Obfervations, one book. 7. On Mathematical Sciences.
8. Of Theorems, or Mathematical and Theological
Demonftrations, one Book. 9. On the Arabic Lan¬
guage, and its Properties, ten books. 10. On the
Laft Judgment. 11. On the Origin of the Soul, and
the RefurreCtion of Bodies. 12. Of the end we
fhould propofe to ourfelves in Harangues and Philo-
fophical Argumentations. 13. Demonftration of the
collateral Lines in the Sphere. 14. Abridgement of
Euclid. 15. On Finity and Infinity. 16. On Phy-
fics and Metaphyfics. 17. On Animals and Vegeta¬
bles, &c. 18. Encyclopedic, 20 volumes—Some,
however, charge him with having ftolen what he pu-
bulifhed from a celebrated phyfician who had been his
mailer. This man had acquired fo much honour and
wealth, that he was folicited by many to take their
fons to be his fcholars, or even his fervants j but be¬
ing refolved not to difcover the fecrets of his art, he
would receive none of them. Avicenna’s mother form¬
ed the following ftratagem : flic offered him her fon as
a fervant, pretending he was naturally deaf and dumb :
and the youth by his mother’s inftru6tions, counter¬
feited thofe defeats fo well, that the phyfician, after
making feveral trials to difccver the reality of them,
took the boy into his fervice, and by degrees trufted
M m him
AVI r 274 ] AVI
Aviccnia him fo far as to leave his writings open in his room
.jj when he went abroad : Avicenes took that opportu-
A *’. nity to tranfcribe them, and carried the copies to
*“ his mother j - and after death of his mafter he pu-
blifhed them under his own name. Indeed if we re-
fle£l that he lived but 58 years, that he was a wan¬
derer and a fugitive, and that he was much addicl-
ed to his pleafures, we fhall have fome difficulty to
conceive how he could find time to compofe fo many
works. Phyfic, however, is indebted to him for the
difcovery of caffia, rhubarb, mirabolans, tamarinds j
and from him alfo, it is faid, came to us the art of
making fugar.
AVICENIA, Eastern Anacardium. See Bo¬
tany Index.
AVIGATO pear* See Laurus, Botany In¬
dex.
AVIGLIANO, a fmall town of Piedmont in Italy.
E. Long. 7. 5. N. Lat. 44. 40.
AVIGNON, a city of France, in the department
of Vauclufe, the capital of the county of Venaiffin, and
feated on the banks of the Rhone. It was formerly
an archbifhop’s fee 5 and the refidence of feveral popes
at this place for 70 years has rendered it confiderable.
Near the Rhone there is a large rock, within the cir¬
cumference of the walls, upon which is a platform,
from whence may be had a profpefl of the w’hole city
and the places about it. This city is about three miles
and two furlongs in circumference, and is in general
ill built, irregular, and devoid of beauty. But it is
furrounded by handfome battlemented walls and tur¬
rets, not unlike thofc of Rome ; and its public edifices
are large, folid, and grand as the talle of the four¬
teenth century could make them. Several popes and
anti-popes, who, during their lives, (hook the Romiffi
church with violence and mutual altercation, repofe
quietly near each other in the various monafteries of
the place. The church of the Cordeliers contains, in
an obfcure corner, the almoft defaced tomb of Pe¬
trarch’s Laura and her huffiand Hugh de Sade ; and
nearly oppofite is the tomb of the brave Guilon, fo
wTell known for his invincible courage as well as for
his inviolable attachment to his fovereign Henry IV.
Many productions of Rene of Anjou are to be feen
in the city \ whofe inhabitants amount to about
40,000, of whom IOOO are ecclefiaftics and fome hun¬
dreds Jew's. The palace of the vice-legate is compofed
of feveral large fquare towers, and he gives audience
in a great hall which is full of fine paintings, as is alfo
the chapel and the apartments. The arfenal is near
the palace.
The church of Notre Dame is ancient, but not large,
and is one of the belt adorned in the city. After ha¬
ving afeended about 50 fteps, you come to a very an¬
cient portico, which fultains a great tower ; as you en¬
ter the church on the left hand, you fee paintings
which equal the finett in Italy. The great altar is very
magnificent, and is adorned with a fnrine that contains
the relicks of we know7 not howr many faints. The trea-
fure of the facrifty is w'orthy of the curiofity of the
traveller. The little palace where the archbilhop re-
fides is formed of three bodies of lodgings, accompa¬
nied with courts and fmall pavilions. It overlooks the
Khone, the city, and the fields. Thefe buildings and
the mint adorn a large fquare, which is the common Avignon.
wTalk of the inhabitants. * ~
In Avignon they reckon feven gates, feven palaces,
feven colleges, feven hofpitals, feven monalteries, fe¬
ven nunneries, and feven popes who have lived there
in 70 years. The fleeples are numerous, and the bells
are never at reft $ one of filver is rung only on the
death of a pope. The church of the Celeftines is
very magnificent, [and full of fine monuments, and the
reft are not without their curiofities. The univerfity
has four colleges; and the place wffiere the Jews live
is a diftind! quarter, from whence the Jews who pay
tribute dare not ftir cut without yellow7 hats, and the
women muft have fomething yellow about their heads,
to diftinguiflr them from the Chriftians. Their num¬
ber is very confiderable in a very confined place, where
the only way of enlarging their abodes is by building
their houfes higher. Their fynagogue is lo dark, that
they are obliged to light lamps. However, they are
forced to hear a monk preach a fermon every week.
Acrofs the Rhone, here, extend the ruinous and de¬
cayed arches of that bridge againft which Madame de
Grignan w7as fo near being loft, and of which Madame
de Sevigne makes terrified mention. It was demolifh-
ed in 1699 by one of the inundations common to the
Rhone. When entire, it was not lefs than a quarter
of a mile in length j but being fo narrow7 as not to
permit two carriages to pafs in any7 part, it had pre-
vioufty become almoft ufelefs 5 and motives of policy
prevent the conftrudlion of a new bridge, while Avig¬
non belongs to the papal fee. The curious that travel
this way go to fee the fountain of Vauclufe, where
the river Sorgues, which paffes through this city, has
its fource ; and whither Petrarch fo often retired to
indulge his grief and hopelefs love. It is fituated in
a valley five miles diftant from the city. The fides of
the river are fkirted by meadows of the moft lively
green } above wffiich rife abrupt and lofty rocks, that
feem defigned to feclude it from human view. The
valley becomes gradually narrower toward the extre¬
mity, and winding continually deferibes the figure of a
horfe-fhoe. The view7 is at length terminated by an
enormous mafs of rock, forming a barrier acrofs it, of
a prodigious height, and abfolutely perpendicular.
Through its vaft recefles run the ftreams which fupply
the fountain of Vauclufe, and at its foot appears a ba-
fon of water, feveral hundred feet in circumierence,
ftretched like an expanfe, filent and quiet. The fides
are very fteep, and it is faid that in the middle no bot¬
tom can be difeovered, though attempts have been
often made for that purpefe ; a circumftance probably
refulting from the violence with which the fprings bub¬
ble up, which prevents any weight from defeending be¬
yond a certain depth. Though the fountain is clearer
in itfelf than cryftal, yet the incumbent rock calls a
continual fhade, approaching to black, over its furface.
The water efcaping from this flate of inaflion by a
narrow paffage, is immediately precipitated in a caf-
cade down a rocky channel, where it foams over a
number of vaft detached ftones, which intercept and
impede its progrefs. They are covered with a deep
green mofs of many ages, and have probably tumbled
from the mountain that overhangs the torrent. The
rocks themfelves, which furround and inveft this ro¬
mantic
A V I
275
fnantic fpot, are worn by time and tbe inclemency of
the weather into a thoufand extraordinary and fantaftic
forms, to which imagination gives fhape and figure.
On one of the pointed extremities, and in a fituation
which appears almoft inacceffible, are fecn the remains
of an ancient caftle, projecting over the water. 'I he
peafants call it // Cajlello di Pvirarca ; and add, with
great fimplicity, that Laura lived upon the oppofite
ikle of the river, under the bed of which tvas a fubter-
ranean paflage by which the two lovers vifited each
other. Nothing is however more certain, than that
thefe are the ruins of the chateau belonging to the
lords or feigneurs of Avignon ; and the bidiop of
Cavaillon relided in it during the frequent vifits which
lie ufed to make to Petrarch.—-The poet’s dwelling
was much loWrer down, and nearer to the bank of the
Sorgue, as evidently appears from his minute de'eription
of it, and the relation he gives of his quarrel with the
Naiads of the itream, who encroached during the win¬
ter on his little adjoining territory. No remains of it
are now to be difeerned. Below the bridge there is
rm iiland where the Sorgues joins the Rhone, in which
are feveral houfes of plealure. E.. Long. 4. 59. N.
Lat. 43. 57.
yiriGNOff-Berry, the Fruit of a fpecies of lycium •,
growing plentifully near Avignon and in other parts
of France. The berry is fontewhat leis than a pea j
its colour is green, approaching towards a yellow }
and it is of an aftringent and bitter talfe.—It is much
ufed by the dyers, who ftain a yellow colour with it ;
and by the painters, who alfo make a fine golden yel¬
low of it.
AVILA, a city of Old Cafiile, in Spain, feated
on an eminence on the banks of the river Adaja, and
in fight of the mountains of Pico. It is fortified both
by nature and art, having a wall 9075 feet in circum¬
ference, adorned w ith 26 lofty towers, and 10 hand-
fome gates. There are 17 principal flieets, the houfes
in which are generally good, and fome of them ftately.
It hath nine fquares, 2000 houfes, nine parilhes, as many
monalteries, feven nunneries, two colleges, nine hof-
pitals, 18 chapels, and an allowance of r 0,000 ducats
yearly for the maintenance of orphans and other poor
people. It has an univerfity, and a confiderable bi-
Ihopric 5 befides a noble cathedral, which has eight dig¬
nitaries, 20 canons, and the fame number of minor
canons. It Hands in the middle of a fine large plain
furrounded wdth mountains, and covered with fruit-
trees and vineyards. There is likewife a manufadfure
of cloth. W. Long. 4. 13. N. Lat. 40. 35-
AVIS, a fmall town of Alentejo in Portugal, feated
on an eminence with a caltle near the river Avis.
Hence the military order of the knights of Avis have
their name. W. Long. 7. o, N. Lat. 38. 40.
Avis {Knights d\4vis), an order of knighthood in
Portugal eftablilhed about the year 1162. When the
city of Evora wras taken from the Moors, in the reign
of the firlt king of Portugal, it was garriloned by fe¬
veral perfons who affiimed the title of knights of St
Mary of Evora, which was foon after changed for
that of knights d’Avis, which the king gave them,
and whither they removed from Evora, The badge
of the order is a green crofs flory, and they obferve
the rule of St BenedidL
AVISO, a term chiefly ufed in matter of commerce
] A TJ L
to denote an advertifement, an advice, or piece of in¬
telligence.
ikVISON, Charles, organift of Newcaftle, and a^
difciple of Geminiani, was the author of an eflay on
mufical expreflion, publiflied in the year i752> which
are fome judicious refledlions on mufic in general, but.
his divifion of the modern authors into clafles is rather
fanciful than juft. Throughout his book he celebrates
Marcello and Geminiani *, the latter frequently in pre¬
judice to Mr Handel. In the year 1753 came out re¬
marks on Mr Avifon’s eft'ay on mufical expreftion, the
author whereof firft points out fundry errors againft the
rules of compofition in the works of Avilon. In the
fame year Avifon republifhed his elfay, with a reply to
the author of the remarks j and a letter, containing a
number of loofe particulars relating to mufic, collected
in a courfe of various reading, unqueftionably written
by Dr Jortin. Avifon promoted and aflifted in the
publication of Marcello’s mufic to tbe pfalms adapted
to Englifii words. Of his own compofition there are
extant five collections of concertos for violins, 44 in
number ; and two fets of fonatas for the barpfichord and
two violins, a fpecies of compontion little known in
England till his time. The mufic of Avifon is light
and elegant, but it wants originality j a neceffary con-
fequence of his too clofe attachment to the ftyle ot
Geminiani, which in a fewT particulars only he was
able to imitate.
AUK, in Ornithology. See Alca, Ornithology
Index*
AUKLAND, Bishop’s, a town in the biftiopric of
Durham in England, fituated on the river Were. It
is a fandluary for debtors ; and here the bilhop has a
princely palace and a noble park. W. Long. o. ^5.
N. Lat. 54. 44.
AULA, is ufed for a court baron by Spelman ; by
fome old ecclefiaftical writers, for the nave of a church,
and fometimes for a court-yard.
Aula Regia or Regis, a court eftablilhed by Wil¬
liam the Conqueror in bis own hall, compofed of the
king’s great officers of ftate, who refided irl his palace,
and were ufually attendant on his perfon. 7 his court
was regulated by the article which forms the eleventh
chapter of Magna Charta, and eftfffiliftied inWeftmin-
fter-hall, where it hath ever fince continued. See
King's Bench.
AULCESTER, a town of Warwickffiire in Eng¬
land. W. Long. 1. 47. N. Lat. 52. 15.
AULETES, in antiquity, denotes a flute-player.
One of the Ptolemies, kings of Egypt, father of Cleo¬
patra, bore the furname or denomination of Aulctes.
AULIC, an epithet given to certain officers of the
empire, who compofe a court which decides, without
appeal, in all procelfes entered in it. Thus we fay,
aulic council, aulic chamber, aulic counfellor.
The aulic council is compofed of a prefident, who
is a catholic ; of a vice chancellor, prefented by the
archbithop of Mentz *, and of 18 counfellors, nine of
whom are Proteftants and nine Catholics. They are
divided into a bench of lawyers, and always follow the
emperor’s court *, for which reafon they are called /»-
Jiitium imperatoris, the emperor’s juftice, and aulic
council. The aulic court ceafes at the death of the
emperor j whereas the imperial chamber of Spire is
perpetual, reprefenting not only the deceafed emperor,
Mm3 but
Avifok
Auik
A U N I 276 ] A V O
Aultc
Aunger-
vyle.
but the whole Germanic body, which is reputed never
to die.
Aulic, in the Sorbonne and foreign univerlities, is
an aft which a young divine maintains upon being ad¬
mitted a doftor of divinity. It begins by a harangue
of the chancellor, addreffed to the young doftor, after
which he receives the cap, and prefides at the aulic or
difputation.
AULIS, in Ancient Geography, a town of Boeotia,
over againil Chalcis of Euboea, on the Euripus, where
that ftrait is narrowed; j and which was fometimes joined
wuth Chalcis together by a mole or caufeway, (Diodorus
Siculus) : a craggy fituation, (Homer, Nonnius) ; and
a village of the Tanagraei, (Strabo), diftant from Chalcis
three miles : A harbour famous for the rendezvous of
the Grecian fleet under Agamemnon, previous to the
Trojan expedition, (Livy, Virgil, Pliny.) Now en¬
tirely deftroyed.
AULNEGER. See Alnager.
AULON, anciently a town and dock or Ration for
Ihips in Illyricum, on the Adriatic ; now Valona, or
Volana, a port-town in the duchy of Ferara on one of
the mouths of the Po, on the gulf of Venice. E. Long.
13. N. Lat. 44. 50.
Aulon, or Aulona, anciently a town of Elis, in
Peloponnefus on the confines of Meffenia. Here flood
a temple of ATculapius 5 hence the epithet Aulonius
given that divinity, (Paufanias).
AULOS, a Grecian long meafure, the fame with
ftadium.
AULPS, a town of Provence in France, in the
diocefe of Frejus, with the title of a vigurie. E.
Long. 6. 25. N. Lat. 43. 40. ,
AULUS gellius. See Gellius.
AUMBRY, a country word denoting a cupboard.
AUME, a Dutch meafure for Rheniih wine, con¬
taining 40 Englilh gallons.
AUNCEL-weight, an ancient kind of balance
now7 out of ufe, being prohibited by feveral flatutes,
on account of the many deceits praftifed by it. It
confifted of fcales hanging on hooks, faftened at each
end ox a beam, which a man lifted up on his hand. In
many parts of England, auncel-weight fignifies meat
fold by the hand, rftthout fcales.
AUNE, a long meafure ufcd in France to meafure
cloths, fluffs, ribbons, &c. At Rouen, it is equal to
one EnglHh ell; at Calais, to 1.52; at Lyons, to 1.061;
and at Paris, to 0.95.
AUNGERVYLE, Richard, commonly known by
the name of Richard de Bury, was born in 1281 at
St Edmund’s Bury in Suffolk, and educated at the
univerfity of Oxford : After which he entered into the
order of Benediftine monks, and became tutor to Ed¬
ward prince of Wales, afterwards King Edward III.
Upon the acceflion of his royal pupil to the throne he
was firft appointed cofferer, then treafurer of the ward¬
robe, archdeacon of Northampton, prebendary of Lin¬
coln, Sarum, and Litchfield, keeper of the privy feal,
dean of Wells, and laft of all was promoted to the bi-
Ihopric of Durham. He likewife enjoyed the offices
of lord high chancellor, and treafurer of England ; and
difcharged two important embaflies at the court of
France. Learned himfelf, and a patron of the learn¬
ed, he maintained a correfpondence with fome of the
greateft geniufes of the age, particularly with the ce¬
lebrated Italian poet Petrarch. He was alfo of a moft Aunis
humane and benevolent temper, and performed many ^ II
fignal afts of charity. Every week he made eight, ^ 'voue‘"
quarters of wheat into bread, and gave it to the poor.
Whenever he travelled between Durham and Newcaftle,
he diftributed eight pounds fterling in alms: between
Durham and Stockton five pounds, between Durham
and Aukland five marks, and between Durham and
Middleham five pounds. He founded a public library
at Oxford, for the ufe of the ftudents, which he fur-
niffted wuth the beft colleftion of books then in Eng¬
land ; and appointed five keepers, to whom he granted
yearly falaries. At the diffolution of religious houfes
in the reign of Henry VIII. Durham college, where
he fixed the library, being diffolved among the reff,
fome of the books were removed to the public library,
fome to Baliol college, and fome came into the hands
of Dr George Ow’en, a phyfician of Godftow7, who
bought that college of King Edward VI. Biihcp
Aungervyle died at his manor of Aukland, April 24.
1345, and was buried in the fouth part of the crofs aifle
of the cathedral church of Durham, to which he had
been a benefaftor. He wrote, I. Phi/obiblos, contain¬
ing direftions for the management of his library at Ox- -
ford, and a great deal in praife of learning, in bad La¬
tin. 2. Kpiftolce fomiliarhwi ; fome of which are writ¬
ten to the famous Petrarch. 3. Orationes adprincipes ;
mentioned by Bale and Pitts.
AUNIS, the fmalleff province in France, bounded
on the north by Poiftou, on the weft by the ocean, on
the eaft and fouth by Saintogne, of which it wras for¬
merly a part. It is watered by the rivers Seure and
Sarente, the former of wffiich has its fource at Seure
in Poiftou. The coaft of this fmall diftrift has the ad¬
vantage of feveral ports, the moft remarkable of which
are Rochefort, Rochelle, Brouge, St Martin de Re,
Tremblade, Tonnai, and Charente. The loil of this
country is dry, yet produces good corn and plenty of
wine. The marlhes feed a great number of cattle, and
the fait marfhes yield the beft fait in Europe.
AVOCADO, or Avigato, Pear. See Laurus,
Botany Index.
AVOCATORIA, a mandate of the emperor of
Germany, addreffed to fome prince, in order to flop
his unlawful proceedings in any caufe appealed to him.
AVOIDANCE, in the Canon Law, is when a bene¬
fice becomes void of an incumbent; which happens ei¬
ther in faft, as by the death of the perfon ; or in law,
as by ceflion, deprivation, refignation, &c. In the
firft of thefe cafes, the patron muft take notice of the
avoidance at his peril; but in avoidance by law7, the
ordinary is obliged to give notice to the patron, in or¬
der to prevent a lapfe.
AVOIRDUPOIS. This is the w7eight for the
larger and coarfer commodities, fuch as groceries,
cheefe, wool, lead, &c. Bakers, w’ho live not in cor¬
poration towns, are to make their bread by avoirdupois
weight, thofe in corporations by troy weight. Apo¬
thecaries buy by avoirdupois wTeight, but fell by troy.
The proportion of a pound avoirdupois to a pound troy
is as 17 to 14.
AVOSETTA. See Recurvirostra, Ornitho¬
logy Index.
AVOWEE, one wffio has a right to prefent to a
benefice. He is thus called in contradiftinftion to
, thofe
A U R [ 277 I A U R
Avowry thofe who only have the lands to which the advowfon
II belongs for a term of years, or by virtue of intrulion
^nr'^ /or dHfeiiin.
AVOWRY, in Law, is where a perfon diftrained
fues out a replevin •, for then the diftrainer mult vowr,
and juftify his plea, which is called his avowry.
AURA, among Phyjtolo^ifls, an airy exhalation or
vapour. The word is Latin, derived from the Greek,
gentle %vind.
AURACH, a town of Germany with a good caflle,
in the fouth part of Suabia, in the duchy of Wirtem-
berg. It is the ufual refidence of the youngeft fons of
the houfe of Wirtemberg, and is feated at the foot of
a mountain on the rivulet Ermft. E. Long. 9. 20.
N. Lat. 48. 25.
AURjE, in Mythology, a name given by the Ro¬
mans to the nymphs of the air. They are moftly to
be found in the ancient paintings of ceilings ; where
they are reprefented as light and airy, generally with
long robes and flying veils of fome lively colour or
other, and fluttering about in the rare and plealing
element afligned to them. They are characterized as
fportive and happy in themfelves, and wellwilhers to
mankind.
AURANCHES, the capital of a territory called
Auranchin, about 30 miles in length, in Lower Nor¬
mandy in France, now the department of the Channel.
The city is mean ; but its fituation very fine, being on
an eminence, near which the river See runs, about a
mile and a half from the ocean. The cathedral Hands
on a hill, which terminates abruptly \ the front of the
church extending to the extreme verge of it, and over¬
hanging the precipice. It bears the marks of high
antiquity ; but the towers are decayed in many places,
though its original conftru&ion has been wonderfully
ftrong. Here, you are told, the Englifh Henry II. re¬
ceived abfolution from the Papal nuncio for the mur¬
der of St Thomas-a-Becket in 1172, and the Hone on
which he knelt during the performance of that cere¬
mony is fliown to flrangers. Its length is about 30
inches, and the breadth 12. It Hands before the north
portal, and on it is engraved a chalice in commemo¬
ration of the event. The ruins of the caHle of Au-
ranches are very extenfive ; and beneath lies a rich ex¬
tent of country, abounding in grain and covered with
orchards, from the fruit of which is made the befl cyder
in Normandy. W. Long. 1. 20. N. Lat. 48. 3'!.
AURANTIUM, in Botany. See Citrus, Bota¬
ny Index.
AURAY, a fmall feaport town of Low'er Britanny
in France, fituated in the gulf called Morbihan, and
in the department of the fame name. It confifls of
only one handfome flreet, and is chiefly known for its
trade. W. Long. 2. 25. N. Lat. 47. 48.
AURELIA, in Natural Hi/fory, the fame with wfliat
is more ufually called chryfalis, and fometimes nymph.
See Chrysalis,' Entomology Index.
AURELIANUS, Lucius Domitius, emperor of
Rome, was one of the greatefl generals of antiquity,
and commanded the armies of the emperor Claudius
wflth fuch glory, that after the death of that emperor
all the legions agreed to place him on the throne : this
happened in the year 270. He carried the w7ar from
the eafl to the wefl, w’ith as much facility, fays a mo¬
dern writer, as a body of troops marches from Alface
into Flanders. Fie defeated the Goths, Sarmatians, Aureliu*
Marcomanni, the Perfians, Egyptians, and Vandals 5 V,ftor
conquered Zenobia queen of the Palmyrenians, and Aunga.
Tetricus general of the Gauls; both of whom were —y—.
made to grace his triumph, in the year 274. He was
killed by one of his generals in Thrace in the year 273,
when he w'as preparing to enter Perfia wuth a great
army. See Rome.
AURELIUS victor. See Victor.
AURENGABAL, a city in the Eafl Indies, ca¬
pital of the province of Balagate, in the dominions of
the Great Mogul. It is furniflred with handfome
mofques and caravanferas. The buildings are chiefly
of freeflone, and pretty high, and the flreets planted
on each fide w'ith trees. They have large gardens well
flocked with fruit trees and vines. The foil about it is
alfo very fertile, and the (beep fed in its neighbourhood
are remarkably large and ftrong. E. Long. 73. 30.
N. Lat. 19. 10.
AURENG-ZEBE, a celebrated Mogul emperor.
See Indostan.
AUREOLA, in its original fignification, fignifies
a jewel, w'hich is propofed as a reward of victory in
fome public difpute. Hence the Roman fchoolmen
applied it to denote the reward beftowed on martyrs,
virgins, and doctors, on account of their wTorks of fu-
pererogation ; and painters ufe it to fignify the crown
of glory with which they adorn the heads of faints,
eonfeffors, &c.
AUREUS, a Roman gold coin, equal in value to
23 denarii. According to Ainfworth, the aureus of
the higher empire weighed near five pennyweights ;
and in the lower empire, little more than half that
weight. We learn from Suetonius, that it w7as cufto-
mary to give aurei to the vidlors in the chariot races.
AUREUS mons, in Ancient Geography, a moun¬
tain in the north weft of Corfica, whofe ridge runs out
to the north-eaft and fouth-eaft, forming an elbow.—■
Another mountain of Moefia Superior, or Servia (Peu-
tinger), to the fouth of the Danube, wdth a cognomi-
nal town at its foot on the fame river. The emperor
Probus planted this mountain with vines ( Eutropius),-
AURICK, a city of Germany ; in Eaft Frielland,
in the circle of Weftphalia; to which the king of
Pruffia claims a right. It is fituated in a plain fur-
rounded w7ith forefts full of game. E. Long. 6. 30.
N. Lat. 53. 28.
AURICLE, in Anatomy, that part of the ear which
is prominent from the head, called by many authors
auris externa.
Auricles are likewife tw7o mufcular bags fituated
at the bafis of the heart, and intended as diverticula for
the blood during the diaftole.
AURICULA, in Botany. See Primula, Botany
Index.
AURIFLAMMA, in the French Hi/lory, properly
denotes a flag or ftandard belonging to the abbey of St
Dennis, fufpended over the tomb of that faint, which
the religious on occafion of any war in defence of their
lands or rights, took down with great ceremony, and
gave it to their proteftor or advocate, to be borne at
the head of their forces.
Auriflamma is alfo fometimes ufed to denote the
chief flag or flandard in any army.
AURIGA, the W/icaoKER, in AJlronomy, a con-
ftellatiorv
A U R { 27
Amiliac ftellation of the northern hemhphere, confining of 23
Aurora ^arS’ accor^“1S to Tycho ; 40, according to Heveliusj
Borealis. aiK^ t^ie 'Britannic catalogue.
■ — _• AURILLAC, a town of France in the Lower Au¬
vergne, now the department of Cantal, feated oil a
fmall river called Jourdane. It is one of the mod:
confiderable towns of the province, has fix gates, is
very populous, and yet has but one parifh. The cafile
is very high, and commands the town. The abbot
was lord of Aurillac, and had epifcopal jurifdiction ;
and was alfo chief jultice of the town. This place is
remarkable for having produced feveral great men.
F. Long. 2. 33. N. Lat. 44. 55.
AURIPIGMENTUM, orpiment, in Natural Hi-
fi ory. See Orpiment.
AURISCALPIUM, an inftrument to clean the
ears, and ferving alfo for other operations in diforders
of that part.
AURORA, the morning twilight, or that faint
light which appears in the morning when the fun is
within 18 degrees of the horizon.
Aurora, the goddefs of the morning, according to
the Pagan mythology. She wras the daughter of Hy¬
perion and Theia, according to Hefiod ) but of Titan
and Terra, according to others. It was under this name
that the ancients deified the light which foreruns the
rifing of the fun above our hemifphere. The poets
reprefent her as rifing out of the ocean, in a chariot,
with rofy fingers dropping gentle dewr. Virgil defcribes
her afcendihg in a flame-coloured chariot with four
horfes.
Aurora, one of the New Hebrides iflands in the
South fea, in which Mr Forfler fuppofes the Peak
d'Etoile mentioned by Mr Bouganville to be fituated.
The ifland is inhabited j but none of its inhabitants
came off to vifit Captain Cook. The country is woody,
and the vegetation feemed to be exceflively luxuriant.
It is about 1 2 leagues long, but not above five miles
broad in any part; lying nearly north and fouth. The
middle lies in S. Lat. 15. 6. E. Long. 168. 24.
Aurora Borealis, Northern Twilight, or Stream¬
ers ; a kind of meteor appearing in the northern part
of the heavens, moftly in the winter-time, and in
frofly weather. It is now fo generally known, that
no defcription is requifite of the appearance w’hich it
ufually makes in this country. But it is in the arc¬
tic regions that it appears in perfeftion, particularly
during the folftice. In the Schetland iflands, the
merry dancers, as they are there called, are the con-
llant attendants of clear evenings, and prove great re¬
liefs amidfl: the gloom of the long winter flights. They
commonly appear at twfilight near the horizon, of a
dun colour, approaching to yellow; fometimes conti¬
nuing in that ffate for feveral hours wfithout any fen-
fible motion; after wdiich they break out into llreams
of ftronger light, fpreading into columns, and altering
fiowly into ten thoufand different fliapes, varying their
colours from all the tints of yellow to the obfcureft
ruffet. They often cover the whole hemifphere, and
then make the moft brilliant appearance. Their mo¬
tions at thefe times are moft amazingly quick ; and
they aftonilh the fpeftator with the rapid change of
their form. They break out in places where none
w7ere feen before fkimming brilkly along the heavens ;
are fuddenly extinguifhed, and leave behind an uniform
2
8
1 A U R
dufky tra£L This again is brilliantly illuminated in Aurora
the lame manner, and as fuddenly left a dull blank. ,'Boreal!S-
In certain nights they affume the appearance of vaft
columns, on one fide of the deepeft yellow, on the
other declining away till it becomes undiltinguifhed \
from the Iky. They have generally a ftrong tremulous
motion from end to end, which continues till the whole
vaniihes. In a word, W'e, who only fee the extremi¬
ties of thefe northern phenomena, have but a faint
idea of their fplendour and their motions. According
to the ftate of the atmofphere, they differ in colours.
They often put on the colour of blood, and make a
moft dreadful appearance. The ruftic iages become
prophetic, and terrify the .gazing fpedlators with the
dread of w7ar, peftilence, and famine. This fuperfti-
tion w7as not peculiar to the northern iflands; nor are
thefe appearances of recent date. The ancients called
them Chafmata, and Trabes, and Bolides, according
to their forms or colours. 1
In old times they were extremely rare, and on that Ufis mete
account were the more taken notice ofi From the days
of Plutarch to thofe of our fage hiftorian Sir Richard
Baker, they were fuppofed to have been portentous
of great events, and timid imagination ftiaped them
into aerial confiifts:
or formeil
very rave.
Fierce fiery warriors fight upon the clouds
In ranks and fquadrons and right form of wrar.
Dr Halley tells us, that when he faw a great auro¬
ra borealis in 1716, he had begun to defpair of ever
feeing one at all; none having appeared, at leaft in
any confiderable degree, from the time he w'as born
till then. Notwithftanding this long interval, however,
it feems that in fome periods the aurora borealis had
been feen much more frequently ; and perhaps this, as
well as other natural phenomena, may have fome ftated
times of returning. ^
The only thing that refembles a diftimff hlftory of Hiftory br
this phenomenon, is what we have from the learned Pr Halley.
Dr Halley, Phil. Tranf. N° 347. The firft account
he gives, is of the appearance of what is called by the
author burning [pears, and w7as feen at London on Ja¬
nuary 30th, 1560. This account is taken from a book
entitled, A Defcription of Meteors, by IV. F. D. D. and
reprinted at London in 1654. The next appearance,
on the teftimony of Stow7, was on October 7th, 1564.
In 1574 alfo, according to Camden, and Stow above-
mentioned, an aurora borealis w7as obferved twro nights
fucceflively, viz. on the 14th and 15th of November,
with much the fame appearances as defcribed by Dr
Halley in 1716, and which we now fo frequently ob-
ferve. Again, the fame was twice feen in Brabant, in
the year 1575; viz. on the 13th of February and 28th
of September. Its appearances at both thefe times were
defcribed by Cornelius Gemma, profeffor of medicine
in the univerfity of Louvain, who compares them to
fpears, fortified cities, and armies fighting in the air.
After this, Michael Mreftlin, tutor to the great Kepler,
affures us, that at Baknang in the county of Wurtem-
berg in Germany, thefe phenomena, which he ftyles
chafmata, w7ere feen by himfelf no lefs than feven times
in 1580. In 1581, thej again appeared in an extra¬
ordinary manner in April and September, and in a lefs
degree at fome other times of the fame year. In 1621,
September 2d, this phenomenon was obferved all over
France,
Aurora
Borealis.
3
MrFor-
fter’s ac¬
count of
fimilar ap¬
pearances
in the
fouthern
hemi-
iphere.
Rifes very
high.
* See Atmo
Jphtrc.
A U R t 279 J A U R
France, and defcribed by GaiTendus, who gave it the
name of aurora borealis : yet neither this, nor any fi-
milar appearances pofterior to 1574, are defcribed by
Engliih writers till the year 1707 ; which, as Dr Hal¬
ley obferves, (hows the prodigious negledl of curious
matters which at that time prevailed. From 1621 to
1707, indeed, there is no mention made of an aurora
borealis being feen by any body ; and confidering the
number of aftronomers who during that period were in
a manner continually poring on the heavens, we may
very reafonably conclude that no fuch thing did make
its appearance till after an interval of 86 years. In
1707, a fmall one was feen in November ; and during
that year and the next, the fame appearances were re¬
peated five times. The next on record is that men¬
tioned by Dr Halley in March 1715 —16, the bril¬
liancy of which attracted univerfal attention, and by
the vulgar was confidered as marking the introduflion
of a foreign race of princes. Since that time thofe me¬
teors have been fo common, that no accounts have
been kept of them.
It was for a long time a matter of doubt whether
this meteor made its appearance only in the northern
hemifphere, or whether it was alfo to be obferved near
the fouth pole. This is now afcertained by Mr For-
fter ; wdio in his late voyage round the world along
with Captain Cook, affures us, that he obferved them
in the high fouthern latitudes, though with phenome¬
na fomewhat different from thofe which are feen here.
On Feb. 17. 1773, as they were in Lat. 58° fouth,
“ A beautiful phenomenon (fays he) was obferved du¬
ring the preceding night, winch appeared again this
and feveral following nights. It confided ®f long co¬
lumns of a clear white light, fhooting up from the ho¬
rizon to the eaftw'ard, almoft to the zenith, and gra¬
dually fpreading on the whole fouthern pail of the
iky. Thefe columns wrere fometimes bent fidewife at
their upper extremities ; and though in mod refpedls
fimilar to the northern lights {aurora borealis J of our
hemifphere, yet differed from them in being always
of a whitifh colour, whereas ours aifume various tints,
efpecially thofe of a fiery and purple hue. The fky was
generally clear when they appeared, and the air lharp
and cold, the thermometer Handing at the freezing-
point.”
Dr Halley obferved that the aurora borealis defcri¬
bed by him arofe to a prodigious height, it being feen
from the wed of Ireland to the confines of Ruflia and
Poland on the ead ; nor did he know how much further
it might have been vifible ; fo that it extended at lead
30 degrees in longitude, and from Lat. 500 north it was
feen over all the northern part of Europe j and what
was very furprifing, in all thofe places where it was vi¬
fible, the fame appearances were exhibited w'hich Dr
Halley obferved at London. He obferves, with feem-
ing regret, that he could by no means detex-mine its
height, for want of obfervations made at different pla¬
ces othenvife he might as eafily have calculated the
height of this aurora borealis, as he did of the fiery
-globe in 1719 *. To other philofophers, however, he
gives the following exhortation.. “ When therefore
for the future any fuch thing (hall happen, all thofe
that are curious in adronomical matters are hereby
admonijhed and entreated to fet their clocks to the ap¬
parent time at London, for example, by allowing fa
many minutes as is the difference of meridians 5 and Aurora
then to note, at the end of every half hour precifely, the Borealis,
exadl fituation of w'hat at that time appears remarkable 'r~~
in the fky *, and particularly the azimuths of thofe very
tall pyramids fo eminent above the red, and there¬
fore likely to be feen furthed : to the intent that, by
comparing thefe obfervations taken at the fame mo¬
ment in didant places, the difference of their azimuths
may ferve to determine how far thefe pyramids are di ¬
dant from us.” This advice of Dr Halley feems to
have been totally negledled by all the philofophical peo¬
ple in his country. In other countries, however, they
have been more indudrious. Father Bofcovich has
determined the height of an aurora borealis, obferved
on the 16th of December 1737 by the marquis of Po-
leni, to have been 825 miles high \ the celebrated Mr
Bergman, from a mean of 30 computations, makes the
average height of the aurora borealis to be 70 Swe-
dilh, or upwards of 460 Englilh miles. Euler fuppofes
it to be feveral thoufands of miles high ; and Mai-
ran alfo affigns them a very elevated region. In the
74th volume of the Philofophical Tranfaclions, Dr
Blagden, when fpeaking of the height of fome fiery
meteors, tells us, that the “ aurora borealis appears to
occupy as high, if not a higher region above the fur-
face of the eai-th, as may be judged from the very
didant countries to which it has been vifible at the
fame time.” The height of thefe meteors, however,
none of which appear to have exceeded or even ar¬
rived at the height of a hundred miles, mud appear
trifling in comparifon of the vad elevations above
mentioned. But thefe enormous heights, varying fo
exceedingly, (how that the calculators have not had
proper data to proceed upon •, and indeed the immenfe
extent of fpace occupied by the aurora borealis itfelf,
with its condant motion, mud make it infinitely more
difficult to determine the height of it than of a fiery
globe, which occupies but a fmall portion of the vifi¬
ble heavens. The mod certain method of making a
comparifon betwixt the aurora borealis and the meteors
already mentioned, would be, if a ball of fire flxould
happen to pafs through the fame part of the heavens
where an aurora borealis was 5 when the comparative
height of both could eafily be afcertained. One in¬
dance of this only has come under our obfervation,
where one of the finall meteors, called falling fars^
was evidently obfeured by an aurora borealis j and there¬
fore mud have been higher than the lower part of the
latter at lead. A fingularity in this meteor was, that
it did not proceed in a draight line through the hea¬
vens, as is ufual with falling dars, but defcribed a very
confiderable arch of a circle, riling in the north-wed,
and proceeding fouthward a confiderable way in the arch
of a circle, and difappearing in the north.. Its edges
were ill defined, and five or fix corrufcations feemed to
iffue from it like the rays painted as iffuing from dars.
The aurora borealis was not in motion, but had dege¬
nerated into a crepufculum in the northern part of the
hemifphere. Indeed, in fome cafes this kind of crepuf-
culum appears fo plainly to be connefled with the
clouds, that we can fcarcely avoid fuppofing it to pro¬
ceed from them. We cannot, however, argue from
this to the height of the aurora borealis when it moves
with great velocity, becaufe it then may, and very
probably dees, afeend much higher. Dr Blstgden, in-
A U R [ 280 ] A U R
Aurora deed, informs us, that infiances are recorded, where the
,Borealis, northern lights have been feento^join, and form lu¬
minous balls, darting about with great velocity, and
even leaving a train like the common fire-balls. It
would feem, therefore, that the higheft regions of the
aurora borealis are the fame with thofe in which fire
5 balls move.
Conjectures With regard to the caufe of the aurora borealis
concerning^ariy conje£tures have been formed. The firft which
th's meteor natura^ly occurred was, that it was occafioned by the
afeent of inflammable fulphureous vapours from the
earth. To this fuppofltion Dr Halley objects the im-
menfe extent of fuch phenomena, and that they are
conftantly obferved to proceed from north to fouth,
but never from fouth to north. This made him very
reafonably conclude, that there was fome connexion
between the poles of the earth and the aurora borealis j
but being unacquainted with the eleftric power, he
fuppofed, that this earth was hollow, having within it a
magnetical fphere, which correfponded in virtue with
all the natural and artificial magnets on the furface j
and the magnetic effluvia pafling through the earth,
from one pole of the central magnet to another, might
fometimes become vifible, in their courfe, which he
thought was from north to fouth, and thus exhibit the
beautiful Corufcations of the aurora borealis. Had
Dr Halley, however, known that a ftroke of eleflrici-
ty would give polarity to a needle that had it not, or
reverfe the poles of one that had it before, he would
undoubtedly have concluded the ele&ric and magnetic
effluvia to be the fame, and that the aurora borealis
was this fluid performing its circulation from one pole
of the earth to the other. In faft, this very hypothe-
lis is adapted by S. Beccaria : and by the fuppofed cir¬
culation of the eleftric fluid he accounts for the pheno¬
mena of magnetifm and the aurora borealis in a manner
perfeftly fimilar to that of Dr Halley, only changing
the phrafe magnetic effluvia for eledric fluid. The fol¬
lowing is the account given us by Dr Prieflley of Bec-
caria’s fentiments on this matter.
“ Since a fudden ftroke of lightning gives polarity
to magnets, he conje6!ures, that a regular and conftant
circulation of the whole mafs of the fluid from north to
fouth may be the original caufe of magnetifm in gene¬
ral.
“ That this ethereal current is infenfible to us, is no
proof of its non-exiflence, fince we ourfelves are invol¬
ved in it. He had feen birds fly fo near a thunder¬
cloud, as he was fure they would not have done had
they been affefted by its atmofphere.
“ This current he would not fuppofe to arife from
one fource, but from feveral, in the northern hemi-
fphere, of the earth ; and he thinks that the aurora
borealis may be this eleflric matter performing its
circulation in fuch a ftate of the atmofphere as renders
it vifible, or approaching the earth nearer than ufual.
Accordingly, very vivid appearances of this kind have
been obferved to occafion a flucluation in the magnetic
needle.”
A direfl difproof of this circulation, however, is fur-
niflied by the obfervation of Mr Forfier already men¬
tioned : with which, though neither Dr Halley nor S.
Beccaria could be acquainted, they might have thought
of it as a final proof either of the truth or falfehood of
their hypothefis.—If the aurora borealis is no other
I
than the ele£fric fluid performing the above-mentioned Aurora
circulation, it ought to dart from the horizon towards t ^•orcal‘s-
the zenith in the northern hemifphere, and from the ze- v
nith to the horizon in the fouthern one: but Mr Forfter
plainly tells us, that the columns {hot up from the hori¬
zon towards the zenith as well in the fouthern hemi¬
fphere as in the northern; fo that if the aurora borealis
is to be reckoned the jflafliings of electric matter, its
courfe is plainly diredted from both poles toward the
equator, and not from one pole to the other.
Concerning the caufe of this phenomenon, Mr Can¬
ton has the following query : “ Is not the aurora bo¬
realis the flaflung of eledtrical fire from pofitive towards
negative clouds at a great diftance, through the upper
part of the atmofphere where the refiftance is leafl
But to this we muft reply in the negative j for in this
cafe it would flaflr in every diredtion according to the
pofition of the clouds, as well as from north to fouth.
Befides this query, he conjedlures, that when the
needle is ditturbed by the aurora borealis, that pheno¬
menon proceeds from the electricity of the heated air ;
and fuppofes the air to have the property of becoming
eledlric by heat, like the tourmalin. But neither does
this hypothefis appear at all probable \ becaufe, in fuch
a cafe, the aurora borealis ought to be moll frequent
in fummer when the air is moft heated, whereas it is
found to be the reverfe. Laftly, with thefe eledfri-
cal hypothefes we fhall contraft that of Mr Mairan,
wdio imagined this phenomenon to proceed from the
atmofphere of the fun, particles of which were thrown
off by its centrifugal force acquired by his rotation on
his axis ; and that thefe particles falling upon the at¬
mofphere of the earth near its equatorial parts, wrere
from thence propelled by the diurnal motion of the
earth towards the polar regions, wdiere they formed
the aurora borealis. This hypothefis, befides its being
a mere fuppofition unfupported by one Angle appear¬
ance in nature, is liable to the objedlion already men- .
tioned ; for in this cafe the light fhould dart from the
equator to the poles, and not from the poles to the
equator : or if we fhould fuppofe this matter to be gra¬
dually accumulated at each of the poles, w'e muft then
make other fuppofitions equally vague and ill founded,
concerning its getting back with Inch furprifing rapi¬
dity in direft oppofition to the power which once
brought it thither.
The firft perfon who feems to have endeavoured to
find any pofitive proof of the electrical quality of the
aurora borealis, was Dr Hamilton of Dublin. He ob-
ferves, that though this phenomenon is commonly fup¬
pofed to be eleCtrical, yet he had not feen any attempt
to prove that it is fo ; but the only proof he himfelf
brings is an experiment of Mr Hawkfbee, by which
the eleCtric fluid is {hown to put on appearances fome-
what like the aurora borealis, when it paffes through a
vacuum. He obferved, that when the air was moft
perfectly exhaufted, the ftreams of eleCtric matter were
then quite white \ but when a fmall quantity of air
wras let in, the light affumed more of a purple colour.
The flalhing of this light therefore from the denfe re¬
gions of the atmofphere into fuch as are more rare, and
the tranfitions through mediums of different denfity,
he reckons the caufe of the aurora borealis, and of the
different colours it affumes.
Dr Hamilton’s proof, then, of the eleClricity of
the
A U R * [ 281 ] A U R
Aurora tlie aurora borealis, conlifts entirely in the refemblance
borealis, the trvo lights beat to one another j and if to this we
  v that, during the time of an aurora borealis, the
magnetic needle hath been difturbed, eleflric fire ob¬
tained from the atmofphere in plenty, and at fome
times different kinds of rumbling and hiffing founds
heard, we have the fum of all the pofitive evidence in
favour of the eleftric hypothefis.
Was the aurora borealis the firfi: natural phenome¬
non the folution of which had been attempted by elec¬
tricity, no doubt the proofs juft now adduced would
be very infufficient: but when it is confidered, that we
have indifputable evidence of the identity of the phe¬
nomena of thunder and of ele&ricity j when we alfo
confider, that the higher parts of our atmofphere are
continually in a ftrongly electrified ftate ; the analogy
becomes fo ftrong that we can fcarce doubt of the au¬
rora borealis arifmg from the fame caufe. The only
difficulty is, to give a good reafon why the eleCtricity
of the atmofphere fhould be conftantly found to direCt
its courfe from the poles towards the equator, and not
from the equator to the poles •, and this we think may
be done in the following manner.
See Eltc- I. It is found that all ele&ric bodies, when confi-
tricity paf- derably heated, become conduftors of eleClricity ; thus
fim. ^ hot glafs, melted rofin, fealing-wax, &c. are
all conductors, till their heat is diflipated, and then
they again become eleCtrics.
2. As the converfe of every true propofition ought
alfo to be true, it follows from the above one, that if
eleCtrics when heated become conductors, then non-
eleCtrics when fubjeCted to violent degrees of cold
ought to become eleCtric. In one inftance this has
been verified by experience ; water, which is a conduc¬
tor when warm or not violently cooled, is found to be¬
come eleCtric when cooled to 20° below o of Fahren¬
heit’s thermometer. With regard to metallic fubftan-
ces, indeed, no experiments have as yet been made to
determine whether their conducting power is affeCted
by cold or not. Very probably we might not be able
to produce fuch a degree of cold as fenfibly to leffen
their conduaing power •, but ftill the analogy will
hold ; and, as we are by no means able to produce the
greateft degree of cold poffible, reafon will always fug-
geft to us, that if a certain degree of cold changes one
conduaor into an ekaric, a fuffident degree of it will
alfo change all others into ekarics.
3. If cold is fulficient to change conduaing fub-
ftances into ekarics, it muft alfo increafe the ekaric
power of fuch fubftances as are already ekaric •, that
is to fay, very cold air, glafs, rofin, &c. provided they
are dry, will be more ekaric than when they are
warmer. With regard to air, which is moft to our
prefent purpofe, this is rendered extremely probable,
by confidering that clear frofty weather is of all others
the moft favourable for ekaric experiments. They
mav be made indeed to equal advantage almoft in any
ftate of the atmofphere, provided fufficient pains are
ufed, but in dry hard frofts they will fucceed much
more eafily than at any other time.
Thefe three axioms being allowed, the caufe of the
aurora borealis is eafily deduced from them. T he air,
all round the globe, at a certain height above its fur-
face, is found to be exceedingly cold, and, as far as
experiments have yet determined^ exceedingly ekclri-
Vol. III. Part I.
cal alfo. The inferior parts of the atmofphere between Aurora
the tropics, are violently heated during the day-time B°reak^
by the reflexion of the fun’s rays from the earth. * ^
Such air will therefore be a kind of condu£tor, and
much more readily part with its electricity to the
clouds and vapours floating in it, than the colder air
torvards the north and fouth poles. Hence the prodi¬
gious appearances of eleftricity in thefe regions, ftrow-
ing itfelf in thunder and other tempefts of the moft
terrible kind. Immenie quantities of the eleCtric fluid
are thus communicated to the earth ; and the inferior
warm atmofphere having once exhaufted itfelf, muft ne-
ceflarily be recruited from the upper and colder re¬
gion. This becomes very probable from what the
French mathematicians obferved when on the top of
one of the Andes. They tvere often involved in
clouds, which, finking down into the warmer air, ap¬
peared there to be highly eleftrifled, and difcharged
themfelves in violent tempefts of thunder and light¬
ning *, while in the mean time, on the top of the
mountain, they enjoyed a calm and ferene fky. In the
temperate and frigid zones, the inferior parts of the
atmofphere never being fo ftrongly heated, do not part
with their ekftricity fo eafily as in the torrid zone,
and confequently do not require fuch recruits from the
upper regions : but notwithftanding the difference of
heat obferved in different parts of the earth near the
furface, it is very probable that at confiderable heights
the degrees of cold are nearly equal all round it. Were
there a like equality in the heat of the under part,
there could never be any confiderable lofs of equili¬
brium in the eleftricity of the atmofphere : but as the
hot air of the torrid zone is perpetually bringing down
vaft quantities of ekftric matter from the cold air that
lies diredly above it j and as the inferior parts of the
atmofphere lying towards the north and fouth poles do
not conduft in any great degree j it thence follows,
that the upper parts of the atmofphere lying over the
torrid zone will continually require a fupply from the
northern and fouthern regions. This eafily fliows the
neceflity of an eleftric current in the upper parts of the
atmofphere from each pole towards the equator : and
thus we are alfo furniftied with a reafon why the au- »
rora borealis appears more frequently in winter than
in fummer *, namely, becaufe at that time the ele&ric
power of the inferior atmofphere is greater on account
of the cold than in fummer 5 and conkquently the
abundant ekftricity of the upper regions muft go al¬
moft wholly off to the equatorial parts, it being impof-
fible for it to get down to the earth : hence alfo the
aurora borealis appears very frequent and bright in the
frigid zones, the degree of cold in the upper and un¬
der regions of the atmofphere being much more nearly
equal in thefe parts than in any other. In fome parts
of Siberia particularly, this meteor appears conftantly
from October to Chriftmas, and its corufcations are
faid to be very terrifying. Travellers agree, that here
the aurora borealis appears in greateft perfe&ion j and •
it is to be remarked, that Siberia is the coldeft coun¬
try on earth. In confirmation of this, it may alfo be
obferved, that, from the experiments. hithexto made
with the eleftrical kite, the air appears confiderably
more electrical in winter than in fummer, though the
clouds are known to be often moft violently eleCtrified
in the fummer time 5 a proof, that the eleCtricity na-
N n turally
A U R [ 28
turally belonging to the air is in fummer much more
powerfully drawn off by the clouds than in the winter,
owdng to the excels of heat in fummer, as already ob-
ferved.
A confiderable difficulty, however, ftill remains from
the upright polition which the ftreams of the aurora
borealis are generally fuppofed to have ; whereas, ac¬
cording to the hypothefis above mentioned, they ought
rather to run direftly from north to fouth. This dif¬
ficulty occurred to Dr Halley : but he anfwers it by
fuppofing his magnetic effluvia to pafs from one pole
to another in arches of great circles, arifing to a vaft
height above the earth, and confequently darting from
the places whence they arofe almoft like the radii of a
circle ; in which cafe, being fent off in a direction near¬
ly perpendicular to the furface of the earth, they muff
neceffarily appear ereff to thofe who fee them from any
part of the furface, as is demonftrated by mathemati¬
cians. It is alio reafonable to think that they v,'ill take
this dire&ion rather than any other, on account of their
meeting with lefs refiffance in the very high regions of
the air than in fuch as are lower.
But the greateft difficulty ftill remains : for we have
fuppofed the equilibrium of the atmofphere to be bro¬
ken in the daytime, and reftored only in the night j
whereas, confidering the iinmenfe velocity with which
the eleftric fluid moves, the equilibrium ought to be
reffored in all parts almoff inftantaneoufiy •, yet the au-
tora borealis never appears except in the night, al¬
though its brightnefs is fuch as muff fometimes make it
vifible to us did it really exift in the daytime.
In anfwer to this it muff be obferved, that though
the paffage of eleftricity through a good conductor is
inftantaneous, yet through a bad conduflor it is ob¬
ferved to take fome time in paffing. As our atmo¬
fphere therefore, unlefs very violently heated, is but a
bad conduftor of eleflricity ; though the equilibrium
in it is broken, it can by no means be inftantaneoufiy
reftored. Add to this, that as it is the action of the
fun which breaks the equilibrium, fo the fame a&ion,
extending over half the globe, prevents almoft any at¬
tempt to reftore it till night, when daffies arife from
various parts of the atmofphere, gradually extending
themfelves with a variety of undulations towards the
equator.
It now remains to explain only one particularity of
the aurora borealis, namely, that its ftreams do not al¬
ways move with rapidity •, fometimes appearing quite
ilationary for a confiderable time, and fometimes being
carried in different direftions wuth a flow motion. To
this indeed we can give no other reply, than that weak
eleftric lights have been fometimes obferved to put on
the fame appearance at the furface of the earth : and
much more may we fuppofe them capable of doing fo
at great heights above it, where the conductors are
both fewer in number and much more imperfeCt.
When M. de Romas was making experiments with an
eleftric kite in Italy, a cylinder of blue light about
four or five inches diameter was obferved furrounding
the firing. This was in the daytime •, but had it been
night, he imagined it muft have been four or five feet
In diameter 5 and as the firing was ■'jSo feet long, it
would probably have feemed pyramidal, pointing up¬
wards like one of the ftreams of the aurora borealis.
A ftill ijiore remarkable appearance, Dr Prieftley tells
2 ] A u R
us, was obferved by Mr Hartman. He had been ma¬
king eleftrical experiments for four or five hours toge¬
ther in a very fmall room ; and upon going out of it,
and returning with a light in his hand, walking pret¬
ty quick, he perceived a fmall flame following him at
about three feet diftance. Being alarmed at this ap¬
pearance, he flopped to examine it, upon which it va-
nifhed. This lafl inflance is very remarkable, and An¬
gular in its kind : from both, however, we are fuffici-
ently warranted to conclude, that fmall portions of our
atmofphere may by various caufes be fo much ele&ri-
fied as to flume, and likewife be moved from one place
to another without parting with the eleftricity they
have received, for a confiderable time.
The corona, or circle, -which is often formed near the
zenith by the aurora borealis, is eafily accounted for
in the fame manner. As this corona is commonly fta-
tionary for fome time, we imagine it would be a very
proper mark wffiereby to determine the diftance of the
meteor itfelf. If an aurora borealis, for inftance, was
obferved by two perfons, one at London, and the other
at Edinburgh ; by noting the liars among which the
corona -was obferved at each place, its true altitude
from the furface of the earth could eafily be determin¬
ed by trigonometry.
Under the article Atmosphere it was fuggefted,
that no good proof had been as yet brought for the
extreme rarity of the air ufually fuppofed to take place
at no very great heights above the earth. The bright¬
nefs of the meteor there mentioned at 70 miles perpen¬
dicular from the furface, as alfo its figure, feemed to
prove the air confiderably denfer at that diftance from
the earth. Though the height of the aurora borealis
has never been determined, we can fcarce imagine it to
be greater than that of this meteor, or indeed fo great :
but although its ftreams refemble the paffage of elec¬
tric light through a vacuum, it cannot be from thence
inferred, that the air is at all in a flate fimilar to the
vacuum of an air-pump in thofe places where the auro¬
ra borealis is produced j feeing we have inllances of fi¬
milar appearances being produced in vfery denfe air.
The plate of an eleftrophorus is often fo highly eleclri-
fied, as to throw out flafhes from different parts as foon
as it is lifted up, and by proper management it may
be always made to emit long and broad flafhes which
fhall fcarcely be felt by the finger, inflead of fmall,
denfe, and pungent fparks ; fo that, though long fiafti-
es may be produced in rarefied air, it by no means fol¬
lows, that the lame may not alfo be produced in denf¬
er air. As little can -we infer any thing from the co¬
lours } for we obferve the eledlric fpark fometimes
white, fometimes blue, and fometimes purple, in the
very fame ftate of the atmofphere, and from the fame
fubftance.
The aurora borealis is faid to be attended with a pe¬
culiar hiffing noife in fome very cold climates; Gme-
lin fpeaks of it in the moft pointed terms, as frequent
and very loud in the north-eaftern parts of Siberia j and
other travellers have related fimilar fadls. Gmelin’s
account is very remarkable. “ Thefe northern lights-
(fays he) begin with fingle bright pillars, rifing in the
north, and almoft at the fame time in the north-eaft,
which gradually increafmg, comprehend a Hrge (pace
of the heavens, rufli about from place to place with in¬
credible velocity, and finally almoft cover the whole
iky
Aurora
Borealis.
A U R [ 283 ] A U S
The ftreams are then feen meet- obferved, that ele&rified bodies are always fur rounded
6
Aurora bo¬
realis fuc-
ceeded by
fouth-weft
winds.
1
Conjecture
concerning
the reafon.
Iky up to the zenith,
xng together in the zenith, and produce an appearance
as if a vaft extent was expanded in the heavens, glit¬
tering with gold, rubies, and fapphire. A more beau¬
tiful fpectacle cannot be painted ; but whoever fliould
fee fuch a northern light for the firft time, could not
behold it without terror. For however fine the illumi¬
nation may be, it is attended, as I have learned from
the relation of many perfons, with fuch a hiding,
cracking, and rufhing noife throughout the air, as if
the larged fireworks were playing off. To defcribe
what they then hear, they make ufe of the exprefiion,
Sf)o/ochi choJuit, that is, ‘ the raging hod is puffing.’
The hunters who purfue the white and blue foxes on
the confines of the Icy fea, are often overtaken in their
courfe by tbefe northern lights. Their dogs are then
fo much frightened, that they will not move, but lie
obdinately on the ground till the noife has palfed.
Commonly clear and calm weather follows this kind
of northern lights. I have beard this account, not
from one perfon only, but confirmed by the uniform
tedimony of many, who have fpent part of feveral
years in thefe very northern regions, and inhabited dif¬
ferent countries from the Yenefei to the Lena j fo that
no doubt of its truth can remain. This feems indeed
to be the real birthplace of the aurora borealis.'’''
The hiding or rufhing noife above deferibed, Dr
Elagden is inclined to attribute to fmall dreams of elec¬
tric matter running off to the earth from the maffes or
accumulations of ele&ricity by which the northern
lights are fuppofed to be produced.
• We lb all conclude this article with an account of a
paper prefented to the Royal Society by Mr Winn, in
1772, wherein be fays that the appearance of an au¬
rora borealis is a certain fign of a hard gale of wind
from the fouth or fouth-wed. This he never found'to
fail in 23 indances ; and even thinks, that from the
fplendour of the meteor, fome judgment may be form¬
ed concerning the enfuing temped. If "the aurora is
very bright, the gale will come on within twenty-four
hours, but will be of no long duration *, if the light is
faint and dull, the gale will be lefs violent, and long¬
er in coming on, but it will alfo lad longer. His ob-
fervations were made in the Englida channel, where
fuch winds are very dangerous ; and by attending to
the auroras, he fays he often got eafily out of it, when
others narrowly efcaped being wrecked. This is an
exceeding ufeful obfervation for lailors : but it cannot
be expefted that the winds fucceeding thefe meteors
diould in all places blow from the fouth-wed j though
no doubt a careful obfervation of what winds fucceed
the aurora borealis, and other meteors, in different
parts of the world, might contribute in fome meafure
to leffen the dangers of navigation.
That the aurora borealis ought to be fucceeded by
winds, may be eafily deduced from the hypothefis lad
mentioned. If this phenomenon is occafioned by the
vad quantity of eleflric matter conveyed to the equa¬
torial parts of the earth, it is certain that the earth
cannot receive any great quantity of this matter at one
place without emitting it at another. The eleftricity,
therefore, which is condantly received at the equator,
mud be emitted nearer the poles, in order to perform
its courfe, otherwife there could not be a condant fup-
ply of it for the common operations of nature. . It is
by a blad of air, which is fent forth from them in all
direftions •, hence, if the eleftric matter find a more ^
ready paffage through one part of the earth than ano¬
ther, a wind will be found to blow from that quarter.
If therefore one of thefe places happens to be in the
Atlantic ocean near the coad of Fiance, or in the bay
of Bifcay, the ele&ric matter which has been received
at the equator during an aurora borealis will be dii-
charged there fome time after, and confequently a
wind will blow from that quarter, which will be from
the fouth-wed to thofe {hips which are in the Englifft
channel. It cannot be imagined, however, that all
the matter can be difeharged from one place j and
therefore according to the different fituations of thole
eleftrical vents, • winds may blow in different direc¬
tions *, and thus the fame aurora borealis may produce
a fouth-wed wind in the Englidi channel, and a north-
wed one in Scotland.
AURUM. See Gold, Chemistry, and Mine¬
ralogy Index.
This metal was introduced into medicine by the A-
rabians, who edeemed it one of the greated cordials
and comforters of the nerves. From them Europe re¬
ceived it without any diminution of its chaiafter 5 in
foreign pharmacopoeias it is dill retained, and,even
mixed with the ingredients from which fimple waters
are to be didilled. But no one, it is prefumed, at this
time expe<3:s any fingular virtues from it, fince it cer¬
tainly is not alterable in the human body. Mr Geof-
froy, though unwilling to rejedd it from the cordial
preparations, honedly acknowledges that he has no
other reafon for retaining it than complaifance to the
Arabian fchools. The chemids have endeavoured, by
many elaborate proceffes, to extradd what they call a
fulphur or anima of gold : but no method is as yet
known of feparating the component parts of this me¬
tal ; all the timdures of it, and aurum potabile, which
have hitherto appeared, are real folutions of it in aqua
regia, diluted with fpirit of wune or other liquors, and
prove injurious to the body rather than beneficial. . A
place, however, is now given in fome of the foreign
pharmacopoeias to the aurum fulminans; and it has of
late been recommended as a remedy in fome convulfive
difeafes, particularly in the chorea famdi viti.
Avrvm Fulminans. See Chemistry Index.
Avkvm Mo/aicum. See Chemistry Index.
AURUNCI, in Ancient Geography, a people of La-
tium, towards Campania j the lame wuth the Aufones,
at lead fo intermixed as not to be eafily didinguidi-
able, though Pliny feparates them.
AUSA, a town of Tarraconenfis, in the middle
age called Aufona ; now Vich de Ofuna, a town of Ca¬
talonia in Spain. E. Long. 2. O. N. Lat. 41. 5°'
AUSCH. See Auch.
AUSI, an ancient and very favage people of Li¬
bya. Herodotus tells us that they w^ere unacquainted
with marriage, and had all their women in common.
The children were brought up by their mothers till
they were able to walk : after which they were intro¬
duced to an affembly of the men, who met every three
months j and the man to whom any child fird fpoke,
acknOwdedged himfelf its father. They celebrated
annually a fead in honour of Minerva, in which the
girls divided iuto two companies, fought with dicks
N n 2 and
An mm
it
Aufi.
Aufimum
II.
Aufonius.
-A U S ^ f 284 ] A U S
and ftones, and thofe who died of their wounds were
concluded not to have been virgins.
, AUSIMUM, or Auximum, an ancient Roman co¬
lony in the Picenum } now OJi?no or Ofmo, in the marqui-
fate of Ancona in Italy. E. Long. 15. N. Lat. 43. 20.
AUSITiE, or tEsitte, a tribe of ancient Arabs,
fuppofed by Bochart to have inhabited the land of Uz
mentioned in Scripture.
AUSONA, in Ancient Geography, a town of the
Aufones, a people who anciently occupied all the Lowr-
er Italy, from the Promontorium Circaeum down to
the flraits of Sicily (Livy), but were afterwards re¬
duced to a much narrower compafs 5 namely, between
the Montes Circaei and Maflici: nor did they occupy
the whole of this, but other people were intermixed.
Concerning Aufona or its remains there is nothing par¬
ticular recorded.
AUSONIA, the ancient name of Italy, from its
moft ancient inhabitants the Aufones, (Virgil, Ser-
vius).
AUSONEUM mare, in Ancient Geography, apart
of the Ionian fea, extending fouthwards from the pro¬
montory Japygium to Sicily, w-hich it walhes on the
eaft, as it does the Bruttii and Magna Graecia on the
fouth and eaft. It is feparated from the Tufcan fea by
the ftrait of Medina.
AUSONIUS (in Latin, Decius, or rather Decinius,
Magnus Aufonius), one of the beft poets of the fourth
century, was the fon of an eminent phyfician, and born
at Bourdeaux. Great care was taken of his education,
the whole family interefting themfelves in it, either be-
caufe his genius w-as very promifing, or that the fcheme
of his nativity, which had been call by his grandfather
on the mother’s lide, made them imagine that he would
rife to great honour. He made an uncommon pro-
grefs in claflical learning, and at the age of 30 was
chofen to teach grammar at Bourdeaux. He was
promoted fome time after to be profeffor of rhetoric $
in which office he acquired fo great a reputation, that
he was fent for to court to be preceptor to Gratian the
emperor Valentinian’s fon. The rewards and honours
conferred on him for the faithful difcharge of his of¬
fice prove the truth of Juvenal’s maxim, that when For¬
tune pleafes, ffie can raife a man from a rhetorician to
the dignity of a conful. He was aftually appointed
conful by the emperor Gratian, in the year 379, after
having filled other confiderable polls 5 for befides the
dignity of quteftor, to which he had been nominated by
Valentinian, he was made prefefl of the prmtorium
in Italy and Gaul after that prince’s death. His
fpeech returning thanks to Gratian on his promotion
to the confulihip is highly commended. The time of
his death is uncertain j he was Hill living in 392, and
lived to a great age. The emperor Theodofius had a
great efteem for Aufonius, and preffed him to publiffi
his poems. There is a great inequality in his wrorks 5
and in his manner and his ftyle there is a harlhnefs
which was perhaps rather the deleft of the times he
lived in than of his genius. Had he lived in Au-
guftus’s reign, his verfes, according to good judges,
would have equalled the moft finilhed of that, age.
He is generally fuppofed to have been a Chriftian :
fome ingenious authors indeed think otherwife, but,
according to Mr Bayle, without juft reafon. The
beft edition of his poems is that of Amfterdam in Aufpex
1671. || .
AUSPEX, a name originally given thofe wffio , Au^a‘
were afterwards denominated augurs. In which fenfe
the word is fuppofed to be formed from avis, “ bird,”
and infpicere, “ to infpeft ; aufpices, q. d. avifpices.
Some will therefore have aufpices properly to denote
thofe who foretold future events from the flight of
birds.
AUSPICIUM, Auspicy, the fame with augury.
AUSTER, one of the four cardinal winds, as Ser-
vius calls them,ffielowin'g from the fouth, (Pliny, Ovid,
Manilius.)
AUSTERE, rough, aftringent. Thus an auftere
tafte is fuch a one as conftringes the mouth and tongue :
as that of unripe fruits, harffi wines, &c.
AUSTERITY, among moral writers, implies Se¬
verity and rigour. Thus we fay, aujierity of manners,
aujlerities of the monaf ic life, &c.
AUSTIN, Sr. See St Augustin.
AUSTRAL, Australis, the fame with fouthern.
The word is derived irom aufer, “ fouth wind.” Thus
aultral figns are the fix laft figns of the zodiac j fo
called becaufe they are on the fouth fide of the equi-
noftial.
AUSTRALIS PISCIS, the Southern Fish, is
a conftellation of the fouthern hemifphere, not vifible
in our latitude j whofe ftars in Ptolemy’s catalogue
are 18, and in the Britannic catalogue 24.
AUSTRIA, one of the principal provinces of the
empire of Germany towards the eaft $ from wffiich fi-
tuation it takes its name Oof-rych, in the German lan¬
guage fignifying the Eafl Country. It is bounded on
the north by Moravia j on the eaft by Hungary j on
the fouth by Stiria ; and on the weft by Bavaria. It
is divided into Upper and Lower. Upper Auftria is
fituated on the fouth, and Lower Auftria on the north
fide of the Danube. Vienna the capital is in Up- -
per Auftria, which contains feveral other very confi¬
derable towns. The country is very fertile, has a
great many mines, and produces vaft quantities of
fulphur.
In the ninth and tenth centuries, Auftria was the
frontier of the empire againft the barbarians. In 928,
the emperor Henry the Fowler, perceiving that it was
of great importance to fettle fome perfon in Auftria
who might oppofe thefe incurfions, invefted Leopold,
furnamed the Illujlrious, with that country. Otho I.
erefted Auftria into a marquifate in favour of his bro¬
ther-in-law Leopold, whole defeendant Henry II. was
created duke of Auftria by the emperor Frederic Bar-
barofla. His pofterity becoming extinft in 1 240, the
ftates of the country, in order to defend themfelv£s from
the incurfions of the Bavarians and Hungarians, refolved
to put themfelves under the proteftion of Henry marquis
of Mifnia ‘, but Othogar II. king of Bohemia, being
likew'ife invited by a party in the duchy, took poffeffion
of it, alleging not only the invitation of the ftates,
but alfo the right of his wife, heirefs of Frederic the
laft duke. The emperor Rodolphus I. pretending a
right to this duchy, refufed to give Othogar the in-
veftiture of it j and afterwards killing him in a battle,
procured the right of it to his own family. From this
Rhodolphus the prefent houfe of Auftria is defeended,
which
A U S
F 285 ]
A U S
Auftria. which for feveral centuries pafl has rendered itfelf fo
famous and fo powerful, having given 14 emperors to
Germany, and fix kings to Spain.
In 1477, Auftria was erefted into an archduchy by
the emperor Frederic the Pacific for his fon Maximi¬
lian, with thefe privileges : That thefe {hall be judged
to have obtained the inveftiture of the ftates, if they
do not receive it after having demanded it three times 5
that if they receive it from the emperor, or the impe¬
rial ambaffadors, they are to be on horfeback, clad in
a royal mantle, having in their hand a ftaff of command,
and upon their head a ducal crown of two points, and
furrounded with a crofs like that of the imperial crown.
The archduke is born privy-counfellor to the emperor,
and his ftates cannot be put to the ban of the empire.
All attempts againft his perfon are punilhed as crimes
of lefe-majefiy, in the fame manner as thofe againit the
king of the Romans, or eledlors. No one dared to
■ challenge him to fingle combat. It is in his choice to
affift at the afiemblies, or to be abfent; and he has the
privilege of being exempt from contributions and pu¬
blic taxes, excepting 12 foldiers which he is obliged
to maintain againft; the Turks for one month. He has
rank immediately after the electors j and exercifes ju-
ftice in his ftates without appeal, by virtue of a pri--
vilege granted by Charles V. His fubje&s cannot
even be fummoned out of his province upon account
of law-fuits, to give witnefs, or to receive the in¬
veftiture of fiefs. Any of the lands of the empire may
be alienated in his favour, even thofe that are feudal j
and he has a right to create counts, barons, gentle¬
men, poets, and notaries. In the fucceflion to his
ftates, the right of birth takes place; and, failing
males, the females fucceed according to the lineal right,
and, if no heir be found, they may difpofe of their
lands as they pleafe
Schloflfer, in his Political Journal, w’hich contains an' Auft
account of the population of Auftria, eftimates that" ' ^
of this country at 2,ico,oco men. The revenue!
amounts to about 14,000,000 of florins, of which the!
city of Vienna contributes above five, as one man in the]
capital earns as much as three in the country.
The fouthern parts of Auftria are covered with hills,:
which rife gradually from the banks of the Danube to,
the borders of Stiria, and are covered with woods.;
They lofe themfelves in the mafs of mountains which ,
run to the fouth of Germany, and ftretch through all’
Stiria, Camiola, Carinthia, and Tyrol, to the Swifs;
Alps j and are probably, after Savoy and Switzerland,'
the higheft part of the earth. The inhabitants of this
extenfive ridge of mountains are all very much alike j
they are a ftrong, large, and, the Goitres excepted,
a very handfome people.
The charafteriftic of the inhabitants of all this
country is linking bigotry, united wdth ftriking fen-
fuality. You need only fee what is going forwards
here to be convinced that the religion taught by the
monks is as ruinous to the morals as it is repugnant
to Chriftianity. The Cicilbeos accompany the mar¬
ried women from their bed to church, and lead them
to the very confeflional. The bigotry of the public
in the interior parts of Auftria, which from the mix--
ture of gallantry with it, is ftill to be found even
amongft people of rank, degenerates amongft the com¬
mon people into the groffeft and moft abominable buf¬
foonery. The Windes, wdio are mixed with the Ger¬
mans in thefe countries, diftinguilh themfelves by a
fuperftitious cuftom that does little honour to the hu¬
man underftanding, and would be incredible if we had
not the moft unequivocal proofs of the fa6t before our
eyes. Many years ago, they fet out in company with
fome Hungarian enthufiafts to Cologne on the Rhine,
Upper Auftria, properly fo called, has throughout which is about 120 German miles diftant, to cut off
the appearance of a happy country. Here are no figns
of the ftriking contrail betwixt poverty and riches
which offends fo much in Hungary. All the inhabi¬
tants, thofe of the capital only excepted, enjoy that
happy mediocrity w'hich is the confequence of a gentle
and wife adminillration. The farmer has property ;
and the rights of the nobility, wFo enjoy a kind of
lower judicial power, are w'ell defined. The fouth
and fouth- weft parts of the country are bounded by a
ridge of hills, the inhabitants of which enjoy a {hare of
profperity unknown to thofe of the interior parts of
France. There are many villages and market towns,
the inhabitants of which have bought themfelves off
from vaffalage, are now their own governors, and be¬
long fome of them to the eftates of the country. The
cloifters, the prelates of which belong to the eftates
of the country, are the richeft in Germany, after the
immediate prelacies and abbacies of the empire. One
of the greateft convents of Benediftines is worth upwards
of 4000 millions of French livres, half of tvhich goes
to the rxchequer of the country.
Lower Auftria yearly exports more than two mil¬
lions guilders worth of wine to Moravia, Bohemia,
Upper Auftria, Bavaria, Saltzburgh, and part of Sti¬
ria and Carinthia. This wine is four, but has a great
deal of ftrength, and may be carried all over the world
without danger j when it is ten or twenty years old it
is very good. This country is very well peopled. Mr
the beard of a crucifix there. Every feven years this
operation is repeated, as in this fpace of time the beard
grows again to its former length. The rich perfons
of the affociation fend the poorer ones as their depu¬
ties, and the magiftrates of Cologne receive them as
ambaffadors from a foreign prince. They are enter¬
tained at the expence of the ftate, and a counfellor
ftiovvs them the moft remarkable things in the towm.
This farce brings in large fums of money at ftated
times, and may therefore deferve political encourage¬
ment 5 but ftill, however, it is the moft miferable and
meaneft way of gain that can be imagined. Thefe
Windes have alone the right to {have oui> Saviour, and
the beard growls only for them. They firmly believe,
that if they did not do this fervice to the crucifix the
earth would be ftiut to them for the next feven years,
and there would be no harvefts. For this reafon they
are obliged to carry the hair home with them, as the
proof of having fulfilled their commiflion, the returns
of which are diftributed among the different commu¬
nities, and preferved as holy relics. The imperial
court has for a long time endeavoured in vain to pre¬
vent this emigration, which deprives agriculture of
fo many ufeful hands. When the Windes could not
go openly, they wmuld go clandeftinely. At length
the court thought of the expedient of forbidding the
regency of Cologne to let them enter the town. This
happened fix years ago, and the numerous embaffy
was--
A uft ra¬
in ancy
it
Autocra-
tory.
A U S [ 286
was obliged to beg its way back again without the
wonderful beard \ which without doubt the Capuchins,
to whom the crucifix belonged, ufed to put together
from their own. The trade which the monks carry
' on with holy falves, oils, &c. is ftill very confiderable j
a prohibition of the court, lately publilhed, has rather
leffened it, but it cannot be entirely fuppreffed till
next generation. It is now carried on fecretly, but
perhaps to nearly as great an amount as formerly.
AUSTROMANCY, Austromantia, properly
denotes foothfaying, or a vain method of predi&ing
futurity, from obfervations of the winds.
AUTERFOITS acqu.t.1 See thc PiSJ „
AvruLfovn Auamt. ^ IndiSmenl.
AVTV.RVOlTS*AcqUlt. J
AUTHENTIC, fomething of acknowledged and
received authority. In Law, it fignifies fomething
clothed in all its formalities, and attefted by.;perfons to
' wdiom credit has been regularly given. Thus we fay,
authentic papers, authentic injlruments.
AUTHOR, properly fignifies one who created or
produced any thing. Thus God, by w^ay of emi¬
nence, is called the Author of nature, the Author of the
uuiverfe.
Author, in matters of literature, a perfon wdro has
compofed fome book or writing.
AUTHORITY, in a general fenfe, fignifies a right
to command, and make one’s felf obeyed. In which
fenfe we fay, the royal authority, the epifcopal autho¬
rity, the authority of a father, &c. It denotes alfo the
tetiimony of an author, fome apophthegm or fentence
of an eminent perfon quoted in a difeourfe by w^ay of
proof.
Authority is reprefented, in pamting, like a grave
matron fitting in a chair of ftate, richly clothed in a
garment embroidered with gold, holding sin her right
hand a fword, and in her left a feeptre. By her fide
is a double trophy of books and arms.
AUTOCHTHONES, an appellation aflumed by
fome nations, importing that they fprung,_ or were
produced, from the fame foil which they Hill inhabi¬
ted. In this fenfe, Autochthones amounts to the fame
with Aborigines. The Athenians valued themfelves
on their being Autochthones, felf born, or ynyinn,
earth-born ; it being the prevailing opinion among the
ancients, that, in the beginning, the earth, by fome
prolific power, produced men, as it Hill does plants.
The proper Autochthones were thofe primitive men
who had no other parent befide the earth. But the
name was alfo affumed by the defeendants of thefe men,
provided they never changed their ancient ftate, nor
fuffered other nations to mix with them. In this fenfe
it wTas that the Greeks, and efpecially the Athenians,
pretended to be Autochthones and as a badge there¬
of, wore a golden grafshopper woven in their hair, an
infeft fuppofed to have the fame origin.
AUTOCRATOR, a perfon veiled with an abfo-
lute independent power, by which he is rendered un¬
accountable to any other for his a&ions. The power
of the Athenian generals, or commanders, w'as ufually
limited *, fo that, at the expiration of their office, they
W'ere liable to render an account of their adminiftra-
tion. But, on fome extraordinary occafions, they were
exempted from this reftraint, and fent with a full and
uncontroulable authority : in which fenfe they were
2
] A U T
ftyled Avloxgxiet?.;. The fame people alfo applied the
name to iome of their ambafiadors, w'ho were veiled
with a full power of determining matters according to
their own diferetion. Thefe were denominated n^icr/3u(
Avloxfetlogtf, and refembled our plenipotentiaries. 1.
AUTO da fe, act of faith. See Act of Faith.
AUTODIDACTUS, a perfon felf-taught, or who
has had no mailer or affiftant of his ftudies befides
him felf.
AUTOGRAPH, denotes a perfon’s hand-writing,
or the original manufeript of any book, &c.
AUTOLITHOTOMUS, he who cuts himfelf for
the Hone. Of this wre have a very extraordinary in-
ftance given by Reifelius, in the Ephemerides of the
Academy Naturee Curioforum, dec. 1. an. 3. obf. 192.
AUTOMATE, called alfo Hiera, one of the Cy¬
clades, an ifiand to the north of Crete (Pliny), laid to
have emerged out of the fea, between the iilands The¬
ra and Therafia, in the fifth year of the emperoiyClaU".
dius 5 in extent 30 ftadia, (Orolius).
AUTOMATON, (from aura? ipf, and ex-
citor) a felf-moving machine, or one fo conftrudted, by
means of weights, levers, pulleys, &c. as to move for
a confiderable time, as though endowed with animal
life. According to this defeription, clocks, watches,
and all machines of that kind, are automata.
Under the article Androxdes we obferved that the
higheft perfedlion to which automata could be carried
wras to imitate exadlly the motions and adlions of living
creatures, efpecially of mankind, which are more dif¬
ficultly imitated than thofe of other animals. Very
furprifing imitations, however, have been made of other
creatures. So long ago as 400 years before Chrift,
Archytas of Tarentum is faid to have made a wooden
pigeon that could fly j nor will this appear at all incre¬
dible, when w'e confider the flute-player made by M.
Vaucanfon, and the chefs-player by M. Kempell. Dr
Hook is alfo faid to have made the model of a flying
chariot, capable of fupporting itfelf in the air. But
M. Vaucanfon above-mentioned hath diftinguilhed him¬
felf ftill more eminently. That gentleman, encou¬
raged by the favourable reception of his flute-player,
made a duck, which was capable of eating, drinking,
and imitating exadllythe voice of a natural one. Nay,
wThat is ftill more furprifing, the food it fwallowed was
evacuated in a digefted ftate j not that it was really
in a ftate of natural excrement, but only confidera-
bly altered from what it w'as when fwallowed ; and this
digeftion was performed on the principles of folution,
not of trituration. The wungs, vifeera, and bones,
of this artificial duck, wTere alfo formed fo as very
ftrongly to refemble thofe of a living animal. Even
in the aftions of eating and drinking, this refemblance
was preferved j the artificial duck fwallowed with avi¬
dity and vaftly quick motions of the head and throat;
and likewife muddled the water with its bill, exaftly
like a natural one.
M. le Droz of La Chaux de Ponds in the county
of Neufchattel, hath alfo executed fome very curious
pieces of mechanifm, which wTell deferve to be ranked
with thofe already mentioned. One was a clock, which
wras prefented to his Spanifli majefty j and had among
other curiofities, a ftieep, which imitated the bleating
of a natural one j and a dog wratching a balket of fruit.
When any one attempted to purloin the fruit, the dog
gnafhed
Autc-
da fe
Automa¬
ton.
A U T . [2
Autonam?a gnafhed lus teeth and barked ; and if it was actually
A in mnal ta^ea away never cealed barking till it was reftored.
/' Befides this, he made a variety of human figures,
' which exhibited motions truly furprifing j but all in¬
ferior to Mr Kempell’s chefs-player, which may juftly
be looked upon as the greateft mafterpiece in mecha¬
nics that ever appeared. See An oroides.
AUTONOMIA, a power of living or being go¬
verned by our own laws and magiftrates. The liberty
of the cities which lived under the faith and protec¬
tion of the Romans, confided in their autonomia, i. e.
they were allowed to make their own laws, and ele6l
their own magiftrates *, by whom juftice was to be ad-
minilfered, and not by Roman prefidents or judges, as
was done in other places which were not indulged the
autonomia.
AUTOPYROS, from and 7rvgo$, wheat; in
the ancient diet, an epithet given to a fpecies of bread,
wherein the -whole fubftance of the wheat was retain¬
ed without retrenching any part of the bran. Galen
defcribes it other wife, viz. as bread where only the
coarfer bran was taken out.—And thus it was a me¬
dium between the fined bread, called Jimilagineus, and
the coarfed called furfuraceus. This was alfo called
autopyrites and fyncomijlus.
AUTRE-eglise, a village of Brabant, in the An¬
drian Netherlands •, to which the left wing of the
French army extended, when the confederates obtained
the victory at Ramillies, in 1706. E. Long. 4. 50.
N. Lat. 50. 40.
AUTRICUM, the capital of the Carnutes, a peo¬
ple of Gallia Celtica ; afterwards called Camotena, Car-
notenus, and Civitas Carnotenum: Now Chartres, in
the Orleanois on the Eure. E'. Long. 1. 32. N. Lat.
48. 47.
AUTUMN, the third feafon of the year, when the
harved and fruits are gathered in. Autumn is repre-
fented in painting, by a man at perfect age, clothed
like the vernal, and like wife girded with a darry gir¬
dle ; holding in one hand a pair of fcales equally pol¬
led, with a globe in each; in the other hand a bunch
of divers fruits and grapes. His age denotes the per-
' feftion of this feafon *, and the balance, that fign of the
zodiac which the fun enters when our autumn begins.
Autumn begins on the day when the fun’s meridian
didance from the zenith, being on the decreafe, is a
mean between the greated and the lead ; which in thefe
countries is fuppofed to happen when the fun enters
Libra. Its end coincides -with the beginning of win¬
ter. Several nations have computed the years by
autumns ; the Englilh Saxons, by winters. Tacitus
tells us, the ancient Germans were acquainted with all
the other feafons of the year, but had no notion of
autumn. .Lidyat obferves of the beginning of the fe-
veral feafons of the year, that
T)at Clemens hyemcn, dc.t Petrus ver cathedratus,
JEJluat Urbanus, autumnat Bartholomceus.
Autumn has always been reputed an unhealthy feafon,
I ertullian calls it tcntator valeludtnum ; and the faty-
rid Ipeaks of it in the fame light. Autumnus Libitinee
quejlus acerbce.
AUTUMNAL point, is that part of the equinox
from which the fun begins to defcend towards the fouth
pole.
87 ] ' A U X
Autumnal Signs, in AJlronomy, are the figns Li- Autumnal
bra, Scorpio, Sagittarius, through which the fun pafles Jl.
during the autumn. Auxusary^
Autumnal Equinox', that time when the fun enters
the autumnal point.
AUTUN, an ancient city of France, in the depart¬
ment of Saone and Loire, formerly the duchy of Bur¬
gundy, the capital of the Autonois, with a bilhopY
fee. The length of this city is about three quarters of
a mile, and its breadth nearly equal. The river Ar-
roux wadies its ancient walls, whofe ruins are fo firm,
and the done fo clofely united, that they feem almoO:
to be cut out of the folid rock. In this city are the
ruins of three ancient temples, one of which was dedi¬
cated to Janus, and another to Diana. Here are like-
wife a theatre and a pyramid, which lad is probably a
tomb 5 it dands in a place called the field of urns, be-
caufe feveral urns had been found there. Here are al¬
fo two antiques gates of great beauty. The city lies
at the foot of three great mountains, in E. Long. 4^
15. N. Lat. 45. 50.
AUTURA, or Audura, a river of Gallia Celtica,
only mentioned in the Lives of the Saints. Now the
Eure, which falls into the Seine, on the left-hand or
fouth fide.
AUVERGNE, a late province of France, about
100 miles in length and 75 in breadth. It is bound¬
ed on the north by the Bourbonnois ; on the ead by
Torez and Velay j on the wed, by Limofin, Quercy,
and La Marche j and on the fouth, by Rovergne and
the Cevennes. It is divided into upper and lower j
the latter, otherwife called Limagne, is one of the fin¬
ed countries in the world. The mountains of Higher
Auvergne render it lefs fruitful j but they afford good
padure, vdiich feeds great numbers of cattle, which are
the riches of that country. Auvergne fupplies Lyons
and Paris with fat cattle, makes a large quantity of
cheefe, and has manufactures of feveral kinds. The
capital of the \yhole province is Clermont. It is now
divided into the departments of Cantal and Puy de
Dome.
AUVERNAS, a very deep-coloured heady wine,
made ot black raifins fo called, which comes from Or¬
leans. It is not fit to drink before it is above a year
old ; but if kept two or three years, it becomes ex¬
cellent.
AUXERRE, an ancient town of France in the de¬
partment of Yonne, and capital of the Auxerrois, and
lately a biffiop’s fee. The epifcopal palace was one of
the fined in France, and the churches w’ere alfo very
beautiful. This town is advantageouffy fituated for
trade with Paris, on the river Yonne. E. Long. 3.
35. N. Lat. 47. 54.
AUXESIS, in Mythology, a goddefs rvorfnipped by
the inhabitants of Egina,, and mentioned by Herodotus
and Paufanias.
Auxesis, in Rhetoric, a figure whereby any thing
is magnified too much.
AUXILIARY, whatever is aiding or helping to
another.
Auxiliary Verbs, in Grammar, are fuch as help to
form or conjugate others j that is, are prefixed to them,
to form or denote the modes or tenfes thereof; as, to
have and to be, in the Englifti ; etre and avoir, in the
French y ho and fono in the Italian, &.c. In the Englifl*
language.
A X A [ 2S
Auxo language, the auxiliary verb am fupplies the want of
II paflive verbs.
AxayacatL AUXO, in Mythology, the name of one of two Graces
worlhipped by the Athenians. See HegemonE.
AUXONNE, a fmall fortified town in France, in
the department of Cote d’Or; feated on the river Saone,
over which there is a bridge of 23 arches, to facilitate
the running off of the waters after the overflowing of
the river. ° At the end of the bridge is a caufeway
2250 paces long. E. Long. 5. 22. N. Lat. 47. it.
AUXY *, the French give the name of auxy wool
* to that which is fpun in the neighbourhood of Abbe¬
ville, by thofe workmen who are called houjners. It
is a very fine and beautiful wool, which is commonly
ufed to make the finelt (lockings.
AWARD, in Law, the judgment of an arbitrator,
or of one who is not appointed by the law a judge,
but chofen by the parties themfelves for terminating
their difference. See Arbiter and Arbitration.
AWL, among Shoemakers, an inftrument wherewith
holes are bored through the leather, to facilitate the
ditching or fewing the fame. The blade of the aw 1
is ufuallya little flat and bended, and the point ground
to an acute angle.
AWL AN, a fmall imperial town of Germany, in
the circle of Suabia, feated on the river Kochen. E.
Long. 11. 15. N. Lat. 48.52.
AWME, or Aume, a Dutch liquid meafure con¬
taining eight deckans, or 20 verges or verteels, equal
to the tierce in England, or to one-fixth of a ton of
France.
AWN. See Arista, Botany Index.
AWNING, in the Sea-Language, is the hanging a
fail, tarpawling, or the like, over any part of the fliip,
to keep off the fun, rain, or wind.
AX, a carpenter’s indrument, ferving to hew wood.
The ax differs from the joiner’s hatchef, in that it is
made larger and heavier, as ferving to hew large duff;
and its edge tapering into the middle of its blade. It
is furniflied with a long handle or helve, as being to
be ufed with both hands.
Battle-Ax. See Celt. . .
AX AMENT A, in Antiquity, a denomination gi¬
ven to the verfes or fongs of the fain, which they ding
in honour of all men. The word is formed, according
to fome, from axare, q. d. nominare. Others will have
the carmina faliaria to have been denominated axa-
menta, on account of their having been written in axi-
bus, or on wooden tables.
The axamenta were not compofed, as fome have af-
ferted, but only ding by the fain. The author of
them was Numa Pompilius; and as the dyle might not
be altered, they grew in time fo obfcure, that \\\t fain
themfelves did' not underdand them. Varro fays they
were 700 years old. Quint. Ind. Or. lib. i. c, 11.
Axamenta, ox AJfamenta, in Ancient Mufc, hymns
or fongs performed wholly with human voices.
AXAYACATL, the name of a fpecies of fly,
common in Mexico, about the lakethe eggs of
which being depofited in immenfe quantities, upon the
rudies and corn-flags, form large maffes, which are ta¬
ken up by fifliermen and carried to market for fale.
This caviare, called ahuauhth, wdiich has much the
fame tade with the caviare of fi(h, ufed to be eaten by
£jie Mexicans, and is now a common difli among the
1
8 ] A X t
Spaniards. The Mexicans eat not only the eggs, but Axati
the flies themfelves, made up together into a mais, Ax1jim
and prepared with faltpetre. # v~—
AXATI, a town of ancient Baetica, on the Bsetis ;
now Lora, a fmall city of Andaluda, in Sgain, feat¬
ed on the Gaudalquiver. W. Long. 5. 20. N. Lat.
37* 20•
AXBRIDGE, a town of Somerfetfliire in England,
confiding of one long narrow dreet. W. Long. 2. 20.
N. Lat. 51. 30.
AXEL, a fmall fortified town in Dutch Flanders.
E. Long. 40. o. N. Lat. 51. 17.
AXHOLM, an ifland in the north-wed part of
Lincolnfiiire in England. It is formed by the rivers
Trent, Idel, and Dan ; and is about ten miles long
and five broad. The lower part is marfliy, but pro¬
duces an odoriferous (hrub called gall; the middle is
rich and fruitful, yielding flax in great abundance, as
alfo alabafter which is ufed for making lime. 1 he
principal towrn is called Axey, and is now very thinly
inhabited. .
AXIACE, an ancient town of Sarmatia Europea ;
now Oc%akow, the capital of Budziac 1 artary. E.
Long. 32. 30. N. Lat. 46.0.
AXILLA, in Anatomy, the arm-pit or the cavity
under the upper part of the arm.
Axilla, in Botany, is the fpace comprehended be¬
tween the dems of plants and their leaves. Hence we
fay thofe flowrers grow in the axillae of the leaves; 1. e.
at the bafe of the leaves, or jud within the angle of
their pedicles. . .
AXILLARY, fomething belonging to or lying
near the axilla. Thus, axillary artery is that part of
the fubclavian branches of the afcending trunk of the
aorta which paffeth under the arm-pits ; axillary glands
are fituated under the arm-pits, enveloped in fat, and
lie clofe by the axillary veffels; and axillary vein is
one of the fubclavians which paffes under the arm-pit,
dividing itfelf into feveral branches, wdiich are fpread
over the arm.
AXIM, a fmall territory on the Gold-coad in Arrica.
The climate here is fo exceflively mold, that it 15 pro¬
verbially faid to rain 11 months and 29 days of the
year. This exceflive moidure renders it very unheal¬
thy ; but it produces great quantities of rice, water¬
melons, lemons, oranges, &c. Here are alfo produced
vad numbers of black cattle, goats, flieep, tame pi¬
geons, &c. The whole country is filled with beautitul
and populous villages, and the intermediate lands well
cultivated; befides which, the natives are very wealthy,
from the condant traffic carried on with them by the
Europeans for their gold. The capital, which is alio
called Axim, by fome Achombone, dands under the can¬
non of the Dutch fort St Antonio. Behind, it is fecu-
red by a thick wood that covers over the whole declivity
of a neighbouring hill. Between the town and the fea
runs an even and fpacious ffiore of beautiful white land.
All the houfes are feparated by groves of cocoa and
other fruit trees, planted in parallel lines, each of an
equal width, and forming an elegant viffa. _ The little
river Axim erodes the town; and the coad is defended
by a number of fmall pointed rocks, which project
from the ffiore, and render all accefs to it dangerous.
The capital is fituated in W. Long._ 24. o. N. Lat 5. o.
This canton is a kind of republic, the government
being
A X
Axinoman-being divided between the Cabocetoes or chief men,
cy and Manaceros or young men. It mull be obferved,
A|.s hovvever, that in their courts there is not even a pre-
* , . j tence of juftice : whoever makes the moft valuable pre-
fents to the judges is fure to gain his caufe, the judges
themfelves alleging the gratitude due for the bribes re¬
ceived as a reafon : and if both parties happen to
make prefents of nearly equal value, they abfolutely
refufe to give the caufe a hearing.
AXINOMA.NCY, Axinomantia, from
curis, and f*xv]-uc, divinatio 5 an ancient fpecies of di¬
vination, or a method of foretelling future events by
means of an ax or hatchet.—This art was in confider-
able repute among the ancients; and was performed,
according to fome, by laying an agate-ftone on a red-
hot hatchet ; and alfo by fixing a hatchet on a round
flake fo as to be exa£lly poifed j then the names of
thofe that were fufpefted were repeated, and he at
whofe name the hatchet moved was pronounced guilty.
AXIOM, Axioma (from I am worthy); a
felf-evident truth, or a propofition whofe truth every
perfon perceives at firfl fight. Thus, that the wfhole is
greater than a part 5 that a thing cannot be and not be
at the fame time *, and that from nothing, nothing can
arife •, are axioms.
Axiom is alfo an eftablifhed principle in fome art or
fcience. Thus, it is an axiom in phyfics, that nature
does nothing in vain •, that effedls are proportional to
their caufes, &c. So it is an axiom in geometry, that
things equal to the fame thing are alfo equal to one
another ; that if to equal things you add equals, the
fums will be equal, &c. It is an axiom in optics, that
the angle of incidence is equal to the angle of reflec¬
tion, See.
AX1POLIS, a town of the Triballi in Maefia In¬
ferior } now Axiopoli, in Bulgaria. E. Long. 34. o.
N. Lat. 45. 40.
AXIS, in Geometry, the flraight line in a plain
figure, about which it revolves, to produce or generate
a folid. Thus, if a femicircle be moved round its dia¬
meter at reft, it will generate a fphere, the axis of
which is that diameter.
Axis, in AJlronomy, is an imaginary right line fup-
pofed to pafs through the centre of the earth and the
heavenly bodies, about which they perform their diur¬
nal revolutions.
Axis, in Conic SeBions, a right line dividing the fec-
tion into two equal parts, and cutting all its ordinates
■as right angles.
Axis, in Mechanics. The axis of a balance is that
line about which it moves, or rather turns about. Axis
of ofcillation, is a right line parallel to the horizon,
pafling through the centre about which a pendulum
vibrates.
Axis in Peritrochio, one of the fix mechanical powers,
confifting of a peritrochium or wheel concentric with
the bafe of a cylinder, and moveable together with it
about its axis.
Axis, in Optics, is that particular ray of light co¬
ming from any objedt which falls perpendicularly on
the eye.
Axis, in ArchiteBure. Spiral axis, is the axis of
a twilled column drawn fpirally in order to trace the
circumvolutions without. Axis of the Ionic capital, is
Vol. III. Part I.
A Y L
a line pafling perpendicularly through the middle of Axis
the eye of the volute. .
Axis of a Vejfel, is an imaginary right line palling ■ ''
through the middle of it perpendkulaily to its Dale,
and equally diftant from, its fides.
Axis, in Botany, is a taper column placed in the
centre of fome flowers or catkins, about which the
other parts are difpofed.
Axis, in Anatomy, the name of the fecond verte¬
bra of the neck j it hath a tooth which goes into the
firft vertebra, and this tooth is by fome called the axis.
AXMINSTER, a town or Devonlhire, fituated on
the river Ax, in the great road between London and
Exeter, in W. Long. 3. 15. N. Lat. 50. 40. It was
a place of fome note in the time of the Saxons, but now
contains only about 200 houfes. Here is a fmall manu-
fadlory of broad and narrow cloths, and fome carpets
are alfo manufadtured after the Turkey manner.
AXOLOTLF. See Lacerta.
AXUMA, formerly a large city, and capital of the
whole kingdom of Abyflinia in Africa, but now redu¬
ced to a miferable village fcarcely containing r 00 inha¬
bitants. E. Long. 36.4. N. Lat. 14. 13.
AXUNGIA, in a general fenfe, denotes old lard,
or the drieft and hardeft of any fat in the bodies of ani¬
mals : but more properly it fignifies only hog’s lard,
Axungia Vitri, Sandiver, or Salt of Glafs, a kind
of fait which feparates from the glafs while it is in fu-
fion. It is of an acrimonious and biting tafte. The
farriers ufe it for cleanfing the eyes of horfes. It is alfo
made ufe of for cleanfing the teeth ; and it is fometimes
applied to running ulcers, the herpes, or the itch, by
way of deficcative.
AXYRIS. See Botany
AY, a town of France in Champagne, near the ri¬
ver Maine, remarkable for its excellent wines. E. Long,,
2. 15. N. Lat. 49. 4.
AYAMONTE, a fea-port town of Andalufia in
Spain, with a ftrong caftle built on a rock 5 feated on
the mouth of the river Gaudiana. It has a commo¬
dious harbour, fruitful vineyards, and excellent wine.
W. Long. 8. 5. N. Lat. 37. 9.
AYENIA, See Botany Index.
AYLESBURY. See Ailesbury. This place
gave title of earl to the noble family of Bruce, now
to a branch of Brudenals by fucceflion.
AYLMER, John, bifhop of London, in the reign
of Queen Elizabeth, was born in the year 1521, at
Aylmer-hall in the parifh of Tilney, in the county of
Norfolk. Whilft a boy, he was diftingujfhed for his
quick parts by the marquis of Dorfet afterwards duke
of Suffolk who fent him to Cambridge, made him his
chaplain and tutor to his children. One of thefe
children was the unfortunate Lady Jane Gray, who
foon became perfeftly acquainted with the Latin and
Greek languages. His firft preferment was to the
archdeaconry of Stow, in the diocefe of Lincoln, which
gave him a feat in the convocation held in the firft
year of Queen Mary, where he refolutely oppofed the
return to Popery, to wdrich the generality of the clergy
wrere inclined. He wras foon after obliged to fly his
country, and take (belter among the Proteftants in
Switzerland. On the acceflion of Queen Elizabeth, he
returned to England. In 1562, he obtained the arch-
O o deaconry
[ 289 ]
AYR [ 29° 1 AYR
Ayr. deaconry of Lincoln; and was a member of the famous
—-* fynod of that year, which reformed and fettled the
do£lrine and difcipline of the church of England. In
the year 1576, he was confecrated bifhop ot London.
He "died in the year 1594, aged 735 and was buried in
St Paul’s. He was a learned man, a zealous father of
the church, and a bitter enemy to the Puritans. He
publifhed a piece entitlefl, An harbrowe for faithful
and trewe fuhje&s again/} the late lloxvne blafe concern¬
ing the government of women, &c. This was written
whilft he was abroad in anfwer to Knox, who publifhed
a book in Geneva under this title, The frfblaf again]}
the tnonjlrous regiment and empire of women. He is by
Strype fuppofed to have publifhed Lady jane Gray’s
letter to Harding. He alfo affifled Fox in tranflating
his Hiftory of Martyrs into Latin.
AYR, a royal borough, of great antiquity, and con-
fiderable extent, the county town of Ayrfhire, and the
feat of a jufticiary court. It was erefted into a royal
borough by William the Lion, about the year 1180;
and the privileges granted by that charter are Hill en¬
joyed by the town. It is pleafantly fituated on a point
of land, between the influx of the rivers Boon and Ayr,
into the Atlantic ocean. The principal ftreet is a fine
ornamented, broad, fpacious way, with a row of ele¬
gant houfes on each fide. Its fliape is fomewhat of the
form of a crefcent, having the tolbooth and town-hall
in the centre, with a fine fpire, 135 feet high. In an¬
cient times we find Ayr to have been a town of con-
fiderable trade. The merchants imported a great quan¬
tity of wine from France, and exported corn and
other produce of the country. 1 he rifing trade of
Glafgow proved very injurious to the trade of this town *,
but of late it has much revived. The fea fhore is flat
and fhallow, and the entrance of the river Ayr, which
forms the harbour, is fubjecl to the inconvenience of a
bar,of fand, which is often thrown quite acrofs the ri¬
ver, efpecially with a ftrong north-weft wind. The
water never rifes above twelve feet •, but from fome im-
• provements and extenfive works now carrying on on
the fides of the river, it is hoped the channel will be
confiderably deepened. There are eredled two refleft-
ing light-houfes to condutt veffels fafely into the har¬
bour. There is great plenty of falmon in the two
rivers, the fishings of which rent at upwards of 200I.
Befides the falmon fifhery, the fand banks on the coaft
abound with all kinds of white fifli; and one or two
companies are eftablifhed here for curing them. The
principal trade carried on is the exportation of coal to
Ireland, in which nearly 2000 tonnage of velfels are
annually employed. There is an extenfive manufac¬
ture of leather and foap. Ayr was in ancient times,
however, not only diftinguiftied for trade, but alfo for
military ftrength. Here the heroic exploits ot Sir
William Wallace began, and here Edward I. fixed one
of his moft powerful garrifons. Oliver Cromwell, too,
judging it a proper place to build a fortrefs, took pof-
feffion of the old church, and converted it and the
neighbouring ground into a regular citadel. On one
of the mounts, within the walls of this fortrefs, flood
the old caftle of Ayr, mentioned in ancient hiftories,
and the old church, the tower of which ftill remains,
noted for the meeting of the Scotifh parliament, when
Robert Bruce’s title to the throne was unanimoufly
confirmed. Ayr is a very gay and fafhionablg place.
It has W'ell attended races, and is fometimes the feat Ayr,
of the Caledonian hunt. In 1797, the population a- Ayrfliin?.
mounted to 4647 5 in 1801,' 5560. There is a ftrong v “
chalybeate fpring, which is famous in fcrophulous and
fcorbutic complaints. Tradition reports an engage¬
ment to have taken place in the valley of Dalrymple,
between two kings, Fergus and Coilus, in which both
leaders loft their lives ; the names of places in the
neighbourhood feem derived from this circumftance,
and a cairn of Hones in the midft of the valley is faid
to point out the place of the engagement. Hiftory has
only recorded two diftinguiftied charatfers in literature,
natives of Ayr: 1 ft, Johannes Scotus, furnamed Erigena,
celebrated for his acumen of judgment, his readinefs of
wit, and fluency of elocution : and, 2d, the Chevalier
Ram fay, author of Cyrus’ Travels, and other works.
To thefe we may add the late Robert Burns, wdrofe
genius, at leaft, will bear a comparifon with any of
the former.
Ayr, Newton of While the borough of Ayr ex¬
tends along the fouth fide of the river Ayr, this fmall
parifh is fituated on the north fide of the fame river.
It is a burgh of confiderable domain, having in that
domain baronial jurifdi&ion ; governed by a magiftracy
ele&ed by free-men, but not having parliamentary re-
prefentation. It is of very ancient ere£lion, owing its
privileges to Robert Bruce, who, upon being attacked
wuth leprofy, came to refide in this place, and w7as in¬
duced to eftablifh a lazar-houfe, and to confer con¬
fiderable favours on the town, and on the fmall village
of Prieftwick, about two or three miles diftant. In
the Newton of Ayr are a number of very good houfes.
It has a tolerable good harbour, chiefly employed in
the coal trade. Lying on the banks of Ayr, and the
fea coaft •, the foil is moftly flat and fandy. Its extent
is about three miles long, and one and a half broad.
In 1793, the population wras 1680.
Ayr, a river in the parifh of Muirkirk, in Ayrfhirej
which after a courfe of about eighteen miles nearly
due w7eft falls into the fea at Ayr, where its aeftuary
forms a fine harbour. It is for a confiderable courfe
only a fmall rivulet; but joined by the Greenock and
Garpel, tributary ftreams, it becomes a large body
of water. It frequently fhifts its bed, and does con¬
fiderable damage by its encroachments. Its banks are
fteep and very romantic ; and the number of feats
which orn'ament them prefent a fine pifturefque fce-
nery. Sorn-caftle, Auchincruive, and Auchinleck,
may be mentioned as the chief beauties of the fcene.
The village of Catrine is fituated on its banks. It
forms the boundary between the diftritts of Ayrfhire,
denominated Kyle and Carrick.
AYRSHIRE, a county of Scotland, which is bound¬
ed on the north by the county of R enfrew7; on the eaft
by the {hires of Lanark and Dumfries; on the fouth by
Galloway ; and on the w7eft by the Iriftr channel, and
the frith of Clyde. Its extent in length is about 65
miles, and about 36 in breadth. It is divided into
three great diftrifts or ftewarties, which bear the names
of Kyle, Cunningham, and Carrick. Thefe divifions
are not altogether artificial ; the river Ayr, on which
is the towm of Ayr, forming the feparation between
Carrick and Kyle (or Ayrfhire Proper), and the river
Irvine (at the mouth of which is a borough of the fame
name) is the limit between Kyle and Cunningham.
] Thefe
/
AYR [ 29
Ayrfhire. Thefe diftrlfts are very different from each other in ap-
pearance. Carrick, and the interior parts of Kyle, are
mountainous, and more fitted for pafture ; while the
coaft of Kyle, and the greater part of Cunningham,
exhibit a fine level country, interfperfed with numerous
villages and towns. The fea coalt is moftly Tandy,
with funk rocks, poffeffing feveral good harbours. The
ifland of Ailfa is in this county. From the ridge, of
which the mountains of Carrick are a part, rife almoll
all the rivers of the fouth of Scotland. The Tweed,
the Elk, the Nith, the Annan, the Urr, &c. flow to
the eaft and fouth, while the Stinchar, the Girvan, the
Doon, the Ayr, and the Lugar, pouring into the Irifh
channel, interfeft the county of Ayr with their copious
ftreams. Belides thefe, the Irvine and other fmaller
rivulets, water the more northerly parts of the county.
Ayrlhire has two royal boroughs, viz. Ayr and Irvine j
and feveral populous towns and villages, of which
Kilmarnock, Beith, Saltcoats, Kilwinning, Largs, Gir¬
van, and Ballantrae, are the chief. Fitted as Ayrlhire
is in every refpeft for the carrying on of trade, and the
extenfion of agricultural improvements, it is only of late
years that much has been done in that way. Poffefling
valuable feams of excellent coal, and enriched with
the returns from its exportation, little attention was
paid to the culture of the ground. The eftablilhment
of the Douglas and Heron Bank, though ruinous to
the proprietors, contributed greatly to promote the im¬
provement of Ayrlhire. The abundance of wealth
which it fallacioully feemed to pour into the country,
and the ready command of money it gave, fet all the
proprietors towards improving and planting their eftates,
furnilhed means for railing and burning lime for ma¬
nure, and above all, with the money from the bank,
canals and roads were opened through every part of
the county. Upon the failure of that extravagant and
ill-condufled fpeculation, the proprietors of many
eftates faw their property brought to the hammer, and
the greater part of their lands purchafed by new pro¬
prietors. After the general diftrefs, confequent on fo
difaftrous a fcheme, was fomewhat relieved, the im¬
provement which the land had received during the pro-
fufion of money, enabled the proprietors to continue
the improvement, and the new fettlers being moftly
men of great fortune, allowed no expence to be want¬
ing to produce the fame end : and hence the improve¬
ment of the country wTas rather promoted than retard¬
ed, by an event which threatened to overwhelm not
only Ayrlhire, but the greater part of Scotland, into
the gulf of bankruptcy. Ayrfhire, befides the inex-
hauftible feams of coal with which it abounds, poffeffes
feveral other valuable minerals ; as freeftone, limeftone,
ironftone, feveral rich ores of lead and copper. A
few curious fpecimens are alfo to be found in the hills
of Carrick, of agates, porphyries, and of calcareous pe-
trifaftions. In the parifh of Stair, galena and plumbago
have been found ; and in feveral parts of the county
is found that fpecies of whetftone, known by the name
of Jlyr-Jlone. There is plenty of marl in moft of the
lochs ; the chief of which is Loch Doon, from which
the river of that namd' takes its rife. There is annual¬
ly a great quantity of fea weed thrown afhore, from
which many tons of kelp are made. All the rivers of
Ayrlhire abound with falmon, and the coafts are ad¬
mirably adapted for the white fiihing.
i ] - AYR
The following is a ftatement of the population of AyrfLire,
this county at two different periods.
Ayry.
Parijh.
Ardroffan
Auchinleck
Ayr
Ballantrae
5 Barr
Beith
Cumbraes
Colmonell
Coylton
10 Craigie
Cumnock, New
Cumnock, Old
Dailly
Dalmellington
15 Dairy
Dalrymple
Dreghorn
Dundonald
Dunlop
20 Fenwick
Galfton
Girvan
Irvine
Kilbirny
25 Kilbride, Weft
Kilmarnock
Kilmaurs
Kilwinning
Kirkmichael
30 Kirkofwald
Largs
Loudoun
Mauchline
May bole
35 Monktown
Muirkirk
Newtoun on Ayr.
Ochiltree
Riccartoun
40 St Quivox
Sorn
Stair
Stevenftoun
Stewartoun
43 Straitoun
Symington
Tarbolton
Population
h 1755-
X297
887
2964
1049
858
2064
259
1814
527
551
1497
1336
839
739
1498
439
887
983
796
1113
1013
”93
4025
651
885
4403
1094
2541
710
1168
1164
1494
1169
2058
582
745
581
1210
745
499
1494
369
1412
28x9
1123
359
1365
Total, 59,268
Population in
1790—1798.
1518
775
4647
770
750
2872
5°9
no©
667
700
1200
1632
1607
681
2000
380
830
1317
779
1281^
1577
£725
4500
700
698
6776
1147
2360
956
l335
1025
2308
1800
375°
717
1X00
1689
1150
13 CO
1450
2779
. 5x8
2425
3000
934
610
1200
75.544
59,268
Increafe, 16,276
AYRY, or Aery, of Ha whs, a npft or company of
hawks ; fo called from the old French wTord aire, which
fignified the fame.
AYSCUE, Sir George, a gallant Englilh admi¬
ral, defcended from a good family in Lincolnlhire.
He obtained the honour of knighthood from King
Charles I. which, however, did not withhold him from
O o 2 adhering
Azem.
A Z E [292
Aymoutti adhering to the parliament in the civil war : he was
by them conftituted admiral of the Irifh Teas, where
, he is faid to have done great fervice to the Proteftant
interert, and to have contributed much to the reduc¬
tion of the whole illand. In 1651 he reduced Bar-
badbes and Virginia, then held for the king, to the
obedience of the parliament : and foon after the re¬
iteration behaved with great honour in the war with
the Dutch. In the famous engagement in the begin¬
ning of June 1666, when Sir George was admiral of
the white fquadron, his fhip the Royal Prince ran up¬
on the Gallop-fand ; where, being furrounded with ene»
mies, his men obliged him to ftrike. He went no
more to fea after this, but fpent the reft of his days in
retirement.
AYMOUTH. See Eymouth.
AYTONIA. See Botany Index.
AZAB, in the Turkifh armies, a diftinft body of
foldiery, who are great rivals of the Janizaries.
AZAI, a town of Touraine in France, feated on the
river Indre. E. Long. 10. 35. N. Lat. 47. 18.
AZALEA, American Upright Honeysuckle.
See Botany Index.
AZAMOR, a fmall fea-port town of the kingdom
of Morocco in Africa. It is fituated on the river
Morbeya, in the province of Duguella, at fome con-
fiderable diftance from its mouth. This town, though
formerly very conftderable, is not proper for maritime
commerce, becaufe the entrance of the river is danger¬
ous. It was unfuccefsfully befieged by the Portuguefe
in 1508 ; it was taken, however, in 1513, by the duke
of Braganza, but abandoned about the end of the 16th
century. W. Long. 7. o. N. Lat. 32. 50.
AZARAKI PES, a fed! of Mahometan Arabs. See
Arabia, N° 143, et feq.
AZARIAH, or'UzziAH, king of Judah, fucceeded
his father Amaziah, 8^0 years before Chrift. He af-
fembled an army of above 300,000 men, with which
he conquered the Philiftines, and demoliihed the walls
of Gath, Jabniel, and Alhdod ; built up the walls of
Jerufalem ; furnifhed the city with conduits •, and plant-
fed gardens and vineyards : but at laft, being elated with
his profperity, and refolving to ufurp the office of
high-prieft, he was ftruck with a leprofy, which obli¬
ged him to remain (hut up in his palace for the reft of
his days. He died about 759 years before the Chriftian
era, and was fucceeded by Jonathan his fon There
are feveral other perfons of this name mentioned in the
facred Scriptures.
AZAZEL. The word relates to the hiftory of
the fcape-goat, under the Jewiffi religion. Some call
the goat itfelf by this name, as St Jerome and Theodo-
rct. Dr Spcnfer fays, the fcape-goat was to be fent
to Azazel j by which is meant the devil. Mr Le Clerc
tranflates it preecipitium, making it to be that fteep and
inacceffible place to vffiich the goat wTas fent, and where
it was fuppofed to periffi.
AZEKA, in Ancient Geography, a city of the Am-
morites, in the lot of Judah ; fituated between Eleu-
theropolis and ALlia (Jerome); where the five kings
of the Ammorites and their army w^ere deftroyed by
hailftones from heaven, ( Joflma).
AZEM, As EM, Ass am, or Ac ham, a country
of Afia to the north of Ava, but which is very little
known to Europeans. Jt is laid to be very fertile, and
A z o
to contain mines of gold, filver, iron, and lead, all Azimuth
which belong to the king, who, in confequence of H
enjoying the produce, requires no taxes from his peo¬
ple. They have alfo great quantities of gum lac, and
coarfe filk. It is alio thought that the inhabitants of
Azem were long ago the inventors of cannon and
gun-powder; and that from them the invention pafied
to the inhabitants of Pegu and from thence to the
Chinefe.
AZIMUTH, in Ajlronomy, an arch of the horizon,
intercepted between the meridian of thfi place and the
azimuth, or vertical circle paffing through the centre
of the objedl, which is equal to the angle of the ze¬
nith, formed by the meridian and vertical circle : or
it is found by this proportion, As the radius to the
tangent of the latitude of the place, fo is the tangent
of the fun’s or ftar’s altitude, for inftance, to the cofine
of the azimuth from the fouth, at the time of the equi¬
nox.
Magnetical Azimuth, an arch of the horizon inter¬
cepted between the aximuth, @r vertical circle, paffing
through the centre of any heavenly body and the mag¬
netical meridian. This is found by obferving the ob¬
ject with an azimuth-compafs.
AziMVTH-Compafs, an inftrument for finding either
the magnetical azimuth or amplitude of a heavenly
objedL .
The learned Dr Knight invented fome time fince a
very accurate and ufeful fea-compafs, which is at pre-
fent ufed in the navy. This inftrument, with another
invented by the ingenious Mr Smeaton, anfwers the
purpofes of an azimuth amplitude compafs. See Com¬
pass.
Azimuth Circles, called alfo a-zlmuths, or vertical
circles, are great circles of the fphere interfering each
other in the zenith and nadir, and cutting the horizon
at right angles. Thefe azimuths are reprefented by
the rhumbs on common fea-charts, and on the globe
they are reprefented by the quadrant of altitude, when
ferewed in the zenith. On thefe azimuths is reckoned
the height of the ftars and of the fun when not in the
meridian.
AZMER, a towm of the Eaft Indies in the domi¬
nions of the Great Mogul, capital of a province of the
fame name, with a very ftrong caftle. It is pretty
large, and fometimes vifited by the Mogul himfelf.
It is about 62 leagues diftant from Agra. The prin¬
cipal trade of this province is in faltpetre.
ASOGA ships, are thofe Spanifh fhips commonly
called the qaichjilver Jhips, from their carrying quick-
filver to the Spanifh Weft Indies, in order to extract
the filver out of the mines of Mexico and Peru. Thefe
fhips, ftriflly fpeaking, are not to carry any goods un-
lefs for the king of Spain’s account.
AZONI, in Ancient Mythology, a name applied by
the Greeks to fuch of the gods as were deities at large,
not appropriated to the worfhip of any particular town
or country, but acknowledged in general by all coun¬
tries, and wmrfhipped by every nation. Thefe the La¬
tins called dii communes. Of this fort were the Sun,
Mars, Luna, &c.
AZORES, iflands in the Atlantic ocean, lying be¬
tween 25 and 33 degrees of weft longitude, and be¬
tween 36 and 40 degrees of north latitude. They
belong to the Portuguefe, and are alfo called the
Wejlern
Azores.
A 70th
Azure
A Z U
Wejlern Ifles, on account of their htuation.
were difcovered by the Flemings in the 15th century.
They are feven in number, viz. Tercera, St Michael’s,
St Mary’s, Graciofa, St George’s Ifland, Pico, and
Fayal.
AZOTH, in Ancient Chemijlry, the firft matter of
metals, or the mercury of a metal; more particularly
that which they call the mercury of phi/ofophers, which
they pretended to draw from all fo ts of metallic bo¬
dies.
AZOTUS, Azoth, or Ashdod, one of the five
cities of the Philiftines, and a celebrated fea-port on
the Mediterranean, fituated about 14 or 15 miles fouth
of Ekron, between that and Afcalon. It was in this
city that the idol Dagon fell down before the ark :
and fo ftrong a place it was, if we may believe He¬
rodotus, that it fuftained a fiege of 29 years by
Pfammeticus king of Egypt. It was, however, ta¬
ken by the Maccabees in a much fhorter time ; who
burnt both city and temple, and w'ith them about 1000
men. The towm is now called by the Arabs Aafa-
neyun. It is but thinly inhabited, though the fitua-
tion is very pleafant: with regard to the houfes, thofe
that were built in the time of Chriftianity, and wEich
are nowr inhabited by Mahometans, ftill preferve fome
claim to admiration } but the modern buildings, though
generally of (tone, have nothing in them which can
attradl the notice of a traveller. The flreets are pret¬
ty broad, the inhabitants moftly Mahometans, with a
few Chrillians of the Greek communion, who have a
church under the jurifdi&ion of the archbilhop of
Gaza. The town is about a mile and a half in circum¬
ference *, and has in it a mofque, a public bath, a mar¬
ket-place, and two inns. The number of the inhabi¬
tants is between two and three thoufand. The -’Tioft
remarkable things in this place is an old ftrufture with
fine marble pillars, which the inhabitants fay w^as the
houfe that Sampfon pulled down ; and to the fouth-
eaft, juft out of the towm, the water in which the eu¬
nuch Candace wms baptized by the apoftle Philip : be-
fides thefe twm, there are feveral ancient buildings,
with capitals and pillars Handing.
AZURE, in a general fenfe, the blue colour of the
fky. See Sky and Blue.
Azure, among Painters. This wmrd, which at
prefent fignifies in general a fine blue colour, wms for¬
merly applied to /apis /ansuli, called azure Jlone,
and to the blue prepared from it. But fince a blue has
been extracted from cobalt, cuftom has applied to it
the name of azure, although it differs confiderably
Azure
[ 293 ] ,A z Y.
They from the former, and is incapable of being ufed for the
fame purpofes, and particularly for painting in oil. A
The former at prefent is called lapis lazuli, or only. ^ <
lapis ; and the blue prepared from it for painting in
oil, is called ultramarine.—The name azure is gene¬
rally applied to the blue glafs made from the earth of
cobalt and vitrifiable matters. This glafs, wEich is call¬
ed fmalt when in maffes, is called azure only when
it is reduced to a fine powder. Several kinds of
azure are diftinguifhed, according to its degrees of
beauty, by the names of fne azure, powdered azure,
and azure of four fires. In general, the more in-
tenfe the colour, and the finer the pow’der, the more
beautiful and dear it is. Azure is employed to co¬
lour llarch ■, hence it has alfo been called fiarch blue.
It is ufed for painting with colours, and for a blue
enamel.
Azure, in Heraldry, the blue colour in the arms
of any perfon belowT the rank of a baron. In the ef-
cutcheon of a nobleman, it is czMeA. fapphire ; and in
that of a fovereign prince, 'jupiter. In engraving, this
colour is expreffed by lines or ilrokes drawn horizon¬
tally.—This colour may fignify Juftice, Perfeverance,
and Vigilance j but according to G. Leigh, when
compounded with
f Cheerfulnefs.
u | Vigilance,
g J Readinefs.
S® 1 Enterprife.
S } Goodnefs.
Mournfulnefs.
Upton, and his followers, rank
Or
Arg.
Gul.
Ver.
Pur.
Sab. j
French heralds, M.
this colour before gules.
AZYGOS, in Anatomy, a vein rifing within the
thorax, on the right fide, having no fellow on the
left; whence it is called azygos, or vena fine pan.
AZYMITES, in Church Hifiory, Chriftians who
adminifter the eucharirt with unleavened bread. The
word is formed from the Greek « priv. and fer¬
ment.—This appellation is given to the Latin by the
Greek church, becaufe the members of the former ufe
fermented bread in the celebration of the eucharift.
Thev alfo call the Armenians and Maronites by the
fame name, and for the fame reafon.
AZYMOUS, fomething unfermented, or made with¬
out leaven •, as unleavened bread. Sea bifcuit is of this
kind j and therefore, according to Galen, lefs wEole-
fome than bread that has been fermented.
T> THE fecond letter of the Englifh and moft other
alphabets. It is the firft confonant, and firft
mute, and its pronunciation is fuppofed to referable
the bleating of a Iheep •, upon which account Pierius
tells us in his hieroglyphics, that the Egyptians repre-
fented the found of this letter by the figure of that ani¬
mal.
B is alfo one of thofe letters which the eaftern gram¬
marians call labial, becaufe the principal organs em¬
ployed in its pronunciation are the lips. It is pronoun¬
ced
BAA
JBaal.
ced by preffing the whole length of them together,
r ' and forcing them open with a itrong breath. It has
a near affinity with the other labials P and V, and is
often ufed for P both by the Armenians and other
orientals, as in Betrus for Petrus, apfens for abfens, &.c. •,
and by the Romans for V, as in amabit for amavit,
berna for verna, &c. whence arofe that jeft of Aure-
lian on the emperor Bonofus, Non ut vivat natus ejl,
-fed ut bibat.
Plutarch obferves, that the Macedonians changed
into B, and pronounced Bilip, Berenice, &c. for Philip,
Pherenice, &c. j and thofe of Delphos ufed B inftead
of n, fix&uv for Trxiitv, /3ix.^aii for ttix-^ov, &c.—The
Latins faid fuppono, oppono, for fubpono, obpono ; and
pronounced optinuit, though they wrrote obtinuit, as
Quintilian has obferved.—They alfo ufed B for F or
Ptl : thus, in an ancient infcription mentioned by
Gruter, Obrendario, is ufed for Ofrendario.
As a numeral B w^as ufed by the Greeks and He¬
brews to denote 2 ; but among the Romans for 300,
and with a dafh over it (thus b) for 3000.
B is alfo ufed as an abbreviation. Thus B. A. Hands
for bachelor of arts ; B. L. for bachelor of law's 5 and
B. D. for bachelor of divinity. B. F. in the preface
to the decrees or fenatus confulta of the old Romans
fignified bonum faclum. In mufic, B Hands for the
tone above A ; as B11, or bB, does for B flat, or the
femitone major above A. B alfo Hands for bafs j and
B. C. for bafjo continue, or thorough bafs.
BAAL, the fame as Bel, or Belus 5 an idol of
the Chaldeans, and Phoenicians or Canaanites. The
former worffiipped Mars under this name, according
* Antiquit, to Jofephus * j who, fpeaking of Thurus the fucceflbr
lib.viii.cap. Qf Ninus, fays, “ To this Mars the Aflyrians eredled
the firH flatue, and v/orlhipped him as a god, calling
him Baali" It is probable the Phoenicians worffiipped
the fun under the name of Baal j for Jofiah, whiling
to make feme amends for the whekednefs of Manafleh,
in w'orffiipping Baal, and all the hoH of heayen, put
to death the idolatrous priefs that burnt incenfe unto
Baal, to the fun, and to the moon, and to the planets,
and to all the hof of heaven. He likewfe took away
the horfes that the kings of Judah had given to the fun,
and burnt the chariots of the fun with fre f.
The temples confecrated to this god, are called in
the Scripture Charnanim, which fignifies places enclofed
with walls in which was kept a perpetual fire. Maund-
rell, in his journey from Aleppo to Jerufalem, obferv¬
ed feme traces of thefe enclofures in Syria. In moflof
them were no flatues j in a few there wTere fome, but
of no uniform figure.
The word baal (in the Punic language), fignifies
lord or mafer; and doubtlefs meant the fupreme Deity,
the Lord and Mafler of the univerfe. It is often joined
with the name of fome falfe god, as Baal-berith, Baal-
peor, Baal-taephon, and the like. This deity pafled
from the Phoenicians to the Carthaginians, who were
a colony of the Phoenicians 5 as appears from the Car¬
thaginian names, Hannibal, Afdrubal, &c. according
to the cuflom of the eafi, where kings and great men
added to their own names thofe of their gods.
This falfe deity is frequently mentioned in Scripture
in the plural number {Baalim) ; which may fignify, ei¬
ther that the name Baal was given to feveral different
gods; or that there wTere many flatues, bearing differ-
[ 294 ]
BAB
Arnobius Baal-berith
and that „ IJ ,
Babel.
j 2 Kings
5<xiii. 5. 1
ent appellations, confecrated to this idol,
tells us, that Baal w?as of an uncertain lex
his votaries, when they called upon him, invoked him _
thus: Hear us, whether thou art a god or a goddefs.
Some learned men think, that the Baal of the Phoe¬
nicians is the Saturn of the Greeks 5 which is probable
enough from the conformity there is between the hu¬
man facrifices offered to Saturn and thofe which the
Scripture tells us were offered to Baal. Others are of
opinion, that Baal was the Phoenician or Tyrian Her¬
cules, a god of great antiquity in Phoenicia.
Baal berith, the god of the Shechemites. Bo-
chart conjectures, that Berith is the fame as Beroe,
the daughter of Venus and Adonis, who was given in
marriage to Bacchus 5 and that ffie gave her name to
the city of Berith in Phoenicia, and became afterwards
the goddefs of it. Baal-berith fignifies Lord of the co¬
venant, ffiid may be taken for the god who prefides
over alliances and oaths, in like manner as the Greeks
had their Zev? ofmog, and the Romans their Dcus Fidi-
us, or Jupiter Pifius. The idolatrous Ifraelites, we are
told, made Baal-berith their god, Judg. viii. 33.
Baal peor, Baal-phegor, or Beel-phegor, an idol
of the Moabites and Midianites. We are told, that
IJ'rael joined himfelf to Baal-peor ; and that Solomon
eredfed an altar to this idol upon the mount of Olives.
Baal-peor has been fuppofed to be no other than .a
Priapus., and that the worffiip of him confifled in the
moff obfeene pradices. Others have thought, that
as Baal is a general name fignifying Lord, Peer may
be the name of fome great prince deified after his
death. Mede imagines, that Peor being the name of
a mountain in the country of Moab, on which the tem¬
ple of Baal wTas built, Baal-peor may he only another
na-'(*e of that deity, taken from the fituation of his
temple 5 in like manner as Jupiter is flyled Olympius,
becaufe he was wmrffiipped in a temple built on Mount
Olympus. Selden, who is of this latter opinion, con-
jedures likewife, that Baal-peor is the fame with Plu¬
to ; which he grounds upon thefe words of the Pfal-
miff *, They joined ihemfelves unto Baal peor, and ate ^ pfa;mcv^
the offerings of the dead; though by the facrifces or of¬
ferings of the dead, in this paffage, may be meant no
more than facrifices or offerings made to idols, or falfe
gods, who are very properly called the dead, in con-
tradiflindion to the true God, who is fly led in Scrip¬
ture the living God.
Baal-zebub, Beel-%ebub, or Belxebub; the idol,
or god, of the Ekronites. In Scripture he is called
the Prince of Devils. Flis name is rendered the Lord
of Flies, or the God-fy ; w hich fome think was a mock
appellation beflowed on him by the Jews. He had a
famous temple and oracle at Ekron. Ahaziah king of
Ifrael, having fallen from the terrace of his houfe into
a low'er room, and being dangeroufly hurt, lent to
confult this deity, to know if he Hiould be cured of
his wounds. The worffiip of this falfe god muff have
prevailed in our Saviour’s time, fince the Jews accufed
him of driving out devils in the name of Bel%ebub
their prince. Scaliger derives the name of this deity
from Baalim-%cbahim, which fignifies the Lord of facri¬
fces.
BABBLING, among Planters, is when the hounds
are too bufy after they have found a good feent.
BABEL, a city and tower undertaken to be built
by
BAB
‘Babel, by the whole human race foon after the flood, and re-
——v ■— > markable for the miraculous fruftration of the attempt
by the confufion of languages. As to the fituation of
ancient Babel, moll authors are of opinion that it was
exaftly in the place where the celebrated city of Ba¬
bylon afterwards flood. That it was in the fame coun¬
try, appears indifputably from Scripture \ but that it
was exaftly in the fame place is what cannot be prov¬
ed, nor is it a matter of any confequence.
Authors have been much divided about the motive
by which the whole race of mankind were induced to
join as one man in fuch an undertaking. Some have
imagined that it was out of fear of a lecond deluge ;
others, that they knew beforehand that they were to be
difperfed through all the different countries of the world,
and built this tower in order to defeat the defign of
the Deity, becaufe having a tower of fuch vaft height
as they propofed, thofe who "were at a diftance could
eafily find their way back again. Had either of thefe
been their defign, however, it is probable they would
have chofen an eminence rather than a plain for the fi¬
tuation of their tower, or indeed that they wrould have
chofen fome high mountain, fuch as Ararat, for their
mark, rather than any tower at all : for though it is
faid that they defigned the top of their tower to reach
to heaven, we can fcarce fuppofe them to have been
fo abfurd, as to imagine this poflible in the fenfe we
underftand it •, and muft therefore rather take it in the
limited fenfe in which it is often ufed by Mofes and
his countrymen, wdrere they fpeak of cities walled up
to heaven. Others there are who imagine that the.
top of this tower was not to reach up to heaven, but
to be confecrated to the heavens, i. e. to the worlhip
of the fun, moon and liars ; of the fire, air, &c. and
other natural powers, as deities 5 and therefore that the
true Deity interpofed in order to prevent a total and
irrecoverable defedlion. Certain it is, that the fpecies
of idolatry which takes for the objedls of its worlhip
thofe natural agents, as it is the moll ancient, fo it is
by far the moft rational, and the moll difficult to be
difproved. It is much more difficult, for inftance, to
prove that the fun, which by his enlivening beams
gives vigour to the whole creation, is not a deity, than
that a log of wood is not one : and hence if fuch a fy-
ftem of religion became univerfally eflablilhed among
mankind, it would be impoffible ever afterwards to
eradicate it. Indeed that the fcheme of Babel, what¬
ever it was, could have been put into execution by
man, feems evident from the interpofition of the Deity
on the occafion 3 for we cannot fuppofe that he would
have worked a miracle on purpofe to defeat that which
would have defeated itfelf if he had let it alone r and
he exprefsly fays, That now nothing could be reftrain-
ed from them 3 which intimates very plainly, that, had
this fcheme gone on, the plan wffiich God had laid for
the government of the world would have been totally
fruflrated : and agreeable to this hypothefis Dr Ten-
nifon fuppofes that the tower was of a pyramidal form,
in imitation of the fpires of flame ; and that it wras
eredled in honour of the fun, as being the moft proba¬
ble caufe of drying up the flood.
As to the materials made ufe of in the building of
this tower, the Scripture informs us that they -were
bricks and flime or bitumen. According to an eaftern
tradition,, three years were taken up in making the
[ 29j, 1
BAB
bricks, each of which was 13 cubits long, to broad, ,
and five thick. Oriental writers fay, that the city was
313 fathoms in length, and 151 in breadth 3 that the
walls were 5533 fathoms high, and 33 in breadth
and that the tower itfelf W'as no lefs than 10,000 fa¬
thoms, or 12 miles high. Even St Jerome affirms
from the teftimony of eye-witneffes, who as he fays
had examined the remains of the tower, that it was
four miles high 3 but Ado makes the height to have
been no lefs than 5000 miles. The only account of
its dimenfions which can be at all depended upon (fup-
pofing it to have been the fame which afterwards flood
in the midft of the city of Babylon, and round which
Nebuchadnezzar built the temple of Belus), is that
given under the article Babylon.
BABEL MANDEL, the gate of mourning 3 a
famous ftrait in the Indian ocean, between the coaft of
Arabia Felix in Afia, and that of Adel and Zeila in
Africa, at the entrance into the Red fea. By fome it
is alfo called the Straits of Moka. It is narrow, and
difficult to fail through, on account of the fand banks.
At the mouth of the ftrait is a fmall ifiand called alfo
Babel Mandel, wffiich is little elfe than a barren rock.
E. Long. 44. 30. N. Lit. 12. 40.
BABENHAUSEN, a town of Germany in Suabia.
E. Long. 9. 16. N. Lat. 48. 39.
BABIN A,Commonwealth oF,a fociety ludicrouf-
ly fo called, wffiich w7as founded in Poland in the reign
of Sigifmund Auguftus, in the 16th century. It took
its rife from a fet of gentlemen, inhabitants of Lublin,
wffio had agreed to meet at a place called Babma,
merely for the purpofes of mirth and jollity. In time
their number increafed, and they formed themfelves
into a regular government, under the prefidency of a
king, fenate, and chief magiftrate. The magiilrates
w^ere ele£led from fomething wffiich appeared ridiculous
in the charafler or condudl of any of the members.
For inftance, if any perfon wras meddling or officious,
he was immediately created an archbifhop ; a blun¬
dering or difputatious member was promoted to the
fpeaker’s chair 3 a boafter of his own courage, and
vain-glorious Thrafo, w7as honoured ufith the commif-
fion of generaliffimo, which was prefented him wuth
great ceremony by the fubordinate heroe^. Thofe
who declined the office for which they were declared
qualified w7ere perfecuted with hillings, and abandon¬
ed by the fociety. Thus every vice and every foible
was attacked with ridicule 3 and Babina became in a
fliort time the terror, the admiration, and the re¬
former, of the Polilh nation : genius flourilhed, wdt
was cultivated, and the abufes wffiich had crept into
government and fociety were corredted by the judi¬
cious application of good humoured fatire. Never did
any inftitution of this nature become fo general or fo
ufeful 3 but at length it degenerated into a fet of buf¬
foons, and banterers of every thing facred or profane.
For feveral years it wras patronized by the kings of
Poland, and Sigifmund himfelf became a member 3
the ftarofta of Babina telling him jocularly, that
“ his majefty had certain qualities wffiich entitled him
to the firft dignitv in the commonwealth”. Not
the leaft remnant of the fociety now7 remains, though
it was honoured with extraordinary privileges by kings
and emperors.
BABINGTON, Gervase, bilhop of Worcefter*
was
Babel
mandcl
BAB [ 296 j BAB
Baboon, ^as born, according to Fuller, in Nottinghamlhire ;
, Babylon. but In what year is uncertain. He was fent to Tri¬
nity College, Cambridge, of which he was made fellow;
and, in 1578, was incorporated mafter of arts at Ox¬
ford. He appears, however, to have made Cambridge
the place of his refidencs;, where he became an eminent
preacher ; and, being now doftor in divinity, was made
domeilic chaplain to Henry earl of Pembroke. In this
fhttion he is fuppofed to have affifted the countefs in
her tranflation of the Pfalms. In 1588 he was inlf ailed
prebend of Hereford, and in 1591 confecrated bilhop
of Landalf. In 1564 he was translated to the fee of
Exeter, and thence to Worcefter in 1597. About
this time, or foon after, he was made queen’s counfel
for the marfhes of Wales. He was a confiderable be¬
nefactor to the library belonging to the cathedral of
Worcefter, where he was buried in May 1610 with¬
out a monument. The feveral hiftorians who have
mentioned this prelate agree in giving him the cha-
ra&er of a learned and pious man. His writings, like
thofe of moft of his cotemporaries, abound with puns
and quaint expreflions. His works were printed both
in folio and quarto in 1615, and again in folio in 1637,
under this title : The works of the right reverend father
in God Gervafe Babington, late hifhop of Worcfier, con¬
taining comfortable notes upon the five books of Mofes,
viz. Gencfis, isfe. As alfo an expofition upon the Creed,
the Ten Commandments, the Lord's Prayer ; with a con¬
ference betwixt man's frailtie and faith, and three fer-
mons, is’e.
BABOON, in Zoology. See Simia, Mammalia
Index.
BABYLON, the capital of the ancient kingdom of
Babylonia or Chaldea, and fuppofed to have flood in
E. Long. 44. o. N. Lat. 32.0. Semiramis is faid by
fome, and Belus by others, to have founded this city.
But, by whomfoever it was founded, Nebuchadnezzar
was the perfon who put the laft hand to it, and made
it one of the wonders of the world. The moft famous
works in and about it were the walls of the city, the
temple of Belus, Nebuchadnezzar’s palace, the hang-
ing-gardens, the banks of the river, the artificial lake,
x and canals.
City de- The city was furrounded with walls, in thicknefs 87
feribed. feet, in height 3 50 feet, and in compafs 480 furlongs
or 60 of our miles. Thus Herodotus, who was him-
felf at Babylon ; and though fome difagree with him in
thefe dimenfions, yet moft writers give us the fame, or
nearly the fame, as he does. Diodorus Siculus dimi-
nifhes the circumference of thefe walls very confidera-
bly, and takes fomewhat from the height of them, as
in Herodotus ; though he feems to add 19 their breadth
by faying, that fix chariots might drive abreaft thereon:
-while the former writes, that one chariot only might
turn upon them; but then he places buildings on each
fide of the top of thefe walls, which, according to him,
were but one ftory high ; which may pretty well recon¬
cile them together in this refpefl. It is obferved, that
thofe who give the height of thefe walls but at 50 cu¬
bits, fpeak of them only as they were after the time
of Darius Hyftafpis, who had caufed them to be beaten
down to that level. Thefe walls formed an exadl fquare,
each fide of which was 120 furlongs, or 15 miles, in
length ; and were all built of large bricks cemented to¬
gether with bitumen, which in a fhort time grows harder
I
than the very brick and ftone which it cements. The Babylon.
city was encompafled, without the walls, with a vaft'   
ditch filled with water, and lined wnth bricks on both
fides ; ^nd, as the earth that was dug out of it ferved
to make the bricks, we may judge of the depth and
largenefs of the ditch from the height and thicknefs of
the walls. In the whole compafs of the wall there were
100 gates, that is, 25 on each of the four fides, all
made of lolid brafs. Between every two of thefe gates,
at proper diftances, were three towers, and four more
at the four corners of this great fquare, and three be¬
tween each of thefe corners and the next gate on either
fide, and each of thefe towers was ten feet higher than
the walls. But this is to be underftood only of thofe
parts of the walls where towers were needful for de¬
fence. For fome parts of them being upon a morafs,
and inacceflible by an enemy, there the labour and cofl
was fpared, which, though it muft have fpoiled the fym-
metry of the whole, muft be allowed to have favoured
of good ceconomy ; though that is what one would not
have expeded from a prince who had been fo deter¬
mined, as Nebuchadnezzar murt have been, to make
the city complete both for ftrength and beauty. The
whole number, then, of thefe towers amounted to no
more than 250; whereas a much greater number would
have been necellary to have made the uniformity com¬
plete all round. From each of the 25 gates on each fide
of this fquare, there w7as a ftraight ftreet, extending to
the correfponding gate in the oppofite wall; whence the
whole number of the ftreets muft have been but ;o ;
but then they were each about 15 miles long, 25 of
them crofting the other 25 exadly at right angles.
Befides thefe wdrole ftreets, we muft reckon four half
ftreets, which were but rows of houfes facing the four
inner fides of the wTalls. Thefe four half ftreets were
properly the four fides of the city within the walls,
and were each of them 200 feet broad, the whole
ftreets being about 150 of the fame. By this inter-
fedion of the 50 ftreets, the city was divided into
676 fquares, each of four furlongs and a half on each
fide, or two miles and a quarter in compafs. Round
thefe fquares, on every fide towards the ftreets, flood
the houfes, all of three or four ftories in height, and
beautified with all manner of ornaments ; and the fpace
within each of thefe fquares was all void, and taken
up by yards, or gardens, and the like, either for plea-
fure or convenience.
A branch of the Euphrates divided the city into
two, running through the midft of it, from north to
fouth ; over which, in the very middle of the city, was
a bridge, a furlong in length, or rather more ; and in¬
deed much more, if we hearken to others, w’ho fay it was
no lefs than five ftades or furlongs in length, though
but 30 feet broad, a difference we (hall never be able
to decide. This bridge, hoxvever, is faid to have been
built with wonderful art, to fupply a defedt in the bot¬
tom of the river, which w?as all landy. At each end
of this bridge were two palaces : the old palace on the
eaft fide, the new one on the weft fide of the river ; the
former of which took up four of the fquares above-
mentioned, and the latter nine. The temple of Belus,
which flood next to the old palace, took up another of
the fame fquares.
The whole city flood in a large flat or plain, in a
very fat and deep foil: that part or half of it on the
eaft
BAB
'Was never
fully peo¬
pled,
iMiyldn. call; Tide of the river was the old city, and the other
on the wefl: was added by Nebuchadnezzar, both being
included within the vaft fquare bounded by the walls
aforefaid. The form of the whole was feemingly bor¬
rowed from Nineveh, which was alfo 480 furlongs •,
but though it was equal in dimenfions to this city, it
was lefs with refpedt to its form, which was a paralle¬
logram, whereas that of Babylon was an exaft fquare.
It is fuppofedj that Nebuchadnezzar, who had dellroy-
ed that old feat of the Affyrian empire, propofed that
this newr one fliould rather exceed it 5 and that it was
in order to fill it with inhabitants, that he tranfport-
ed fuch numbers of the captives from other countries
hither; though that is what may be difputed, feeing
he therein only followed the conftant practice of the
kings of Aflyria, who thought this the moft certain
means of enfuring their conquelts either to themfelves
or their polterity.
But it plainly appears, that it was never wholly in¬
habited ; fo that, even in the meridian of its glory, it
may be compared with the flow'er of the field, which
nourifhes to-day, and to-morrow is no more. It never
had time to grow up to wdiat Nebuchadnezzar vifi-
bly intended to have made it $ for, Cyrus removing
the feat of the empire foon after to Shulhan, Baby¬
lon fell by degrees to utter decay : yet it mull be
owned, that no country wras better able to fupport fo
vail and populous a city, had it been completed up
to its firfl defign. But fo far wras it from being finifh-
ed according to its original defign, that, when Alex¬
ander came to Babylon, Q^Curtius tells us, “ No
more than 90 furlongs of it were then builtwhich
can be no otherwife underflood than of fo much in
length •, and, if we allow the breadth to be as much
as the length (which is the utmoll that can be allows
ed), it will follow, that no more than 8100 fquare
furlongs were then built upon : but the w hole fpace
Within the W'alls contained 14,400 fquare furlongs j
and therefore there mull have been 6300 fquare fur¬
longs remaining unbuilt, which, Curtius tells us, were
ploughed and fown. And, befides this, the houfes wTere
not contiguous, but all built with a void fpace on each
fide, between houfe and houfe.
The next great work of Nebuchadnezzar was the
temple of Belus. The wonderful tower, however, that
flood in the middle of it, was not his work, but w’as
built many ages before j that, and the famous tower
of Babel, being, as is commonly fuppofed, one and
the fame flruclure. This tow-er is faid to have been
compofed of eight pyramidal ones raifed above one
another, and by Herodotus faid to have been a furlong
in height ; but as there is an ambiguity in his expref-
fion, it has been difputed whether each of the towTers
was a furlong in height, or the whole of them taken
together. On the latter fuppofition, xvhich is the
moil probable, this towrer mufl have exceeded the highefl
of the Egyptian pyramids by 179 feet, though it fell
fhort of its-breadth at the bafis by 33. The way to
go up was by flairs on the outfide round it j whence it
feems moil likely, that the wdiole afcent was, by the
benching in, drawn in a Hoping line from the bottom
to the top eight times round it 5 and that this made
the appearance of eight towers, one above the other.
I ill the times of Nebuchadnezzar, it is thought this
tower wras all the temple of Belus: but as he did by
Vol. III. Part I.
[ 297 I
BAB
Temple of
.Belus.
the other ancient buildings of the city, fo he did by Babylon
this, making great additions thereto, by vafl edifices —
erefled round it, in a fquare of two furlongs on every
fide, and jufl a mile in circumference, which exceeded
the fquare at the temple of Jerufalem by 1800 feet.
On the outfide of thefe buildings w7as a wall, which en-
clofed the whole ; and, in confideration of the regu¬
larity wherewith this city was to all appearance marked
out, it is fuppofed, that this wall was equal to the
fquare of the city wherein it flood, and fo is concluded
to have been two miles and a half in circumference.
In this rvall Were feveral gates leading into the temple,
and all of folid brals j which it is thought may have
been made out of the brazen fea, and brazen pillars,
and other veffels and ornaments of the kind, which
Nebuchadnezzar had tranfported from Jerufalem ; for
in this temple he is faid to have dedicated his fpoils
from that of Jerufalem. 4
In this temple were feveral images or idols of mafiy Idols of
gold, and one of them, as we have feen, 40 feet inSold* &c*
height; the fame, as fuppofed, with that which Ne¬
buchadnezzar confecrated in the plains of Dura. . For
though this lafl is faid to have been 60 cubits, or
90 feet high, thefe dimenfions appear fo incredible,
that it has been attempted to reconcile them into
one, by fuppofing, that in the 90 feet the height of
the pedeifal is included, and that the 40 feet are for
the height of the ftatue without the pedeftal 5 and
being faid to have weighed 1000 talents of Babylon,
it is thence computed, that it was worth three milions
and a half of our money. In a word, the whole weight
of the ftatues and decorations, in Diodorus Siculus,
amounting to ycoo and odd talents in gold, the whole
is eflimated at above 2i,ooo,oool. of our money; and
a fum about equal to the fame, in tieafure, utenfils,
and ornaments, not mentioned, is allowed for.
Next to this temple, on the call fide of the river,
flood the old palace of the kings of Babylon, being four
miles in circumference. Exactly oppofite to it, on the
other fide of the river, was the new palace built by
Nebuchadnezzar, eight miles in circumference, and con-
fequently four times as big as the old one.
But nothing was more wonderful at Babylon than Hanging
the hanging-gardens, which Nebuchadnezzar made in gardens,
complaifance to his wife Amyte; who, being a Mede,
and retaining a flrong inclination for the mountains
and forells of her own country, was defirous of having
fomething like them at Babylon. They are faid to
have contained a fquare of four plethra, or 400 feet,
on each fide ; and to have confided of terraces one
above another, carried up to the height of the wall of
the city, the afcent from terrace to terrace being by
fleps ten feet wide. The whole pile confided of fub-
dantial arches upon arches, and was drengthened by
a wall furrounding it on every fide, 22 feet thick; and
the floors on each of them were laid in this order ;
fird, on the tops of the arches was laid a bed or pave¬
ment of dones 16 feet long, and four feet broad ; over
this was a layer of reed mixed with a great quantity
of bitumen; and over this two courfes of brick, clofely
cemented together with plader; and over all thefe were
thick flieets of lead, and on thefe the earth or mould'
of the garden. This floorage was defigned to retain
the moidure of the mould ; which was fo deep, as to
give root to the greated trees which were planted up-
P p \ on
t
Babylon.
6
Bmks of
the river,
canals, Sec.
BAB [ 298 ] BAB
en every terrace, together with great variety of other
vegetables pleafing to the eye. Upon the uppermoft
of thefe terraces was a refervoir, fupplied by a certain
engine with water from the river, from whence the
gardens on the other terraces were fupplied.
The other works attributed to Nebuchadnezzer by
Berofus and Abydenus, were the banks of the river,
the artificial canals, and the great artificial lake faid
to have been funk by Semiramis. The canals were cut
out on the eaft fide of the Euphrates, to convey the
water of the river, when it overflowed its banks, into
the Tigris, before 'they reached Babylon. The lake
was on the weft fide of Babylon and, according to
the loweft computation, 40 miles fquare, 160 in com-
pafs, and in depth 35 feet, as we read in Herodo¬
tus, or 75, as Megafthenes will have it 5 the former,
perhaps, meafured from the furface of the fides, and
the latter from the tops of the banks that were caft
up upon them. This lake was dug to receive the wa¬
ters of the river, while the banks were building on
each fide of it. But both the lake, and the canal
which led to it, were preferved after that work was
completed, being found of great ufe, not only to pre¬
vent all overflowings, but to keep water all the year, as
in a common refervoir, to be let out, on proper occa-
fions, by fluices, for the improvement of the land.
The banks were built of brick and bitumen, on
both fides of the river, to keep it within its channel •,
and extended on each fide throughout the whole length
of the city, and even farther, according to fome, who
reckon they extended 160 furlongs, or twenty miles 5
whence it is concluded they muft have begun two miles
and a half above the city, and have been continued
an equal diftance below it, the length of the city being
no more than 15 miles. Within the city they were
built from the bottom of the river, and of the fame
thicknefs with the walls of the city itfelf. Oppofite
to each ftreet, on either fide of the river, was a brazen
gate in the laid wall, with flairs leading down from it
to the river : thefe gates were open by day, and ftiut
by night.
Berofus, Megafthenes, and Abydenus, attribute all
thefe works to Nebuchadnezzar •, but Herodotus tells
us, the bridge, the banks, and the lake, were the
work of a queen after him, called Nitocris, who may
have finfthed what Nebuchadnezzar left imperfect, and
thence have had the honour this hiftorian gives her of
the whole.
The tower or temple flood till the time of Xerxes.
But that prince, on his return from the Grecian expe¬
dition, having firft plundered it of its immenfe wealth,
demolifhed the whole, and laid it in ruins. Alexan¬
der, on his return to Babylon from his Indian expedi¬
tion, propofed to rebuild it, and accordingly fet 10,000
men to work to clear away the rubbifh. But his
death happening foon after, a flop wras put to all fur¬
ther proceedings in that defign. After the death of
that conqueror, the city of Babylon began to decline
apace j which was chiefly owing to the neighbourhood
of Seleucia, built by Zeleucus Nicator, as is faid, out
of fpite to the Babylonians, and peopled with 500,000
perfons drawn from Babylon, which by that means con¬
tinued declining till the very people of the country
were at a lofs to tell where it had flood.
Such is the defeription we have by ancient hiftorians
of the grandeur of this city ; which, if thefe accounts Babylon.
are not exaggerated, muft have exceeded every piece of v ■" '-r
human grandeur that hath yet appeared. Many of
the moderns, however, are of opinion that thefe mag¬
nificent deferiptions are very far from being true ; al¬
though it is certain that few other arguments can be
brought againft the reality of them, than that we do
not fee things of a fimilar kind executed in our own
days. The following are the arguments ufed on this
fubjeft by the prefent Goguet.
“ Authors have greatly extolled the public works
and edifices which once rendered Babylon one of the
wonders of the wmrld. We may reduce all thefe ob-
jefts to five principal heads : 1. the height of its walls;
2. the temple of Belusj 3. the hanging gardens j 4. the
bridge built over the river Euphrates, and the quays
w'hich lined the river •, 5. the lake and canals dug by
the hand of man to diftribute the waters of the Eu¬
phrates. y
“ All thefe works, fo marvellous in the judgment of Goguet’s
antiquity, appear to me to have been extremely exag- arguments
gerated by the authors who have fpoke of them. How
can we conceive, in effeft, that the walls of Babylon foreao;ng
could have been 318 feet high, and 81 in thicknefs, in relation,
a compafs of near ten leagues ?
“ I ihall fay the fame of that fquare building, known
under the name of the temple of Be/us. It was com.
pofed of eight towers placed one above another, di-
minifhing always as they went up. Herodotus does
not tell us what was the height of this monument.
Diodorus fays, that it furpaifed all belief. Strabo
fixes it to one ftadium, a meafure which anfwers nearly
to 600 of our feet. For in the time of this geogra¬
pher the ftadia were much more coufiderable than in
the firft ages. The entire mafs of this building ought
to have been anfwerable to its exceflive height; and this
is alfo the idea that the ancients defigned to give us
of it. We may judge by the following faift. Xerxes
had entirely demoliftied this temple. Alexander under¬
took to rebuild it. He defigned to begin by clearing
the place and removing the ruins. Ten thoufand work¬
men who were employed two months in this work, were
not, fay they, able to finifti it.
“ The riches enclofed in the temple of Belus were pro¬
portioned to its immenfity. Without fpeaking of the
tables and cenfers, the cups and other facred vafes, of
mafiy gold, there was a ftatue 40 feet high, which
alone weighed 1000 Babyloniftr talents. In fhort, ac¬
cording to the inventory that the ancients have given
us of the riches contained in this temple, the total fum
would amount to twm hundred and twenty millions and
a half of French livres. Exaggerations like thefe de-
ftroy themielves.
“ As to the hanging gardens, according to all ap¬
pearance they never exifted. The fiience of Herodotus
on a work fo Angular and fo remarkable, determines
one to place in the rank of fables all that the other
waiters have, delivered upon this pretended wonder,.
Herodotus had carefully vifited Babylon. He enters
into fuch details as prove that he has omitted none of
the rarities of that city. Can wre prefume that he
wmuld have palled over in fiience fuch a work as the
hanging gardens? All the authors who have fpoken of
it are of much later date than this great hiftorian.
None of them except Berofus fpeaks on his own teftk
mony.
Babylon,
Babylonia.
BAB
mony. It is always on the report of others,
had extracted from Ctefias what he fays of thefe famous
gardens. There is alfo great appearance that Strabo
had drawn from the fame fource. In a word, the
manner in which Quintius Curtius expreffes himfelf,
fufficiently (hows how much the exiftence of thefe
gardens appeared to him fufpicious. He judged they
owed the greatelt part of it to the imagination of the
Greeks.
“ Let us now fpeak of the bridge of Babylon, which
the ancients have placed in the number of the moft
marvellous works of the eaft. It was near too fathoms
in length, and almoil four in breadth. We cannot
deny but that a great deal of art and labour was ne-
ceifary to lay the foundations, which it could not be
eafy to fettle in the bed of an extremely deep and ra¬
pid river, which alfo rolls along a prodigious quantity
of mud, and whofe botttom is entirely fandy. They had
therefore taken many precautions to fecure the piers
of the bridge of Babylon. .They were built of Hones
joined and faftened together with cramps of iron, and
their joints filled with melted lead. The front of the
piers, turned towards the current of the Euphrates,
was defended by buttrefies extremely advanced, which
diminilhed the weight and force of the water, by
cutting it at a great diftance. Such was the bridge of
Babylon. *
“ While we do juftice to the {kill of the Babylonians
in conducing thefe works, we cannot help remarking
the bad tafte which at all times reigned in the works
of the eaftern nations. The bridge of Babylon furnilh-
es a ftriking inftance of it. This edifice was abfolute-
ly without grace, or any air of majefly. The breadth
of it was in no fort of proportion to its length. The
diftance between the piers was alfo very ill contrived.
They were diftant from each other only 11 feet and a
half. Finally, this bridge was not arched. We may
judge of its effedft on the view.
“ The Babylonians, however, were not the only
people who were ignorant of the art of turning an
arch. This fecret, as far as I can find, was unknown
to all the people of remote antiquity, who, generally
fpeaking, do not appear to have been very Ikilful in
ftone-cutting.
“ As for the quays which lined the Euphrates, we
may believe that they were grand and magnificent;
but I (hall not eafily believe that they furpaffed thofe
which we have daily under our eye. In this refpeft,
I believe Paris may difpute it for magnificence, and
for the extent of the work, wdth all the cities of the
univerfe.”
Babylon, a town of Egypt near the eaftmoft branch
of the river Nile, now fuppofed to be Grand Cairo,
or this city to Hand near its ruins. E. Long. zi. 12.
N. Lat. 30. 5.
BABYLONIA, or Chaldea, a kingdom of Afia,
and the moft ancient in the world, being founded by
Nimrod the grandfon of Ham, who alfo, according to
the margin of ©ur Bibles, founded Nineveh the capital
of the kingdom of Aflyria. Indeed, thefe two king¬
doms feem to have ahvays continued in fuch a ftate of
friendfhip, that we can fcarce help thinking they muft
have been the fame, or perhaps Babylonia was for fome
time a province of Aflyria. Nothing certain is known
concerning either of them, except what may be ga-
[ 299 ] BAB
Diodorus thered from Scripture. From thence we learn, that in Babylonia.
the days of Abraham there was a king of Shinar, call-' y——J
ed Amraphel, who, under the king of Elam or Perfia,
made war upon the Canaanites. From this time we
have nothing that can be depended upon till the days
of Nabonafler, the firft king of Babylon mentioned in
Ptolemy’s canon. It is plain, indeed, both from Scrip¬
ture and profane hiftory, that Babylonia fubfifted as a
diftindl kingdom from Aflyria even when the latter
was in all its glory. The moft probable account of
the matter is this : The empire of Aflyria was found¬
ed by Pul, on the ruins of that of Damafcus or Syria,
in the days of Menahem king of Judah. This king
left two fons, Tiglath-Pileler, and Nabonafler. To
the former he bequeathed the empire of Aflyria, and
to the latter that of Babylon. Tiglath-Pilefer refided
at Nineveh, the original feat of the Aflyrian empire $
while Nabonafler, who was the younger brother, held
his refidence at Babylon. As the two kingdoms were
governed by princes of the fame family, we may well
fuppofe a perfedt harmony to have reigned between
them, the younger branch at Babylon acknowdedging
a kind of fubjedlion to the elder at Nineveh. That the
Babylonian empire wras of Aflyrian origin, we are af~
fured by the prophet Ifaiah, in the following words ;
“ Behold the land of the Chaldeans : this people was
not till the Aflyrian founded it for them that dwelt in
the wildernefs ; they fet up the towers thereof; they
built the palace thereof.” As to the kingdom of Af-
fyria, the Scripture mentions only five kings, viz. Pul,
Tiglath-Pilefer, Shalmanafer, Sennacherib, and Efar-
haddon j whofe hiftory, as related by the facred writers,
it is needlels to mention particularly here. From the
days of Nabonafler to Nabopolafler, that is, from the
year before Chrift 747 to 626, the kings of Babylon
made no figure, and were therefore probably in a ftate
of dependence on the kings of Aflyria \ but at that
time, in the reign of Chyniladan, the Sardanapalus of
the Greeks, Nineveh was taken and deftroyed by the
Medes and Babylonians, and the feat of the empire
transferred to Babylon. This Nabopokffler was the
father of the famous Nebuchadnezzar, for wdiofe hifto¬
ry we muft refer to the facred writers; and from his
time to that of the Beljha^xar of Daniel, and Nabona-
dius of other authors, the hiftory of Babylon is little
better than a mere blank. Of the redutfion of Baby¬
lon by Cyrus, which happened at this time, wre have
the following account.
War had been begun betwrixt the Medes, Perfians,
and Babylonians, in the reign of Nerigliflar the father
of Nabonadius, which had been carried on with very
bad fuccefs on the fide of the Babylonians. Cyrus, who
commanded the Median and Perfian army, having fub-
dued the feveral nations inhabiting the great continent
from the Aegean fea to the Euphrates, bent his march
towards Babylon. Nabonadius, hearing of his march,
immediately advanced againft him with an army. In
the engagement which enfued, the Babylonians were
defeated 5 and the king, retreating to his metropolis,
was blocked up and clofely befieged by Cyrus. The
redu&ion of this city was no eafy enterprife. The
walls were of a prodigious height, the number of men
to defend them very great, and the place ftored with
all forts of provifions for 20 years. Cyrus, defpairing
of being able to take fuch a city by ftorm, caufed a line
P p a of
BAB [ 300 ’ ] BAB
Babylonia, of clrcumvallation to be drawn quite round it, with a
v ' ' large and deep ditch ; reckoning, that if all communi¬
cation with the country were cut off, the belieged
would be obliged to furrender through famine. That
his troops might not be too much fatigued, he divided
his army into twelve bodies, appointing each body its
month to guard the trenches 5 but the befieged, look¬
ing upon themfelves to be out of all danger by reafon
of their- high walls and magazines, infulted him from
the ramparts, and looked upon all the trouble he gave
himfelf as fo much unprofitable labour.
After Cyrus had fpent two whole years before Ba¬
bylon, without making any progrefs in the fiege, he at
laff thought of the following ftratagem, which put him
in poffellion of it. He was informed, that a great an¬
nual folemnity was to be held at Babylon 5 and that
the inhabitants on that occafion were accuflomed to
fpend the wdiole night in drinking and debauchery.
This he therefore thought a proper time, for furprifing
them ; and accordingly fent a llrong detachment to
the head of the canal leading to the great lake, with
orders, at a certain time, to break down the great
bank which was between the lake and the canal, and
to turn the whole current into the lake. At the fame
time he appointed one body of troops at the place
where the river entered the city, and another where it
came out 5 ordering them to march in by the bed of
the river as foon as they Ihould find it fordable. To¬
wards the evening he opened the head of the trenches
on both Tides the river above the city, that the water
might difcharge itfelf into them ; by which means, and
the breaking down of the great dam, the river was
foon drained. Then the two above-mentioned bodies
of troops, according to their orders, entered the chan¬
nel 5 the one commanded by Gobryas and the other by
Gadates : and finding the gates all left open by reafon
of the diforders of that riotous night, they penetrated
into the very heart of the city without oppofition 5 and
meeting, according to agreement, at the palace, they
lurprifed the guards, and cut them in pieces. Thofe
who were in the palace opening the gates to know the
caufe of this confufion, the Periians ruihed in, took the
palace, and killed the king, who came out to meet
them fword in hand. Thus an end was put to the Ba¬
bylonian empire •, and Cyrus took poffeffion of Baby¬
lon for one called in Scripture Darius the Mode, moll
probably Cyaxares II. uncle to Cyrus. From this time
Babylonia never was eredted into a diftindl kingdom,
but hath always followed the fortune of thofe great
conquerors who at different times have appeared in A-
lia. It is now’ frequently the objedt of contention be¬
tween the Turks and Perfians. See Assyria.
Concerning the nature of the country, manners, cu-
ffoms, &c. of the ancient Babylonians, the following
account is colledled by M. Sabbathier.
“ As all the nations under the dominion of Cyrus,
befide the ordinary tributes, w’ere obliged to maintain
him and his army, the monarch and his troops were
iupported by all Alla. The country of Babylon alone
was obliged to maintain him four months of the year ;
its fertility, therefore, yielded a third of the produce
of Alia. The government of this country, which the
Perfians termed fatrapy, was richer and more exten-
five than any of the reft. It maintained for the king,
befides the w.ar-horfes, a ftud of 8co ftallions, and
16,000 mares. So great a number of Indian dogs Baby!
were likewife bred in this province for the king, that
four of its cities kept thofe animals \ and in return,
they w7ere exempted from all taxes and tributes.
“ It rained very feldom in this country, according
to Herodotus. The earth was watered by the river,
which w7as here diffufed by human induftry, as the
Nile is over Egypt by nature j for all the country of
Babylon w’as divided by canals, the greateft of w’hich
w*as navigable, and flowed from fouth to north, from
the Euphrates to the Tigris. In fiiort, it w7as one of
the fineft countries for corn in the w’orld $ but for pro¬
ducing trees, the fig-tree, the vine, and the olive, it
was not famous. It was fo luxuriant in grain, that it
commonly yielded a hundred times more than what
was Town } and in good years it yielded three hun¬
dred times more than it received. The leaves of its
wheat and barley were four inches broad. ‘ Though
I know7,’ fays Herodotus, ‘ that the millet and the fe-
fame of that country grow’ to the fize of trees, I will
not deferibe them particularly 5 left thole who have
not been in Babylonia fliould think my account fabu¬
lous.’
“ They had no oil but what they made from Indian
corn. The country abounded with palm-trees, which
grew fpontaneouily ; and moft of them bore fruit, of
w’hich the inhabitants made bread, wine, and honey
They cultivated thefe trees and their fig-trees in the
fame manner. Some of them, as of other trees, the
Greeks called male ones. They tied the fruit of the
male to the trees which bore dates; that thp mofquito,
leaving the male, might caufe the date to ripen, by pe¬
netrating it 5 for without that afliftance it came not to
maturity. Mofquitos bred in the male palms as in the
wild fig-trees.
“ But w7e muft not here omit to giv an account of
the peculiar and furprifing conftruftion of their boats
of fkins, in which they failed along the river to Baby¬
lon. Thefe boats rvere invented by the Armenians,
whofe country lay north from Babylonia. They made
them with poles of willow, which they bent, and co¬
vered with fkins; the bare fide of the fkins they put
outw ards; and they made them fo tight, that they re-
fembled boards. The boats had neither prow nor
ftern, but were of a round form like a buckler. They
put ftraw on the bottom. Two men, each with an
oar, rowed them down the river, laden wfith different
wrares, but chiefly with palm wine. Of thefe boats
fome were very large, and fome very fmall-. The lar-
geft carried the w’eight of 500 talents. There was
room for an afs in one of their fraall boats 5 they put
many into a large one. When they had unloaded, af¬
ter their arrival at Babylon, they fold the poles of their
boats and the ftraw ; and loading their affes with the
fkins, returned to Armenia : for they could not fail up
the river, its current was fo rapid. For this reafon
they made their boats of fkins, inftead of wood 5 and
on their return to Armenia with their affes, they ap¬
plied the fkins to their former ule.
“ As to their drefs, they wore a linen fhirt, which
came down to their feet. Over it they wore a W'ool-
len robe ; their outer garment was a w hite veft. Their
fhoes refembled thofe of the Thebans. They let their
hair grow7. On their heads they wore a turban. They
rubbed their bodies all over with fragrant liquors.
Each
B A E [3
Each man had a ring on his finger, and an elegant cane
in his hand, with an apple at the top, or a rofe, a lily,
or an eagle, or feme other figure ; for they were not
fuffered to ufe canes without devices.
“ With regard to their policy, Herodotus thinks
that their bell: law was one which the Heneti, an Il¬
lyrian people, likewife obferved in every town and vil¬
lage. When the girls were marriageable, they were or¬
dered to meet in a certain place, where the young men
likewife afletnbled. They were then fold by the public
crier : but he firft fold the molt beautiful one. When
he had fold her at an immenfe price, he put up others
to fale, according to their degrees of beauty. The rich
Babylonians were emulous to carry off the finell wo¬
men, who were fold to the higheff bidders. But as the
young men who were poor could not afpire to have fine
women, they were content to take the uglieft with the
money which was given them : for when the crier had
fold the handfomeft, he ordered the uglieft of all the
women to be brought ; and alked, if any one was will¬
ing to take her with a fmall fum of money. Thus {he
became the wife of him who was moft eafily fatisfied •,
and thus the fineft women were fold } and from the
money which they brought, fmall fortunes were given
to the uglieft, and to thofe who had any bodily in¬
firmity. A father could not marry his daughter as
he pleafed ; nor wTas he who bought her allowed to
take her home, without giving fecurity that he would
marry her. But, after the iale, if the parties were
not agreeable to each other, the law enjoined that the
purchafe-money fhould be reftored. The inhabitants of
any of their towns were permitted to marry wives at
thefe au&ions. Such were the early cuftoms of the
Babylonians. \
“ But they afterwards made a law, which prohi¬
bited the inhabitants of different towns to intermarry,
and by which hufbands were punivhed for treating their
wives ill. When they had become poor by the ruin of
their metropolis, fathers ufed to proftitute their daugh¬
ters for gain. There was a fenfible cuftom among the
Babylonians, worthy to be related. They brought
their fick into the forum, to confult thofe who palled
on their difeafes $ for they had no phyficians. They
alked thofe who approached the fick, if they ever had
the fame diftemper ? If they knew any one who had
it ? and how he was cured ? Hence, in this country,
every one who faw a fick perfon was obliged to go to
him and inquire into his diftemper.
“ They embalmed their dead with honey; and their
mourning was like that of the Egyptians.
“ There were three Babylonian tribes, who lived
only upon fifli, and who prepared them in the fol¬
lowing manner: they dried them in the fun, and
then beat them in a mortar to a kind of flour, which
after they had fifted through linen, they baked it in rolls.
“ The Babylonians at firft worfliipped only the fun
and the moon ; but they foon multiplied their divini¬
ties. They deified Baal, Bel, or Belus, one of their
kings, and Merodach-Baladan-. They alfo worftiipped
Venus, under the name of Mylitta. She and Belus
wrere the principal deities of the Babylonians. They
counted their day from funrife to funrife. They fo-
lemnized five days of the year with great magnificence,
and almoft the fame ceremonies with which the Ro¬
mans celebrated their Saturnalia,
>i ] BAG
“ The Babylonians were very much addicted to ju¬
dicial aftrology. Their priefts who openly profeffed
that art, were obliged to commit to writing all the
events of the lives of their illuftrious men ; and on a
fancied conned!km between thofe events and the mo¬
tions of the heavenly bodies, the principles of their
art were founded. They pretended that tome of their
books, in which their hiftorical tranfadlions and re¬
volutions were accurately compared with the courfes.
of the ftars, were thoufands of years old. This af-
fertion of their judicial aftrologers we may reafon-
ably difpute ; but that their aftronomers had made a
long feries of obfervation, is inconteftably true. It is
certain that fome of thofe obfervations were extant in
the days of Ariftotle, and that they were older than
the empire of the Babylonians.” See Hijlory of Astro¬
nomy.
BABYLONIAN, Babylonius, is ufed in fome
ancient writers for an aftrologer, or any thing related
to aftrology. Hence Babylonia cura, the art of caft-
ing nativities ; and nnmeri Babylonii, the computation
ol aftrologers.
BABYLONICA texta, a rich fort of weavings,
or hangings, denominated from the city Babylon,
where the practice of interweaving divers colours in
their hangings firft obtained. Hence alfo Babylonic
garments, Babylonic {kins, Babylonic carpets, hou-
fings, &c. Babylonic folana, coverings laid over
couches, &c. painted with gold, purple, and other co¬
lours.
BABYLONICS, BABYLONICA, in Natural Hifloryy
a fragment of the ancient hiftory of the world, ending
at 267 years before Chrift ; and compofed by Berofus,
or Beroffus, a prieft of Babylon, about the time of
Alexander. Babylonics are fometimes alfo cited in an¬
cient writers by the title of Chaldaics. The Babylonics
were very confonant with Scripture, as Jofepbus and
the ancient Chriftian chronologers affure ; whence the
author is ufually fuppofed to have confulted the Jewiftv
writers. Berofus fpeaks of an univerfal deluge, an ark,
&c. He reckons ten generations between the firft
man and the deluge ; and marks the duration of the
feveral generations by far01, or periods of 223 lunar
months; which reduced to years, differ not much
from the chronology of Moles.— The Babylonics con-
fifted of three books, including the hiftory of the an-r
cient Babylonians, Medes, &c. But only a few im~
perfefl extracts are now remaining of the work ; pre¬
ferred chiefly by Jofephus and Syncellus, where all
the paffages of citatioris of ancient authors out of Be¬
rofus are colle&ed with great exaflnefs. Annius of
Viterbo, to fupply the lofs, forged a complete Berofus
out of his own head. The world has not thanked him
for the impofture.
BABYROUSSik, in 'Zoology, a fynonime of a fpe-
cies of fus. See Sus, Mammalia Index.
BAG, in Navigation, is ufed for a praam, or ferry¬
boat. *
Bac, in Brewing, a large flat kind of tub, or vef-
fel, wherein the wort is put to itand and cool be¬
fore boiling. The ingredients of beer pafs through
three kinds of veffels. They are malked in one,
worked in another, and cooled in a third called bacs
or coolers.
Bac, in DiJUllery, veffels into which the liquor to
BAG [ 3°2 ] BAG
Bac
II
Bacchana
lia.
be fermented is pumped from the cooler, in order to be
worked with yeft.
BAC-Maker, is one who makes liquor-bacs, under-
j bacs, coolers, mafh-tuns, working-tuns, &c. for the
brewers. The workmanlhip is partly* carpentry, in a
particular manner, for it muft be tight enough to hold
liquor j and partly cooperage, viz. the mafh-tun, or
vat, which is hooped. There are not many of this
trade-, and it requires chiefly ftrength, with a little art.
A fmall flock of fluff, befides tools, will fet a man up
tolerably well; but with 200I. or 300L he will make
a good figure in bufinefs.
BACA, or Baza, a town of Spain in the king¬
dom of Granada. W. Long. 3. 6. N. Lat. 37. 18.
It is fituatcd in a valley called Hoya de Baza. It is
encompafled with old walls, and has a caftle half
ruinUd. It contains about 4000 honfes, but has no¬
thing remarkable except the church dedicated to the
Virgin Mary. The land about it is well cultivated
for half a league round, and is fertile in wheat, wine,
honey, hemp, and flax, being watered by the little ri¬
ver Guadalantin.
BACACUM, a town of the Nervii in Gallia Bel-
gica ; now Bavay, in Hainault. E. Long. 3. 30. N.
Lat. 50. 25.
BACAIM, a handfome fea-port town of the king¬
dom of Vifapour on the Malabar coafl in Afia. It is
fubjefl to the Portuguefe ; and Hands in E. Long. 73.
10. N. Lat. 19. o.
BACASERAY, a town in the peninfula of Crim
fartary, and, as the khan ufually takes up his refi-
dence there, it may be confidered as the capital of the
country. E. Long. 35. 10. N. Lat. 45. 30.
BACANTIBI, in Kcclejiajhcal Antiquity, wander¬
ing clerks, who ftrolled from church to church. 
The word feems formed by corruption from vacantivi.
BACCA, berry, in Botany, is ufed to fignify fuch
fruits as confift of a pericarpium full of juice and feeds,
without any valves.
BACCALARIA, in middle-age writers, denotes
a kind of country-farms, confifting of feveral manfes.
Baccalaria dominicana, or indominicata, was more
particularly ufed for a farm belonging to the lord, and
kept in his own hands.
BACCARACH, a town of Germany in the Lower
Palatinate ; formerly imperial and free, but now fub-
je£l to the ele£lor Palatine. It is famous for excellent
wine ; and is fituated on the Rhine, in E. Long. 7. 5.
N. Lat. 49. 57.
BACCHAL, in Antiquity, the priefleffes of Bacchus,
tvho celebrated the orgia or myfteries of that god. 
The word was alfo ufed for the ivy crowns or garlands
worn by the priefts of Bacchus, in offering facrifices to
him.
BACCHANALIA, feafls celebrated in honour of
Bacchus by the ancients. The two moll remarkable
were called the greater and lejfer. The latter called
lenaa, from a wrord fignifying a wine-prefs, were held
in the open fields about autumn; the greater, called
Dionyjia, from one of the names of Bacchus, were ce¬
lebrated in the city, about the fpring-time. Both thefe
feafts were accompanied with games, fpe£lacles, and
theatrical reprefentations; and it was at this time the
poets contended for the prize of poetry. Thoi'e who
I
were initiated into the celebration of thefe fealls, re- Baccharis
prefented, fome Silenus ; others, Pan ; others, Satyrs ; II
and in this manner appeared in public, night and day, ,Eacchu!;-
counterfeiting drunkennefs, dancing obfcenely, and v-’1"
committing all kinds of licentioufneis and debauchery.
See Bacchus.
BACCHARIS, ploughman’s spikenard. See
Botany Index.
BACCHI, in Mechanics, a kind of ancient ma¬
chines, in form of goats, ufed by Jupiter, in his w^ars
againft the giants. Rudbeck defcribes two kinds of
bacchi, one made like the battering-ram, wherewith
Jupiter demolilhed the enemy’s fortifications; the
other contrived to call fire out of, from whence the
Greeks are conje£lured to have framed their idea of
the chimera.
BACCHIC, fomething relating to the ceremonies
of Bacchus. The celebrated intaglio, called Michael
Angelo’s ring, is reprefentation of a Bacchic feall.
Bacchic fong, is fometimes ufed for a chanfon a Loire,
or coropofition to infpire jollity. But in a more proper
fenfe it is rellrained to a dithyrambic ode or hymn.
BACCHINI, Benedict, a benediftine monk, and
one of the moll learned men in his time, w as born at
Borgo San Domino in 1651 ; and wrote a great num¬
ber of books in Latin and Italian, the moil confide-
rable of which is a Literary Journal. He died at Bo¬
logna in 1721, aged 70.
BACCHIUS, a follower of Arilloxenus, fuppofed
by Fabricius to have been tutor to the ejnperor Marcus
Antoninus, and confequently to have lived about A.C.
140. He wrote in Greek a very Ihort introduftion to
mufic in dialogue, which, wfith a Latin tranllation
thereof, Meibomius has publilhed. It feems it was
firfl publifhed in the original by Merfennus, in his
Commentary on the firfl fix chapters of Genefis ; and
tl at afterwards he publilhed a tranflation of it in French,
wdrich Meibomius in the preface to his edition of the
ancient mulical authors, cenfures as being grofsly er¬
roneous.
Bacchius, in Ancient Poetry, a kind of foot com-
pofed of a Ihort fyllable and too long ones ; as the
word [avail]. It takes its name from the god Bacchus,
becaufe it frequently entered into the hymns compofed
in his honour. The Romans called it likcwife anotrius,
tripodius, fa/tans.
BACCHUS, in Heathen Mythology, the god of
wine, with whofe fabulous adventures every fchool-boy
is acquainted. This perfonage is feldom named in
modern times but as a fenfual encourager of feall and
jollity ; but he w^as regarded in a more refpeflable light
by the ancients, who worlhipped him in different coun¬
tries under the following appellations : in Egypt, he
was called 0fir is; in Myfia, Fanaces ; in India, Di-
onyfus ; Liber, throughout the Roman dominions ; A-
doneus, in Arabia ; and Pentheus, by the Lucanians.
Mythologills furnilh reafons for all thefe different names
given to the fame god, which may be feen in the fe-
cond volume of Banier’s Mythology.
It is natural to fuppofe that the Greeks and Romans,
as ufual, bellowed upon the one Bacchus which they
worlhipped, the feveral adlions and attributes of the
many divinities knowm by that name, and by other
equivalent denominations in different countries. How¬
ever,
Bacchus,
Bacchy
tides.
BAG [ 303 ]
ever, antiquity chiefly diftinguiflied two gods under the of Pindar,
title of Bacchus : that of Egypt, the fon of Ammon, and
the fame as Oliris j and that of Thebes in Boeotia, the
fon of Jupiter and Semele.
The Egyptian Bacchus was brought up at Nyfa, a
city of Arabia Felix, whence he acquired the name of
Dionyjius, or the god of Nyfa) and this was the con¬
queror of India. Though this Bacchus of the Egyp¬
tians was one of the elder gods of Egypt, yet the fon
of Semele was the youngeft of the Grecian deities.
Diodorus Siculus tells us, that Orpheus firft deified the
fon of Semele by the name of Bacchus, and appointed
his ceremonies in Greece, in order to render the family
of Cadmus, the grandfather of the Grecian Bacchus,
illuftrious.
The great Bacchus, according to Sir Ifaac Newton,
flourifhed but one generation Before the Argonautic
expedition. This Bacchus, fays Hermippus, was po¬
tent at fea, conquered eaftward as far as India, re¬
turned in triumph, brought his army over the Helle-
fpont, conquered Thrace, and left mufic, dancing, and
poetry*there. And, according to Diodorus Siculus,
it was the fon of Semele who invented farces and
theatres, and who firft eftabliftied a mufic fchool, ex¬
empting from all military fumftions fuch muficians as
difcovered great abilities in their art j on which ac¬
count, lays the fame author, muficians formed into
companies have fince frequently enjoyed great privi¬
leges.
Hipry of Dr Burney * obferves, that the dithyrambics which
B A C
Both fung the vi&ories of Hiero at the
Mufu, gave birth to dramatic reprelentations, are as ancient
p. 29S, et as the worlhip of Bacchus in Greece ; and there is
fit' little doubt but that the ceremonies of his myfteries
gave rife to the pomp and illufions of the theatre.
Many of the moft fplendid exhibitions upon the ftage
for the entertainment of the people of Athens and
Rome, being performed upon the feftivals of Bacchus,
gavef occafion to the calling all thofe that were em¬
ployed in them, whether for finging, dancing, or re¬
citing, of Bacchus.
Pauianias, in his Attics, fpeaks of a place at Athens
confecrated to Bacchus the finger; thus named, he
fays, for the fame reafon as Apollo is called the chief
♦ and conduBor of the mufes. Whence it fliould feem
that Bacchus was regarded by the Athenians not only
as the god of wine, but of fong •, and it muft be owned,
that his followers, in their cups, have been much in¬
clined to finging ever fince. Indeed we are certain,
that in none of the orgies, proceflions, triumphs, and
feftivals, inftituted by the ancients to the honour and
memory of this prince of hons vivans, mufic was for¬
gotten, as may be ftill gathered from ancient fculpture,
where we find not only that muficians, male and female,
regaled him with the lyre, the flute, and with fong 5
but that he was accompanied by fawns and fatyrs play¬
ing upon timbrels, cymbals, bagpipes, and horns j
theie Suidas calls his minftrels ; and Strabo gives them
the appellations of Bacchi, Si/eni, Satyri, Bacchic, Le-
ruc, Thyce, Mamillones, Naiades, Nympha, and Tityri.
Thefe reprefentations have furniftied fubje&s for the
fineft remains of ancient fculpture ; and the moft vo¬
luptuous paflages of ancient poetry are defcriptions of
the orgies and feftivals of Bacchus. See OrGia.
BACCHYLIDES, a famous Greek poet, was the
nephew of Simonides, and the cotemporary and rival
public games. Befides odes to athletic vidlors, he was
author of Love Verfes 5 Profodies) Dithyrambics }
Hymns; Paeans j Hyporchemes j Parthenia, or fongs
to be fung by a chorus of virgins at feftivals. The
chronology of Eufebius places the birth of Bacchylides
in the Bad Olympiad, about 450 B. C.
BACCIO, or Baccius, Andrew, a celebrated
phyfician of the 16th century, born at St Elpideo.
He praftifed phyfic at Rome with great reputation,
and was firft phyfician to Pope Sixtus V. The moft;
fcarce and valuable of his works are, 1. De thertnis.
2. De naturali vinorum hifioria. 3. De vencnis et an-
tidotis. 4. De getnmis ac lapidibus pretiofis.
Baccio, Fra. Bartolomeo, called Bartelem i di S-.
Marco, a celebrated painter of hiftory and portrait,
was born at Savignano near Florence in 1469, and
wras a difciple of Cofumo Rofelli j but his principal
knowledge in the art of painting was derived from
Leonardo da Vinci. He underftood the true principles
of defign better than moft mafters of his time, and
was alfo a confiderable painter in perfpeftive ; which
induced Raphael to have recourfe to him after he had
quitted the fchool of Perugino ; and under his direc¬
tion likewife Raphael ftudied the art of managing and
uniting colours, as well as the rules of perfpeftive.
Some years after the departure of Raphael from Flo¬
rence, Baccio vifited Rome j and by the obfervations
he made on the antiques, and the works of Raphael
which were then the admiration of the whole world,
he was extremely improved, and manifefted his ac¬
quired abilities by a picture of S. Sebaftian, which he
finifhed at his return to Florence. It was fo well
defigned, fo naturally and beautifully coloured, and
had fo ftrong an expreffion of pain and agony, that
it was removed from the place where it was pub¬
licly feen (in the chapel of a convent), as it had
been obferved to have made too ftrong an impref-
fion on the imaginations of many women who beheld
it. He was very laborious, and made nature his per¬
petual ftudy ; he defigned the naked correftly ; his fi¬
gures had a great deal of grace, and his colouring was
admirable. He is accounted to have been the firft in¬
ventor of that machine called a layman by the artifts,.
and which to this day is in general ufe. Upon that
he placed his draperies, to obferve with greater exact:-
nefs their natural and their more elegant folds. A
capital pi&ure of the afcenfion by Baccio, is in the
Florentine colleftion. He died in i i;i7.
BACHELOR, or Batchelor, a common term
for a man not married, or who is yet in a ftate of celi¬
bacy The Roman cenfors frequently impofed fines on
old bachelors. Dion Halicarnafleus mentions an old
conftitution, by which all perfons of full age were ob¬
liged to marry. But the moft celebrated law of this
kind, was that made under Auguftus, called the lex
fulia de maritandis ordimbus; by which bachelors
were made incapable of legacies or inheritances by will,
unlefs from their near relations. This brought many
to marry, according to Plutarch’s obfervation, not fo
much for the fake of railing heirs to their own eftates,
as to make themfelves capable of inheriting thofe of
other men.—The rabbins maintain, that, by the laws
of Mofes, every body, except fome few particulars, is
obliged inconfcience to marry at 20 years of age : this
makes
Baccio,
Bachelor,
«
BAG [ 304 ] BAG
Bachelor, makes one of their 613 precepts. Hence thofe ftraxims
.Kachdors. p0 frequent among their cafuifts, that he who does not
take the neceiTary meafures to leave heirs behind him,
is not a man, but ought to be reputed a homicide.—*
Lycurgus was not more favourable 5 by his laws,
bachelors are branded with infamy, excluded from all
offices civil and military, and even from the ffiows and
public fports. At certain feafts they were forced to
appear, to be expofed to the public derifion, and led
round the market place. At one of their feafts, the
women led them in this condition to the altars, where
'they obliged them to make amende honourable to nature,
accompanied with a number of blows and lalhes with
a rod at difcretion. To complete the affront, they forced
them to fing certain fongs compofed in their own deri-
fton.—The Chrirtian religion is more indulgent to the
bachelor ftate : the ancient church recommended it as in
* fame circumftances preferable to, and more perfedft than,
the matrimonial. In the canon law, we find injunctions
on bachelors, when arrived at puberty, either to marry
or to turn monks and profefs chaftity in earneft In
England, there was a tax On bachelors, after 25 years
of age, 12I. 1 os. for a duke, a common perfon is. by
7 Will. III. 1695. In Britain, at prefent, they are
taxed by an extra-duty on their fervants. Every man
of the age of 21 years and upwards, never having been
married, who fhall keep one male fervant or more, fhall
pay il. 5s. for each above or in addition to the ordi¬
nary duties leviable for servants. Every man of the
age of 21 years and upwards, never having been mar¬
ried, keeping one female fervant, ftiall pay 2s. 6d. in
addition to the former 2s. 6d.; 5s. in addition for each,
if he has two female fervants j and 10s. in addition for
each for three or more female fervants.
Bachelor, was anciently a denomination given to
thofe who had attained to knighthood, but had not a
number of vafials fufficient to have their banner carried
before them in the field of battle ; or if they were not
of the order of Bannerets, were not of age to difplay
their own banner, but obliged to march to battle Under
another’s banner. It was alfo a title given to young
cavaliers, who having made their firft campaign^ re¬
ceived the military girdle accordingly. And it ferved
to denominate him who had overcome another in a
tournament the firft. time he ever engaged The word
bachelor, in a military fenfe, is derived by Cuias from
huccelarius, a kind of cavalry, anciently in great efteem.
Du Cange deduces it from baccalaria, a kind of fees
or farms, confifting of feveral pieces of ground, each
whereof contained 12 acres, or as much as two oxen
would plough : the pofleflbrs of which baccalaria were
called bachelors. Cafeneuve and Altaferra derive ba¬
chelor from baculus, or bacillus, “ a ftaff,” becaufe the
young cavaliers exercifed themfelves in fighting with
Haves. Martinius derives it from baccalaureus, i. e.
bacca laurea donatus, in allufion to the ancient cuftom
of crowning poets with laurel, baccis lauri, as was the
cafe with Petrarch at Rome in 1341. Alciat and
Vives are of the fame opinion : nor is this etymology
improbable.
Knights-BACHELORS, the moft ancient, but the loweft
order of knights in England 5 known by the name of
knights only. They are ftyled knights-bachelors, either
(according to fome) as denoting their degree, quafibas
2
chevaliers ; or, according to others, becaufe this title itafcfiehrf*.
does not defeend to their pofterity. u
The cuftom of the ancient Germans was to give
their young men a fhield and a lance in the great coun¬
cil ; this was equivalent to the toga virilis of the Ro¬
mans. Before this, they were not permitted to bear
arms, but were accounted as part of the father’s houfe-
hold ; after it, as part of the public. Hence fome de¬
rive the ufage of knighting, which has prevailed all
over the weftern world, fince its reduftion by colonies,
from thofe northern heroes. Knights are called in La¬
tin equites aurati; aurati, from the gilt fpurs they
wore ; and cquites, becaufe they always lerved on horfe-
back ; for it is obfervable, that almoft all nations call
their knights by fome appellation derived from a
horfe. They are alfo called in our law mifotes, becaufe
they formed a part, or indeed the whole, of the royal
army, in virtue of their feudal tenures ; one condition
of which was, that every one who held a knight’s fee
(which in Henry II.’s time amounted to 20k per an¬
num') was obliged to be knighted, and attend the king
in his wars,' or pay a fine for his non-compliance. The
exertion of this prerogative, as an expedient to raife
money in the reign of Charles I. gave great offence,
though warranted by law and the recent example of
Queen Elizabeth. At the Reftoration, it was, to¬
gether with all other military branches of the feudal
law, abolifhed ; and it now only exifts as an honorary
title j though, on account of its indiferiminate attain¬
ment, not very generally regarded. It is conferred in -
difcriminately upon gownfmen, burghers, and phyfi-
cians, by the king’s lightly touching the perfon, who
is then kneeling, on the right {boulder with a drawn
fword, and faying, Rife Sir. See the articles Knight
and Nobility.
Bachelors, in a univerfity fenfe, are perfons that
have attained to the baccalaureate, or who have taken
the firft; degree in the liberal arts and fciences.
The degree of bachelor was firft introduced in the
13th century by Pope Gregory IX. but it remains ftill
unknown in Italy. At Oxford, before a perfon is en¬
titled to the degree of bachelor of arts, he muft have
ftudied there four years; three years more to become
mafter of arts 5 and feven more to commence bachelor
of divinity. At Cambridge, to commence bachelor
of arts, he muft have been admitted near four years ;
and above three years more before he commence mafter $
and feven more ftill to become bachelor of divinity.
He may commence bachelor of laiv after having ftudied
it fix years At Paris, to pafs bachelor in theology,
a perfon muft have ftudied two years in philofophy
and three years in theology, and held two acls of ex¬
amination in the Sorbonne Bachelors in the canon
law are admitted after two years ftudy in the fame, and
fuftaining an aft according to the forms. A bachelor
of phyfic muft have ftudied two years in medicine after
having been four years mafter of arts in the univerfity,
and have ftood an examination ; after which he is in¬
verted with the fur, in order to be licenfed In the
univerfity of Paris, before the foundation of divinity-
profefforftiips, thofe who had ftudied divinity fix years
were admitted to go through their courfe, whence
they were called baccalariicurfores ; and as there were
two courfes, the firft employed in explaining the Bible
durin|;
n a c
fcaclulors during three fucceffive years, the fecond for explain-
Back ing the mafter of the fentences for one year, thofe who
j were in their Bible-courfe were called baccalnrii Bib-
lici, snd thofe arrived at the fentences bciccalarii fen-
tentiarii. And, laftly, thofe who had gone through
botli were denominated bacCalaru formator formed
bachelors.
At prefent, formed bachelor denotes a perfon who
has taken the degree regularly after the due courfe of
ftudy and exercifes required by the ftatutes; by way of
oppofition to a current bachelor, who is admitted in the
Way of grace, or by diploma.
We alfo find mention of bachelors of the church,
baccalani ecclefue. The biihop with his canons and
bacca/arii, cum confilio et confenfu omnium canonicorum
fuorum et baccalariorum.
Bachelors, in the livery companies of London,
are thofe not yet admitted to the livery. Thefe com¬
panies generally conlilt of a mafter, two wardens, the
livery, and the bachelors, who are yet but in expecta¬
tion of dignity in the company, and have their func¬
tion only in attendance on the mafter and wardens.
They are alfo called yeomen.
Bachelor is alfo a name given in the fix conpanies
of merchants at Paris to the elders, and fuch as, having
ferved the offices, have a right to be called by the ma¬
tters and wardens to be prefent with them, and affift
them in fome of the functions, particularly in what re¬
lates to the chefd'oeuvres or mafter-pieces of fuch as
are candidates for being admitted mafters.
BACHERAC, a town of the palatinate of the
Rhine, fituated on the weftern fliore of that river, in E.
Long. 7°.. and NL Lat. 58°. It is remarkable for ex¬
cellent wine, from thence called Bachcrac.
BACHIAN, one of the Molucca iflands, belong¬
ing to the Dutch j fituated under the equator, in E.
Long. 1250.
BACHU, a city of Shirvan in Perfia, and the beft
haven in the Cafpian fea. It is defended by a double
wall, as alfo by a ditch and redoubts, made by the Ruf¬
fians when they were mailers of the place. It had a
fumptuous caftle, but it is reduced to a ruinous Hate
by the Ruffians. Formerly many merchants refided
here, and carried on a confiderable traffic in raw filk ;
but that commerce is now given up. All the coun¬
try round is much impregnated with fulphur, which
renders the water very unpleafant. The neighbour¬
hood of this city fupplies the countries adjacent with
naphtha, brimflone, and rock-falt; and is the only
place thereabouts which produces faftron. Round
Bachu are feveral very fteep craggy mountains, on
which are ftrong wvatch-toWers. E. Long. 49. 5. N.
Lat. 40. o.
BACK, BjcK-Bone, or Spine. See Anatomy
Index.
Back, in the Manege, and among Farriers. A
horle’s back fliould be ftraight, not hollow, which is
cdiled faddle-bached: horfes of this kind are generally
light, and carry their heads high, but want in ftrength
and fervice. A horfe with a weak back is apt to
Vol. III. Part I.
305 1
ftumble.
BAG
In the French riding-fchools, to mount r iRadt-
is to mount him bare-backed, without a gatamdfc
horfe a dos,
faddle.
BACK-Gammon, an Ingenious game played with dice,
upon a table, by two perfons.
Manner of playing the game. The table is divided
into two parts, upon which there are 24 black and
white fpaces, called points. Each adverfary has 15
men, black and white, to diftinguifh them j and they
are difpoled of in the followfing manner : Suppofing
the game to be played into the right-hand table, two
are placed upon the ace-point in the adverfary’s table,
five upon the fix point in the oppofite table, three up’
on the cinque point in the hithermoft table, and five
on the fix point in the right-hand table. The grand
objeft in this game is for each player to bring the men
round into his right-hand table, by throwing with a
pair of uice^ thofe throws that contribute towards it,
and at the fame time prevent the adverfary doing the
like. The firft beft throw upon the dice is efteemed
aces, becaufe it flops the fix point in the outer table,
and fecures the cinque in the throrver’s table ; whereby
the adverfary’s two men upon the thrower’s ace point
cannot get out with either quatre, cinque, or fix. This
throw is an advantage often given to the antagonift by
the fuperior player.
When he carries his men hotne in order to lofe nd
point, he is to carry the moft diftant man to his ad-
verfary’s bar point, that being the firft ftage he is to
place it on ; the next ftage is fix points farther, viz.
in the place where the adverfary’s five men are firft
placed, out of his tables. He muft go on in this me¬
thod till all his men are brought home, except two,
when by lofing a point, he may often fave the gam¬
mon, by throwing two fours or twro fives.
When a hit is only played for, he fhould endeavour
to gain either his owm or adverfary’s cinque point; and
if that fails by his being hit by the adverfary, and
he finds him fonvarder than himfelf, in that cafe he
muff throw more men into the adverfary’s tables j
which is done in this manner : He muft put a man
upon his cinque or bar point; and if the adverfary ne-
glefts to hit it, he may then gain a forward game in-
ftead of a back game : but if the adverfary hits him,
he fliould play for a back game ; and then the greater
number of men which are taken up makes his game
the better, becaufe by thefe means he will preferve his
game at home ; and then he fhould endeavour to gain
both his adverfary’s ace and trois points, or his ace
and deuce points, and take care to keep three men
upon the adverfary’s ace point, that in cafe he hits
him from thence, that point may remain ftill fecure
to himfelf.
_ A back game fliould not be played for at the be¬
ginning of a fet, becaufe it would be a great difadvan-
tage, the player running the rifk of a gammon to win
a Angle hit.
Rules for playing at fetting out all the throws on the
dice, when the player is to play for a gammon or for it
fngle hit (a). I. Twro aces are to be played on the
Qji cinque
(a) The rules marked thus f are for a gammon only j thofe marked thus * are for a hit only.
B A C
cinque point and bar point, for a gammon or for a
hit. 2. Two fixes, to be played on the adverfary’s
bar point and on the thrower’s bar point, for a gam¬
mon or for a hit. 3. f Two trois, to be played on
the cinque point, and the other two on the trois point
in his own tables, for a gammon only. 4. f. Two
deuces, to be played on the quatre point in his own
tables, and two to be brought over from the five men
placed in the adverfary’s tables for a gammon only.
5. f Two fours, to be brought over from the five men
placed in the adverfary’s tables, and to be put upon
the cinque point in his own tables for a gammon only.
6. Two fives, to be brought over from the five men
placed in the adverfary’s tables, and to be put on the
trois point in his own tables, for a gammon or for a
hit. 7. Size ace, he muft take his bar point for a
gammon or for a hit. 8. Size deuce, a man to be
brought from the five men placed in the adverfary’s
tables, and to be placed in the cinque point in his own
tables, for a gammon or for a hit. 9. Six and three,
a man to be brought from the adverfary’s ace point, as
far as he will go, for a gammon or for a hit. 10. Six
and four, a man to be brought from the adverfary’s
ace point, as far as he will go, for a gammon or for a
hit. 11. Six and five, a man to be carried from the
adverfary’s ace point, as far as he can go, for a gam¬
mon or for a hit. 12. Cinque and quatre, a man to
be carried from the adverfary’s ace point, as far as he
can go, for a gammon or for a hit. 13. Cinque trois,
to make the trois point in his table, for a gammon or
for a hit. 14. Cinque deuce, to play two men from
the five placed in the adverfary’s tables, for a gammon
or for a hit. 15- f Cinque ace, to bring one man from
the five placed in the adverfary’s tables for the cinque,
and to play one man down on the cinque point in his
own tables for the ace, for a gammon only. 16. Quatre
trois, two men to be brought from the five placed in
the adverfary’s tables, for a gammon or for a hit. 17.
Quatre deuce, to make the quatre point in his own
tables, for a gammon or for a hit. 18. f Quatre ace,
to play a man from the five placed in the adverfary’s
tables for the quatre j and for the ace, to play a man
down upon the cinque point in his own tables, for a
gammon only. 19- + Trois deuce, twro men to be
brought from the five placed in the adverfary’s tables,
for a gammon only. 20. Trois ace, to make the cinque
point in his own tables, for a gammon or for a hit. 21.
f Deuce ace, to play one man from the five men placed
in the adverfary’s table for the deuce ; and for the ace
to play a man down upon the cinque point in his own
tables, for a gammon only. 22. * I w7o trois, two of
them to be played on the cinque point in his own
tables, and with the other two he is to take the quatre
point in the adverfary’s tables. 23. * Two deuces,
two of them are to be played on the quatre point in
jhis own tables, and with the other two he is to take
the trois point in the adverfary’s tables. By playing
thefe two cafes in this manner, the player avoids being
ihut up in the adverfary’s tables, and has the chance
of throwing out the tables to win the hit.
24. * Two fours, twTo of them are to take the ad¬
verfary’s cinque point in the adverfary’s tables, and for
the other two, twro men are to be brought from the
five placed in the adverfary’s tables. 25. * Cinque ace,
[ 306 ] BAG
the cinque fhould be played from the five men placed Back - (
in the adverfary’s tables, and the ace from the adver- gammon, ^
farv’s ace point. 26. * Quatre ace, the quatre to be
played from the five men placed in the adverlary’s ace
point. 27. * Deuce ace, the deuce to be played from
the five men placed in the adverfary’s tables, and the
ace from the adverfary’s ace point.
The three laft chances are played in this manner j
becaufe an ace being laid down in the adverfary’s tables,
there is a probability of throwing deuce ace, trois
deuce, quatre trois, or fize cinque, in two or three
throws •, either of which throws fecures a point, and
gives the player the beft of the hit.
Cautions, is’c. The player muft underftand by the
diretlions given to play for a gammon, that he is to
make fome blots on purpofe, the odds being in his fa¬
vour that they are not hit: but if it Ihould happen that
any blot is hit, as in this cafe there will be three men
in the adverfary’s tables, he muft then endeavour to fe-
cure the adverfary’s cinque, quatre, or trois point, to
prevent a gammon, and muft be very cautious of his
fourth man’s not being taken up.
He muft not crowd his game at any time if he can
help it; that is to fay, he ftrould not put many men
either upon the trois or deuce points in his owm tables,
being the fame as lofing thofe men, not having them
in play. Befides, by crowding the game, and attempt¬
ing to fave a gammon, the player is often gammoned.
His game being crowded in his own tables, the adver-
fary has room to play as he thinks proper.
The following calculations will ftiow the odds of en¬
tering a fingle man upon any certain number of points 5
and accordingly the game ftrould be played.
It is neceffary to know that there are thirty-fix
chances upon two dice, and the points that are upon
thefe thirty-fix chances are as follow:
Viz.
Aces
Deuces
T rois
Fours
Fives
Sixes
And 5
And 4
And 3
And 2
And 1
twice
twice
twice
twice
twice
5 And 4 twice
And
And
And
And
And
And
And
And
And
twice
twice
twice
twice
twice
twice
twice
twice
twice
Divide by 36)294(8
and it proves, that upon an ave- 288
rage the player has a right to   
8 points each throw. 6
The
BAG
Back- The chances upon two dice calculated
, gammon. gammon are as follow j
I 3°7 1
BAG
2 Sixes
2 Fives
2 Fours
2 Trois
2 Deuces
2 Aces
6 And
6 And
6 And
6 And
6 And
5 And
5 And
5 And
5 And
4 And
4 And
4 And
5 twice
4 twice
3 twice
2 twice
1 twice
4 twice
3 twice
2 twice
1 twice
3 twice
2 twice
1 twice
3 And 2 twice
3 And 1 twice
2 And 1 twice
for back- The odds of hitting with double dice are as follow :
To hit upon for againft for ag.
7 is - 6 to 30 Or about - 1 to 5
8 - 6 30 - - 15
9 *5 3i - - 16
10 -3 33 - - 1 n
11 -2 34 - - 1 17
12 - 1 36 - - 1 35
How to find out the odds of being hit upon a fix,
by the table of thirty-fix chances.
1
2 Sixes
2 Trois
2 Deuces
6 And 5 twice
6 And 4 twice
6 And 3 twice
€ And 2 twice
6 And 1 twice
5 And 1 twice
4 And 2 twice
Back¬
gammon.
I
1
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
17
36
As it may feem difficult to find out by this table of
thirty-fix chances what are the odds of being hit upon
a certain or flat die, let the following method be pur-
fued.
The player may obferve in the table that what are
thus f marked are,
f 2 Aces - - 1
f 6 And 1 twice - 2
f 5 And 1 twice - 2
f 4 And 1 twice - 2
f 3 And i twice - 2
f 2 And 1 twice - 2
Total, 11
When deducted from - 36
There remains - - 25
So that it appears it is twenty-five to eleven againft
hitting an ace upon a certain or flat die.
The above method holds good with refpeft to any
other flat die. For example, what are the odds of en¬
tering a man upon I, 2, 3, 4, or 5 points ?
Anfwer.
To enter it upon for againft for ag.
1 point is 11 to 25 Or about - 4 to 9
2 points 20-16 - ? 4
3 -27-9 - 3 1
4 - 32 - 4 - 81
5 - 35 - 1 - 35 1
The following table (hows the odds of hitting with
any chance, in the reach of a fingle die.
To hit upon for againft
1 is - 11 to 25
2 - 12 - 24
3 - 14 - 22
4 - 15 - 21
5 - 15 - 21
6 - 17 - 19
for ag.
Or about - 4 to 9
1-2
2 - 3
5 - 7
5 - 7
n 91
Which deduced from - - 36
There remains - - 19
By which it appears to be 19 to 17 againft being
hit upon a fix.
The odds on the hits.
2 Love is about - - - 5 to 2
2 to 1 is - - - 21
I Love is - - - 3 2
Direflions for the player io hear his men. If a player
has taken up two of the adverfary’s men, and happens
to have two, three, or more points made in his own
tables, he (hould fpread his men, that he either may
take a new point in his tables, or be ready to hit the
man which the adverfary may happen to enter. If
he finds upon the adverfary’s entering, that the game
is upon a par, or that the advantage is on his own fide,
he (hould take the adverfary’s man up whenever he
can, it being 25 to 11 that he is not hit: except when
he is playing for a fingle hit only ; then, if playing the
throw otherwife gives him a better chance for it, he
ought to do it.
It being five to one againft his being hit with double
dice, he fhould never be deterred from taking up any
one man of the adverfary’s.
If he has taken up one of the adverfary’s men, and
(hould happen to have five points in his own tables,
and forced to leave a blot out of his tables, he (hould en¬
deavour to leave it upon doublets preferable to any
other chance, becaufe in that cafe the odds are 35 to
one that he is not hit ; whereas it is only 17 to one but
he is hit upon any other chance.
When the adverfary is very forward, a player ihould
never move a man from his own quarter, trois, or
deuce points, thinking to bear that man from the point
where he put it, as nothing but high doublets can give
him any chance for the hit. Inftead of playing an
ace or a deuce from any of thofe points, he Ihould play
them from his own fize or higheft points, fo that
throwing two fives, or two fours, his fize and cinque
points being eafed, would be a confiderable advantage
Q^q 2 to
-
1*
BAG [ 308
to him ; whereas had they been loaded, he muft have
, been obliged to play otherwife.
It is the intereft of the adverfary to take up the
player as foon as he enters. The blot fhould be left
upon the adverfary’s loweil point; that is to fay, up¬
on his deuce point rather than upon his trois point;
or upon his trois point rather than his quatre point,
or upon his quatre point preferable to his cinque point,
for a reafon before mentioned j all the men the adver-
fary plays upon his trois or his deuce points are deem¬
ed loft, being greatly out ®f play ; fo that thofe men
not having it in their power to make his cinque point,
and his game being crowded in one place and open in
another, the adverfary muft be greatly annoyed by the
player.
If the player has two of the adverfary’s men in his
tables, he has a better chance for a hit than if he had
more, provided his game is forwarder than that of his
antagonift’s *, for if he had three or more of the adver¬
fary’s men in his tables, he would ftand a worfe chance
to be hit.
When a player is running to fave the gammon, if
he fhould have two men upon his ace point, and feveral
men abroad, although he ftiould lofe one point or two
in putting his men into his tables, it is his intereft to
leave a man upon the adverfary’s ace point, becaufe it
will prevent his adverfary from bearing his men to the
greateft advantage, and at the fame time the player
will have a chance of the adverfary’s making a blot,
which he may chance to hit. However, if a player
finds upon a throw, that he has a probability of faving
his gammon, he fhould never wait for a blot, as the
odds are greatly againft his hitting it, but ftiould em¬
brace that opportunity.
How to calculate the odds of favlag or winning the
gammon. Suppofe the adverfary has fo many men
abroad as require three throws to put them into his
tables, and at the fame time that the player’s tables
are made up, and that he has taken up one of the ad¬
verfary’s men \ in this cafe, it is about an equal wager
that the adverfary is gammoned. For in all probability
the player has bore two men before he opens his tables,
and when he bears the third man, he wall be obliged
to open his fize or cinque point. It is then probable,
that the adverfary is obliged to throw twice before he
enters his men in the player’s tables, twice more be¬
fore he puts that man into his own tables, and three
throws more to put the men which are abroad into his
own tables, in all feven throw’s. Now the player having
12 men to bear, he may be forced to make an ace or a
deuce twice before he can bear all his men, and confe-
quently will require feven throws in bearing them \ fo
that, upon the whole, it i,s about equal whether the ad¬
verfary is gammoned or not.
Suppofe a player has three men u^on his adverfary’s
ace point and five points inhisowm tables, and that the
adverfary has all his men in his tables, three upon each
of his five higheft points. Has the player a probability
©f gammoning his adverfary or not ?
For bearing three men from his Cth
point is
From his 5th point
Points.
18
*5
33
1 BAG
Carried forward
From his 4th point
From his 3d point - .
From his 2d point
In all 60
Bringing his three men from the adverfary’s
ace point to his fize point in his own ta¬
bles, being 18 points each, and making
together - - ^4
There muft remain - 5
It is plain from this calculation, that the player has
much the belt of the probability of the gammon, ex-
clufive of one or more blots which the adverfary is li¬
able to make in bearing his men, fuppofing at the fame
time the throws to be upon an equality.
Suppofe two blots are left, either of which cannot be
hit but by double dice; one muft be hit by throwing
eight and the other by throwing nine ; fo that the ad¬
verfary has only one die to hit either of them. What
are the odds of hitting either of them i1 The chances of
two dice being in all
The chances to hit 8 are 6 and 2 twice
5 and 3 twfice
2 Deuces _ . .
1 Fours -
The chances to hit 9 are 6 and 3 twice
5 and 4 twice
2 Trois
36
2
2
I
1
2
2
I
For hitting in all - _ „ j t
Chances for net hitting, remain - 25
So that the odds are 2 5 to 11 againft hitting
either of thefe blots.
This method may be taken to find out the odds of
hitting three, four, or five blots upon double dice ; or
blots made upon double and fingle dice at the fame
time. After knowing how many chances there are to
hit any of thofe blots, they muft be added all to¬
gether, and then fubtradled from the number 36,
which are the chances of the tu’odice, and the queltion
is folved.
A critical cafe for a Back-game. Suppofe the fore¬
game to be played by A, and that all his men are
placed as ufual; B has fourteen of his men placed
upon his adverfary’s ace point and one man upon his
adverfary’s deuce point, and B is to throw. Who has
the beft of the hit r1—Anfwer : A has the beft of it,
gold to filver: becaufe, if B does not throw an ace to
take his adverfary’s deuce point, which is 25 to 11
againft him, A will take up B’s men in his tables, ei¬
ther fingly or to make points ; and then if B fecures
either A’s deuce or trois point, A will put as ihany
men down as poflible, in order to hit, and thereby get
a back-game. It is evident that the back-game is very
pow’erful; confequently, whoever praftifes it muft be¬
come a greater proficient at the game than he could
by any other means.
Another critical cafe. Suppofe A to have five men
placed upon his fize point, as many upon his quatre
point, and the fame number upon his deuce point, all
in his own tables. At the fame time, let us fuppofe
B to have three men placed upon A’s ace point, as
many
Back-
B A C ^ ^09
m:tny^upon A’s trois point, and the fame number upon fore
Li A C
A’s cinque point, in his own tables, and three men
J placed as ufual out of his tables. Who has the bell of
the hit ?-—Anfxver; The game is equal till B has gain¬
ed his cinque and quatre points in his own tables 5
which if he can effedl, and by playing two men from
A’s cinque point, in order to force his adverfary to blot
by throwing an ace, which Ihould B hit, he will have
the bell of the hit.
A cafe of curiojity and infru&ion: in which is Ihown
the probability of making the hit lalt by one of the
players for many hours, although they lhall both play
as fall as ufual. Suppofe B to have bore 13 men, and
that A has his fifteen men in B’s tables, viz. three
men upon his fize point, as many upon his cinque point,
three upon his quatre point, the fame number upon his
trois point, two upon his deuce point, and one upon
his ace point. A in'this fituation can prolong it, as
aforefaid by bringing his 15 men home, always fecu-
ring fix clofe points till B has entered his two men,
and brought them upon any certain point; as foon as
B has gained that point, A will open an ace, deuce,
or trois point, or all of them ; which done, B hits one
of them, and A taking care to have trvo or three men
m B’s tables, is ready to hit that man ; and alfo he
being certain of taking up the other man, has it in his
power to prolong the hit almoll to any length, pro¬
vided he takes care not to open fuch points as two
fours, two fives, or two fixes, but always to open the
ace, deuce, or trois points, for B to hit him.
A critical game to play. Suppofe A and B place
their men for a hit in the following manner: A to have
three men upon the fize point in his own tables, three
men out of his tables upon the ufual point, and nine
men upon his adverfary’s ace, deuce, and trois points j
that is, three upon each : and fuppofe B’s men to be
placed in his own and his adverfary’s tables in the
lame order. So fituated, the bell player Ihould win
the hit. The game being fo equal, that in this cafe
the dice ihould be throw-n for. Now if A throws firff,
he Ihould endeavour to gain his adverfary’s cinque
point: this being done, he Ihould lay as many blots as
pofiible, to tempt B to hit him, as it puts him back¬
ward, and A thereby gains an advantage. A ihould
always endeavour to have three men upon each of his
adverfary’s ace and deuce points; becaufe when B
makes a blot, thefe points will remain fecure, and when
A has bore five., fix, or more men, A yet may fecure
fix clofe points out of his tables, in order to prevent B
from getting his man home, at which time he Ihould
calculate who has the bell of the hit. If he finds that
B is foremoll, he fnould then try to lay fuch blots as
may be taken up by his adverfary, that he may have a
chance of taking up another man, in cafe B ihould hap¬
pen to have a blot at home.
Laws (f' Bach-gammon. 1. If a man is taken from
any point, it mull be played ; if two men are taken
rrom it, they alfo mull be played. 2. A man is not
.uppofed to be played till it is placed upon a point and
quitted. 3. If a player has only fourteen men in play,
there is no penalty inilidled, becaufe by bis playing
with a lelfer number than he is entitled to, he plays to
a uifadvantage ior want of the ■deficient man to make
up his tables. 4. If he bears any number of men btr
J
he has entered a man taken up, and which of Back-
courfe he was obliged to enter, fuch men lo borne mull, Painting-
be entered again in the adverfary’s tables as well as the “
man taken up. 5. If he has millaken his throw and
played it, and his adverfary has thrown, it is not in
the choice of either of the players to alter it, unlefs
they both agree fo to do.
BACK-Pamting, the method of painting mezzotin-
to prints, palled on glafs, with oil-colours. See Mez -
ZOTINTO.
The art confills chiefly in laying the print upon a
piece of crown-glafs, of fuch a fize as fits the print.
In order to do this, take your print, and lay it in
clean water for two days and two nights, if the print
be on very ftrong, clofe, and hard gummed paper :
but if upon an open, foft, fpongy paper, two hours
will fometimes fuflice, or more, according as the pa¬
per is.
The paper or pi&ure having been fufficiently foaked,
take it out and lay it upon two Iheets of paper, and
cover it with trvo more j and let it lie there a little to
fuck out the moiilure.
In the mean time, take the glafs the piflure is to be
put upon, and fet it near the fire to warm; take Straf-
burg turpentine, warm it over the fire till it is grown
fluid, then with a hog’s hair brulli fpread the turpen¬
tine very fmoothly and evenly on the glafs.
When this has been done, take the mezzotinto print
from between the papers, and lay it upon the glafs y
beginning firft at one end, rubbing it down gently as
you go on, till it lie clofe, and there be no wind blad¬
ders between.
Then, with your fingers, rub or roll off the paper
from the backfide of the print, till it looks black, i. e.
till you can fee nothing but the print, like a thin film,
left upon the glafs, and fet it by to dry.
When it is dry, varnifli it over with feme white
tranfparent varnifli, that the print may be feen through
it ; and then it is fit for painting.
The utmoft care will be neceffary In rubbing or roll¬
ing the paper off the print, fo as not to tear it, efpe-
cially in the light parts.-
You may, inftead of foaking your prints two days
and two nights, roll them up and boil them fer about
two hours, more or lefs, according to the quality of
the paper, in water ;• and that will render it as fit for
rubbing, rolling, or peeling, as the other way.
This being done, and your oil-colours prepared,
ground very fine, and tempered up very ftiff, lay on
the back fide of the tranfparent prints fuch colours
as each particular part requires ; letting the maffer
lines of the print Hill guide your pencil, and fo each
particular colour will lie fair to the eye on the other
fide of the glafs, and look almoft as well as a painted
piece, if it be done neatly.
The fhadows of the print are generally fufficient for
the fhadow of every colour; but if you have a mind
to give a ftiadow by your pencil, then let the ffiadows
be laid on firft, and the other colours afterward.
In laying on colours in this kind of back-painting,
you need not be curious as to the laying them ou
fmooth. This is not at all requifite here, where thr
chief aim is only to have the colours appear well on the
fore fide of the print 5 and therefore the only care to
Jackeleer.
BAG [ 3
Back-ftaff be ufed in tbis work, is to lay tbe colours on thick
enough, that its body may ftrike the colour of it plain¬
ly through the glafs.
BACK-Staff, a name foimierly given to a Tea-qua¬
drant invented by Captain Davis : becaufe the back of
the artift is turned towards the Tun at the time of ob-
fervation. See Quadrant.
BACK-Stays, of a (hip, are ropes belonging to the
m.ain-maft and fore-maft, and the marts belonging to
them ; ferving to keep them from pitching forwards
or overboard.
BACK-Tack, In Scotch Low : When a wadfetter, in-
rtead of pofferting the wadfet-lands, grants a tack
thereof to the reverfer for payment of a certain fum
in name of tack-duty, that tack is called a back-tack.
BACK-Worm. See Filanders.
BACKER, or Barker, Jaques, a painter of hi-
ftory, was born at Antwerp in 1530 ; and learned the
principles of painting from his father, who was an ar¬
tift very knowing in his profeflion, though his works
were in no great eftimation. After the death of his
father, he lived in the houfe of Jacopo Palermo, a
dealer in pictures, who avaricioufly took care to keep
him incertantly employed, and fent his paintings to
Paris to be difpofed of, where they happened to be ex¬
ceedingly admired. The judicious were very eager to
purchafe them j and though the tranfaflor fold them
at a great price, yet the poor artift was not propor-
tionably rewarded, but continued in the fame obfcure
and deprefled condition. His merit, indeed, was uni-
verfally allowed, but his name, and the narrownefs of
his circumftances, were as univerfally unknown. He
had a clean light manner of penciling, and a tint of
colour that was extremely agreeable.—He died in
1560.
Backer, or Barker, Jacob, painter of portrait
and hiftory, was born at Harlingen in i 609, but fpent
the greateft part of his life at Amfterdam ; and by all
the writers on this fubjeft, he is mentioned as an ex¬
traordinary painter, particularly of portraits, which he
executed rvith ftrength, fpirit, and a graceful refem-
blance. He was remarkable for an uncommon readi-
nefs of hand and freedom of pencil j and his incredible
expedition in his manner of painting, appeared even
in one portrait of a lady from Haerlem, that he paint¬
ed at half length, which wras begun and finilhed in one
day, though he adorned the figure wdth rich drapery
and feveral ornamental jewels. He alfo painted hifto-
rical fubje£ts with good fuccefs; and in that ftyle there
is a fine pidture of Cimon and Iphigenia, which is ac¬
counted hy the connoiffeurs an excellent performance.
In defigning academy figures his expreffion was fo juft,
and his outline fo corredl, that he obtained the prize
from all his competitors} and his works are ftill bought
up at very high prices in the Low Countries. In the
colledlion of the Eleftor Palatine there is an excellent
head of Brouwrer, painted by this mafter ; and in the
Carmelites church at Antwerp is preferved a capital
pidlure of the Laft Judgment, which is well defigned
and well coloured. He died in 1651.
BACKEREEL, called Bacquerelli, William,
a painter of hiftory, was born at Antwerp, and was
a difciple of Rubens, at the fame time that Vandyck
was educated in that fchool. When each of them
quitted that mafter, and commenced painters, Backe-
10 ] BAG
reel was very little inferior to Vandyck, if not near¬
ly his equal. And this may be manifeftly feen in the
works of the former, which are in the church of the
Auguftin monks at Antw erp j where thofe two great
artifts painted in competition, and both were praifed
for their merit in their different w’ays 5 but the fuperi-
ority was never determined in favour either of the one
or the other. He had likewife a good tafte for poetry j
but, hy exercifing that talent too freely, in writing
fatires againft the Jefuits, thefe ecclefiaftics purfued him
with unremitted revenge, till they compelled him to
fly from Antwerp ; and by that means deprived his
own country of fuch paintings as would have contribu¬
ted to its perpetual honour.—Sandrart takes notice,
that in his time there were feven or eight painters,
who were very eminent, of the name of Backereel, in
Italy and the Low Countries.
BACKHUYSEN, Ludolph, an eminent painter,
was bom at Embden in 1631, and received his earlieft
inftnnftion from Albert Van Everdingen ; but acquired
his principal knowledge by frequenting the painting
rooms of different great mafters, and obferving their
various methods of touching and colouring. One of
thefe mafters was Henry Dubbels, whofe underftand-
ing in his art was very extenfive ; and he was as re¬
markably communicative of his knowledge to others.
From him Backhuyfen obtained more real benefit than
from all the painters of his time, either by ftudying
their works, or perfonally convetfing with them. His
fubjefts were fea-pieces, fhips, and fea-ports. He had
not praftifed very long when he became the objeft of
general admiration; fo that even his drawings were
fought after, and feveral of them were bought up at
100 florins a-piece. It was obferved of him, that
while he was painting, he would not fuffer even his
moft intimate friends to have accefs to him, left his
fancy might be difturbed, and the ideas he had formed
in his mind be interrupted. He ftudied nature atten¬
tively in all her forms j in gales, calms, ftorms, clouds,
rocks, Ikies, lights, and lhadowrs 5 and he expreffed
every fubjeft with fo fweet a pencil, and fuch tranfpa-
rence and luftre, as placed him above all the artifts of
his time in that ftyle, except the younger Vanderyelde,
who is defervedly eiteemed the firft in that manner of
painting. It was a frequent cuftom with Backhuyfen,
whenever he could procure refolute mariners, to go to
fea in a ftorm, in order to ftore his mind with grand
images, direftly copied from nature, of fuch feenes as
wmuld have filled any other head and heart with terror
and difmay 5 and the moment he landed he always im¬
patiently ran to his palette to fecure thofe incidents of
which the traces might by delay be obliterated.—He
perfeTlly underftood the management of the chiaro-
feuro, and by his Ikill in that part of his art, he gave
uncommon force and beauty to his objects. He ob¬
ferved ftrihtly the truth of perfpe&ive, in the diftances
of his veffels, the receding of the grounds on the ftiores,
and the different buildings which he deferibed in the
fea-ports : whether they were the refult of his own
imagination, or Iketched, as he ufually did, after na¬
ture. His works may eafily be diftinguifhed by an ob-
fervant eye, from the freedom and neatnefs of his
touch; from the clearnefs and natural agitation or
quiefcence of the water *, from a peculiar tint in bis
clouds and Ikies; and alfo from the exafr proportions
Backliuy-
b A e [ 31
Backing of his ihips, and the gracefulnefs of their pofition. For
II the burgomafters of Amfterdam he painted a large
^;tCon‘ , picfure, with a multitude of velTels, and a view of the
city at a diftance, for which they gave him thirteen
hundred guilders, and a confiderable prefent; which
picture they afterwards prefented to the king of France,
who placed it in the Louvre. No painter was ever
more honoured by the viiits of kings and princes than
Backhuyfen •, the king of Pruffia was one of the num¬
ber •, and the czar Peter the Great took delight to lee
him paint, and often endeavoured to draw after veffels
which he had defigned. He was remarkably afliduous,
and yet it feems aftonilhing to confider the number of
pictures which he finiihed, and the exquiiite manner in
which they are painted. He died in 17°9'
BACKING, in HorfemanJJnp. See Horseman¬
ship.
B acking the Sails, in Navigation ; to arrange them
in a fituation that will force the drip to retreat, or
move backwards. This is, however, only done in nar¬
row channels, when a fliip is carried along fidewife by
the tide or current, and wants to avoid any thing that
may interrupt her progrefs, as flioals, veffels at anchor,
&.c. or in the line of battle, when a Hup wants to be
immediately oppofite to another with which fhe is en-
gaged. _ .
BACKS, among dealers in leather, denote the
thickell and belt tanned hides, ufed chiefly for foies of
fhoes.
Backs, in Brewing and Dijfdhng. See Bac.
BACULARIUS, in writers of the middle age, an
ecclefiaftical apparitor, or verger 5 who carries a flaff,
bacillus, in his hand, as an enfign of his office.
BACON, fwines fleffi falted, and dried in the chim¬
ney.— Old hiftorians and law-writers Ipeak of the /er-
vice of the bacon, a cuftom in the manor of Whichen-
acre in Staffordlhire, and priory of Dunmore in Eflex ;
in the former of which places, by an ancient grant of
the lord, a flitch of bacon, with half a quarter of
wheat, was to be given to every married couple who
could fwear, that, having been married a year and a
day, they would never within that time have once ex¬
changed their mate for any other perfon on earth,
however richer, fairer, or the like. But they were to
bring two of their neighbours to fwear with them that
they believed they fwore the truth. On this the lord of
another neighbouring manor, of Rudlow, was to find
a horfe faddled, and a fack to carry the bounty in,
with drums and trumpets, as far as a day’s journey out
of the manor : all the tenants of the manor being fum-
moned to attend, and pay fervice to the bacon. The
bacon of Dunmore, firft erefted under Henry III. was
on much the fame footing •, only the tenor of the oath
was, that the parties had never once repented, or wilh-
ed the mfelves unmarried again.
Bacon, Roger, a Francifcan friar of amazing
genius and learning, was born near Ilchefter in Somer-
fetfliire, in the year 1214. He began his ttudies at
Oxford ; but in what fchool or college is uncertain.
Thence he removed to the univerfity of Paris, which,
in thofe times, was efteemed the centre of literature.
He re, we are told, he made fo rapid a progrefs in the
fciences, that he was efteemed the glory of that uni¬
verfity, and was much carefled by feveral of his coun¬
trymen, particularly by Robert Gxoutbead, afterwards
1 J B A c
bilhop of Lincoln, his Angular friend and patron. Bacon.
About the year 1240, he returned to Oxford 3 and
alfuming the Francifcan habit, profecuted his favourite
ftudy of experimental philofophy with unremitting
ardour and affiduity. In this purfuit, in experiments,
infiruments, and in fcarce books, he tells us, he fpent,
in the fpace of 20 years, no lefs than 2000I 3 which,
it feems, was given him by feme of the heads of the
univerfity, to enable him to profecute his noble in¬
quiries. But luch extraordinary talents, and afloniffiing
progrefs in fciences, which, in that ignorant age, were
totally unknown to the reft of mankind, whilft they
raifed the admiration of the more intelligent few, could
not fail to excite the envy and malice of his illiterate
fraternity 3 who found no difficulty of poffeffing the vul¬
gar with the notion of Bacon’s dealing with the devil.
Under this pretence, he was reftrained from reading
leifures; his writings were confined to his convent 3 and
finally, in 1278, he himfelf was imprifoned in his cell.
At this time he was 64 years of age. Neverthelefs,
being permitted the ufe of his books, he went on in
the rational purfuit of knowledge, correfted his former
labours, and wrote feveral curious pieces. When he
had been 10 years in confinement, Jerom de Afcoli
being elefted pope, Bacon folicited his holinefs to be
releafed 3 in which, it feems, he did not immediately
fucceed. However, towards the latter end of that
pope’s reign, he obtained his liberty, and fpent the
remainder of his life in the college of his order, where
he died in the year 1294, in the 80th j^ear of his age,
and was buried in the Francifcan church. Such are
the few particulars which the moft diligent refearches
have been able to difeover concerning this very great
man 3 who, like a Angle bright ftar in a dark hemi-
fphere, ffione forth the glory of his country, and the
pride of human nature. His works are, 1. Epi-
Jlola fratris Rogeri Baconis de fecretis operibus artis
et fiaturce, et de nullitate magice. Paris, 1542, qto.
Bafil, 1593, 8vo. 2. Opus majus. Lend. 1733,
fol. publiflred by Dr Jebb. 3. Thefaurus chemicus,
Francf. 1603, 1620. This was probably the editor’s
title 3 but it contains feveral of our author’s trea-
tifes on this fubjeff. Thefe printed works of Bacon-
contain a confiderable number of eflays, which, in the
catalogue of his writings by Bale, Pits, &c. have been
confideredas diftinft books 3 but there remain in differ¬
ent libraries feveral manuferipts not yet publifhed. By
an attentive perufal of his works, the reader will be
aftoniflred to find, that this great luminary of the 13th-
century was a great linguift and a fkilful grammarian,
that he was well verfed in the theory and pradtice of
perfpedlive; that he underftood the ufe of convex and
concave glafles, and the art of making them : that the
camera obfeura, burning-glaffes, and the power of the
telefcope were known to him 3 that he was well verfed
in geography and aftronomy 3 that he knew the great
error in the kalendar, affigned the caufe, and propofed
the remedy 3 that he underftood chronology well 3 that
he was an adept in chemiftry, and was really the inven¬
tor of gun-powder ; that he poffeffed great knowledge
in the medical art 3 that he was an able mathematician,
logician, metaphyfician, and theologift.
Bacon, Sir Nicholas, lord keeper of the great feal
in the reign of Queen Elizabeth, was born at Chifle-
hurft, in Kent, in xjio, and educated at the univenT-
BAG { 3i
ty of Cambridge j after which he travelled into France,
; and made fome flay at Paris. On his return, he fettled
in Gray’s Inn, and applied himfelf with fuch afTiduity
to the itudy of the law, that he quickly biftinguifhed
himlelf fo, that on the diflblution of the monaftery of
St Edmund’s Bury, in Suffolk, he had a grant from
King Henry VIII. in the 36th year of his reign, of
feveral manors. In the 38th of the fame king, he was
promoted to the office of attorney in the court of
wards, which was a place both of honour and profit.
In this office he was continued by King Edward VI. ;
and in 1552 he was eledled treafurer of Gray’s Inn. His
great moderation and confummate prudence preferved
him through the dangerous reign of Queen Mary. In
the very dawn of that of Elizabeth he was knighted ;
and on the 22d of December 1558, the great feal of
England, being taken from Nicolas Heath archbiffiop
of York, was delivered to him with the title of lord
keeper, and he was alfo made one of the queen’s privy
council. He had a confiderable (hare in the fettling
of religion: as a ftatefman, he was remarkable for a
clear head and. deep counfels : but his great parts and
high preferment were far from raifing him in his own
opinion, as appears from the model! anfwer he gave
Queen Elizabeth, when Ihe told him his houfe at Red¬
grave was too little for him : “ Not fo, madam, (re¬
turned he) ; but your majerty has made me too great
for my houfe.” After having had the great feal more
than 20 years, this able ftatefman and faithful counfel-
lor Was fuddenly removed from this life, as Mr Mallet
informs us, by the following accident: he was under
the hands ot the barber, and thinking the weather
warm, had ordered a window before him to be thrown
open, but fell affeep as the current of frefti air was
blowing in upon him, and awakened fome time after di-
ftempered all over. He was immediately removed into
his bed-chamber, where he died a few days after, on
the 26th of February 1578-9, equally lamented by the
queen and her fubjeas. He was buried in St Paul’s,
where a monument was ereaed to him, which was de-
ftroyed by the fire of London in 1666. Mr Granger
obferves, that he was the firft lord keeper that ranked
as lord chancellor 5 and that he had much of that pe¬
netrating genius, folidity, and judgment, perfuafive
eloquence, and comprehenfive knouftedge of law and
equity,^ which afterwards ftione forth wdth fo great a
luftre in his fon, who svas as much inferior to his fa¬
ther in point of prudence and integrity, as his father
was to him in literary accompliftiments.
Bacon, Francis, lord high chancellor of England
under King James I. was fon of Sir Nicholas Bacon .
lord keeper of the great feal in the reign of Queen E-
lizabeth, by Anne daughter of Sir Anthony^ Cook,
eminent for her Ikill in the Latin and Greek tongues.
He was born in 1560 $ and fhowcd fuch marks of ge-
11 jus, that he was particularly taken notice of by Queen
Elizabeth when very young. He was educated at
1 rinity college, Cambridge ; and made fuch incredi¬
ble progreis in his ftudies, that, before he was 16, he
had not only run through the whole circle of the libe¬
ral arts as they wrere then taught, but began to per¬
ceive thole imperfedions in the reigning philofophy,
which he afterwards fo effedually expofed, and there¬
by not only overturned that tyranny which prevented
the progrefs of true knowledge, but laid the founda-
2
2 ] BAG
tion of tnat free and ufeful philofophy which has fince Hacofn
opened a way to fo many glorious difcoveries. On his v~““
leaving the univerfity, his father fex t him to France 5
where, before he was 19 years of age, he wrote a ge¬
neral view of the ftate of Europe : but Sir Niched as
dying, he was obliged fuddenly to return to England j
when he applied himfelf to the ftudy of the common
lawq at Gray’s Inn. At this period the famous earl of'
Effex, who. could diftinguilh merit, and who paffion-
ately loved it, entered into an intimate friendlhip with
him ; zealoully attempted, though without fuccefs, to
procure him the office of queen’s folicitor ; and, in or¬
der to comfort his friend under the difappointment,
conferred on him a prefent of land to the value of
1800I. Bacon, notwithftanding the friendlhip of fo
great a perfon ; notwithftanding the number and pow’-
er of his own relations ;• and, above all, notwithftand¬
ing the early prepoffeflion of her majefty in his favour j
met with many obftacles to his preferment during her
reign. In particular, his enemies reprefented him as
a Ipeculative man, whofe head was filled with philofo-
phical notions, and therefore more likely to perplex
than forward public bufinefs. It was not without great
difficulty that lord treafurer Burleigh obtained for him
the reverfion of regifter to the liar-chamber, worth
about 1600I. a-year, which place fell to him about 20
years after. Neither did he obtain any other prefer-*
ment all this reign j though if obedience to a fovereign
in wffiat muft be the moll difagreeable of all offices*
viz. the calling relledlions on a deceafed friend, enti¬
tled him, he might have claimed it. The people were
fo clamorous even againft the queen herfelf on the
death of Effex, that it wras thought neceffary to vindi¬
cate the conduft of the adminiftration. This was
affigned to Bacon, wffiich brought on him uuiverlal
cenfure, nay his very life was threatened. Upon the
acceffion of King James, he was foon railed to conli-
derable honours j and wrote in favour of the union of
the two kingdoms of Scotland and England, which the
king fo paffionately defired. In 1616, he was fworn
of the privy-council. He then applied himfelf to the
reducing and recompofing the law’s of England. He
diftinguilhed himfelf, when attorney-general, by his
endeavours to reftrain the cuftom of duels, then very
frequent. In 1617, he was appointed lord keeper of
the great feal. In 1618, he was made lord chancel¬
lor of England, and created Lord Verulam. In the
midft of thefe honours and applaufes, and multiplicity
of bufinefs, he forgot not his philofophy, but in 1620
publifired his great wmrk entitled Novum Organum*
We find by feveral letters of his, that he thought con¬
vening of parliaments Was the bell expedient for the king
and people. In 1621, he wTas advanced to the dignity of
Vifcount St Albans, and appeared with the greateft
fplendour at the opening of the fefiion of parliament.
But he was foon after furprifed with a melancholy re-
verfe of fortune. For, about the 12th of March, a
committee of the houfe of commons was appointed to
infpedl the abufes of the courts of juftice. The firft
thing they fell upon w’as bribery and corruption, of
which the lord chancellor was accufed. For that very
year complaints being made to the houfe of commons
of his lordfiup’s having received bribes, thole com¬
plaints were fent up to the houfe of lords j and new
ones being daily made of a like nature, things foot*
grew
BAG [ 3
grew too high to be got over. The king found it was
^ ? impoffible to fave both his chancellor, who was open¬
ly accufed of corruption, and Buckingham his favour¬
ite, who was fecretly and therefore more dangeroudy
attacked as the encourager of whatever was deemed
moil illegal and opprefiivp : he therefore forced the
former to abandon his defence, giving him pofitive ad=-
vice to fubmit himfelf to his peers, and promifing upon
his princely word to fcreen him in the laft determina¬
tion, or, if that could not be, to reward him after-
wards with an ample retribution of favour. The chan¬
cellor, though he forefaw his approaching ruin if he
did not plead for hirr.felf, refolved to obey ; and the
houfe of peers, on the 3d of May 1621, gave judg¬
ment againil him, “ That he fliould be fined 40,000!.
and remain prifoner in the Tower during the king’s
pleafure ; that he flrould for ever be incapable of any
office, place, or employment, in the Hate or common-
wealth ; and that he ffiould never fit in parliament, or
come within the verge of the court.” The fault which,
next to his ingratitude to ElTex, thus tarniffied the
glory of this illullrious man, is faid to have principally
proceeded from his indulgence to his fervants, who
made a corrupt ufe of it. One day, during his trial,
paffing through a room where feveral of his domellics
were fitting, upon their rifing up to falute him, he
laid, “ Sit down, my mailers ; your rife hath been my
fall.” Stephens, p. 54. And we are told by Rufh-
worth, in his hillorical colle&ions, “ That he treafured
up nothing for himfelf or family, but was over-indul¬
gent to his fervants, and connived at their takings,
and their ways betrayed him to that error ; they were
profufe and expenfive, and had at their command what¬
ever he was mailer of. The gifts taken were for the
moll part for interlocutory orders •, his decrees wTere
generally made with fo much equity, that though gifts
rendered him fufpefled for injullice, yet never any de¬
cree made by him wras reverfed as unjull.” It was pe¬
culiar to this great man (fay the authors of the Biogr.
Brit.) to have nothing narrow and felfilh in his compo-
fition : he gave away without concern whatever he pof-
fefled ; and believing other men of the fame mould, he
received with as little confideration. He retired, af¬
ter a Ihort imprifonment, from the engagements of an
a6live life, to which he had been called much againil
his genius, to the lhade of a contemplative one, which
he had always loved. The king remitted his fine, and
he was fummoned to parliament in the firil year of King
Charles I. It appears from the works compofed du¬
ring his retirement, that his thoughts were Hill free,
vigorous, and noble. The lall five years of his life he
devoted wholly to his Itudies. In his recefs he com¬
pofed the greatell part of his Englilh and Latin works.
He expired on the 9th of April 1626 5 and was buried
in St Michael’s church at St Alban’s, according to the
direftion of his lall will, where a monument of white
marble was erefted to him by Sir Thomas Meautys,
formerly his fecretary, and afterward clerk of the privy
council under two kings. A complete edition of this
great man’s works was publilhed at London in the
year i74o.—Addifon has faid of him, That he had
the found, difiinft, comprehenfive knowledge of Ari-
1 otle, with all the beautiful light graces and embel-
-lilhments of Cicero. The honourable Mr Walpole
calls him the Prophet of Arts which Newton was a£-
Vol. III. Part I.
13 ] BAG
terwards to reveal j and adds, that his genius and his Bacon
works will be univerfally admired as long as fcience „ J!.
exills. “ As long as ingratitude and adulation are de- actna'
fpicable, fo long lhall we lament the depravity of this n
great man’s heart. Alas ! that he who could command
immortal fame, ffiould have Hooped to the little ambi¬
tion of power.”
Bacon, Sir Nathaniel, knight of the bath, and an
excellent painter, was a younger fon of the lord keep¬
er, and half brother to the great Sir Francis. He tra¬
velled into Italy, and ftudied painting there •, but his
manner and colouring approaches nearer to the ftyle of
the Flemiffi fchool. Mr Walpole obferves, that at
Culford, where he lived, are preferved fome of his
works j and at Gorhambury, his father’s feat, is a
large pidlure by him in oil, of a cook-maid with a dead
fowl, admirably painted, with great nature, neatnefs,
and luftre of colouring. In the fame houfe is a whole
length of him, by himfelf, drawing on a paper, his
fword and pallet hung up, and a half length of his mo¬
ther by him.
BACON FHORP, John, called xht refo/ute doflor,
a learned monk, was born towards the end of the 13th
century at Baconthorp, a village in Norfolk. He
fpent the early part of his life in the convent of Black-
ney, near Walfingham in the fame county ; whence he
removed to Oxford, and from thence to Paris; where
being diilinguilhed for his learning, he obtained de¬
grees in divinity and laws, and was elleemed the prin¬
cipal of the A verroills *. In 13 2 9 he returned to Eng- * see
land, and was immediately chofen twelfth provincial rces.
of the Engliffi Carmelites. In 1333 he was fent for
to Rome $ where, we are told, he firil maintained the
pope’s fovereign authority in cafes of divorce, but that
he afterward retraced his opinion. He died in Lon¬
don in the year 1346. Leland, Bale, and Pits, una-
nimoufly gave him the charafter of a monk of genius
and learning. He wrote, 1. Comment aria feu queftones
fupcr quatuor hbros fententiarum ; and, 2. Compendium
legis Chrijli, et quodlibeta ; both which underwent fe¬
veral editions at Paris, Milan, and Cremona. Leland,
Bale, and Pits, mention a number of his works never
publiffied.
BACTRIA, orBACTRiANA, now Choraffan or Khe-
rafan, an ancient kingdom of Afia, bounded on the
weft by Margiana, on the north by the river Oxus, on
the fouth by Mount Paropifmus, and on the eail by
the Afiatic Scythia and the country of the Maffagetae.
It was a large, fruitful, and well-peopled country,
containing according to Ammianus Marcellinus xoco
cities, though of thefe only a few are particularly
mentioned by hiftorians, of which that formerly call¬
ed Maracanda, now Samarcand, is the molt confider-
able.
Of the hiftory of this country we know but little.
Authors agree that it was fubdued firil by the Afly-
rians, afterwards by Cyrus, and then by Alexander the
Great. Afterwards it remained fubjeft to Seleucus
Nicator and his fucceffors till the time of Antiochus
Theos ; when Theodorus, from governor of that pro¬
vince, became king, and ftrengthened himfelf fo effec¬
tually in his kingdom, while Antiochus was engaged
in a war with Ptolemy Philadelphus king of Egypt,
that he could never afterwards difpoffefs him of his ac-
quifitions. His pofterity continued to enjoy the king-
R r dom
BAD [3
JSa&rope- dom for fome time, till tliey were driven out by the
ra|a Scythians, who reigned in Baflria at the time of A-
Badagfhan d”an» Antoninus Pius, &c. The Scythians were in
^ —i——c '■ their turn driven out by the Huns or Turks, and thefe
often conquered by the Saracens and Tartars ; never-
thelefs they continued in pofTeflion of this country in
the time of Ladillaus IV. king of Hungary.
In early times the Baftrians differed little in their
manners from the Nomades *, and be ingnear neigh¬
bours of the Scythians, who were a very warlike peo¬
ple, the Baftrian foldiers were reckoned the bell in
the world. Their appearance was very favage j being
of an enormous ftature, having a terrible afpeft,, rough
beards, and long hair hanging down their Ihoulders.
Some authors alfert that they kept dogs on purpofe to
devour fuch as arrived at extreme old age, or who were
exhaufted by long licknefs. They add, that for all
their fiercenefs, the Bacfrian hufbands were luch dupes
to their wives, that they durft not complain of them
even for conjugal infidelity, to which it feems the lat¬
ter were very much addhffed.
BACTROPERATA, an ancient appellation given
to philofophers by way of contempt, denoting a man
with a llaff and a budget.
We fuppofe it is of the fame people that Pauchafias
Radbertus fpeaks under the corrupt name of Baco/je-
ritce or Bacchionitce, whom he defpribed as philofophers
who had fo great a contempt for all earthly things,
that they kept nothing but a difh to drink out of 5 and
that one of this order feeing a peafant fcooping up the
water in his hand, threw aw&y his cup as a fuperfluity :
which is nothing but the old Rory of Diogenes the
Cynic.
BACCULE, in Fortification, a kind of portcullis,
or gate, made like a pit-fall with a counterpoife, and
fupported by two great flakes. It is ufually made be¬
fore the corpade-guard, not far from the gate of a
place.
BACULOMETRY, the art of meafurlng accefli-
ble or inacceffible heights, by the help of one or more
baculi, ftaves, or rods. See Geometry.
BACURIUS, or Baturius, king of the Iberians,
a people on the fide of the Cafpian fea. One day being
a-hunting, he lort fight of his company, through a
great ftorm and hidden darknefs ; upon which he vow¬
ed to the God of his Chriftian Have, that if he were de¬
livered he would worfliip him alone : the day breaking
up immediately, he made good his promife, and be¬
came the apoftle of his country.
BADAGSHAN, a very ancient city of Great
Bukharia, in the province of Balkh, fituated at the foot
of thofe high mountains which feparate Indoftan from
Great Tart aryl The city is exceedingly ftrong by its
fituation } and belongs to the khan of Proper Bukha¬
ria, who ufes it as a kind of ftate-prifon to fecure thofe
he is jealous of. The town is not large, but well
built, and very populous. It Hands on the north fide
of the river Amu, about 100 miles from its fource, and
is a great thoroughfare for the caravans travelling to
Little Bukharia. The inhabitants are enriched by
mines of gold, filver, and rubies, which are. in the
neighbourhood *, and thofe who live at the foot of the
mountains gather a great quantity of gold and filver
dart brought down in the fpring by torrents oecafioned
by the melting of the fnow on the top.
4 1 BAD
BADAJOZ, a large and flrong town, capital of Badajdz
Eftremadura in Spain. It is feated on the river Gua- II
diana, over which there is a fine bridge built by the . a( en- ^
Romans. On this bridge the Portuguefe were defeat¬
ed in 1661, by Don John of Auftria. The population
of Badajoz is computed at near 9,000 inhabitants, but
a fmall number in proportion to its extent. Mofl of
the ftreets are extremely narrow, and the houfes fmall
and crowded. W. Long. 7. 3. N. Lat. 38. 35.
BADELONA, a town of Catalonia in Spain, feat¬
ed on the Mediterranean. Lord Peterborough landed
here in 1704, when, with Charles then king of Spain,
he laid fiege to Barcelona, from which it is ten miles
diftant. E. Long. 2. 20. N. Lat. 41. t2.
BADEN, the diflridt of, in Swifferland, has three
cities, Baden, Keifers Stoul, and Rlingnaw, befides
a town that partes for a city, named Zur%ach. It is
one of the fineft countries in Swiflerland 5 and is wa¬
tered with three navigable rivers, the Limmet, Rufs,
and Are. The land is fertile in corn and fruit, and
there are places on the fides of the Limmet which pro¬
duce wine. It maintains a communication between
the cantons of Zurich and Bern, being feated between
their north extremities. It extends on one fide to the
Are, as far as the place where it falls into the Rhine,
and on the other fide beyond the Rhine, where there
are fome villages which depend thereon. Moft of the
inhabitants are Papifts. By the treaty of peace at the
conclufion of the war which broke out in 1712 between
the Proteflant and Popifh cantons, this country was
yielded to the Proteftant cantons of Zurich and Bern.
Before, it was the property of the eight old cantons *,
however, as the carton of Claris had taken no part in
this ivar, by the confent of both parties its right was
ftill continued.
Baden, the capital of the above diftricl, is an agree¬
able city, moderately large, feated on the fide of the
Limmet, in a plain Hanked by two high hills, between
which the river runs. This city owes its rife to its
baths, which were famous before the Chriftian era.
Several monuments of antiquity have been found here
from time to time, particularly in 1240. When they
were opening the large fpring of the haths, they found
ftatues of feveral heathen gods, made of alabafter
Roman coins, made of bronze, of Auguftus, Vefpafi-
an, Decius, &c. •, and feveral medals of the Roman
emperors, of gold, filver, copper, and bronze. There
are two churches in Baden 5 one of which is collegiate,
and makes a good appearance ; the other is a monafle-
ry of the Capuchins, near the townhoufe. This lafl
building ferves not only for the aflemblies of their own
council, but alfo for thofe of the cantons. The diet
aflembles there in a handfome room made for that pur¬
pofe •, the deputies of Zurich fit at the bottom behind
a table, as the moft honourable place ; the ambaffa-
dors of foreign powers are feated on one fide to the
right, and the deputies of the other cantons are ranged
on each fide the room. The bailiff of Baden refides in
a caftle at the end of a handfome wooden bridge,
which is covered in. Before this caftle there is a ftone
pillar, eredted in honour of the emperor Trajan, who
paved a road in this country 85 Italian miles in length.
The inhabitants are rigid Roman catholics, and for¬
merly behaved in a ’jroft infolent manner, to the Prote-
ftantSj but they are now obliged by their mafters to bo-
more
BAD [ 3
Ba-len rriofe fubmlfTive. The baths wliich are on each fide of
!! the river are a quarter of a league from the city. Join-
Weiiler in% t0 ^ baths there is a village, and to the
>. - t- 1- large a town which may pafs for a fecond Baden. It
is feated on a hill, of which the afcent is fleep. There
the baths are brought into inns and private houfes, by
means of pipes, which are about 60 in all. There are
alfo public baths in the middle of the towns, from a
fpring which rifes in the ftreet, where the poor bathe
gratis, but they are expofed quite naked to all that pafs
by. All the baths are hot, and one to fo great a de¬
gree as to fcald the hand •, and they are impregnated
with a great deal of fulphur, with fome alum and nitre.
ri hey are ufeful for drinking as well as bathing j and
are faid to cure all difeafes from a cold caufe, head¬
aches, vertigoes, See. They ftrengthen the fenfes,
cure difeafes of the bread: and boWels, afthmas, and
obftrufrions. They are peculiarly excellent for wo¬
men’s difeafes. E. Long. 8. 25;. N. Lat. 47. 27.
_ Baden, the Margravate of, in the circle of .Swa¬
bia, in Germany, is bounded by the Palatinate of the
Rhine, on the north j by the Black Foreft, on the
eaft ; by Switzerland, on the foiith j and by the Rhine,
which divides it from Alface, on the eaft : and is about
90 miles in length, from north to fouth; but not above
20 in breadth, where it is wideft. It is a very popu¬
lous and fruitful country, abounding in corn and wine,
Venifon and wild fowl are fo plentiful, that they are the
common diet of the peafants. The rivers that water
this territory, are the Rhine, Ens, Wirmbs, and Phints,
which yield plenty of filh. They feed their hogs
with chefnuts, which make the bacon excellent. They
have free-done for building, and marble'of all colours.
They have fome agate, and great quantities of hemp
and flax for exportation. The chief towns are Baden,
Durlach, Stolhafen, Radadt, Gerfbach, Pforfheim,
and Hochberg.
Baden, the chief city of the above margravate, has
a cadle that dands on the top of a hill, which is the
refidence of a prince. The towm is feated among hills,
on rocky and uneven ground, which renders the dreets
* inconvenient and crooked. It is famous for its baths,
the fprings of which are faid to be above 300. Some
of them are hot, and accounted to be very good in ner¬
vous cafes. Thev partake of fait, alum, and fulphur.
E. Long. 9. 24. N. Lat. 48. 50.
Baden, a town of Germany, in the archduchy of
Audria, feated on the Little Suechat, is a neat little
willed town, danding in a plain not far from a ridge
of hills which run out from the mountain Cetius. It
is much frequented by the people of Vienna, and the
neighbouring parts, on account of its baths. The
fprings fupply two convenient baths within the town,
five without the walls, and one beyond the river. They
. are good for didempers of the head, the gout, dropfy,
and mod chronic difeafes. E. Long. 17. 10. N. Lat.
48. o.
BAD ENOCH, the mod eaderly part of Invernefs-
drire, in Scotland, extending about 33 miles in length
from ead to wTed, and 27 from north-ead to fouth-
wed where broaded. It has no confiderable towm,
nnd is very barren and hilly, but abounds with deer,
and other kinds of game.
BADEN-weiller, a town of Germany, belonging
15 ] BAD
to the longer margravate of Baden. E. Long. 7. 30. Badetw
N. Lat. 47. 55. . II
BADENS, Francis, hidorical and portrait paint-
cr, was born at Antwerp in 15715 and the fird rudi¬
ments of the art wTere communicated to him by his fa¬
ther, w7ho w'as but an ordinary artid. However, he
vifited Rome, and feveral parts of Italy, and then
formed a good tade of defign, and a manner exceed-
ingly pleafing. When he returned to his own country
his merit procured for him great employment, and dill
greater reputation, and he was ufually didinguidred by
the name of the Italian painter. His touch wTas light
and fpirited, and his colouring wrarm 5 and he had the
honour of being the fird who introduced a good tade
of colouring among his countrymen. While his ac ¬
knowledged merit w'as rewarded with every public te-
dimony of edeem and applaufe, unhappily he received
an account of the death of his brother, who had been
affaffinated on a journey 5 and the intelligence affected
him fo violently, that it occafioned his own death,
to the inexpredible regret of every lover of the art, in
i6°3.
BADGE, in naval architecture, fignifies a fort of
ornament placed on the outfide of fmall (hips, -very
near the dern, containing either a window for the con¬
venience of the cabin, or a reprefentation of it. It is
commonly decorated with marine figures, martial in-
druments, or fuch like emblems.
BADGER, in 'Zoology, the Englifb name of a fpe-
cies of urfus. See Ursus.
Badger, in old law-books, one that w'as licenfed to
buy corn in one place and carry it to another to fell,
without incurring the punifhment of an engroffer.
BADIA, an ancient town of Baitica, on the Anas;
now fuppofed to be Badajoz on the Guadiana.
BAD I AG A, in the materia medica the name of a
fort of fpongy plant, common in the (hops in Mofcowr,
and-fome other northern kingdoms. The ufe of it is
the taking away of livid marks from blows and bruifes,
wdiich the powder of this plant is faid to do in a night’s
time.
BADIANE, or Bandian, the feed of a tree which
grows in China, and Imells like anife-feed. The Chi-
nele, and the Dutch in imitation of them, fometimes
ufe the badiane to give their tea an aromatic tade.
BADIGEON, a mixture of plader and free-done,
w'ell ground together, and fifted ; ufed by datuaries to
fill up the little holes, and repair the defefts in dones,
wdiereof they make their datues and other v^ork.
The fame term is alfo ufed by joiners for faiv-dud
mixed with drong glue, wherewith they fill up the
chaps and other defefts in wTood after it is wrought.
BADILE, Antonio, hidory and portrait painter,
wTas born at Verona in 1480, and by great dudy and
application acquired a more extenfive knowledge of
the true principles of painting than any of his prede-
ceffors. He was confeffedly a mod eminent artid ;
but he derived greater honour from having twm fuch
difciples as Paolo Veronefe and Baptida Zelotti, than
he did even from the excellence of his own' compofi-
tions. He died in 1560. His colouring was admi¬
rably good ; his carnations beautiful ; and his portraits
preferved the perfeft refemblance of flelh and real
life : nor had he any caufe to envy the acknowledged
R r 2 merh
*
li jE T [3
^aclis merit of Titian, Giorgione, or the bell of his cotem-
II poraries.
£setyha; _ BADIS, a fortrefs of Livonia, fubje£l to Ruffia.
E. Long. 23. IO. N. Lat. 59. 15*
RADIUS, Conrad, and Stephen Robert, his
brother j French refugees j celebrated as printers at
Geneva, and Conrad as an author. The latter died
in 1566.
BALCKEA. See Botany Index.
BiETERRiE, an ancient town of the Tertofages in
Gallia Narbonenfis j now Bejiers, on the eaft bank of
the Obris, now Orbis or Orbe, in Lower Languedoc.
BriETICA, a province of ancient Spain, fo called
from the famed river Baetis, afterwards TarteJJhs, now
Guadalquiver, or the great river. It was bounded on
the weft by Lufitania j on the fouth, by the Mediterra¬
nean, and Sinus Gaditanus 5 on the north by the Can-
tabric fea, now the bay of Bifcay. On the eaft and
north-eaft, its limits cannot be fo well afeertained as
. they are very reafonably thought to have been in a
continual ftate of fluftuation, as each petty monarch
had an opportunity of encroaching upon his neighbour.
The province was divided in two by the river Baetis
already mentioned. On the one fide of which, towards
the Anas, were fttuated the Turdetani, from whence
the kingdom was called Tnrdetama, though more ge¬
nerally known by the name of Bcetuna. On the
other fide were fituated the Baftuli, Baftetani, and
Conteftani, along the Mediterranean coafts. The Ba¬
ftuli were fuppofed to be of Phoenician extra#, and
dwelt along the coafts of the Mediterranean, till, driven
from thence by the Moors, they fled into the moun¬
tainous parts of Galicia, which they then called from
their own name Bajhilia. The Baftetani were feated
higher up, on the fame coafts. The territories of both
thefe made part of what has fince become the kingdom
of Granada ; in which there is a ridge of very high
mountains, called from the above-mentioned people, the
Bqfletanian mountains. Mention is alfo made of their
capital Bateftana ; a place of fuch ftrength, that King
Ferdinand was fix months befieging it before he could
take it from the Moors. The whole province of Bae-
tica, according to the moft probable account, con¬
tained what is now called Andalujia, part of the king¬
dom of Granada, and the outward boundaries of Eftre-
madura.
B/ETJS. See B^etica.
BiETULO, a town of ancient Spain in the Terra-
conenfisj now Badelona in Catalonia.
BriETYLIA, anointed ftones, worlhipped by the
Phoenicians, by the Greeks before the time of Cecrops,
and by other barbarous nations. They were com¬
monly of a black colour, and confecrated to fome
god, as Saturn, Jupiter, the Sun, &c. . Some are of
opinion that the true original of thefe idols is to be
derived from the pillar of ftone which Jacob ere#ed
at Bethel, and which was afterwards worfliipped by the
Jews.
Thefe bcetylia were much the obje# of the veneration
of the ancientjpieathens. Many of their idols were no
other. In reality, no fort of idol was more common
in the eaftern countries, than that of oblong ftones
erected, and hence termed by the Greeks, Kims, pillars.
In fome parts of Egypt they were planted on both
fidcs of the highways. In the temple of Heliogaba-
X
6 ] BAG
lus, in Syria, there was one pretended to have fallen Baeza
from heaven. There was alfo a famous black ftone in II
Phrygia, faid to have fallen from heaven. The Ro- ag ta_^
mans fent for it and the priefts belonging to it with
much ceremony, Scipio Nafica being at the head of
the embaffy.
BfEZA, a city of Andalufia in Spain, feated on a
high hill three miles from the Guadalquiver ; it is the
fee of a bifhop, and has a kind of univerfity founded
by John d’Avila. It rvas taken from the Moors about
the end of the 15th century. E. Long. 3. 15. N. Lat.
37. 45.
BAFFETAS, or Bastas, a cloth made of coarfe
white cotton thread, which comes from the Eaft Indies.
That of Surat is the beft.
BAFFIN’S bay, a gulf of North America, running
north-eaft from Cape Farew'ell in Weft Greenland, from
6° to 8° of north latitude.
BAFFO, a confiderable town in the ifland of Cy¬
prus, with a fort built near ancient Paphos, of which
fome confiderable ruins yet remain, particularly fome
broken columns, which probably belonged to the tem¬
ple of Venus. E. Long. 32. 20. N. Lat. 34. 50.
BAG, in Commerce, a term fignifying a certain
quantity of fome particular commodity : a bag of al¬
monds, for inftance, is about 300 weight j of anife-
feeds, from 300 to 400, &c.
Bags, are ufed in moft countries to put feveral forts
of coin, either of gold, filver, brafs, or copper. Bank¬
ers, and others, who deal much in current cafh, label
their bags of money, by tying a ticket or note at the
mouth of the bag, fignifying the coin therein contain¬
ed, the fum total, its weight, and of whom it was re¬
ceived. Tare is allowed for the bag.
Bag, among Farriers, is when, in order to retrieve
a horfe’s loft appetite, they put in an ounce of afafee-
tida, and as much powder of favin, into a bag, to be
tied to the bit, keeping him bridled for two hours, fe¬
veral times a-day ; as foon as the bag is taken oflF he
will fall to eating. The fame bag will ferve a long
time.
BAGAMADER, or Bagamedri, a province of
the kingdom of Abyflinia in Africa. It is faid to re¬
ceive its name from the great number of fheep bred in
it ; medcr fignifying land or earth, and bag a flieep. Its
length is eftimated about 60 leagues, and its breadth
20 : but formerly it was much more extenfive } feveral
of its provinces having been difmembered from it, and
joined to that of Tigre. A great part of it, efpecially
towards the eaft, is inhabited lay wandering Gallas and
Caffres.
BAGAUDiE, or Bacauda:, an ancient fatlion of
peafants, or malecontents, who ravaged Gaul. The
Gauls being opprefled with taxes, rofe about the
year of Chrift 290, under the command of Amand
and Elian 5 and affumed the name bagauda, which,
according, to fome authors, fignified in the Gallic
language forced rebels; according to others, tribute;
according to others, robbers; which laft fignification (
others allow the word had, but then it was onjy after
the time of the bagaudee, and doubtlefs took its rife
from them.
BAGDAD, a celebrated city of Alia in Irak Arabia,
•feated on the eaftern barks of the Tigris, in E. Long.
43 40. N. Lat. 33. 15. By many authors this city i^
very
Why the
city was
built.
Ancient
city de-
fcribed.
BAG [31
Bagdad, very Improperly called Babylon. The latter flood on
-—V—the Euphrates at a considerable diflance.
This city, for many years the capital of the Saracen
empire, was founded by the caliph A1 Manfur, the Se¬
cond of the houfe of A1 Abbas, after an attempt by the
Rawandians to affaffinate him, as already mentioned.
See Arabia, N° 184.
The reafons afligned by the Arabian hitlorians for
building the city of Bagdad are, That the above-men¬
tioned attempt to affaffinate the caliph had difgufted
him at his Arabian fubje£ls in general, and that the
fpot where Bagdad flood was at a confiderable diflance
from the city of Cufa particularly ; the inhabitants of
which were remarkable for their treachery and incon-
ftancy, Al Manfur himfelf having felt Several inftances
of it. Befides the people of Irac, who had always
continued faithful to him, reprefented, that by build¬
ing his capital near the confluence of the Euphrates
and Tigris, it would be in a great meafure Secured from
the infults and attacks of thofe who fhould have an in¬
clination to difpute the caliphate with him ; and that
by being fituated as it were in the middle of the tra&
comprehending the diftrifls of Bafrah, Cufa, Wafet,
Mawfel, and Swada, at no great diftance from thefe
cities, it would be plentifully Supplied with proviflons
by means of the aforefaid rivers.
Concerning the origin of the name Bagdad, there are
various accounts, which, being equally uncertain and
trifling, merit no attention. The firft city that went
by this name was fituated on the weftern bank of the
Tigris ; from whence Al Manfur defpatched his Son
Al Mohdi with a body of Moflem troops to the oppo-
fite bank. Here the young prince took port, and for¬
tified the place on which he had encamped with a wall,
in order to cover his troops, as well as the workmen
employed by his father on the other fide of the river,
from the incurfions of the Perfians, who Seemed to have
taken umbrage at the ereftion of a new metropolis fo
near the frontiers of their dominions. Hence that part
of the city Soon after built on the eaftern banks of the
Tigris, received the name of the Camp or Fortrefs of
Al Mohdi. The caliph had a Superb and magnificent
palace both in the eaflern and weftern part of the town.
The eaftern palace was Surrounded on the land fide by
a Semicircular wall that had fix gates •, the principal of
which Seems to have been called the gate of prefers,
whofe entrance was generally killed by the princes and
ambafladors that came to the caliph’s court. The weft¬
ern part of the city was entirely round, with the ca¬
liph’s palace in the centre, and having the great mofque
annexed to it. The eaftern part confifted of an interior
and exterior town, each of which was Surrounded by a
wall. For Some time the building of the city went
but flowly on, owing to a Scarcity of materials for
building •, for which reafon the caliph was Sometimes
inclined to remove the materials of Al Madayen, the
ancient metropolis of the Perfian empire. But, upon
trial, he found the ftones to be of Such immenfe fize,
that the removal of them to Bagdad would be attended
with great difficulty and expence \ befides, he confidered
that it would be a reflexion upon himfelf to have it
faid that he could not finifli his metropolis without de¬
ft roying Such a pile of building as perhaps could not
be paralleled in the whole world ; for which reafons
he at length gave over his defign, and erected the city
7 ] BAG
of Bagdad moft probably out of the ruins of the ancient Bagdad ^
cities of Seleucia and Ctefiphon, putting an end to his
undertaking in the 149th year of the Hegira, or four
years after the city was begun.
From the building of the city of Bagdad to the death
of Al ManSur nothing very remarkable happened, ex¬
cepting Some irruptions made into the territories of the
Greeks, and by the Arabs into Some of the caliph’s
other territories. In the 157th year of the Hegira alfo,_
a grievous famine was felt in Mefopotamia, wrhich was
quickly after followed by a plague that deftroyed great
numbers. This year likewiie, the Chriftians, wTho had
been all along very Severely dealt with by Al ManSur,
were treated with the utmoft rigour by Mufa Ebn Mo-
Saab the caliph’s governor ; every one who was unable
to pay the enormous tribute exafted of them being
thrown into prifon without diftindlion. o
The next year, being the 158th of the Hegira, the Death ofAi
caliph Set out from Bagdad, in order to perform the pil- Manfur.
grimage to Mecca: but being taken ill on the road, he
expired at Bir Maimun, whence his body w7as carried
to Mecca; where, after a hundred graves had been
dug, that his fepulchre might be concealed, he was in¬
terred, having lived according to Some 63, according
to others 68 years, and reigned 2 2. He is faid to h^ve
been extremely covetous, and to have left in his trea-
fury 600,000,000 dirhems, and 24,000,000 dinars. He
is reported to have paid his cook by afligning him the
heads and legs of the animals dreffed in his kitchen,
and to have obliged him to procure at his own expence
all the fuel and veflels he had occafion for. 4
When Al Manfur expired at Bir Maimun, he had Succeeded
only his domeftics and Rabi his freedman with him.
The latter of thefe, for Some time, kept his death con-1
cealed, and pretended to have a conference with him,
in which, as he gave out, the caliph commanded him
to exaft an oath of allegiance to Al Mohdi his fon,
as his immediate fucceffor, and to Ifa Ebn Mufa his
coufin-german, as the next apparent heir to the crown.
He then deipatched a courier to Bagdad with the news
of Al Manfur’s death j upon which Al Mohdi was
unanimoufly proclaimed caliph. Ha Ebn Mufa, how¬
ever, no Sooner heard this news, than he began to en¬
tertain thoughts of Setting ifp for himfelf at Cufa,
wrhere he then refided •, and in order to facilitate the
execution of his Scheme, fortified himfelf in that city.
But Al Mohdi being apprifed of his defedlion, Sent
a detachment of 1000 horfe to bring him to Bag¬
dad ; which being done, Al Mohdi not only prevail¬
ed upon him to own his allegiance to him, but alfo to
give up his right to the fucceffion for 10,000 accord¬
ing to fome, or according to others for 10,000,000,
dinars. » ^
From the acceffion of Al Mohdi to the 146th year Rebellion
of the Hegira, the moft remarkable event was the re-°f AlMo-
bellion of Al Mokanna. This impious impoftor, whofe kann3‘
true name was Hakem Ebn He/ham, came originally
from Khorafan, and had been an under Secretary to
Abu Moflem governor of that province. He after¬
wards turned Soldier, and palled thence into Mawaral-
nahr, where he gave himfelf out for a prophet. The
name of Al Mokanna, as alfo that of Al Borkai, that
is, the veiled^ he took from his cuftom of covering his
face with a veil or girdle malk, to conceal his defor¬
mity } he having loft an eye in the wars, and being
otherwife
Bcjhlad.
6
dreadful
cataftrophe
-of him and
all his fa¬
mily.
Harun Al
Rafchid’s
fuccefs
againft the
'Greeks.
8
Unaccount¬
able dark-
nefs.
BAG [ 3
otlierwile of a defpicable appearance ; tliougli his fol¬
lowers pretended he did this for the fame reafon that
Mofes did, viz. left the fplendour of his countenance
fliould dazzle the eyes of his beholders. In fome
places he made a great many profelytes, deluding the
people with a number of juggling tricks which they
fwallowed as miracles, and particularly by caufing the
appearance of a moon to rife out of a well for many
nights together; whence he was alfo called in the Per-
»an tongue, Sa-zendeb mak, or the moon-maker. This
wretch, not content with being reckoned a prophet,
arrogated to himfelf divine honours; pretending that
the Deity redded in his perfon, having proceeded to
him from Abu Modem, in whom he had taken up his
refidehce before. At laft this impoftor raifed an open
rebellion againft the caliph, and made himfelf mafter
of feveral fortified places in Khorafan, lb that Al Moh-
di was obliged to fend one of his generals with an
army againft him. Upon the approach of the ca'liph’s
troops, Al Mokanna retired into one of his ftrong for-
treffes which he had well provided for a fiege ; and
fent his emiflaries abroad to perfuade the people that
he raifed the dead to life, and foretold future events.
But being clofely befieged by the caliph’s forces, and
feeing no poflibility of efcaping, he gave poifon in
wine to his whole family and all that were with him,
in the caftle ; when they rvere dead, he burnt their
bodies, together wbth all their furniture, provifions,
and cattle; and laftly, he threw himfelf into the flames,
or, as others fay, into a tub of aquafortis, or fome
other preparation, which confumed every part of him
except the hair. When the befiegers therefore entered
the place, they found no living creature in it, except
one of Al Mokanna’s concubines, who, fufpefling his
defign, had hid herfelf, and now difcovered the whole
matter. ’I his terrible contrivance, however, failed not
to produce the defired effebl. He had promifed his
followers, that his foul fliould tranfmigrate into the
form of an old man riding on a greyifti coloured
beaft, and that after fo many years he would return
and give them the earth for their poffeflion; which ri¬
diculous expedition kept the fed! in being for feveral
years.
All this time war had been carried on with the
Greeks, but without any remarkable fuccefs on either
fide. In the 164th year of the Hegira, however, Al-
Mohdi ordered his fon Harun Al Rafchid to penetrate
into the Greek territories with an army of 95,000 men.
Harun, then, having entered the dominions of the em-
prefs Irene, defeated one of her commanders that ad¬
vanced againft him ; after which he laid wafte feveral
of the imperial provinces with fire and fword, and
even threatened the city of Conftantinople itfelf. By
this the emprefs was fo terrified, that flie purchafed a
peace with the caliph by paying him an annual tribute
of 70,000 pieces of gold ;- which, for the prefent at
leaft, delivered her from the depredations of thefe bar¬
barians. After the figning of the treaty, Harun returned
home laden with fpoils and glory. This year, accord¬
ing to fome of the oriental hiftorians, the fun one day,
a little after his rifing, totally loft his light in a moment,
without being eclipfed, when neither any fog nor any
cloud of drift appeared to obfeure him. This fright¬
ful darknefs continued till noon, to the great aftonifli-
2
18 ]
BAG
ment of tne people fettled in the countries where it Bagdad,
happened. 1 : >
In the 169th year of the Hegira, Al Mohdi was 9
pofloned, though undefignedly, by one of his concu- Mohdi
bines named Hnfanah. She had defigned to deliroy Poifonetl ’
one of her rivals whom ftie imagined to have too
great an afeendant over the caliph by giving her a
poxfoned pear. This the latter, not fuipefting any
thing, gave to the caliph ; who had no fooner eaten it
than he felt himfelf in exquifite torture, and foon after
expired.
. °n the death of Al Mohcfi, he was fucceeded by as likewife
his eldeft fon Al Hadi; who having formed a defign to hisfuccdTof
deprive his younger brother Harun Al Rafchid of his Al Haul,
right of fucceflion, and even to afihflinate him, was
poifoned by his vizier in the 170th year of the Hegira;
and on his death the celebrated caliph Harun Al Rafnid
afeended the throne.
Ihis was one of the beft and wifeft princes that Harun Al
ever fat on the throne of Bagdad. He was alfo ex-Raflhd ex¬
tremely fortunate in all his undertakings, though he didliph'
not much extend his dominions by conqueft. In his
time the Modem empire may be faid to have been in
its moft tlourifliing ftate, though by the independency
of the Modems in Spain, who had formerly fet up "a
caliph of the houfe of Ommiyab, his territories were
not quite fo extenfive as thofe of fome of his predecef-
fors. He poffefled the provinces of Syria, Paleftine, 12
Arabia, Perfia, Armenia, Natolia, Media or Aderbijan ^xtem of
Babylonia, Affyria, Sindia, Sijiftan, Khcrafan, Tabre- ‘1S emi)UC>
ftan, Jorjan, Zableftan or Sablejlan, Mawaralnahr or
Great Eukharia, Egypt, Libya, Mauritania, &c.; fo
that his empire was by far the moft powerful of any in
the world, and extended farther than the Roman em¬
pire ever had done.
The firft inftance of Harun’s good fortune, and He finds a
which w-as taken for a prefage of a profperous and ring he had
happy reign, was his finding a valuable ring which hetlirown
had thrown into the Tigris to avoid being deprived ofthe Tigris*
it by his brother Al Hadi. He was able to give the
divers no other diredlion than by throwing a ftone
from, the bridge of Bagdad, about the fame’ place of
the river in which he had thrown the ring; notwith-
ftanding which, they found it without any great difli-
culty.
In the 186th year of the Hegira, beginning Janu-Divides the
ary 10. 802, the caliph divided the government ofempire a-
his extenfive dominions among his three fons, in themong his
following manner: To Al Amin the eldeft, he afligned
the provinces of Syria, Irak, the three Arabias, fucceffiom
Mefopotamia, Afifyria, Media, Paleftine, Egypt, and
all that part of Africa extending from the confines of
Egypt and Ethiopia to the ftraits of Gibraltar, with
the dignity of caliph ; to Al Mamun the fecond, he
afligned Perfia, Kerman, the Indies, Khorafan, Ta-
breftan, Cableftan, and Zableftan, together with the
vaft province of Maw'aralnahr; and to this third fon Al
Kafem, he gave Armenia, Natolia, Jorjan, Georgia,
Gircaflia, and all the Moflem territories bordering upon
the Euxine fea. As to the order of fucceflion, Al
Amin wras to afeend the throne immediately after his
father’s deceafe ; after him, Al Mamun ; and then Al
Kafem, whom he had furnamed Si/ Mutaman.
The moft confiderable exploit performed by this
• caliph
His fuccefs-
ful wars'
with the
Greeks.
BAG [ 319 ] BAG
calipli were againft the Greeks, who by their perfidy
provoked him to make war upon them, and whom he
always overcame. In the 187th year of the Hegira,
the caliph received a letter from the Greek emperor
Nicephorus focn after he had been advanced to the im¬
perial dignity, commanding him to return all the money
he had extorted from the emprefs Irene, though that
had been fecured to him by the laft treaty concluded
with that princefs, or expe£l foon to fee an imperial
army in the heart of his territories. This infolent letter
fo exafperated Harun, that he immediately affembled
his forces and advanced to Heraclea, laying the coun¬
try through which he paffed wafte with fire and fword.
For fome time alfo he kept that city ftraitly befieged }
which fo terrified the Greek emperor, that he fubmit-
ted to pay an annual tribute. Upon this Harun grant¬
ed him a peace, and returned with his army. But a hard
froft foon after happening in thefe parts, Nicephorus
took for granted that A1 Rafliid would not pay* him
another vifit, and therefore broke the treaty he had
concluded. Of this the caliph receiving advice, he in-
ftantly put himfelf in motion*, and, notwithflanding the
inclemency of the weather, forced the emperor to ac¬
cept of the terms propofed. According to a Perfian
hiftorian, before the hofiilities at this time commenced,
Nicephorus made the caliph a prefent of feveral fine
fwords, giving him thereby plainly to underftand that
he was more inclinable to come to blows than to make
peace with him. All thefe fwords Harun cut afunder
with his famous fword Samfamab, as if they had been
fo many radilhes, after which fevere proof there did
not appear the lead flaw in the blade *, a clear proof of
the goodnefs of the fvvord, as the cutting the others
wfith it was of the ftrength of Harun’s arm. This
fword had fallen into Al Rafliid’s hands among the
fpoils of Ebn Dakikan, one of the laft Hamyaritic
princes of Yaman ; but is faid to have belonged ori¬
ginally to a valiant Arab named Amru Ebn Maadi
Carby by whofe name it generally went among the
Modems. This man is faid to have performed very
extraordinary feats with his fword, which induced a
certain prince to borrow it from him 5 but he not be- %
ing able to perform any thing remarkable with it,
complained to Amru that it had not the defired effeft:
upon which that brave man took the liberty to tell
him, that he had not fent him his arm along with his
fword.
In the 18 8th year of the Hegira, w7ar was renewed
wnth the Greeks, and Nicephorus with a great army
attacked the caliph’s forces with the utmofi: fury. He
was, however, defeated wuth the lofs of 40,000 men,
and received three wounds in the a£tion \ after which
the Moflems committed terrible ravages in his territo¬
ries, and returned home laden wfith fpoils. The next year
Harun invaded Phrygia ; defeated an imperial army
lent to oppofe him \ and having ravaged the country,
returned without any confiderable lofs. In the 190th
year of the Hegira, commencing November 27. 805,
the caliph marched irvto the imperial territories with an
army of 135,000 men, befides a great number of vo¬
lunteers and others w ho were not enrolled among his
troops. He firft took the city of Heraclea, from
whence he is faid to have carried 16,000 prifoners 5
after which he made himfelf mailer of feveral other
places: and in the conclufion of the expedition, he
made a defcent on the ifland of Cyprus, which he piun- Bagdad ^
dered in a terrible manner. This fuccefs fo intimida- '~t' _v
ted Nicephorus, that he immediately fent the tribute
due to Harun, the withholding of which had been the
caufe of the war, and concluded a peace upon the ca¬
liph’s own terms } one of which was, that the city of
Heraclea fhould never be rebuilt. This perhaps Ha- I(j
run would not have fo readily granted, had not one Rebellion
Rafe Ebn Al Leith revolted againft him at Samarcand, in Khora-
and affembled a confiderable force to iupport him inlan*
his defedtion.
*The next year being the 191ft of the Hegira, the
caliph removed the governor of Khorafan from his em¬
ployment, becaufe he had not been fufficiently attentive
to the 'motions of the rebel Rale Ebn Al Leith. As
this governor had alfo tyrannized over his lubjedls in
the moft cruel manner, his fuccefior no fooner arrived
than he fent him in chains to the caliph 5 but notwith-
ftanding all Harun’s care, the rebels made this year a
great progrefs in the conqueft of Khorafan.
Next year the caliph found it neceffary to march in
perfon againft the rebels, wrho were daily becoming
more formidable. The general rendezvous of his troops
was in the plains of Rakka, from whence he advanced
at the head of them to Bagdad. Having at that place
fupplied the troops with every thing neceffary, he con¬
tinued his match to the frontiers of Jorjan, where he
was feized with an illnefs which grew more violent after
he had entered that province. Finding himfelf there¬
fore unable to purfue his journey, he refigned the com¬
mand of the army to his fon Al Mamun, retiring him- 17
felf to Tus in Khorafan. We are told by Khondemir,The ca- •
that, before the caliph departed from Rakka, he had a j^h-atTi
dream, wherein he faw a hand over his head full of.red ^ a jreaiTU
earth, and at the fame time heard a perfon pronouncing
thefe words, “ See the earth where Harun is to be
buried.” Upon this he demanded where he was to be
buried ; and was inftantly anfwered, “ At Tus.” This
dream greatly difeompofing him, he communicated it
to his chief phyfician, who endeavoured to divert him,
telling the caliph that the dream had been occafioned
by the thoughts of his expedition againft the rebels,
lie therefore advifed him to purfue fome favourite di-
verfion that might draw his attention another way.
The caliph accordingly, by his phyfician’s advice, pre¬
pared a magnificent regale for l^is courtiers, which lafted
feveral days. After this, he put himfelf at the head
of his forces, and advanced to the confines of Jorjan,
where he was attacked by the diftemper that proved
fatal to him. As his diforder increafed, he found him¬
felf obliged to retire to Tus 5 where being arrived, he
fent for his phyfician, and faid to him, “ Gabriel, do
you remember my dream at Rakka ? we are now* ar¬
rived at Tus, the place, according to what was pre¬
dicted in that dream, of my interment. Send one of
my eunuchs to fetch me a handful of earth in the neigh¬
bourhood of this city.” Upon this, Mafrur, one of
his favourite eunuchs, was deipatched to bring a little
of the foil of the p1ace to the caliph. He foon returned
and brought a handful of red earth, which he prefented
to the caliph with his arm half bare. At the fight of
this Harun inftantly cried out, “ In truth this is the
earth, and this the very arm, that I faw in my dream-
His fpirits immediately failing, and his malady being
greatly increafed by the perturbation of mind enfuiwg
upon
ip
Succeeded
by his Ton
Al Amin.
BAG [5
'Bagdad, upon tins fight, he died three days after, and rvas bu-
I“ ~v tied in the fame place. According to Abul Faraj, Ba¬
ld dl8 fi“r -^1 Leith the arch-rebel’s brother was brought
cording to chains t0 the caliph, %vho was then at the point of
the prcdic- death. «At the fight of whom Harun declared, that
tion. if he could fpeak only two words he would fay kill him ;
and immediately ordered him to be cut to pieces in his
prefence. This being done, the caliph foon after ex¬
pired, in the year of the Hegira 193, having reigned
23 years. The diilemper that put an end to his days
is laid to have been the bloody-flux.
Upon the arrival of a courier from Tus, with the
news of Al Raihid’s death, his fon Al Amin was im¬
mediately proclaimed caliph \ and was no fooner feated
on the throne,, than he formed a defign of excluding his
brother Al Mamun from the fucceffion. Accordingly
he deprived him of the furniture of the imperial palace
of Khorafan •, and in open violation of his father’s will,
who had bellowed on Al Mamun the perpetual go¬
vernment of Khorafan, and of all the troops in that
province, he ordered thefe forces to march direflly to
Bagdad. Upon the arrival of this order, Al Mamun
expollulated with the general Al Fadl Ebn Rabbi wiio
commanded his troops, and endeavoured to prevent his
marching to Bagdad ; but without effed, for he punc¬
tually obeyed the orders fent by the caliph. Al Ma¬
mun, however, took care not to be wanting in fidelity
to his brother. He obliged the people of Khorafan to
take an oath of fidelity to Al Amin, and reduced fome
wLo had a&ually excited a confiderable body of the
people to revolt, while the general Al Fadl having in¬
gratiated himfelf with the caliph by his ready compli¬
ance with his orders, was chofen prime vizir, and go¬
verned with an abfolute fway : Al Amin abandoning
himfelf entirely to drunkennefs.
Al Fadl wras a very able miniiler*, though fearing Al
Mamun’s refentment if ever he fhould afcend the throne,
he gave Al Amin fuch advice as proved in the end the
ruin of them both. He told him that his brother had
gained the affe&ion of the people of Khorafan by the
good order and police he had eftablilhed among them;
that his unwearied application to the adminiftration of
juftice had fo attrafted their efteem, that the whole pro¬
vince W’as entirely at his devotion; that his own condu£t
■was by no means relilhed by his fubjefts, whofe minds
were almoft totally alienated from him ; and therefore
-that he had but one part to a£!, w'hich was to deprive
Al Mamun of the right of fuccefiion that had been
given him by his father, and transfer it to his own fon
Mufa, though then but an infant. Agreeable to this
pernicious advice, the caliph fent for his brother Al Ka-
fem from Mefopotamia, and recalled Al Mamun from
Khorafan, pretending he had occafion for him as an af-
^ fillant in his councils.
Al Mamun By this treatment Al Mamun wTas fo much provoked,
takes up that he refolved to come to ah open rupture with his
armsagainft brother, in order if poflible to fruftrate his wicked de¬
ns rotier-figns. Inllead, therefore, of going to Bagdad as he
had been commanded, he cut off all communication be¬
tween his own province and that capital : pretending,
that as his father Harun had afligned him the lieute¬
nancy of Khorafan, he was refponfible for all the dif-
orders that might happen there during his abfence.
He alfo coined money, and would not fuffer Al Amin’s
eaine to be imprefied upon any of the dirhems or di-
2©
.infamous
behaviour
of the new
caliph.
20 ] BAG
nars ftruck in that province. Not content with this, Bagdad,
he prevailed upon Rafe Ebn Al Leith, who had been l—-v—
for fome time in rebellion, to join him with a body
of troops ; whole example was foon after followed by
Harthema Ebn Aafan ; which put him in poflfeflion
of all the vafi: territory of Khorafan. Here he go¬
verned with an ablolute fway, officiated in the mofque
as Imuriy and from the pulpit conftantly harangued the
people.
The follow ing year, being the 195th year of the
Hegira, beginning Odober 4. 810, the caliph Al-
Amin, finding that his brother fet him at defiance, de¬
clared war againll him, and fent his general Ali Ebn
lla with an army of 60,000 men to invade Khorafan.
Al Mamun, being informed that Ali was advancing Amin’s
againft him with fuch a powerful army, put on foot forces de-
all the troops he could raife, and gave the command touted.
Thaher Ebn Hofein, one of the greateft generals of his
age. Thaher being a man of undaunted refolution,
chofe only 4000 men whom he led againfl: Al Amin’s
army. Ali, feeing fo fmall a number of troops advan-
cing againft him, was tranfported with joy, and pro-
mifed himfelf an eafy viftory. Defpifing his enemies,
therefore, he behaved in a lecure and carelefs manner;
the conlequence of which was, that his army was en¬
tirely defeated, and himfelf killed, his head being af¬
terwards fent as a prefent to Al Mamun, who amply
rewarded Thaher and Harthema for their fervices.
After this viftory, Al Mamun afiumed the title of
caliph, ordered Al Amin’s name to be omitted in the
public prayers, and made all neceffary preparations for
carrying the war into the very heart of his brother’s
dominions. For this purpofe he divided his forces into
two bodies, and commanded them to march into Irak
by different routes. One of them obeyed the orders of
Thaher, and the other of Harthema. The firft direfled
his march tow ards Ahw-as, and the other towards Hol-
wan, both of them propofing to meet in the neighbour¬
hood of Bagdad, and after their junflion to befiege
that city. - ,
In the 196th year of the Hegira, Thaher Ebn Ho-Al Ma-
fein made a moll rapid progrefs wdth the troops under n^n’s rapid
his command. Having advanced towards Ahwas, he concluefts'
there defeated a body of the caliph’s forces; and
though the vidftory was by no means decifive, it fo in¬
timidated the commander of Ahwas, that he thought
fit to furrender that fortrefs to him. This opened him
a way to Wafet upon the Tigris, and facilitated the
conqueft of that place. After this he marched with
his army to Al Madayen ; the inhabitants of w’hich
immediately opened their gates to him. The rapidity
of thefe conquefts, and the infamous condufl of Al
Amin, excited the people of Egypt, Syria, Hejaz,
and Yaman, unanimouily to declare for Al Mamun ;
who wras accordingly proclaimed caliph in all thefe pro¬
vinces.
The next year, Al Mamun’s forces under Thaher siege of
and Harthema, laid fiege to Bagdad. As the caliph Bagdad,
was {hut up in that place, and it had a numerous gar-
rifon, the befieged made a vigorous defence, and de-
ftroyed a great number of their enemies. The befiegers,
howrever,, inceffantly played upon the town writh their
catapults and other engines, though they were in their
turn not a little annoyed by the garrifon with the fame
fort of military machines. The latter likewife made
continual
’Ba.trdad.
Al Amin
ssmrdered.
26
Succeeded
by Al Mu¬
ni un.
27
Khorafan
difmem-
bered from
the em¬
pire.
23
Death of
Al Mamun
..B ,A G ;'. r 32
continual fallies, and fought like men in defpair, though
they were always at laft beaten back into the town
with confiderable lofs. In fhort the fiege continued
during the whole of this year, in which the greateft
part of the eahern city, called the Cam/* of Al Mohdi,
was deffiolifhed or reduced to allies. The citizens, as
well as the garrifon, were reduced to the laft extremity,
by the length and violence of the fiege.
In the beginning of the 198th year of the Hegira,
Al Amin finding himfelf deferted by his troops, as
well as by the principal men of Bagdad, who had kept
a private correfpondence with Thaher, was obliged to
retire to the old towm on the weft bank of the Tigris.
He did not, however, take this ftep, before the inhabi¬
tants of the new town had formally depofed him, and
proclaimed his brother Al Mamun caliph. Thaher,
receiving advice of this, caufed the old town to be im¬
mediately invefted, planted his engines againft it, and
at laft ftarved it to furrender. Al Amin being thus
reduced to the neceffity of putting himfelf into the
hands ofpne of the generals, chofe to implore the pro¬
tect ion of Harthema, whom he judged to he of a more
humane difpofition than Thaher. Having obtained
this, he embarked in a fmall veffel in order to arrive at
that part of the camp where Harthema was polled ; but
Thaher being informed of his defign, which, if put in
execution, he thought would eclipfe the glory he had
acquired, laid an ambufti for him, which he had not
the good fortune to efcape. Upon his arrival in the
neighbourhood of Harthema’s tent, Thaher’s foldiers
rulhed upon him, drowned all his attendants, and put
himfelf in prifon. Here he was foon after maffacred
by Thaher’s fervants, who carried his head in triumph
to their mafter, by whofe order it was afterwards expof-
ed to public view in the ftreets of Bagdad. Thaher
afterwards fent to Al Mamun in Khorafan, together
with the ring or feal of the caliphate, the feeptre, and
the imperial robe. At the fight of thefe, Al Mamun
fell down on his knees, and returned thanks to God for
his fuccefs ; making the courier who brought them a
prefent of a million of dirhems, in value about ioo,ocol.
Sterling.
The fame day that Al Amin was affaftinated, his
brother Al Mamun was proclaimed caliph at Bagdad.
He had not long been feated on the throne when he
was alarmed by rebellions breaking out in different
parts of the empire. Thefe, however, were at laft; hap¬
pily extinguiflred ; after which, Thaher Ebn Hofein
had the government of Khorafan conferred upon him
and his defeendants with almoft abfolute and unlimited
power. This happened in the 205th year of the He¬
gira, from which time we may date the diimember-
ment of that province from the empire of the caliphs.
During the reign of this caliph nothing remarkable
happened ; only the African Modems invaded the
ifland of Sicily, where they made themfelves mailers of
feveral places. He died of a furfeit in the 218th year
of the Hegira, having reigned 20, and lived 48 or 49
years.
On the death of Al Mamun, his brother Al Mota-
fem, by fome of the oriental hiftorians furnamed Bi/Iah,
was faluted caliph. He fucceeded by virtue of Al
Mamun’s exprefs nomination of him to the exclufion of
his own fon Al Abbas and his other brother Al Kafem,
who had been appointed by Harun Al Rafchid. In
Vol. III. Part I.
] BAG
the beginning of his reign he was obliged to employ Bagdad,
the whole forces of his empire againft one Babec, who ~v
had been for a confiderable time in rebellion in Perfia ^ar
and Perfian Irak. This Babec firft appeared in the tween the
year of the Hegira 201, when he began to take upon new caliph
him the title of a prophet. What his particular doc- Mota-
trine was, is now unknown 5 but his religion is faid to
have differed from all others then known in Afia. He
gained a great number of profelytes in Aderbijan and
the Perfian Irak, where he foon grew powerful enough
to wage war with the caliph Al Mamun, whofe troops
he often beat, fo that he was now become extremely
formidable. The general fent by Al Motafem to re¬
duce him was Haider Ebn Kaus, furnamed Affhin, a
Turk by nation, who had been brought a Have to the
caliph’s court, and having been employed in difcipli-
ning the Turkifh militia there, had acquired the repu¬
tation of a great captain. By him Babec was defeated -0
with prodigious {laughter, no fewer than 60,coo men Babec de-»
being killed in the firit engagement. The next year, feated.
being the 220th of the Hegira, he received a ftiil
greater overthrow, lofing 100,000 men either killed
or taken prifoners. By this defeat he was obliged
to retire into the Gordyaean mountains; where he
fortified himfelf in fuch a manner, that Afthin found
it impoffible to reduce him till the year of the Hegira
222. This commander having reduced with irfvincible
patience all Babec’s caftles one after another, the im-
poftor was obliged to fiiut himfelf up in a ftreng for-
trefs called Cajhabad, which was now his laft reiource-
Here he defended himfelf with great bravery for ieve-
ral months ; but at laft finding he ftrould be obliged
to lurrender, he made his efcape into a neighbouring-
wood, from whence he foon after came to Afihin, upon
that general’s promifing him pardon. But Afthin no Taken pri-
fooner had him in his power, than he firft caufed histoner aiKl
hands and feet, and afterwards his head, to be cut off.
Babec had lupported himfelf againft the power of the
caliphs for upwards of 20 years, during which time ,,
he had cruelly maffacred 250,000 people j it being his He deftroy-
cuftom to fpare neither man, woman, nor child, of the ed vail
Mahometans or their allies. Amongff the prifoners numbers c:
taken at Caftiabad there was one Nud, who had been ^c^ems*
one of Babec’s executioners, and who owned that in
obedience to his mailer’s commands he had deftroyed
20,000 Moflems with his own hands; to which he add¬
ed, that vaft numbers had alfo been executed by his
companions, but that of thefe he could give no precife
account.
In the 223d year of the Hegira, the Greek emperor
Theophilus invaded the caliph’s territories, where he
behaved with the greateft cruelty, and by deftroying
Sozopetra the place of Al Motafem’s nativity, not-
withftanding his earneft entreaties to the contrary, oc-
cafioned the terrible deftrudlion of Arnorium mention¬
ed under that article. The reft of this caliph’s reign
is remarkable for nothing but the execution of x'kfihin,
who was accufed of holding correfpondence with the
caliph’s enemies. After his death a great number of
idols were found in his houfe, which were immediately
burned, as alfo feveral books faid to contain impious
and deteftable opinions.
In the 227th year of the Hegira died the caliph Al Death of
Motafem, in the 48th or 49th year of his age. He ^ota*
reigned eight years eight months and eight days, was
S f born ;
34
He built
the city of
Sarra
Manray.
3'5
His fuc-
ceffors A1
Wathek
and Al
Motawak-
kel.
Monftrous
cruelty of
Ai Mo-
tawakkel.
BAG [ 32
Bagdad, born in the eighth month of the year, fought eight
—’ battles, had 8000 Haves, and had 8,000,000 dinars and
80,000 dirhems in his treafury at his death, whence
the oriental hiftorians give him the name of Al Motha-
men, or the OSlonary. He is faid to have been lo ro-
buft, that he once carried a burden of 1600 pounds
weight feveral paces. As the people of Bagdad dif-
turbed him with frequent revolts and commotions, he
took the refolution to abandon that city, and build
another for his own refidence. The new city he built
was firft called Samarra, and afterwards Sarra Manray,
and flood in the Arabian Irak. He was attached to
the opinion of the Motazalites, who maintain the cre¬
ation of the Koran ; and both he and his predeceffbr
cruelly perfecuted thofe who believed it to be eternal.
Al Motafem was fucceeded by Al Wathek Bilah,
who the following year, being the 228th of the Hegira,
invaded and conquered Sicily. Nothing remarkable
happened during the reft of his reign ; he died in the
2 3 2d year of the Hegira, and was fucceeded by his
brother Al Motawakkel.
The new caliph began his reign -with an a£f of the
greateft cruelty. The late caliph’s vizir having treat¬
ed Al Motawakkel ill in his brother’s lifetime, and op-
pofed his eledfion to the caliphate, was on that account
now fent to prifon. Here the caliph ordered him to
be kept awake for feveral days and nights together :
after this, being fuffered to fall atleep, he flept a whole
day and a night 5 and after he awoke wras thrown into
an iron furnace lined with fpikes or nails heated red
hot, where he was miferably burnt to death. During
this reign nothing remarkable happened, except wars
with the Greeks, which wTere carried on with various
fuccefs. In the year 859 too, being the 245th of the
Hegira, violent earthquakes happened in many provin¬
ces of the Moflem dominions; and the fprings at Mec¬
ca failed to fuch a degree, that the celebrated well
Zemzem was almoft dried up, and the water fold for
too dirhems a bottle.
In the 247th year of the Hegira, the caliph wTas nf-
faffinated at the inftance of his Ion Al Montafer ; who
fucceeded him, and died in fix months after. He was
fucceeded by Al Moftain, who in the year of the He¬
gira 2^2 wras forced to abdicate the throne by his bro¬
ther Al Motazz, who afterwards caufed him to be pri¬
vately murdered. He did not long enjoy the dignity
of which he had fo iniquitoully poffeffed himfelf; be¬
ing depofed by the Turkifti militia (who now began to
fet up and depofe caliphs as they pleafed) in the 25 ^th
year of the Hegira, After his depofition, he wms lent
under an efcort from Sarra Manray to Bagdad, where
he died of thirft or hunger, after a reign of four years
and about feven months. The fate of this caliph was
peculiarly hard : the Turkifti troops had mutinied for
their pay; and Al Motazz, not having money to fatisfy
their demands, applied to his mother named Kabiha
for 50,000 dinars. This (he refufed, telling him that
fhe had no money at all, although it afterwards appear¬
ed that fhe wms pofTeffed of immenfe treafures. After
his depofition, however, ftie was obliged to difeover
them, and even depofite them in the hands of the new
caliph Al Mokhtadi. They confifted of i,oco,ooo
dinars, a bufhel of emeralds, and another of pearls, and
three pounds and three quarters of rubies of the colour
of fire.
]
BAG
.37 „
He is affaf-
finated.
33
Hard fate
of \1 Mo¬
tazz, a fuc
ceeding
caliph.
Al Mokhtadi, the new caliph, was the fon of one of Bagdad.
Al W athek’s concubines named Korb, or Karb, who v" J
is by fome fuppofed to have been a Chriftian. The be- 3?
ginning of his reign is remarkable for the irruption of^T1”1^
the Zengians, a people of Nubia, Ethiopia, and the jjans }n
country of the Caffres, into Arabia, where they penetra- the reign
ted into the neighbourhood of Bafra and Cufa. TheofAl
chief of this gang of robbers, who, according to fome Mokhtadi.
of the Arab hiftorians, diftered but little from wdld
beafts, w;as Ali Ebn Mohammed Ebn Abdalrahman,
who falfely gave himfelf out to be of the family of Ali
Ebn Abu Taleb. This made fuch an impreflion upon
the Shiites in thofe parts, that they flocked to him in
great numbers; which enabled him to feize upon the
cities of Bafrah and Ramla, and even to pafs the Tigris
at the head of a formidable army. He then took the
title of Prince of the Zenjians, in order to ingratiate
himfelf with thofe barbarians, of whom his army was
principally compofed.
In the 256th year of the Hegira, Al Mokhtadi was
barbaroufly murdered by the Turks who had railed
him to the throne, and w as fucceeded by Al Monta-
med the fon of Al Motawakkel. This year the prince
of the Zenjians, Ali, or as he is allb called Al Habib, Ai
made incurfions to the very gates of Bagdad, doingfuccelk
prodigious mifehief wherever he palled. The caliph
therefore lent againft him one Jolan wdth a confider-
able army ; he was overthrown, however, with very
great daughter by the Zenjian, who made himfelf
mafter of 24 of the caliph’s largeft fhips in the bay
of Bafra, put a vaft number of the inhabitants of Obol-
la to the fw ord, and feized upon the town. Not con¬
tent with this, he fet fire to it, and foon reduced it to
allies, the houfes moftly confifting of the wood of a
certain plane tree called by the Arabians Saj. From
thence he marched to Abadan, which likewife fur-
rendered to him. Here he found immenfe treafure,
which enabled him to poflefs himfelf of the whole di-
ftridl of A-hwaz. In flrort, his forces being now in-
creafed to 80,000 ftrong, moft of the adjacent terri¬
tories, and even the caliph’s court itfelf, were ftruck
with terror.
Irrthe 257th year of the Hegira, Al Habib conti¬
nued vidlorious, defeated feveral armies fent againft him
by the caliph, reduced the city of Bafrah, and put
20,000 of the inhabitants to the fword. The follow¬
ing year, the caliph, fupported by his brother Al Mo-
vvaffek, had formed a defign of circumfcribing the
power of the Turkifh foldiery, who had for fome time
given lawr to the caliphs themfelves. But this year the
Zeniians made fo rapid a progrefs in Perfia, Arabia,
and Irak, that he was obliged to fufpend the execution
of his defign, and even to employ the Turkilh troops
to aflift his brother Al Mowaffek in oppofing thefe rob¬
bers. The firfl of the caliph’s generals who encountered
Al Habib this year, w’as defeated in feveral engage¬
ments, and had his army at laft entirely deftroyed. Af¬
ter this Al Mow'affek and another general named Mof-
leh, advanced againfl: him. In the firft engagement
Mofleh being killed by an arrow, the caliph’s troops
retired; but Al Mow^affek put them afterwards in fuch
a pofture of defence, that the enemy durft not renew
the attack. Several other ftrarp encounters happened
this year, in which neither party gained great advan¬
tage; but, at laft, fome contagious diftempers breaking
out
BAG
[ 323 ]
BAG
Bagdad.
4*
Rebellion
in Fars,
Ahwaz,
and Balra.
42
Rebels de¬
feated, but
cannot be
reduced.
43.
Al Habib
ftill victo¬
rious.
out in Al Mowaffek’s army, he was obliged to conclude
a truce, and retire to Wafet to refrefh his troops.
In the 259th year of the Hegira,'commencing Nov.
7. 872, the war between the caliph and Al Habib Hill
continued. Al Mowaffek, upon his arrival at Bag¬
dad, fent Mohammed furnamed Mowal/ed with a
powerful army to aft againft the Zenjians 5 but he could
not hinder them from ravaging the province of Ahwaz,
cutting off about 50,000 of the caliph’s fubjefts, and
difmantling the city of Ahwaz •, and notwithftanding
the utmoll efforts of all the caliph’s generals, no confi-
derable advantages could be gained either this or the
following year.
In the 26111 year of the Hegira, beginning Oftober
16. 874, Mohammed Ebn Wafel, wTho had killed the
caliph’s governor of Fars, and afterwards made himfelf
mailer of that province, had feveral engagements with
Al Habib, but with what fuccefs is not known. The
caliph, having been apprized of the Hate of affairs on
that fide, annexed the government of Fars, Ahwaz,
and Bafrah, to the prefefture he had given to Mufa Ebn
Baga, whom he looked upon as one of the bell gene¬
rals he had. Mufa, foon after his nomination to that
poll, fent Abdalrahman Ebn Mofleh as his deputy to
Ahwaz, giving him as a colleague and affiftant one Ti-
fam, a Turk. Mohammed Ebn Wafel, however, refu-
iing to obey the orders of Abdalrahman and Tifam, a
fierce conflift enfued, in which the latter was defeated,
and Abdalrahman taken prifoner. After this viftory,
Mohammed advanced againft Mufa Ebn Boga himfelf j
but that general finding he could not take poffeflion of
his new^ government without a vaft effufion of blood,
recalled the deputies from their provinces, and made
the bed of his w'ay to Sarra Manray. After this, Ya¬
kub Ebn Al Leit, having taken Khorafan from the de-
fcendar.ts of- Thaher, attacked and defeated Moham¬
med Ebn Wafel, feizing on his palace, wdiere he found
a fum of money amounting to 40,000,000 dirhems.
The next year Yakub Ebn Leit being grow formi¬
dable by the acquifition of Ahwaz and a confiderable
portion of Fars, or at leaft the Perfian Irak, declared
war againft the caliph. Againil him Al Motamed def-
patched Al Mowaffek j who having defeated him with
prodigious (laughter, plundered his camp, and purfued
him into Khorafan j where meeting with no oppofition,
he entered Nifabur, and releafed Mahomet the Tha-
herian, whom Yakub had detained in prifon three
years. As for Yakub hitftfelf, he made his efcape wfith
great difficulty, though he and his family continued fe¬
veral years in poffeffion of many of the conquefts he had
made. This war with Yakub proved a feafonable di-
verfion in favour of Al Habib, wffio this year defeated
all the forces fent againft him, and ravaged the diftrift
of Wafet.
The follownng year, being the 263d of the Hegira,
beginning September 24. 876, the caliph’s forces,
under the command of Ahmed Ebn Lebuna, gained two
confiderable advantages over Al Habib} but being at
laft drawn into an ambufeade, they were almoft totally
defi:royed, their general himfelf making his efcape with
the utmoft difficulty, nor w7ere the caliph’s forces able,
during the courfe of the next year, to make the leaft
impreflion upon thefe rebels.
In the 265th year of the Hegira, beginning Septem¬
ber 3. 878, Ahmed Ebn Tolun rebelled againft the
caliph, and fet up for himfelf in Egypt. Having af- Bagdad,
fembled a conderable force, he marched to Antioch,' J
and befieged Sima the governor of Aleppo and all the Rekej[jon
provinces known among the Arabs by the name of jllin Egypt
jdwafem., in that city. As the befieged found that he which can-
was refolved to carry the place by ajl’ault, they thoughtnot I?® fuP"
fit, after a (hort defence, to fubmit, and to put Sima1/1 e e
into his hands. Ahmed no fooner had that officer in
his power, than he caufed him to be beheaded \ after
which he advanced to Aleppo, the gates of which w'ere
immediately opened unto him. Soon after, he reduced
Damafcus, Hems, Hamath, Kinnifrin, and Al Rakka,
fituated upon the eaftern bank of the Euphrates. This
rebellion fo exafperated Al Motamed, that he caufed .
Ahmed to be publicly curled in all the mofques belong¬
ing to Bagdad and Irak ; and Ahmed on his part or¬
dered the fame malediftion to be thundered out againft
the caliph in all the mofques within his jurifdiftion.
This year alfo a detachment of Al Habib’s troops pe¬
netrated into Irak, and made themfelves mailers of
four of the caliph’s drips laden with corn ; then they
advanced to Al Nomanic, laid the greateft part of it in
adres, and carried off wfith them feveral of the inhabi¬
tants prifoners. After this they poffeffed themfelves of
Jarjaraya, where they found many prifoners more, and
deftroyed all the adjacent territory with fire and fword. >
This year there were four independent powers in the Four inde-
Moilem dominions, befides the houfe of Ommiyah in pendent
Spain, viz. The African Modems, or Aglabites, who Power!j.ltj. .
had for a long time afted independently j Ahmed in ^r^'i^ldo-
Syria and Egypt; Al Leit in Khorafan; and Al Ha-inin;on3„
bib in Arabia and Irak.
In the 266th year of the Hegira, beginning Auguft
23. 879, Al Habib reduced Ramhormoz, burnt the
(lately mofque there to the ground, put a vaft num¬
ber of the inhabitants to the fword, and earned away
great numbers, as well as a vaft quantity of fpoil.—
This was his laft fuccefsful campaign; for the year fol- Aj bib’s
lowing, Al Mowaffek, attended by his fon Abul Ab- bad fuccefs
bas, having attacked him with a bo_dy of 10,000 horfe and death,
and a few infantry, notwithftanding the vaft difparity
of numbers (Al Habib’s army amounting to 100,coo
men), defeated him in feveral battles, recovered moll of
the towns he had taken, together with an immenfe
quantity of fpoil, and releafed 5000 women that had
been thrown into prifon by thefe barbarians. After
thefe viftories, Al Mowaffek took poll before the city
of Al Mabiya’, built by Al Habib, and the place of his
refidence; burnt all the ftiips in the harbour; thorough¬
ly pillaged the town ; and then entirely difmantled it.
After the reduftion of this place, in which he found
immenfe treafures, Al Mowaffek purfued the flying
Zenjians, put feveral of their chiefs to the fword, and
advanced to Al Mokhtara, a city built by Al Habib.
As the place was itrongly fortified, and Al Habib was
polled in its neighbourhood, with an army, according
to Abu Jaafer Al Tabari, of 300,000 men, Al Mowaf¬
fek perceived that the reduftion of it would be a mat¬
ter of fome difficulty. ' He therefore built a fortrefs
oppofite to it, where he erefted a mofque, and coined
money. The new city, from its founder, was called by
the Kxdas AlMowaffekkia, and foon rendered confider¬
able by the fettlement of feveral wealthy merchants
there. The city of Al Mokhtara being reduced to
great ftraits was at laft taken by itorm, and given up to
S f 2 be
BAG
Bagdad, be plundered by the caliph’s troops; alter which A1
‘—    Mowaffek defeated the numerous forces of A1 Habib
in fuch a manner, that they could no more be rallied
during that campaign.
The following year, being the 268th of the Hegira,
A1 Pvtowaffek penetrated again into A1 Mabiya’, and
demoliflied the fortifications which had been raifed
fince its former redu&ion, though the rebels difputed
every inch of ground. Next year he again attacked
A1 Habib with great bravery ; and -would have en¬
tirely defeated him, had he not been wounded in the
breaft with an arrow, which obliged him to found a
retreat. However, as foon as he was cured of his
wound, A1 Mowaffek advanced a third time to A1
Mabiya’, made himielf mafter of that metropolis, threw
down the -walls that had been railed, put many of the
inhabitants to the fword, and carried a vaft number of
them into captivity.
The 27th year of the Hegira, commencing July 1 ith
883, proved fatal to the rebel A1 Habib. A1 Mowaf¬
fek made himfelf a fourth time mafter of A1 Mabiya’,
burnt A1 Habib’s palace, feized upon his family, and
fent them to Sarra Manray. As for the ufurper him¬
felf, he had the good fortune to efcape at this time ; but
being clofely purfued by A1 Mowaffek into the province
of Ahwaz, where the ibattered remains of his forces
were entirely defeated, he at laft fell into the hands of
the viilor, who ordered his head to be cut off, and car¬
ried through a great part of that region which he had
fo long difturbed. By this complete viftory A1 Mowaf¬
fek obtained the title of Al Nafir Lidmilbah, that is,
the proteBor of Mabometanifm. This year alfo died
Ahmed Ebn Tolun, who had feized upon Egypt and
Syria, as wre have already obferved: atid was iucceeded
by his fon Khatnarawiyah.
The next year, a bloody engagement happened be¬
tween the caliph’s forces commanded by Al Mowaffek’s
fon, and thofe of Khamarawiyah, who had made an
irruption into the caliph’s territories. The battle was
fought between Al Ramla and Hamafcus. In the be¬
ginning,. Khamarawiyah found himfelf fo hard preffed,
that his men were obliged to give wray } upon which,
taking for granted that all was loft, he fled with great
precipitation, even to the borders of Egypt } but, in
the mean time, his troops being ignorant of the flight
of their general, returned to the charge, and gained a
complete victory. After this, Khamarawiyah, by his
}uft and mild adminiftration, fo gained the affe&ians of
his fubje&s, that the caliph found it impoffible to gain
the leaft advantage over him. In the 276th year of
the Hegira, he overthrew one of the caliph’s generals
named Abul Saj, at Al Bathnia near the city of Da-
mafcus; after which he advanced to Al Rakka on the
Euphrates, and made himfelf mafter of that place.
Having annexed feveral large provinces to his former
dominions, and left fome of his friends in whom he
could confide to govern them, he then returned into
Egypt, the principal part of his empire, which now
extended from the Euphrates to the borders of Nubia
and Ethiopia.
The following year, being the 278th of the Hegira,
was remarkable for the death of Al Mowaffek. He
died of the elephantiafis or leprofy •, and while in his
laft illnefs, could not help obferving, that of 100,000
men whom he commanded, there was not one fc xnifer-
47
Succefs of
the fultan
of Egypt.
3H 1   B. A G
able as himfelf. This year is alfo remarkable for the firft Bagdad,
difturbances raifed in the Moflem empire by the Kar- 1 ' 1
matians. The origin ot this fe£t is not certainly known j >
but the moft common opinion is, that a poor fellow, 49
by fome called Kar mat a, came from Khuzeftan to the
villages near Cufa, and there pretended great fandlity tiani>
and ftrieftnefs of life, and that God had enjoined him
to pray 50 times a-day ; pretending alfo to invite peo¬
ple to the obedience of a certain Imam of the family of
Mahomet •, and this way of life he continued till he had
made a very great party, out of whom he chofe twelve
as his apoftles to govern the reft, and to propagate his
dodfrines. He alfo affumed the title of prince, and
obliged every one of his earlier followers to pay him a
dinar a-year. But Al Haidam, the governor of that
province, finding men negle&ed their work, and their
hufbandry in particular, to fay thofe 50 prayers a-day,
feized the fellowr, and having put him in prifon, fwore
that he fhould die. This being overheard by a girl
belonging to the governor, ftie, out of compaflion, took
the key of the dungeon at night from under her ma¬
iler’s head, releafed the man, and reftored the key to
its place while her mafter flept. The next morning
the governor found his prifoner gone ; and the accident
being publicly known, raifed great admiration ; Kar-
mata’s adherents giving out that God had taken him
into heaven. After this he appeared in another pro¬
vince, and declared to a great number of people he
got about him, that it w'as not in the power of any
perfon to do him hurt j notwithftanding which, his cou¬
rage failing him, he retired into Syria, and was never
heard of any more. After his difappearance, the fedt
continued and increafed ; his difciples pretending that
their mafter had manifefted himfelf to be a true pro¬
phet, and had left them a new law, wherein he had
changed the ceremonies and form of prayer ufed by the
Modems, &c. From this year, 278, thefe fe&aries
gave almoft continual difturbance to the caliphs and
their fubjedls, committing great diforders in Chaldaea,
Arabia, and Mefopotamia, and at length eftablifned a
confiderable principality. <.0
In the 279th year of the Flegira died the caliph Al Sultan of
Motamed } and was fucceeded by Al Motaded, fon to Egypt’s
Al Mowaffek. The firft year of his reign, Al Motaded ‘^
demanded in marriage the daughter of Khamarawiyah, tj)e caijpg
fultan, or caliph, of Egypt *, which was agreed to by Al Motad-
him with the uUnoft joy, and their nuptials w^ere fo-ed.
lemnized with great pomp in the 2 8zd year of the
Flegira. Fie carried on a war with the Karmatians ;
but very unfuccefsfully, his forces being defeated with
great flaughter, and his general Al Abbas taken pri-
foner. This caliph alfo granted to Harun, fon to
Khamarawiyah, the perpetual perfedfure of Awafam
and Kinnifrin, which be annexed to that of Egypt and
Syria, upon condition that he paid him an annual tri¬
bute of 45,000 dinars. He died in the year of the
Hegira 289, and was fucceeded by his fon Al Moc-
tafi. 5*
48 ,
Al Mowaf-
fek dies.
This caliph proved a warlike and fuccefsful prince.%yPh
Fie gained feveral advantages over the Karmatians, but^1^1^1
was not able to reduce them. The lurks, however,ppjj Aj
having invaded the province of Mawaralnahr, wereMoctaR,
defeated with great flaughter •, after which, Al Moctafi
carried on a fuccefsful war againft the Greeks, from
whom he took Seleucia. After this he invaded Syria
and
BAG [ 3
lagciad. and Egypt, which provinces he recovered from the
’   ' houfe of Ahmed Ebn Tolun.
Diftrefferl The reduflion of Egypt happened in the zgid year
ftate of the Hegira, after which the war was renewed with
caliphs af- fuccefs againft the Greeks and Karmatians. The ca-
ter his jlph died in the 295th year of the Hegira, after a reign
•ieath. agout- gx years and a half. He w;as the laft of the
caliphs who made any figure by their warlike exploits,
His fucceffors A1 Moktader, A1 Kaher, and A1 Radi,
were fo diftreffed by the Karmatians and numberlefs
ufurpers who wrere every day ftarting up, that by the
325th year of the Hegira they had nothing left but
the city of Bagdad. In the 324th year of the Hegira,
commencing November 30. 935, the caliph A1 Radi,
finding hjmfelf diftreffed on all iides by ufurpers, and
^ having a vizir of no capacity, inftituted a new office
New office fuperior to that of vizir, which he entitled Emir Al
of Emir Al Qmra, or Commandant of commandants. This great
t^Tcfb111 A~1 °®cer was trufted with the management of all military
Rudi. ^ affairs, and had the entire management of the finances
in a much more abfolute and unlimited manner than
any of the caliph’s vizirs ever had. Nay, he officiated
for the caliph in the great mofque at Bagdad, and had
his name mentioned in the public prayers throughout
the kingdom. In flrort, the caliph was fo much under
the power of this officer, that he could not apply a
fingle dinar to his own ufe without the leave of the E-
Divifion of mir Al Omra. In the year 325, the Mollem empire,
the Vfoflem once fo great and powerful, wras lhared among the fol-
tmpire in }owJng ufurpers.
The cities of Wafet, Bafra, and Cufa, with the reft
of the Arabian Irak, were confidered as the property of
the Emit Al Omra, though they had been in the be¬
ginning of the year feized upon by a rebel called Al
Baridi, who could not be driven out of them.
The country of Fars, Farfeftan, or Ferfa properly
fo called, was poffeffed by Amado’ddawla Ali Ebn
Buiya, who refided in the city of Shiraz.
Part of the tradf denominated Al yebol, together
with Perfian Irak, which is the mountainous part of
Perfia, and the country of the ancient Parthians, obey¬
ed Rucno’ddowla, the brother of Amado’ddawla, who
refided at Ifpahan. The other part of that country
was poffeffed by Walhmakin the Deylamite.
Diyar Rabia, Diyar Beer, Diyar Modar, and the
city of Al Mawfel, or Moful, acknowledged for their
fovereigns a race of princes called Hamdanites.
Egypt and Syria no longer obeyed the caliphs, but
Mahomet Fdbn Taj, who had formerly been appointed
governor of thefe provinces.
Africa and Spain had long been independent.
Sicily and Crete were governed by princes of their
own.
The provinces of Khorafan and Mawaralnahr were
under the dominion of Al Nafr Ebn Ahmed, of the
dynafty of the Sammarians.
The provinces of Tabreftan, Jorjan, or Georgia,
and Mazanderan, had kings of the firft dynafty of the
JDeylamites.
The.province of Kerman was occupied by Abu Ali
Mahomet Ebn Eylia Al Sammani, who had made him-
felf matter of it a ffiort time before. And,
Laftly, the provinces of Yamama and Bahrein, in¬
cluding the diftrifk of Hajr, were in the poffeffion of
Abe Thaher the Karmatian.
Bagdad.
the 325th
year of the
Hegira.
25 ] B A G .
Thus the caliphs were deprived of all their domi¬
nions, and reduced to the rank of fovereign pontiffs ; in M '
which light, though they continued for Ibme time to be
regarded by the neighbouring princes, yet their power
never arrived to any height. In this low ftate the ca¬
liphs continued till the year of the Hegira 656, com¬
mencing January 8. 1258. This year was rendered
remarkable by the taking of Bagdad by Hulaku the 53
Mogul or Tartar j who likewife abolifhed the caliphate,
putting the reigning caliph Al Moftafem Bilah to a 4^ Tar"-,
moft cruel death. Thefe diabolical conquerors, after tars,
they had taken the city, maflacred, according to cu-
ftom, a vaft number of the inhabitants ; and after they
had plundered it, fet it on fire. The fpoil they took
from thence was prodigioufly great, Bagdad being then
looked upon as the firft city in the world. ^
Bagdad remained in the hands of the Tartars or Hiftory of
Moguls to the year of the Hegira 795, of Chrift 1392,tJ5e C!ty
when it was taken by Tamerlane from Sultan Ahmed tSia‘*
Ebn Weis ; who being incapable of making head a-
gainft Tamerlane’s numerous forces, found himfelf ob¬
liged to fend all his baggage over the Tigris, and
abandoned his capital to the conqueror. He was, how¬
ever, hotly purfued by' his enemy’s detachments to the
plain of Karbella, where feveral Ikirraifhes happened,
and a confiderable number of men wTere loft on both
fides. Notwithftanding this difafter, he found means
to efcape the fury of his purfuers, took refuge in the
territories of the Greek emperor, and afterwards re-
poffeffed himfelf of the city of Bagdad. There he re¬
mained till the year of the Hegira 803, when the city
was taken a fecond time by Tamerlane 5 who never-
thelefs reftored it to him, and he continued lovereign
of the place till driven from thence by Miram Shaw.
Still, however, he found means to return *, but in the
815th year of the Hegira was finally expelled by Kara
Yufef the Turcoman. The defeendants of Kara Yufef
continued matters of Bagdad till the year of the Blegi-
ra 875, of Chrift 1470, when they were driven out by
Ufun Caffun. The family of this prince continued till
the year of the Hegira 914, of our Lord 1508, when
Shah Iftimael, furnamed Sufi or Sof, the firft prince
of the royal family reigning in Iran or Perfia, till the
dethroning of the late Shah Hofein, made himfelf ma¬
tter of it. From that time to this Bagdad has conti ¬
nued to be a bone of contention between the Turks
and Perfians. It was taken by Soiiman furnamed the
magnificent, and retaken by Shah Abbas the great;
king of Perfia; but being at length befieged by Am-
ruth or Morad IV. with a formidable army, it was fi¬
nally qbliged to furrender to him in the year 1638 ;
fince which time the Perfians have never been able to
make themfelves matters of it for any length of time. ^
The city is large'and populous ; and the advantage Tts prefent
of the Tigris is fo confrderable, with regard to com¬
merce, that although the climate is exceffively hot, and
in other refpeRs far from being agreeable, yet the num¬
ber of its inhabitants is computed at 300,000 ; but be¬
fore the plague broke out there, they wrere fuppofed
to be four times that number. It is governed by a ba-
ffiaw, whofe authority extends as far as Curdiftan.
The revenues would be immenfe was the government
mild ; but inftead thereof, oppreffion rules here with
the moft defpotic fway. The baffiaw is continually ex¬
torting money from, the poor inhabitants, and none
fiufTse
Hate.
BAG [3
fuffer more than the unfortunate Jews and Chriftians,
many of whom are put to the moft cruel tortures in
order to force their property from them. This feries
of tyranny and oppreffion has almoft entirely driven
them out of the city ; in confequence of which the
trade muff fuffer very confiderably, they being gene¬
rally the principal merchants in the place. In the
months of June, July, and Auguft, the weather is fo
extremely hot, as to oblige the inhabitants to live for
thefe months in fubterraneous apartments, which are
arched over, to admit the freer circulation of the air.
The houfes are generally large, built of brick and ce¬
ment, and are arched over. Many of the windows are
made of elegant Venetian glafs} the ceilings are mofl-
ly ornamented with a kind of chequered work, which
has generally a noble appearance j moft of the houfes
have a court-yard before them, in the middle of which
is a little plantation of orange trees, &c. that has a
very pleafing effedl. The foil, which would produce
not only every conveniency in life, but almoft every
luxury, is through the natural indolence of the Turks,
and the many faults in the government of the country,
in a great meafure uncultivated and neglefted. The
revenues are computed at 125 lacks of piaftres, or
1,562,500!. fterling ; but a quarter part of this is not
colledled, “owing to the flothfulnefs of the Turks, who
fuffer the Arabs to plunder them of the remainder.
This in fome meafure accounts for the cruelties and
extortions that are continually praiftifed here. As the
baihaw lives in all the fplendour of a fovereign prince,
and maintains a very large army, he could not be able
to defray his expences, was he not to have recourfe to
oppreffion and injuftice ; and he, by his extenfive
power, adling almoft independent of the Porte, only
acknowledges it to bring in a balance from thence
yearly in his favour.
The bazars or markets here are large and extenfive ;
being covered over with arches built of mafonry, and
divided into different ftreets, filled with {hops of all
kinds of merchandife, to the number of 12,000. E-
very thing a perfon can have occafion'for may be had
there. The number of houfes in the city is computed
at near 80,000 •, and each houfe and ffiop pay an an¬
nual tribute to the bafiiaw, which is calculated to pro¬
duce the fum of 300,000k fterling. Befides thefe im-
menfe revenues that are colledled, the baffiaw pre¬
tends, that by repairs on the fortifications 30,000k or
40,000k are annually expended, when not fo many
hundreds are taken out of his coffers for that purpofe.
Likewife clearing the river and mending the bridge
become a charge greater than their income, and pro¬
bably not the value of an Engliffi {hilling is expended.
—To fupport the expence of the feraglio, their clothes,
caparifons of their horfes, and every outward pomp,
the amount is confiderable.
On the north fide of the town Hands the citadel,
which commands the river ; and confifts of curtains
and baftions, on which fome very long cannon are
mounted, with two mortars in each baftion, placed
on no other beds than the ground, and in very bad
condition. The carriages of the guns are likewife
fo unwieldy, and in fuch a {battered condition, that
from their appearance they would not fupport one fir¬
ing, but would be ftiaken in pieces. Their elevations
were from 30 to 40 degrees, but they had no quoins
I
16 ] BAG
to level them. There are, befides, a number of fmall Bagdad,
towers, and loop-holes for mulketry, placed at certain —y—»
diftances, all well encompaffed by a ditch of 25 feet
deep, which can be filled at any time by the waters of
the Tigris. The citadel is fo clofe to the houfes, that
it might be eafily taken if poffeffion was once gained
of the town ; but an attack made towards the land
would not probably be fuccefsful, as lluices might with
the greateft facility be cut into the ditch, and fo
overflow the country for miles round •, but it is faid
an advantageous attack might be made from the
water.
The city, which is fortified by lofty thick walls of
brick covered with earth, and ftrengthened by great
towers much refembling cavalier baflions, the whole
being furrounded by a deep ditch, is in the form of an
irregular Iquare 5 but the walls in many places are bro¬
ken down, occafioned by the difputes which happened
on the death of Abdulla Baffiaw a few years ago, when
two competitors arofe in Bagdad for the balhawic,
who fought feveral times in the town and citadel, and
laid great part of it in ruins. In the interim, the go¬
vernor of Moufful and Nineveh being appointed ba-
ftiaw’ by the Porte, came hither with a confiderable ar¬
my, and took poffeffion of the fovereignty, vanquifh-
ing his two opponents. Oppofite to the city, on the
other fide of the river, are very extenfive fuburbs, from
whence fhells might be thrown into the town, which
wmuld have a dreadful effect on a place fo clofely built.
There is a communication between the city and fub¬
urbs by a bridge of boats ; the only kind of bridge
which that river will admit of, as it is broad and deep,
and in its ordinary courfe very rapid. At certain fea-
fons it fwells to a prodigious height, and overflowing
the country occafions many moraffes on that fide oppo¬
fite to the city. Among thefe are feveral towns and
villages, whofe inhabitants are faid to be the ancient
Chaldeans : they are of a particular religion, which
they pretend is that of Seth. The inhabitants of this
city are compofed chiefly of Perfians, Armenians,
Turks, Arabs, and Jews, which laft aft in the capa¬
city of fchroffs, or bankers, to the merchants. The
Jews, notwithftanding the fevere treatment they meet
with from the government, are induced to live heie
from a reverence to the prophet Ezekiel, whofe mau-
foleum they pretend is a day’s journey from the city.
Befides the Jews w ho refide here, there are many that
come every year out of devotion to vifit the prophet’s
tomb. There are alfo two European gentleman, a
Venetian and a Frenchman, with five Romifh priefts,
who are Frenchmen and Italians. Two chapels are
permitted for thofe of the Romiffi and Greek perfua-
fions; at the former the five priefts officiate. In the
city are feveral large beautiful mofques, but into which
Chriftians are never fuffered to enter if known to be
fuch, for fear it fliould defile them. The Mahometan
women are very richly dreffed, wearing bracelets- on
their arms and jewels in their ears : the Arabian wm-
men have the partition betw'een their noftrils bored,
wherein they wear rings.
There are alfo a number of antique buildings. At
the diftance of about ten miles Hand the ruins of an
ancient tower called the Tower of Nimrod. Whether
this tower was at firft of a fquare or round form is now
difficult to determine : though the former is moft pro¬
bable,
BAG [ -
Baggage, bable, becaufe all the remaining bricks are placed
 fquare, and not in the leall circular. The bricks are
all twelve inches fquare and four and a half thick.
The cement is of mud or llime, mixed with broken
reed, as we'mix hair with mortar j which (lime might
either have been had from one of the great rivers, or
taken out of one of the fwamps in the plain, with
which the country hereabout very much abounds. The
height of the ruin is i 26 feet; the diameter of the
largelt and middle part about 100 feet. It would ap¬
pear to be folid to the centre ; yet near the top there
is a regular opening of an oval form. The circumfe¬
rence of that part of the tower which remains, and is
above the rubbifh, is about 300 feet ; but probably
could the foundation be come at, it would be found of
far greater extent. The prefent Turks, Jew?s, and A-
rabians, are fond of believing this to be the identical
ruin of the ancient tower of Babel, for which they af-
fign a variety of reafons ; but all fo void of the appear¬
ance of truth, that to fet about confuting them would
be lofing time in trifles. It appears to have been a
beacon or watch-Uwer, to give notice of the approach
of an enemy : or perhaps was ufed as an obfervatory
to infpefl the various motions of the heavenly bodies j
which fcience was fo much cultivated among the an¬
cient inhabitants of this country, that even the Gre¬
cians, though defirous of being efteemed the inventors
of all arts and fciences, could never deny the Babylo¬
nians the honour of having laid the foundations of
aftronomy.
BAGGAGE, in Military Affairs, denotes the
clothes, tents, utenfils of divers forts, provifions, and
other neceffaries belonging to the army.
.Before a march, the waggons with the baggage are
mar (hailed according to the rank which the feveral re¬
giments bear in the army •, being fometimes ordered to
follow the refpeflive columns of the army, fometimes
to follow the artillery, and fometimes to form a column
by themfelves. The general’s baggage marches firft j
and each waggon has a flag, fhowing the regiment to
which it belongs.
Paching up the Baggage, vafa co/ligere, was a term
among the Romans, for preparing to go to w^ar, or to
be ready for an expedition.
The Romans dillinguiihed two forts of baggage ; a
greater and lefs. The leffer was carried by the foldier
on his back, and called farcina; confiding of the
things mod neceffary to life, and which he could not
do without. Hence colligere farcinas, packing up the
baggage, is ufed for decamping, cajlra movere. The
greater and heavier was carried on holies and vehicles,
and called onera. Hence on era vehiculorum, farcirue
hominum. The baggage-horfes wTere denominated fag-
men t aril equi.
The Roman foldiers in their marches were heavy
loadcn ; infomuch, that they were called by way of
jed muli mariani, and cerumme. They had four forts
of luggage, which they never w ent without, viz. corn
or huccellatum, utenfils, valli, and arms. Cicero ob-
ferves, that they ufed to carry with them above half a
month’s provilions \ and we have indances in Livy,
where they carried provifions for a whole month. Their
utenfils comprehended thofe proper for gathering fuel,
drefiing their meat, and even for fortification or in-
trenchment j and what is more, a chain for binding
27 ] BAG
captives. For arms, the foot carried a fpear, diield, Baglana
faw, baiket, rutrum, hatchet, lorum, falx, &c. Al- ^ ^eres
fo dakes or pales, valli, for the fudden fortifying a ag -3‘
camp ; fometimes feven or even twelve of thefe pales
were carried by each man, though generally, as Poly¬
bius tells us, only three or four. On Trajan’s co¬
lumn we fee foldiers reprefented with this fardle of
corn, utenfils, pales, &c. gathered into a bundle and
laid on their fiioulders. Thus inured to labour, they
grerv drong, and able to undergo any fatigue in bat¬
tle ; the greated heat of which never tired them, or
put them out of breath. In aftertimes, when difei-
pline grew flack, this luggage was thrown on carriages
and porters ihoulders.
The Macedonians were not lefs inured to hardfhip
than the Romans: when Philip firll formed an army,
he forbade all ufe of carriages j yet, with all their load,
they wmiild march, in a fummer’s day, 20 miles in mi¬
litary rank.
BAGLANA, or Buglana, a province of the
kingdom of Dekkan in the Mogul’s empire. It is
bounded on the north and ead by Guzzerat and Balia-
gat 5 and on the fouth and wed by that part of Villa-
pour called Konhan, belonging to the Mahrattas. It
ends in a point at the fea coad between Daman and
Balfora, and Is the lead province in the kingdom.
The Portuguefe territories begin in this province at the
port Daman, 21 leagues fouth of Surat ; and run a-
long the coad by Baffaim, Bombay, and Chawl, to
Dabul, aimed 50 leagues to the north of Goa.
BAGLIVI, George, a mod iiludrious phyfician
of Italy, was a native of Apulia, and born about the
year 1668. He dudied at Padua, where he became
doctor •, and then went to Rome, where he was chofen
profeflbr of anatomy. He was a man of mod uncom¬
mon force of underdanding, of which he gave ample
proofs in many curious and accurate productions, phi-.
fofophical as wrell as medicinal. He died at Rome 1706,
in the flow7er of his age, and w’hen he wTas no more
than 38. A collection of his works was printed fird
in 1710, quarto j and has fince been reprinted, in the
fame fize, at various places. His Praxis Medico, and
De Fibra Matricis, are the principal pieces. He wrote
a Dilfertation upon the Anatomy, Bite, and EffeCts,
of the Tarantula, which is the production of his coun¬
try *, and gave a particular account of the earthquake
at Rome and the adjacent cities in 1703. His works
are all in Latin.
BAGNAGAR, a town of Afia, in the dominions
of the Great Mogul, and capital of the kingdom of
Golconda in the peninfula on this fide the Ganges,.
The inhabitants within the towm are the better fort;
the merchants and meaner people inhabiting the fub-
urbs, which is three miles long. It is chiefly re¬
markable for a magnificent refervoir of water, fur-
rounded with a colonnade fupported by arches. It is
feated on the river Newa, in E. Long. 96. o. N. Lat.
I5- 3°-
BAGNAR A, a fea-port town of Italy in the king¬
dom of Naples, in the farther Calabria, with the title
of a duchy. E. Long. 16. 8. N. Lat. 58. 15.
BAGNAR EA, a town of Italy in St Peter’s patri¬
mony, and in the territory of Orvieta, with a bilhop’s
fee. E. Long. 12. 10. N. Lat. 42. 36.
BAGNERESj a town of France in Gafcony, and
in
BAG [32
Sagnialack in the county of Bigorre, now the department of the
II. Upper Pyrenees, fo called from its mineral waters,
> ff Plpe’, which are much reforted to. It is feated on the river
Adour, in E. Long. o. 12. N. Lat. 43. 3.
BAGNIALACK, a large town of Turkey in Eu¬
rope, in the province of Bofnia. E. Long. 18. 10.
N. Lat. 44. o.
BAGNIO, an Italian word, lignifying a bath. We
life it for a houfe with conveniences for bathing, cup¬
ping, fweatirig, and otherwife cleaning the body;
and i'ometimes for wTorfe purpofes. In Turkey it is be-
,come a general name for the prifons where the Haves
are enclofed, it being ufual in thefe prifons to have
■baths.
BACNOLAS, a town of Lowrer Languedoc, now
the department of Herault in France. It has a very
handfome fquare, and two fountains which rife in the
middle of the town ; the waters of which, being re-
-ceived in a bafon, are conveyed by a canal out of
town, and from thence to the lands about it. E. Long.
4. 43. N. Lat, 44. 10.
BAGNOLIANS, or Bagnolanses, in Church
Hijlory, a fed! of heretics, who in reality were Mani-
chees, though they fomewhat difguifed their errors.
They rejedled the Old Teftament and part of the
New ; held the world to be eternal; and affirmed that
God did not create the foul when he infufed it into the
body.
BAG01, among the ancient Perfians, were the
.fame with thofe called by the Latins ffiadones, viz. a
fpecies of eunuchs, in whom the canal of the penis
was fo contorted by a tight vinculum, that they could
.not emit the femen.
BAG-PIPE, a mulical inltrument, of the wind
■kind, chiefly ufed in Scotland and Ireland. The pe-
.culiarity of the bag-pipe, and from which it takes its
name, is, that the air which blows it is colledled in¬
to a leathern bag, from whence it is prefled out by
the arm into the pipes. Thefe pipes confifl: of a bafs,
and tenor or rather treble ; and are different according
to the fpecies of the pipe. The bafs part is called the
drone, and the tenor or treble part the chanter. In all
the fpecies, the bafs never varies from its uniform note,
and therefore very defervedly gets the name of drone;
and the compafs of the chanter is likewife very limit¬
ed. There is a confiderable difference between the
Highland and Lowland bag-pipe of Scotland ; the
former being blown with the mouth, and the latter
with a fmall bellows: though this difference is not ef-
fential, every fpecies of bag-pipes being capable, by a
proper conftrudtion of the reeds, of producing mufic
either with the mouth or bellows. T he following are
the fpecies of bag-pipes molt commonly knowm in this
country.
1. The Irifb Pipe. This is the fofteft, and in fome
refpedls the moft melodious of any, fo that mulic-
books have been publiihed with directions how to play
on it. The chanter, like that of all the reff, has eight
holes like the Englifh flute, and is played on by open¬
ing and {hutting the holes as occafion requires ; the
bafs confifts of two fliort drones and a long one. The
Iowrefl: note of the chanter is D on the German flute,
being the open note on the counter-firing of a vio¬
lin ; the fmall drone (one of them commonly being
flopped up) is tdned in unifon with the note above
2
S ] BAG
this, and the large one to an oCtave below; fo that a Bag-pipe,
great length is required in order to produce fuch a '—“
low note, on which account the drone hath fometimes
tvm or three turns. The inftrument is tuned by
lengthening or fliortening the drone till it founds the
note dell red.
2. The Highland Bag-Pipe. This confifts of a
chanter and twTo ftiort drones, which found in unifon
the loweft note of the chanter except one. This is ex¬
ceedingly loud, and almoft deafening if played in a
room ; and is therefore moftly ufed in the field, for
marches, &c. It requires a prodigious blaft to found
it ; fo that thofe unaccuitomed to it cannot imagine
how Highland pipers can continue to play for hours
together, as they are often known to do. For the
fame reafon, thofe who ufe the inftrument are obliged
either to ftand on their feet or walk when they play.
This inftrument hath but nine notes ; its fcale, how ever,
hath not yet been reduced to a regular ftandard by com¬
paring it with that of other inftruments, fo that we.can
fay nothing about its compafs. Thole who are belt
acquainted with it, however, affirm that it plays only
the natural notes, without being capable of variation
by flats or fharps.
3. The Scots Lowland Pipe. This is likewife a very
loud inftrument, though lefs fo than the former. It is
blown with bellows, and hath a bafs like the Irifli
pipe. This fpecies is different from all the reft, as it
cannot play the natural notes, but hath F and C {harp.
The loweft note of a good bag-pipe of this kind is uni¬
fon with C (harp on the tenor of a violin tuned con¬
cert-pitch ; and, as it hath but nine notes, the higheft
is D in alt. From this peculiar conftruftion, the High¬
land and Lowland bag-pipes play two fpecies of muiic
effentially different from one another, as each of them
alfo is from every other fpecies of mufic in the world.
Hence thefe two fpecies of bag-pipes deferve notice as
curiofities; for the mufic which they play is accompa¬
nied wuth fuch peculiar ornaments, or what are intend¬
ed as fuch, as neither violin, or even organ, can imitate,
but in a very imperfect manner.
This kind of bag-pipe was formerly very much
ufed in Scotland at weddings and other feftivals; be¬
ing indeed‘extremely well calculated for playing that
peculiar fpecies of Scots mufic called reels. It has
been often a matter of furprife how' this was poflible, as
the inftrument has only a compafs of nine or ten notes
at the utmoft, and which cannot be varied as in other
inftruments. In this refpeft, however, it has a very
great compafs, and will play an inconceivable variety
of tunes. As its notes are naturally fo high, there is
fcarce any one tune but what is naturally tranfpofed by
it, fo that what would be a flat note on the key pro¬
per for the violin, may be a {harp one on the bag-pipe ;
and though the latter cannot play any flat note, it may
neverthelefs in this manner play tunes which on other
inftruments wmuld be flat, to as great perfection as
thefe inftruments themfelves.
4. The Small Pipe. This is remarkable for its fmall-
nefs, the chanter not exceeding eight inches in length ;
for which reafon, the holes are fo near each other, that
it is with difficulty they can be clofed. This hath only
eight notes, the lower end of the chanter being com¬
monly flopped. The reafon of this is, to prevent the
flurring of all the notes, which is unavoidable in the
other
BAG
BAG [ 329 ]
Bag-pip'- other fpecies ; fo that in the hands of a bad player they
*y—become the moft (hocking and unintelligible inftruments
imaginable : but this, by having the lower hole clofed,
and alfo by the peculiar way in which the notes are ex-
preffed, plays all its tunes in the way called by the Ita¬
lians Jlaccato, and cannot (lur at all. It hath no fpecies
of mulic peculiar to itfelf 5 and can play nothing which
cannot be much better done upon other inftruments j
though it is furpriftng what volubility fome performers
on this inftrument will difplay, and howr much they will
overcome the natural difadvantages of it. Some of this
fpecies, inftead of having drones like the others, have
their bafs parts confiding of a winding cavity in a kind
of (hort cafe, and are tuned by opening thefe to a cer¬
tain degree by means of Aiding covers 5 from wdiich
contrivance they are called Jhuttle-pipes. Befides thefe
there are a variety of others, called Italian, German,
Organ, &c. bag-pipes, which have nothing different in
their conftruftion from thofe above deferibed, nor any
good quality to recommend them.
As to the origin of bag-pipe mufic, fome are of opi¬
nion that it is to be derived from the Danes j but Mr
Pennant thinks differently, and gives the following rea-
fons for deriving it from Italy.
Voyage to “ Neither of thefe inftruments (the Highland and
theHebndes, Lowland bag-pipes above deferibed) were the inven-
V' 3°’ tion of the Danes, or, as is commonly fuppofed, of any
of the northern nations ; for their ancient writers prove
them to have been animated by the clangor tubarum,
Notwithftanding they have had their foeck pipe long
amongft them, as their old fongs prove, yet we cannot
allow them the honour of inventing this melodious in¬
ftrument, but mult affert, that they borrowed it from
the invaded Caledonians. We muft (till go farther, and
deprive even that ancient race of the credit ; and de¬
rive its origin from the mild climate of Italy, perhaps
from Greece.
“ There is now in Rome a moft beautiful bas re¬
lievo, a Grecian fculpture of the higheft antiquity, of a
bag-piper playing on his inftrument, exactly like a mo¬
dern Highlander. - The Greeks had their or
inftrument, compofed of a pipe and blown-up (kin : the
Romans in all probability borrowed it from them, and
introduced it among their fwains, who (fill ufe it under
the names of piva and cornu-mufa.
“ That mafter .of mufic, Nero, ufed one ; and had
not the empire been fo fuddenly deprived of that great
artift, he would (as he gracioully declared his inten¬
tion) have treated the people with a concert, and
among other curious inftruments, would have introdu¬
ced the utricularius or bag-pipe. Nero periihed ; but
the figure of the inftrument is preferved on one of
his coins, but highly improved by that great mafter :
it has the bag and two of the vulgar pipes; but was
blown with a bellows like an organ, and had on one
fide a row of nine unequal pipes, refembling the fyrinx
of the god Pan. The bag-pipe, in the unimproved
tfate, is alfo reprefented in an ancient fculpture ; and
appears to have had two long pipes or drones, and a
Angle (hort pipe for the fingers. Tradition fays, that
the kind played on by the mouth was introduced by the
Danes ■, as theirs was wind-mufic, we will admit that
they might have made improvement, but more we can¬
not allow ; they were (killed in the ufe of the trumpet j
the Highlanders in the piohb, or bag-pipe,
Vol. III. Part I,
Non tuba in ufu illis, conjuncla at tibia in utrem
Dat belliJignum, et marteni vocat horrida in arma
Bae-pipe.
*'—T 1
’t',” * Aleli’lni
The bag-pipe appears to have been an inftrument
of great antiquity in Ireland, though it is uncertain
whence they derived it. Mr Pennant, by means of
an antique found at Richborough in Kent, has deter¬
mined that the bag-pipe was introduced at a very early
period into Britain •, whence it is probable that both
Irifti and Danes might borrow the inftrument from the
Caledonians with whom they had fuch frequent inter-
courfe. Ariftides Quintilianus informs us, that it
prevailed in the highlands in very early ages ; and in¬
deed the genius of the people feems to render the opi¬
nion highly probable. The attachment of that people
to their mufic called pibraebs is almoft incredible, and
on fome occafions is (aid to have produced effe£ls little
lefs marvellous than thole aferibed to the ancient mu¬
fic. At the battle of Quebec in /760, while the Bri-
tifh troops were retreating in great diforder, the gene¬
ral complained to a field officer in Frazer’s regiment
of the bad behaviour of his corps. “ Sir (faid he with
fome warmth), you did very wrong in forbidding the
pipers to play this morning : nothing encourages the
Highlanders fo much in the day of action. Nay, even
now they would be of ufe.”—“ Let them blow like
the devil, then (replies the general_), if it will bring
back the men.” The pipers were then ordered to play
a favourite martial air 5 and the Highlanders, the mo¬
ment they heard the mufic, returned and formed with
alacrity in the rear. In the late war in India, Sir Eyre
Coote, aware of the attachment of the Highlanders
to their favourite inftrument, gave them 50I. to buy a
pair of bag-pipes after the battle of Porto Nuovo.
Formerly there was a kind of college,in the idand of
Skye, where the highland bag-pipe was taught; the
teachers making ufe of pins (tuck into the ground in¬
ftead of mufical notes. This college, however, has been
for fome time entirely diffolved, and the ufe of the High¬
land pipe become much lefs general than before. At
laft a fociety of gentlemen, thinking it perhaps impo¬
litic to allow the ancient martial mufic of the country
to decline, refolved to revive it by giving an annual
prize to the belt performers on the inftrument. Thefe
competitions were firft held at Falkirk, but for a good
number of years at Edinburgh ; where the only fur-
viving member of the ancient college of Skye is now
profeJTor of bag-pipe mufic.
The Lowland pipe, as has been already obferved, is
an inftrument effentially different from the Highland
pipe ; it was reformed, and the mufic improved bv
George Mackie, who is faid to have attended the col¬
lege of Skye feven years. He had before been the
belt performer on that inftrument in that part of the
country where he lived : but, while attending the col¬
lege at Skye, he adapted the graces of the Highland
mufic to the Lowland pipe. Upon his return, he was
heard with aftoniffiment and admiration 5 but unluck¬
ily, not being able to commit his improvements to wri¬
ting, and indeed the nature of the inftrument fcarcely
admitting of it, the knowledge of this kind of mufic
hath continued to decay ever fince, and will probably
loon wear out altogether. What contributes much to
this is, that bag-pipers, not content with the natural
nine notes which their inftrument can plav eafilv,
’■f t force
Hopogr.Scot.
&
B A H
Baguette force it to play tunes requiring liiglier notes, which
B’haren ^^orders the whole inftrument in fuch a manner as to
.'-I-'-L' ' / produce the moft horrid difcords •, and this practice
brings, though undefervedly, the inftrument itfelf into
contempt.
BAGUETTE, in ArchiteBure, a fmall round mould¬
ing, lefs than an aftragal, and fo called from the refem-
blance it bears to a ring.
BAHAMA, or Lucaya, Islands, are the eafter-
inqft of the Antilles, lying in the Atlantic ocean. They
are fituated to the fouth of Carolina, between 22 and
2 7 degrees N. Lat. and 73 and 81 d’egrees W. Long.
They extend along the coaft of Florida quite down to
the ifle of Cuba, and are faid to be 500 in number,
ferae of them only bare rocks ; but twelve of them
are large, fertile, and in nothing different from the foil
of Carolina : all are, however, uninhabited except
Providence, which is 200 miles eaft of the Floridas ;
though fome others are larger and more fertile, on
which the Engliih have plantations. Between them
and the continent of Florida is the gulf of Bahama,
or Florida, through which the Spaniih galeons fail in
their paffage to Europe.
Thefe itlands are the firft fruits of Columbus’s dif-
coveries 5 but they were not known to the Englifh till
1667, when Captain Seyle, being driven among them
in his paffage to Carolina, gave his name to one of
them j and being a fecond time driven upon it, gave
it the name of Providence. The Engliih, obferving
the advantageous fituation of thefe iflands for being a
check on the French and Spaniards, attempted to let-
tie them in the reign of Charles II. Some unlucky
accidents prevented this fettlement from being of any
advantage ; and the ifle of Providence became an har-.
bour for the bucaniers or pirates, who for a long
time infeiied the American navigation. This obliged
the government in 1718 to fend out Captain Woodes
Rogers wdth a fleet to .diflodge the pirates, and for
making a fettlement. This the captain effedled 5 a
fort was erefted, and an independent company was
flationed in the ifland. Ever fince this laft fettlement
thefe iflands have been improving, though they advance
but flowly. In time of war, people gain confiderablv
by the prizes condemned there ; and at all times by
the wrecks, which are frequent in this labyrinth of
rocks and {helves. The Spaniards and Americans
captured thefe iflands during the lait war ; but they
WTere retaken by a detachment from St Auguftine, A-
pril 7. 1783. Cotton has been introduced into the
Bahamas, where it is now fuccefsfully cultivated. The
quantity .exported in 1792 was 5047 bales which
amounted to 1,162,822 pounds.
BAHAR, or Barr.e, in Commerce, weights ufed
in feveral places in the Eafl Indies.
There are two of thefe weights \ one the great ba-
har, with which they weigh pepper, cloves, nutmegs,
ginger, &c. and contains 550 pounds of Portugal, or
about5?4lb. qoz. avoirdupois weight. With the little
bahar, they weigh quickfilver, vermilion, ivory, filk,
&x. It contains about 4371b. 90Z. avoirdupois weight.
BAHAREN, an ifland in the Perfian gulf, lituated
in E. Long. 50. o. N. Lat. 26. o. This ifland is
chiefly remarkable for its pearl-fifhery, and has often
changed its snafters. It fell wflth Ormus under the
dominion of the Portuguefe, was again reftored to
B A j
Perfia by Hramas Khouli Kan j and after his death Bahi
the confulion into which his empire was thrown, gave fl
an opportunity to an enterprifmg and ambitious Arab , £ala'
of taking poffeflion of the ifland, wdiere he ftill main¬
tains his authority. Baharen was famous for its pearl-
filhery even at the time when pearls w^ere found at
Ormus, Karek, Kaftiy, and other places in the Per¬
fian gulf: but it is now become of much greater con-
fequence j all the other banks having been exhaufted,
while this has fuffered no fenfible diminution. The
time of fifhing begins in April, and ends in Oflober.
It is confined to a trad! four or five leagues in breadth.
The pearls taken at Baharen, though not fo white as
thofe of Ceylon or Japan, are much larger than thofe
of the former place, and more regularly fltaped than
thofe of the latter. They have a yellowifh colour 5 but
have alfo this good quality, that they preferve their
golden hue, whereas the whiter kind lofe much of their
luftre by keeping, efpecially in hot countries. The
annual revenue from the Baharen pearl fifhery is com¬
puted at about 157,500!. The greateft part of the
pearls that are uneven are carried to Conftantinople
and other ports of Turkey, where the larger go to com*
pole ornaments for head-dreffes, and the {mailer are
ufed in embroideries. The perfect pearls muft be re-
ferved for Surat, whence they are diftributed through
all Indoftan.
BA HI, a province of Lu^on or Manilla, one of the
Philippine iflands in the Eaft Indies, belonging-to the
Spaniards. It is remarkable for producing excellent
betel, which the inhabitants, Spaniards as well as na¬
tives, perpetually chew from morning till night. It is
alfo the place where moft of the Ihips are built. But
the natives fuffer much from this work j feveral hun¬
dreds of them being conftantly employed in it, on the
mountains, or at the port of Cavite. The king allows
thefe labourers a piece-of-eight per month, with a fuf-
ficient quantity of rice. The whole province contains
about 6000 tributary natives.
BAHIA, de todos los sanctos, a province of
Brafil ih South America, belonging to the Portuguefe,
and the richeft in the whole country 5 but unhappily
the air and climate do not correfpond with other natu¬
ral advantages ; yet fo fertile is the province in fugar
and other commercial articles, that the Portuguefe
flock hither not only as it is the feat of affluence, but
alfo of pleafure and grandeur. The capital, called
St Salvador, or Cividad de Bahia, is populous, mag-'
nificent, and beyond comparifon the moft gay and opu¬
lent city in Brafil. It Hands on a bay in S. Lat. 12.
11. is ftrong by nature, well fortified, and always de¬
fended by a numerous garrifon. It contains 12,000
or 14,000 Portuguefe, and about three times as many '•
negroes, befides people of different nations who choofe
to refide in that city.
BAHIR, a Hebrew? term fignifylng famous or il- -
lujlrious; but particularly ufed for a book of the Jew s,, ~
treating of the profound myfteries of the cabbala, be¬
ing the moft ancient of the Rabbinical w orks.
BAHUS, a ftrong town of Sweden, and capital of
a government of the fame name, feated on a rock in a
fmall ifland, in E. Long. 11. 10. N. Lat. 57.52.
BAJA, Eayjah, or Begia, a town of the king¬
dom of 'Funis in Africa, fuppofed to be the ancient
Vacca of Salluft, and Opbidum Vcggenje of Pliny. It
was
1 330 ]
B A. I [3;
Saj*, Was formerly, and ftill continues to be, a place of great
trade, and the chief market of the kingdom for corn 3 of
which the adjacent territories produce fuch abundance,
that they can fupply more than the whole kingdom
with it 3 and the Tutiifians fay, that if there was in the
kingdom fuch another town as this for plenty of corn,
it would become as cheap as fand. Here is alfp a great
annual fair, to which the moft dilfant Arabian tribes
refort with their families and flocks. Notwithflanding
all this, however, the inhabitants are very poor, and
great part of the land about the town remains uncul¬
tivated, through the cruel exablions of the government,
and the frequent incurfions of the Arabs, who are very-
powerful in thefe parts. The town ftands on the de¬
clivity of a hill on the road to Conflantina, about 10
leagues from the northern coaft, and 56 fouth-weft from
Tunis3 and hath the convenience of being well watered.
On the higheft part is a citadel that commands the
Whole place, but is now of no great flrength. The
walls were raifed out of the ruins of the ancient Vacca,
and have fome ancient infcriptions.
Baja, a populous town of Hungary, feated on the
i Danube, in E. Long. 19. 50. N. Lat. 46. 40. •
BAIhE, an ancient village of Campania in Italy,
between the promontory of Mifenum and Puteoli, on
the Sinus Baianus 3 famous for its natural hot baths,
which ferved the wealthier Romans for the purpofes
both of medicine and pleafure.-—The variety of thofe
baths, the foftnefs of its climate, and the beauty of its
landfcape, captivated the minds of opulent nobles,
whofe paflion for bathing knew no bounds. Abun¬
dance of linen, and difufe of ointments, render the
praftice lefs neceffary in modern life 3 but the ancients
performed no exercife, engaged in no fludy, without
previous ablutions, which at Rome required an enor¬
mous expence in aqueducts, doves, and attendants : a
place therefore, where waters naturally heated to every
degree of warmth bubbled fpontaneoufly out of the
ground, in the pleafanteft of all fituations,* was fuch a
treafure as could not be overlooked. Baiae wras this
place in the higheft perfeflion 3 its eafy communication
with Rome -was alfo a point of great weight. Hither
at firlt retired for a temporary relaxation the mighty
rulers of the world, to dfing anew their nerves and re¬
vive their fpirits, fatigued with bloody campaigns and
civil conteds. Their habitations were fmall and moded :
but foon increafing luxury added palace to palace witb
fuch expedition and fumptuodty, that ground was
wanting for the vad demand : enterprifing architefts,
fupported by infinite w-ealth, carried their foundations
into the fea, and drove that element back from its.
Sivinburne'i ancient limits : it has fince taken ample revenge, and
Sicily. recovered much more than it ever lod. From being a
place of refort for a feafon, Baiae now grew- up to a
permanent city : whoever found himfelf difqualified by
age, or infirmity, for fudaihing any longer an a£five
jjart on the political theatre 3 whoever, from an indo¬
lent difpofition, fought a place w-here the pleafures of
a town were combined wfith the fweets of a rural life 3
whoever w-idied to withdraw from the dangerous neigh¬
bourhood of a court, and the baneful eye of inform¬
ers, docked hither to enjoy life untainted with fear
and trouble. Such adluence of wealthy inhabitants
rendered Bairn as much a miracle of art as it was be¬
fore of nature 3 its fplendour may be inferred from Its
1 J B A j
innumerable ruins, heaps of marbles, mofaics, ducco, BajAof
and other precious fragments of tade.—It flouridted ,, ,
in full glory down to the days of Theodoric the Goth 3 ; '
but the dedruftion of thefe enchanted palaces follow¬
ed quickly upon the irruption of the northern conque¬
rors, who overturned the Roman fydem, hacked and
burnt all before them, and dedroyed or difperfed the
whole race of nobility. Lofs of fortune left the Ro¬
mans neither the means, nor indeed the thought, of lup-
porting fuch expenfive edablifhmcnts, which can only
be enjoyed in perfection during peace and profperity.
No looner had opulence withdrawn her hand, than the
unbridled fea rudied back upon its old domain 3 moles
and buttrefles were torn afunder and wadied away 3
whole promontories, with the proud towers that once
crowned their brows, were undermined and tumbled
headlong into the deep, where, many feet below the.
furface, pavements of dreets, foundations of houfes, and
mafies of walls, may dill be deferied. Internal commo¬
tions of the earth contributed alfo largely to this gene¬
ral devadation 3 mephitic vapours and dagnated waters
have converted this favourite feat of health into the den
of pedilence, at lead during the edival heats: yet Bala;
in its ruined date, and dripped of all its ornaments,
dill prefents many beautiful and driking fubjeCIs for
the pencil. E. Long. 14. 45. N. Lat. 41. 6.
BAJADOR, a cape on the wed coad of Africa,
fouth of the Canary illands. \V. Long. 15. 20. N.
Lat. 27. o. *
BAIANUS SINUS, a bay fo called from Baia,
(Suetonius) 3 Portus Baiarum, (Pliny) 3 which was
enlarged by Augudus, by giving entrance to the fea
into the Lacus Lucrinus, and Averni, ordering it to
be called Portus Julius apud Baias, (Suetonius). We
alfo read Baianus Lacus in Tacitus, which feme inter¬
pret the Lucrinus. The modern name is Gclfo di Poz-
zuolo. From the highed point that forms the bay, a
large cadle commands the road, where foreign diips of
wyar ufually ride at anchor, the harbour of Naples ndt
being fpacious enough for the reception of a fleet :
here they enjoy good dicker, watering, and viftual-
ling 3 but in dimmer rifk the health of their crew s, on
account of the unwholefomnefs of the air.
BAJAZET I. fultan of the Turks, a renowmed
warrior but a tyrant, was conquered by Tamerlane,
and expofed by him in an iron cage 3 the fate he had
dedined (it is faid) for his adverfary if he had been
the vi£lor.
The iron cage, however, fo long and fo often re¬
peated as a moral leffon, has been rejected as a fable
by modern w-riters, who fmile at the vulgar credulity.
They appeal to the Perfian hidory of Sherefeddin Ali,
of which a French verfion has been given, and from
which Mr Gibbon has collesded the following more
fpecious narrative of this memorable tranfadlicn. “ No
fooner was Timour informed that the captive Ottoman
was at the door of his tent, than he gracioufly depped
forwards to receive him, feated him by his fide, and
mingled with jud reproaches a foothing pity for his
rank and misfortune. “ Alas ! (faid the emperor,)
the decree of fate is now accomplidied by your owm
fault: it is the web which you have woven, the thorns
of the tree tvhich yourfelf have planted. I widied to
fpare, and even to adid, the champion of the Mof-
lems j you braved our threats, you defpifed our friend-
T t .2 diip j
Bajazet.
B A I [ 332 ] B A I
flilp ; you forced us to enter your kingdom with our
invincible armies. Behold the event. Had you van-
quifhed, I am not ignorant of the fate which you re-
ferved for myfelf and my troops. But I dildain to
retaliate : your life and honour are fecure ; and I Ihall
exprefs my gratitude to God by my clemency to man.”
The royal captive fhowed fome figns of repentance,
accepted the humiliation of a robe of honour, and em¬
braced with tears his fon Moufa, who, at his requelf,
was fought and found among the captives of the field.
The Ottoman princes were lodged in a fplendid pavi¬
lion ; and the refpect of the guards could be furpafied
only by their vigilance. On the arrival of the haram
from Bourla, Timour reftored the queen Defpina and
her daughter to their father and hufband ; but he pi-
oafly required, that the Servian princefs, who had hi¬
therto been indulged in the profeflion of Chriftianity,
Ihould embrace without delay the religion of the
prophet. In the feaft of viftory, to which Baja¬
zet was invited, the Mogul emperor placed a crown
on his head and a fceptre in his hand, with a folemn
alTurance of reftoring him with an increafe of glory to
the throne of his ancellors. But the effedt of this
promife was difappointed by the fultan’s untimely
death : amidft the care of the moll Ikilful phyficians,
he expired of an apoplexy at Akfhehr, the Antioch
of Pifidia, about nine months after his defeat. The
vidfor dropped a tear over his grave ; his body, with
royal pomp, was conveyed to the maufoleum which he
had eredted at Bourfa ; and his fon Moufa, after re¬
ceiving a rich prefent of gold and jewels, of horfes and
arms, was invefted by a patent in red ink with the
kingdom of Anatolia.
“ Such is the portrait of a generous conqueror, which
has been extradled from his own memorials, and dedi¬
cated to his fon and grandfon, 19 years after his de-
ceafe •, and, at a time when the truth was remember¬
ed by thoufands, a manifelt falfehood would have im¬
plied a fatire on his real conduft. On the other hand,
of the harlh and ignominious treatment of Bajazet
there is alfo a variety of evidence. The Turkilh an¬
nals in particular, wdwch have been confulted or tran-
fcribed by Leunclavius, Pocock, and Cantemir, una-
nimoufly deplore the captivity of the iron cage and
fome credit may be allowed to national hiftorians, who
cannot lligmatize the Tartar without uncovering the
lhame of their king and country.” From thefe op-
pofite premifes, Mr Gibbon thinks a fair and mode¬
rate conclufion may be deduced. He is fatisfied that
Sherefeddin Alt has faithfully defcribed the firlt ollen-
tatious interview7, in which the conqueror, whofe Spi¬
rits were harmonized by fuccefs, affefled the character
of generofity. But his mind was infenfibly alienated
by the unfeafonable arrogance of Bajazet ; the com¬
plaints of his enemies, the Anatolian princes, were juft
and vehement; and Timour betrayed a defign of lead¬
ing his royal captive in triumph to Samarcand. An
attempt to facilitate his efcape by digging a mine un¬
der the tent, provoked the Mogul emperor to impofe
a harlher reftraint •, and in his perpetual marches, an
iron cage on a waggon might be invented, not as a
wanton infult, but as a rigorous precaution. Timour
had read in fome fabulous hiftory a fimilar treatment
of one of his predeceflfors, a king of Perfiaj and Ba¬
jazet w'as condemned to reprcfent the perfon and ex¬
Bail.
piate the guilt of the Roman Ccefar. But the ftrength Baikat
of his mind and body fainted under the trial, and his
premature death might without injuftice be afcribed to,
the feverity of Timour. He warred not, however, with
the dead ; a tear and a fepulchre were all that he could
bellow on a captive who was delivered from his power ;
and if Moufa, the fon of Bajazet, was permitted to
reign over the ruins of Bourfa, the greateft part of the
province of Anatolia had been reftored by the con¬
queror to their law:ful fovereigns.
BAIKAL, a great lake in Siberia, lying between
52 and 55 degrees of north latitude. It is reckoned
to be 500 werfts in length ; but only 20 or 30 broad,
and in fome places not above 15. It is environed on
all fides by high mountains. In one part of it, which
lies near the river Bargufian, it throws up an inflam¬
mable fulphureous liquid called maltha, which the
people of the adjacent country burn in their lamps.
There are likewife feveral fulphureous fprings near
this lake. Its water at a diftance appears of a fea-
green colour: it is frelh 5 and fo clear, that ob¬
jects may be feen in it feveral fathoms- deep. It doe*
*iot begin to freeze till near the latter end of Decem¬
ber, and thaw's again about the beginning of May :
from which time till September, a Ihip is feldom
known to be wnecked on it j but by the high wfinds
which then blow, many (hipwrecks happen. This
lake is called by the neighbouring people Swiatoic
More, or the Holy Lake ; and they imagine, that w hen
ftorms happen on it, they will be preferved from all
danger by complimenting it with the title of fea.
When it is frozen over, people travel upon it in the
road to China ; but they mull be very lharp food,
otherwife they cannot ftand upon the ice, which is ex¬
ceedingly fmooth. Notwithftanding that the ice on this
lake is fometimes two ells thick, there are fome open
places in it to which tempeftuous winds wfill often drive
thole w'ho are crofting it; in w hich cafe they are irre¬
coverably loft. The camels that pafs along have a
particular kind of Ihoes lharp at bottom, and the oxen
have fnarp irons driven through their hoofs, without
which it would be impoflible for them to pafs. Here
are plenty of large llurgeon and pike ; with many feals
of the black, but none of the fpotted, kind. It corn-
tains feveral iflands j and the borders are frequented by
black fables and civet-cats.
BAIL, ballium, (from the French bailler, which
comes of the Greek /SasAAnv, and fignifies to deliver
into hands), is ufed in our common law for the free¬
ing or fetting at liberty of one arrefted or imprifoned
upon any aftion, either civil or criminal, on furety ta¬
ken for his appearance at a day and place certain.
The reafon why it is called bail, is becaufe by this
means the party reftrained is delivered into the hands
of thofe that bind themfelves for his forthcoming, in
order to a fafe-keeping or prote£Hon from prifon ; and
the end of bail is to fatisfy the condemnation and coils,
or render the defendant to prifon.
With refpefl to bail in civil cafes, it is to be ob-
ferved, that there is both common and fpecial bail.
Common bail is an aftion of fmall concernment, be¬
ing called common, becaufe any fureties in that cafe
are taken, whereas in caufes of great weight, as
adlions upon bonds, or fpeciality, &c. w’here the debt
amounts to io\. fpecial bail or furety muft be taken,
fuch
B A I l 333 1 B A I
fuch as fubfidy men at lead, and they according to the
value.
The commitment of a perfon being only for fafe
cuftody, wherever bail will anfwer the fame intention,
it ought to be taken, as in mod of the inferior crimes ':
but in felonies, and other offences of a capital nature,
no bail can be a fecurity equivalent to the aciual cu-
dody of the perfon. For what is there that a man
may not be induced to forfeit to fave his own life ?
and what fatisfaftion or indemnity is it to the public,
to feize the effedfs of them who have bailed a murder¬
er, if the murderer himfelf be differed to efcape with
impunity ? Upon a principle limilar to which, the A-
thenian magidrates, when they took a folemn oath ne¬
ver to keep a citizen in bonds that could give three
fureties of the fame quality with himfelf, did it with
an exception to fuch as had embezzled the public mo¬
ney, or been guilty of treafonable practices.
Bail may be taken either in court, or, in fome par¬
ticular cafes, by the (heriff or other magidrate ; but
modly ufcd by the judices of the peace. To refufe
or delay to bail any perfon bailable, is an offence
againd the liberty of the fubjedt, in any magidrate, by
the common law ; as well as by the datute Wedm. i.
3 Edw^I. c. 15. and the habeas corpus aft, 31 Car. II.
c. 2. And, led the intention of the law fliould be
frudrated by the judices requiring bail to a greater
amount than the nature of the cafe demands, it is ex-
prefsly declared by datute 1 W. and M. ft. 2. c. 1.
that excedive bail ought not to be required 5 though
what bail diall be called excejjive, mud be left to the
courts, on confidering the circumftances of the cafe,
to determine. And on the other hand, if the magi-
ftrate takes infufficient bail he is liable to be fined, if
the criminal doth not appear.
In civil cafes, every defendant is bailable. But it is
otherwife in
Criminal matters. Regularly, in all offences, either
againd the common law or aft of parliament, that are
belowr felony, the offender ought to be admitted to
bail unlefs it be prohibited by fome fpecial aft of par¬
liament.—By the ancient common law, before and
fince the Conqued, all felonies were bailable, till mur¬
der was excepted by datute : fo that perfons might be
admitted to bail almoft in every cafe. But the da¬
tute Weft. x. 3 Edw. I. c. 15. takes away the power
of bailing in treafon, and in divers indances of felony.
The datutes 23 Hen. VI. c. 9. and 1 and 2 Ph. and
Mar. c. 13. gave farther regulations in this matter:
and upon the W’hole we may colleft, that no judices of
the peace can bail, 1. Upon an accufation of trea¬
fon : nor, 2. Of murder: nor 3. In cafe of manflaugh-
ter, if the prifoner be clearly the flayer, and not bare¬
ly lufpefted to be fo ; or if any indiftment be found
againft him ; nor, 4. Such as, being committed for fe¬
lony, have broken prifon; hecaufe it not only carries
a prelumption of guilt, but is alfo fuperadding one fe¬
lony to another : 5. Perfons outlawed : 6. Such as have
abjured the realm : 7. Perfons taken with the mainour,
or in the faft of felony : 8. Perfons charged with ar-
fon : 9. Excommunicated perfons, taken by writ de
excommunicato capiendo : all which are clearly not ad-
miffible to bail by the juftices. Others are of a du¬
bious nature ; as, 10. Thieves openly defamed and
known : 11. Perfons charged y/ith other felonies, or
manifed and enormous offences, not being of good
fame : and, 12. Acceffories to felony, that labour
under the fame wTant of reputation. Thefe feem to be
in the difcretion of the judices, whether bailable or
not. The lad clafs are fuch as mujl be bailed upon of¬
fering fufficient furety ; as, 13. Perfons of good fame,
charged with a bare fufpicion of mandaughter, or
other infamous homicide : 14. Such perlons being-
charged wuth petit larceny or any felony, not before
fpecified : or, 16. With being acceffory to any felony,
Ladly, it is agreed, that the court of king’s bench
(or any judge thereof in time of vacation) may bail
for any crime whatfoever, be it treafon, murder, or
any other offence, according to the circumftances of
the cafe. And herein the wiidom of the law is very
manifeft. To allow bail to be taken commonly for
fuch enormous crimes, would greatly tend to elude the
public juftice : and yet there are cafes, though they
rarely happen, in which it would be hard and unjud
to confine a man in prifon, though accufed even of the
greateft offence. The law has therefore provided one
court, and only one, which has a difcretionary power
of bailing in any cafe : except only, even to this high
jurifdiftion, and of courfe to all inferior ones, fuch
perfons as are committed by either houfe of parlia¬
ment, fo long as the feflion lads 5 or fuch as are com¬
mitted for contempts by any of the king’s fuperior
courts of juftice. See Law.
Clerk of the Bails, is an officer belonging to the
court of the king’s bench : he files the bail-pieces ta¬
ken in that court, and attends for that purpofe.
Bail, or Bale, in the fea-language. The feamen
call throwing the water by hand out of the ftffp’s or
boat’s hold, bailing. They alfo call thofe hoops that
bear up the tilt of a boat, its bails.
BAILIE, in Scots Law, a judge anciently appoint¬
ed by the king over fuch lands not erefted into a re¬
gality as happened to fall to the crown by forfeiture or
otherwife, now abolifhed. It is alfo the name of a
magiftrate in royal boroughs, and of the judge appoint¬
ed by a baron over lands erefted into a barony. See
Law.
BAILIFF, (ballivus'), from the French word bay-
liff, that is, priefeSlus provincice ; and as the names, fo
the office itfelf wTas anfwerable to that of France j
where there are eight parliaments, which are high
courts from whence there lies no appeal, and within-
the precinfts of the feveral parts of that kingdom
which belong to each parliament there are feveral pro¬
vinces to which juftice is adminiftered by certain offi¬
cers called bailiffs : and in England there are feveral
counties in wffiich juftice hath been adminiftered to the
inhabitants by the officer who is now called foeriff or
vifcount (one of which names defcends from the Saxons,
the other from the Normans) j and though the ffieriff
is not called bailiff, yet it is probable that w?as one of
his names alfo, becaufe the county is often called bal-
liva. And in the datute of Magna Charta, cap. 28.
and 14 Ed. III. c. 9. the word bailiff feems to comprife
as well ffieriffs as bailiffs of hundreds. As the realm
is divided into counties, fo every county is divided in¬
to hundreds ; within which in ancient times the people
had juftice miniftered to them by the officers of every
hundred. But now the hundred courts, except certain
franchifes, are fwallowed in the county-courts; and the
bailiif’s-
Water-
bailiff
..H.
Bailiwick.
B A I [33
bailiff’s name and office is grown into contempt, they
being generally officers to ferve writs, Sec. within their
liberties, though, in other refpeSts, the name is dill
in good efteem : for the chief magiftrates in divers
towns are called bailiffs or bailies; and fometimes the
perfons to whom the king’s cailles are committed are
termed bailiffs, as the bailiff of Dover Cafle, &c.
Of the ordinary bailiffs there are feveral forts, viz.
fheriff’s bailiffs, bailiffs of liberties, &c.
Sheriff’s bailiffs, or fherilf’s officers, are either bailiff’s
of hundreds, or fpecial bailiffs. Bailiff's of hundreds
are officers appointed over thofe refpeftive diitrifts by
the iheriffs, to colleft fines therein ; to fummon ju¬
ries 5 to attend the judges and juftices at the affiles and
quarter feffions *, and alfo to execute writs and procefs
in the feveral hundreds. But as thefe are generally
plain men, and not thoroughly Ikilful in this latter part
of their office, that of ferving writs, and making ar-
refts and executions, it is now ufual to join fpecial bai¬
liffs with thdm ; who are generally mean perfons em¬
ployed by the (heriffs on account only of their adroit-
nefs and dexterity in hunting and feizing of their prey.
Bailiffs of liberties are thofe bailiffs who are ap¬
pointed by every lord within his liberty, to execute
procefs, and do fuch offices therein as the bailiff errant
doth at large in the county 5 but bailiffs errant or iti¬
nerant, to go up and down the county to ferve procefs,
are out of ufe.
There are alfo bailiffs of forefts, and bailiffs of ma¬
nors, who direeff hufbandry, fell trees, gather rents,
pay quit-rents, &c.
IVater-BAiiiFr, an officer appointed in all port-
towns, for the learching of fhips, gathering the toll for
anchorage, &c. and arrefting perfons for debt, &c. on
the water.
BAILII, David, painter of perfpective views and
portraits, was the fon of Peter Bailii, an artift of fome
note 5 and was born at Leyden in 1584. From his
father he learned to draw and effiffgo j but he was af-
terrvards placed under the care of Adrian Verburg, and
continued with him for fome time; and when hp
quitted that mafter, he ftudied to much greater advan¬
tage with Cornelius Vandervoort, an excellent portrait-
painter, and with him he fpent about fix years. As
Vandervoort poffeffed many capital paintings of fome
great mafters, Bailii, for his own improvement, copied
them with critical care and obfervation j and particu¬
larly copied one perfpeffiive view of the infide of a
church, originally painted by Stenwyck, which he fi-
nifhed with fuch accuracy, that even Stenwyck him-
felf could fcarce determine which was the original, or
which the copy, when both were placed before him.
He travelled through feveral parts of Italy to fee the
wTorks of the celebrated mafters of that country, and
for a few years refided at Rome j and abroad, as well
as in his own country, the correffinefs of his drawing,
and the delicate handling and finifhing of his piftures,
procured him employment, admirers, and friends. In
the latter part of his life he difeontinued painting, and
only drew portraits on vellum with a pen, which he
heightened with black lead, and gave them wonderful
force and roundnefs. He died in 1638.
BAILIWICK, that liberty which is exempted from
the theriff of the county 5 over which liberty the lord
thereof appoints his own bailiff, with the like power
t 1
B A I
Bailly.
within his precinct as an under fheriff exercifes under Buil'ef
the ftieriff of the county : Or it fignifies the precinffi
of a bailiff, or the place within which his juriididtion (
is terminated.
BAIL LET, Adrian, a very learned French wri¬
ter and critic, born in 1649 at t^Le vbLge of Neuville
near Beauvais in Picardy. His parents were too poor
to give him a proper education, which however he ob¬
tained by the favour of the bifliop of Beauvais, who
aftenvards prefented him with a fmall vicarage. In
1680 he was appointed librarian to M. de Lamoignon,
advocate-general to the parliament of Paris *, of whole
library he made a copious index in 35 vols. folio, all
Written with his own hand. Fie died in 1706, after
Writing many works, the principal of which are, yf Hi-
fory cf Holland from 1609, to the peace of Nimeguert
in 1679, 4 vols 1 2mo ; Lives of the Saints, 3 vols fo¬
lio, which he profefl'ed to have purged from fables j
Jugemens des Sravens, which he extended to 9 vols
1 2mo ; and The life of Des Cartes, 2 vols 410, which
he abridged, and reduced to one vol. I 2mo.
BAILLEUL, a town of France, in the depart¬
ment of the North, formerly very ftrong, but now
without any fortifications. It has been ieveral times
burnt by accident^ and contains now only about 500
houfes. E. Long. 2. 55. N. Lat. 40. 35.
BAILLY, Jean Sylvain, a celebrated philofo-
pher and artronomer, was born at Paris on the 15th
September 1736. He was originally intended for the
profeflion of painting, which his family had purfued
for feveral generations, and he even had made fome
progrefs in the art. But the bias of his mind leaned
too much to literary purfuits, efpecially to poetry, and
works of imagination, to permit him to give that ap¬
plication which is neceffary to fecure fucceis and emi¬
nence in any profeflion.
The friends of Bailly, wrho had witijeffed the early
dawm of his genius, faw that it was equally fitted to
appear with advantage in the ftudy of polite litera¬
ture, or to fhine in the walks of fcience j and recom¬
mended the latter chiefly to his attention. His
acquaintance with La Caille the celebrated geometer
commenced, and this at once decided the objedt of his
ftudies, which were now almoft entirely devoted to
feientific inveftigations. The firft of his labours was
the calculation of the comet which appeared in the
year 1759. In January 1763, he was admitted a
member of the Academy of Sciences 5 and in the fame
year he publifhed a reduftion of the obfervations made
by La Caille in 1760 and 1761 on the zodiacal ftars,
an elaborate compilation, and of extenfive utility. His
attention was afterwards direffied to the confideration.
of the theory of Jupiter’s fatellites. La Grange, who
now promifed to be the firft mathematician in Europe,
was the formidable rival of Bailly in the competition
for this prize queftion in 1764. The refults of his in¬
veftigations were colleffied into a treatife, wffiich alfo
contained the hiftory of that part of aftronomy, and
were publiflied in 1766. In 1771 appeared his in-
terefting and important memoir on the Light of the
fatellites, which was marked with a degree of preci-
fion and accuracy, till that time altogether unknown
in the obfervations of their eclipfes.
The ftudies of Bailly wyere not entirely limited to
the cultivation of abftradff fcience, or to profound phy-
fical
B A I [3
Sailly. Acal fpeculations; his genius fa one with equal luftre
■“"v in thofe departments of literature which require the
rare talent of nice diferimination of chara&ers, and no
common power of eloquence, to reach excellence. The
eloges which he compofed for Charles V. Corneille,
Leibnitz, Moliere, Cook, La Caille, and Greffet, were
univerfally admired as valuable fpecimens of fine writ¬
ing, and added much to his reputation. The diftin-
guilhed place of fecretary of the Academy of Sciences
became vacant in 1771 ; and, fupported by the patron¬
age and influence of Buffon, he offered himfelf a candi¬
date. But here he was unfucccfsful. Condorcet, who
was then riling into reputation, and was fupported by
the aftive influence of D’Alembert, was prefer .*.d to
the office.
In the year 1775, he publiffied at Paris the firft
-volume of the “ Hi tfory of Ancient Aftronomy.” The
fecond volume of the fame work appeared in 1787.
In 1779 he gave to the world his “ Hiftory of Modern
Aftronomy,” from the foundation of the Alexandrian
fchool to the prefent age. Thefe works are of inefti-
mable value, diftinguiffied by animated defeription, lu¬
minous narration, and interefting detail. He alfo pu-
blilhed a work entitled, “ Letters on the Origin of the
Sciences, and of the People of Afia which was after¬
wards followed by another feries of “ Letters on the
Atlantis of Plato, and the Ancient Hiftory of Afia,”
as a continuation of the fame work. Thefe volumes
were addreffed to Voltaire, with whom he had com¬
menced an ingenious correfpondence and difeuffion on
this curious fubjeft. The coincidence of his opinions
with thofe of Buffon in points refpefting fome of the
favourite theories of the latter, brought him into an in¬
timate acquaintance and clofe friendlhip with that ce¬
lebrated naturalift, which, however, declined and was
entirely diffolved, in confequence of the oppofition
■which Bailly made to the eledlion of the Abbe Maury
Into the French Academy. Bailly h:..d been chofen
fecretary of this academy in 1784 ; and in the follow¬
ing year he w-as admitted into the Academy of Infcrip-
tions and Belles Lettres. This was the only inftance,
fince the time of Fontenelle, of the fame perfon being
at once a member of all the three academies.
In the year 1784 he was nominated one of the com-
miffion to inveftigate the nature of the animal magne-
tifm of Mefmer, which was praflifed by Deflon; and he
drew up an elegant report, which was prefented to the
Academy of Sciences. This report, w-hich was foon
afterwards tranflated into Engliffi, not only marked the
acutenefs and difeernment of the author, and contained
the moft fatisfaffory and decifive evidence with regard
to its objedl, but may be held up as an excellent model
of imitation for thofe who are engaged in fimilar in-
veftigations. In developing the phyfical effedfs pro¬
duced by moral caufes, it is of the greateft value $ and
it is particularly interefting wrhen we confider the poli¬
tical influence which caufes of this nature have impofed
on the general opinions of iociety, and even on the def-
' tiny of nations.
^ Flitherto we have contemplated Bailly in the ftiades
of retirement, and in the calm undifturbed retreats of
philolophy, employing the energy of a vigorous and
■eomprehenfive mind in the profound refearches of phy-
i-.cal truth : we are now to follow him in his political
career, and behold him ftruggling with the adverfe in-
33 1 . B A I
terefts of party faction, and contending with the un~ Fail
bridled fury of a lawlefs mob, in defence of the rights
of a people wffiofe minds- were not prepared to under-
ftand, and w-hofe habits w-ere not yet formed to enjoy,
the blefl'mgs of rational liberty. He was one of the
firft and moft; zealous promoters of the revolution in
IVance,—a revolution which not only aftonifhed and
convulfed all Europe, but of w-hich the immediate con-
fequences to themfelves, and to their country, were nei¬
ther forefeen por imagined by thofe who embarked in
it, nor can its ultimate effedls even at the prefent pe¬
riod be appreciated or conjeflured,—a revolution which
holds out an awful leffon to the leaders of popular fac¬
tion to culb and reprefs, rather than to excite and en¬
courage, that fpirit of tumult and diforder among a
people thrown loofe from the neceffary reftraints of
law-, w-hich burfts forth w-ith ungovernable fury, and-
at laft involves all in one general ruin. In the part
which he afled in this bloody ftruggle, Bailly has had
the good fortune to be well fpoken of br oppofite par¬
ties. He has not been charged with want of integrity 1
or felfifli defigns in any part of his conduft; but actu¬
ated by a milguided zeal, and dazzled with the pro-
fpeCt of freedom w-hich the warmth of imagination
held out, he rafhly ftepped forward in a caufe which
he efpoufed w-ith enthufiafm, and fupported with his
utmoft exertions. But in that caufe he fell a facri-
fice to the unrelenting fpirit of violence and party fac¬
tion which had been roufed, and which could neither
be fubdued nor regulated. When the ftates-general
of France w-ere affembled in 1789, he was elefted a
deputy to the Tiers Etat, was afterwards chofen prefi-
dent; and w hen the national affembly was conftituted,
he continued in the chair, and was prefident at the
time that the king’s proclamation w-as iffued ordering
them to difperfe. During the ftruggle which took
place betw-een the popular part of the affemblies and
the court, Bailly w-as among the moft forward in af-
ferting thofe popular rights which were then new in
France 5 and he diftated the famous oath to the mem¬
bers of the Tiers Elat, “ to refill tyrants and tyranny,
and never to feparate till they had obtained a free con-
ftitution.” On the 14th of July follow-ing, the day
on wdnch the Baftile w-as ftormed and taken by the
people, he w-as appointed with univerfal confent, mayor
of Paris. In this high office, he is allowed to have
difeharged the arduous and difficult duties of it with
great integrity, courage, and moderation. And while
he held this confpicuous fituation, he w-as a powerful
agent in promoting the various meafures by which the
popular party prevailed over that of the court 5 and for
this, and various other popular aClions, he obtained a
high degree of favour among the people. But the tide
of public opinion now fw-elled beyond all bounds j no
reftraint could oppofe its violent courfe. The multi¬
tude, unfliackled by the fetters of defpotifm, fond of
novelty, and with enthufiaftic and unfettled notions of
freedom, daily panting for change, could bear no op¬
pofition. Bailly, who perhaps now faw when it w-as
too late the general difpofition of the people to anar¬
chy, ftill wiffied the laws to be refpefted, and hoped by
their vigorous execution to reftore and preferve tran¬
quillity. He ordered fome deputies from the military ■ N
infurgents at Nancy to be arrefted, and he firmly oppo-
fed the rafti proceedings of Marat and Plubert j he be¬
came -
B A I [35
■Bailly came a member of a lefs promifcuous club than that of
. H the Jacobins •, and exerted himfelf drongly to perfuade
Bailment. ^ p0pUiace to permit the king and royal family to
depart to St Cloud. By thefe meafures, which were
little relifhed by a frantic and lawlefs people, he loft
their confidence and favour. But what finally deftroy-
ed his popularity, w^as the tumultuous meeting of the
populace on the 17th of July 1791, to demand the
abolition of monarchy, when, being called by the na¬
tional affembly to difperfe the mob, who had affaulted
the foldiery, he ordered the latter to fire, by which
40 perfons were killed and above 100 wounded. Thus
become obnoxious to the people whom he had faithful¬
ly ferved, it was no longer defirable for him to hold
his charge. He therefore refigned his office at the
diflblution of the conftituent afiembly in the end of the
year 1791. After this period he lived in retirement,
having refumed his philofophical refearches. But the
times of bloody profcription approached, and he muft
fall a facrifice to the ferocious vengeance of the tyrant
who now bore unlimited fway. He wms accordingly
denounced as an enemy to the republic, apprehended
and thrown into prifon. He was arraigned before a
fanguinary tribunal, fummarily condemned to death as
a confpirator, and was executed the day following,
near the fpot where he had given the order for the mi¬
litary to fire on the people. On the day of execution,
his fufferings, which he bore with the utmoft calmnefs
and magnanimity, were ftudioufiy protracted. Jnftead
of that fympathy and compaflion which even the worft
and the loweft criminal often experiences when he is
about to expiate his offences with his life, he was treat¬
ed by an incenfed and barbarous populace, with the
tnoft ignominious indignity and cruelty. He wore the
red fhirt, or badge of confpiracy, and w^as placed m a
cart, with his hands tied behind his back. During
the whole time of his progrefs to the place of execu¬
tion, the rain poured inceffantly on his h£ad. 1 he
populace as he paffed threw mud at him, and cruelly
infulted him with every kind of opprobrious language.
It was found neceffary to remove the guillotine from
fhe place where it was firft ere&ed to firmer ground.
During this time he svas forced to get out of the cart,
and walk round the field, to gratify more fully the im¬
placable and unrelenting malice of the mob. When
he was afeending the platform, a fpeftator who was near
him, in a tone of infult exclaimed, “ Bailly, you
tremble “ Yes (be inftantly replied), but not with
fear.”
Thus perilhed Bailly in the 57th year of his age.
In his perfon he was tall, and of a fedate but ftriking
countenance. He poffeffed great firmnefs and decifion
of charaCIer, but far removed from fullennefs or apa¬
thy. Few philofophers have been more diftinguilhed
in fo many various departments of fcience and litera¬
ture, or have acquired fuch deferved reputation. In
his public ftations, as well as in the retirement of do-
meftic life, his integrity and difintereftednefs remained
pure and untainted. In the time of his magiftracy he
fpent part of his. fortune in relieving the wants of the
poor. His wife, whom he married in 1787, furvived
him. She was the widow of Raymond Gave, who had
Been his intimate friend 25 years.
BAILMENT, in Lew, is a delivery of goods in
1
6 ] B A 1
truft, upon a contraCI, expreffed or implied, that the Bailment
truft fhall be faithfully executed on the part of the ll
bailee. As if cloth be delivered, or (in our legal dia-,
led) bailed, to a taylor to make a fuit of clothes, he
has it upon an implied contraft to render it again when
made, and that in a workmanly manner, If money or
goods be delivered to a common carrier to convey
from Oxford to London, or from Glafgow to Edin¬
burgh, &c. he is under a contraft in law to pay, or
carry them to the perfon appointed. If a horfe or
other goods be delivered to an innkeeper or his fer-
vants, he is bound to keep them fafely and reftore
them when his gueft leaves the houfe. If a man takes
in a * arfe, or other cattle, to graze and departure in
his grounds, which the law calls agijlrnent, he takes
them upon an implied contrail to return them on de¬
mand to the owner. If a pawnbroker receives plate
or jewels as a pledge or fecurity for the repayment of
money lent thereon at a day certain, he has them upon
an exprefs contrail or condition to reftore them if the
pledger performs his part by redeeming them in due
time \ for the due execution of which contrail, many
ufeful regulations are made by ftatute 30 Geo. II. c. 24.
And fo, if a landlord diftrains goods for rent, or a pa-
rifti officer for taxes, thefe for a time are only a pledge
in the hands of the diflrainers ; and they are bound by
an implied contrail in law to reftore them on payment
of the debt, duty and expences, before the time of fale;
or when fold, to render back the overplus. If a friend
delivers any thing to his friend to keep for him, the re¬
ceiver is bound to reftore it on demand : and it was for¬
merly held, that in the mean time he was anfwerable
for any damage or lofs it might fuftain, whether by ac¬
cident or otherwife •, unlefs he exprefsly undertook to
keep it only with the lame care as his own goods, and
then he fliould not be anfwerable for theft or other ac¬
cidents, But now the law feems to be fettled on a
much more rational footing *, that Inch a general bail¬
ment will not charge the bailee with any lofs, unlefs, it
happens bv grofs neglc£l, which is conftrued to be an
evidence of fraud : but if the bailee undertakes fpeci-
ally to keep the goods fafely and fecurely, he is bound
to aufwer all perils and damages that may befal them
for want of the fame care with which a prudent man
would keep his own.
BAILO •, thus they ftyle at Conftantinople the am-
baffador of the republic of Venice, who refides at the
Porte. This minifter, befides the political charge, a£ls
there the part of a conful of Venice.
BAINBRIDGE, Dr John, an eminent phyfician
and aftronomer, born at Afhby de la Zouche in Lei-
cefterfhire, in 1582. He taught a grammar fchool for
fome years, and pra&ifed phyfic, employing his leifure
hours in aftronomy, which was his favourite rtudy : at
length he removed to London, was admitted a fellorv
of the college of phyficians, and raifed his chara&er by
his defeription of the comet in 1618. The next year
Sir Henry Savile appointed him his firft profeffor of
aftronomy at Oxford *, and the mailers and fellows of
Merton-colkge made him firft junior, and then fupe-
rior, reader of Linacre’s le#ure. He died in 1643,
having written many works, fome of which have never
been publifhed : but the MSS. are preferved in the li¬
brary of Trinity-college, Dublin.
BAIOLAO,
{
B A I [ 337 1 B A I
■Balocao EAIOCAO, a copper-coin, current at Rome, and
I! throughout the whole date of the church, ten of which
Baiting mahe ajulio, and a hundred a Roman crown.
^ BAIRAM, or Eeiram, a Turkifti word which
fignifics a folemn feaft. The Mahometans have two
Bairams, the Great and the Little. The Little Bairam
is properly that held at the clofe of the faft Ramazan,
beginning with the firffc full moon in the follow'ing
month Shawal. This is called in Arabic Id al Fetz,
or the Feajl of breaking the Faff; by European writers,
the Turinjh EaJ/er, becaufe it fucceeds Ramazan,
which is their Lent, more ulually the Great Bairam,
becaufe obferved with great ceremony and rejoicing at
Conftantinople, and through Turkey, for three days,
and in Perfia for five or iix days, at lead by the com¬
mon people, to make themfelves amends for the mor¬
tification of the preceding month. The feaft com¬
mencing with the new moon, the Mahometans are very
fcrupulous in obferving the time when the new moon
commences ; to which purpofe, obfervers are fent to
the tops of the highefl mountains, who the moment
they fpy the appearance of a new moon, run to the
city, and proclaim Muzhdaluk, “ welcome news as it
is the fignal for beginning the feftivity.—The Great
Bairam, is properly that held by the pilgrims at Mec¬
ca, commencing on the tenth of Dhu Ihajia, when the
viftims are flain, and lading three days. This is called
by the Arabs, Ida/ adha, that is, the feajl of facrifice,
as being celebrated in memory of the facrifice of A-
bram, whofe fon God redeemed with a great viftim.
By European writers it is called the Lejffer Bairam, as
being lefs taken notice of by the generality of the
people wrho are not ftruck with it, becaufe the cere¬
monies it is obferved withal, are performed at Mecca,
the only feene of the folemnity.—On the feaft of
Bairam, after throwing little ftones, one after another,
into the valley of Mina, they ufually kill one or more
iheep, fome a goat, bullock, or even a camel ; and af¬
ter giving a part thereof to the poor, eat the reft wuth
their friends. After this, they (have themfelves. The
fecond is a day of reft. On the third, they fet out on
their return home.
BAIRUT. See Beeroot.
BAIT, among fiftiermen, implies a fubftance pro¬
per to be faftened to a hook, in order to catch the dif¬
ferent forts of fifti. See Fishing.
BAITING, the aft of fmaller or weaker beafts at¬
tacking and harafling greater and ftronger. In this
fenfe we hear of the baiting of bulls or bears by ma-
lliffs or bull-dogs with fliort nofes, that they may take
the better hold.
Utility is pled in juftification of bull-baiting. This
animal is rarely killed without being firft baited $ the
chafing and exercife whereof makes his fifth tenderer
and more digeftible. In reality, it difpofes it for pu-
trefaftion *, fo that, unlefs taken in time, baited fifth is
foon loft. But a fpirit of barbarifm had the greateft:
fiiare in fupporting the fport: bulls are kept on pur¬
pofe, and exhibited as Handing fpeftacles for the public
entertainment. The poor beafts have not fair play :
they are not only tied down to a flake, with a collar
about their necks and a ftiort rope, which gives them
not above four or five yards play •, but they are disarm¬
ed too, and the tips of their horns cut off*, or covered
with leather, to prevent their hurting the dogs. In
Vol. Ill, Part I.
this fport, the chief aim of the dog is to catch the $ajn!n*
bull by the nofe, and hold him down j to which end ^ ii
he wall even creep on his belly: the bull’s aim, on the 3 ,e‘J
contrary, is, with equal induftry, to defend his nofe ;
in order to which, he thrufts it clofe to the ground,
where his horns are alfo in readinefs to tofs the dog.—
Bull-baiting was firft introduced into England as an
amufement in the reign of King John, about 1209.
BAJULUS, an ancient officer in the court of the
Greek emperors. There were feveral degrees of bajuli;
as, the grand bajulus, who was preceptor to the em¬
peror ; and the Ample bajuli, w’ho w'ere fub-preceptors.
The word is derived from the Latin verb bajulare,
“ to carry or bear a thing on the arms or on the flioul-
ders and the origin of the office is thus traced by
antiquaries. Children, and efpecially thofe of condi¬
tion, had anciently, befide their nurfe, a woman called
gerula, as appears from feveral paffages of Tertullian$
when wTeaned, or ready to be weaned, they had men
to carry them about and take care of them, who were
called geruli and bajuli, a gerendo et baju/ando. Hence
it is, that governors of princes and great lords were
ftill denominated bajuli, and their charge or govern¬
ment bajulatio, even after their pupils were grown too
big to be carried about. The word palled in the fame,
fenfe into Greece.
Bajulus is alfo ufed by Latin writers in the feveral
other fenfes wffierein Bailiff is ufed among us.
Bajulus was alfo the name of a conventual officer
in the ancient monafteries,to whom belonged the charge
of gathering and diftributing the money and legacies
left for maffes and obits 5 whence he wTas alfo denomi¬
nated bajulus obituum novorutn.
BAKAN, a large and handfome town of Alia in
the Ea^t Indies, in the kingdom of Ava. E. Long.
98. o. N. Lat. 19. 33.
BAKER, Sir Richard, author of the Chronicle
of the Kings of England, was born at Sftfingherft, in
Kent, about the year 1568. After going through
the ufual courfe of academical learning at Hart-hall,
in Oxford, he travelled into foreign parts j and upon
his return home was created mafter of arts, and foon
after, in 1603, received from King James I. the ho¬
nour of knighthood. In 1620, he was high fheriflF of
Oxfordfhire ; but engaging to pay fome of the debts
of his wife’s family, he wras reduced to poverty, and
obliged to betake himfelf for ffielter to the Fleet prifon,
where he compofed feveral books *, among w hich are,
1. Meditations and Difquifitions on the Lord’s Prayer.
2. Meditations, &c. on feveral of the Pfalms of David.
3. Meditations and Prayers upon the feven Days of the
Week. 4. Cato Variegatus, or Cato’s Moral Diftichs
varied, &c.—Mr Granger obfetves, that his Chroni-
cle of the Kings of England w7as ever more efteemed
by readers of a low^er clafs than by fuch as had a cri¬
tical knowledge of hiftory. The language of it was,
in this reign, called polite; and it long maintained its ^
reputation, efpecially among country gentlemen. The
author feems to have been fometimes more ftudious to
pleafe than to inform, and with that view7 to have fa-
crificed even chronology itfelf to method. In 1658,
Edwrard Philips, nephew to Milton, publiftied a third
edition of this work, with the addition of the reign of
Charles I. It has been feveral times reprinted fince,
and is now carried as low as the reign of George 1.
U u Sir
B A K [ 333 ] B A K
Baker. Slr Richard alfo tranflated feveral works from the
French and Italian ; and died very poor in the Fleet
prifon, on the 18th of February 1645.
Baker, Thomas, an eminent mathematician, was
born at Ilton in Somerfetlhire about the year 1625,
and entered at Magdalen hall, Oxon, in 1640 •, after
which he was vicar of Bilhop’s-Nymmet, in Devon-
ftiire, where he wrote The Geometrical Key, or the
Gate of Equations unlocked ; by which he gained a
confiderable reputation. A little before his death, the
members of the Royal Society fent him fome mathe¬
matical queries, to which he returned fo fatisfa&ory an
anfwer, that they prefented him a medal with an in-
Icription full of honour and refpeft. He died at Bi-
Ihop’s Nymmet on the 5th of June 1690.
Baker, Thomas, a very ingenious and learned
antiquary, defcended from a family ancient and well
efteemed, diftinguiihed by its loyalty and affeclion for
the crown, was born at Crook in 1636. Fie was edu¬
cated at the free fchool at Durham, and thence remo¬
ved to St John’s college Cambridge in 1674. Fie pro¬
ceeded B. A. 1677; M. A. 1681; was elefted fellow,
March 1679-80 ; ordained deacon by Bilhop Compton
of London, December 20. 168 5 ; prieil by Bilhop Bar-
low of Lincoln, December 19. 1686. Dr VVatfon, tu¬
tor of the college, who was nominated, but not yet
confecrated, bifliop of St David’s, offered to take him
for his chaplain, which he declined, probably on the
profpeft of a like olfer from Lord Crew bilhop of Dur¬
ham, which he foon after accepted. His lordlhip
collated him to the reftory of Long-Newton in his
diocefe, and the fame county, June 1687; and, as
Dr Grey wras informed by fome of the bilhop’s family,
intended to have given him that of Sedgefield, worth
. 600I. or 700I. a-year, with a golden prebend, had
he not incurred his difpleafure and left his family for
refufing to read King James IL’s declaration for liber¬
ty of confcience. The bilhop, who difgraced him for
this refufal, and was excepted out of King William’s
pardon, took the oaths to that king, and kept his bi-
ihopric till his death. Mr Baker religned Long-New¬
ton Auguft 1. 1690, refuling to take the oaths; and
retired to his fellowfhip at St John’s, in w'hich he was
prote£led till January 20. 1716-17, when, with one-
and-twrenty others, he was dirpoffelTed of it. After
the palling the Regiftering Aft I723> was defired
to regifter his annuity of 40I. which the laft aft re¬
quired before it was amended and explained. Though
this annuity, left him by his father for his fortune,
with 20I. per annum out of his collieries by his elder
brother from the day of his death Auguft 1699, for
the remaining part of the leafe, which determined at
Wbitfuntide 1722, wras now his whole fubliftence, he
could not be prevailed on to fecure himfelf againft the
aft. He retained a lively refentment of his depriva¬
tions ; and wurote himfelf in all his books, as well as
in thofe which he gave to the college library, focius
ejehias, and in fome ejeBus rcflor. He continued to re-
ftde in the college as commoner-mafter till his death,
which happened July 2. 1740, of a paralytic ftroke,
being found on the floor of his chamber. In the af¬
ternoon of June 29, being alone in his chamber, he
was ftruck with a flight apopleftic fit; which abating
a little, he recovered his fenfes, and knew all about
him, who were his nephew Burton, Drs Bedford and
Hebcrden. He feemed perfeftly fatisfied and refigned; Baker,
and w’hen Dr Bedford defired him to take fome medi-'" ■"v—■
cine then ordered, he declined it, faying, he would
only take his ufual fuftenance, which his bed-maker
knew the times and quantities of giving: he was thank¬
ful for the affeftion and care his friends Ihowed him ;
but, hoping the time of his diflblution was at hand,
W’ould by no means endeavour to retard it. His dil-
order increafed, and the third day from this feizure he
departed. Being appointed one of the executors of
his elder brother’s will, by which a large fum w-as be¬
queathed to pious ufes, he prevailed on the other two
executors, who were his other brother Francis and the
Hon. Charles Montague, to lay out 13x0!. of the mo¬
ney upon an eftate to be fettled upon St John’s college
for fix exhibitioners. Fie likewife gave the college
100I. for the confideration of 61. a year (then only
legal intereft) for his life; and to the library feveral
choice books, both printed and MS. medals, and coins;
befides what he left to it by his will); which w'ere “ all
fuch books, printed and MS. as he had, and were
wanting there.” All that Mr Baker printed was,
1. “ Refleftions on Learning, Ihowing the inlufficiency
thereof in its feveral particulars, in order to evince the
ufefulnefs and neceffity of Revelation, Lend. lycg-io1*
(wFich w^ent through eight editions : and Mr Bofwel,
in his “ Method of Study,” ranks it among the Eng-
lilh clafiics for purity of ftyle) ; and, 2. “ The pre¬
face to Biihop Filher’s Funeral Sermon for Margaret
Countefs of Richmond and Derby, 1708 ; both with¬
out his name. Dr Grey had the original MS of both
in his own hands. The latter piece is a fufficient fpe-
cimen of the editor’s fldll in antiquities to make us
regret that he did not live to publifli his “ Hiftory of
St John’s College from the foundation of old St John’s
houfeto the prefent time; with fome occafional and inci¬
dental account of the affairs of the univerfity, and of fuch
private colleges as held communication or intercourfe
with the old houfe or college: collected principally from
MSS. and carried on through a fucceflion of mafters to
the end of Bilhop Gunning’s mafterfhip, 1670.” The
original, fit for the prefs, is among the Harleian MSS-
N° 7028. His MS. colleftions relative to the hiftory
and antiquities of the univerfity of Cambridge, amount¬
ing to 49 volumes in folio and three in quarto, are di¬
vided between the Britilh Mufeum and the public libra¬
ry at Cambridge; the former poffeffes 23 volumes,
which he bequeathed to the earl of Oxford, his friend
and patron ; the latter 16 in folio and three in quarto,
which he bequeathed to the univerfity. Dr Knight
ftyles him “ the greateft mafter of the antiquities of
this our univerfity ;” and Hearne fays, Optandum ejl
ut fua quoque colleiianta de antiquitatibus Cantabrtgien-
Jibus juris facial publici Cl. Baker us, quippe qui erudi-
tionc fumma judicioque acri et fubaclopo/leat. Mr Baker
intended fomething like an Athena Cantabrigienfes, on
the plan of the Athence Oxomenfes.
Baker, Henry, an ingenious and diligent natu-
ralift, was born in Fleet-ftreet London, either near
the end of the laft, or very early in the beginning of
the prefent, century. His father’s profeftion is not
known ; but his mother w as, in her time, a midwife
of great praftice. He was brought up under an emi¬
nent bookfeller, who preceded the elder Dodfley, to the
bufinefs of a bookfellerin which, how ever, he ap¬
pears
B A K [ 339 ] BAR
Bakpr. pears not to have engaged at all after his apprentice-
—* Ihip > or, if he did, it was foon relinquilhed by him :
for though it was in his power to have drawn away all
his mailer’s bell cullomers, he would not fet up again!!
him. Mr Baker being of a philofophical turn of
mind, and having diligently attended to the methods
which might be practicable and ufeful in the cure of
Hammering, and efpecially in teaching deaf and dumb
perfons to Ipeak, he made this the employment of his
life. In the profecution of fo valuable and difficult an
undertaking, he was very fuccefsful 5 and feveral of
Ills pupils, who are Hill living, bear tellimony to the
ability and good effeft of his initruftions. He mar¬
ried Sophia, youngelt daughter of the famous Daniel
Defoe, who brought him two fons, both of whom he
furvived. On the 29th of January 1740 Mr Baker
wTas eleCled a fellow of the Society of Antiquaries j
and, on the 12th of March following, the fame ho¬
nour was conferred upon him by the Royal Society.
In 1744, Sir Godfrey Copley’s gold medal was bellowT-
ec upon him, for having, by his microfcopical experi¬
ments on the cryllallizations and configuration of fa-
line particles, produced the moll extraordinary difco-
very during that year. Having led a very ufeful and
honourable life, he died at his apartments in the Strand
on the 25th of November 1774, being then above 70
years of age. His wife had been dead fome time
before ; and he only left one grandfon, William Baker,
who was born February 17. 1763, and to whom, on
his living to the age of 21, he bequeathed the bulk of
his fortune, which he had acquired by his profeffion
of teaching deaf and dumb perfons to fpeak. His
furniture, printed books (but not MSS.), curiofities,
and collections of every fort, he directed ffiould be
fold, which was accordingly done. His fine collection
of native and foreign foffils, petrifaClions, ffiells, corals,
vegetables, ores, &c. with fome antiquities and other
curiofities, were fold by auCtion March 13. 1775, and
the nine following days. He wras buried, as he delired,
in an unexpenlive manner, in the churchyard of St
Mary-le-ltrand j within which church, on the fouth
wall, he ordered a fmall tablet to be ereCted to his
memory. “ An infcription for it (he faid) would
probably be found among his papers if not, he hoped
fome learned friend would write one agreeable to truth.”
This friendly office, however, remains as yet to be
performed. Mr Baker was a conltant and ufeful at¬
tendant at the meetings of the Royal and Antiquarian
Societies, and in both was frequently chofen one of
the council. He was peculiarly attentive to all the
new improvements which were made in natural fcience,
and very felicitous for the profecution of them. Se¬
veral of his communications are printed in the Philo¬
fophical TranfaCtions; and, befides the papers written
by himfelf, he was the means, by his extenlive corre-
Ipondence, of conveying to the fociety the intelli¬
gence and obfervations of other inquilitive and philo¬
fophical men, both at home and abroad. The Socie¬
ty for the encouragement of arts, manufactures, and
commerce, is under lingular obligations to our worthy
naturalift. As he was one of the earlielt members of
it, fo he contributed in no fmall degree to its rife and
cltabliihment. At its firlt inllitution he officiated for
fome time gratis as fecretary. He was many years
chairman of the committee of accounts j and he took
an aClive part in the general deliberations of the fo- Baker,
ciety. He drew up a fhort account of the original of t——y—
this fociety, and of the concern he himfelf had in
forming it; which was read before the fociety of anti¬
quaries, and would be a pleafing prefent to the public.
Mr Baker was a poetical writer in the early part of
his life. His Invocation of Health got abroad with¬
out his knowledge ; but was reprinted by himfelf in
hjs Original Poe/ns, ferious and humorous, Part I. Bvo.
1725. Part II. came out in 1726. Among thefe
poems are fome tales as nitty and as loofe as Prior’s.
He was the author likewife of The Univerfe, a poem
intended to reltrain the pride of man j which has been
feveral times reprinted. His account of the water po¬
lype, which was originally publilhed in the Philolophi-
cal TranfaCtions, was afterwards enlarged into a fepa-
rate treatife, and hath gone through leveral editions.
But this principal publications are, The Microfcope made
Eafy, and Employment for the Microfcope. 1 he firlt
of thefe, which was originally publiffied in 1742 or
1743, hath gone through fix editions. The fecond
edition of the other, which, to fay the lealt of it, is
equally pleafing and inltruCtive, appeared in 1764.
Thefe treiatifes, and efpecially the latter, contain the
molt curious and important of the obfervations and
experiments wffiich Mr Baker either laid before the
Royal Society or publiffied feparately. It has been
faid of Mr Baker, that he was a philofopher in little
things. If it was intended by this language to lelfen
his reputation, there is no propriety in the Itricture.
He was an intelligent, upright, and benevolent man,
much refpeCted by thofe wffio knew him belt. His
friends were the friends of fcience and virtue : and it
will always be remembered by his contemporaries,
that no one was more ready than himfelf to affilt
thofe wfith whom he w as converfantin their various re-
fearches, and endeavours for the advancement of know¬
ledge and the benefit of fociety.
Baker, David-Erfkine, fon to the former, was a
young man of genius and learning. Having been
adopted by an uncle, wffio w^as a filk-throwlter in Spital-
fields, he fucceeded him in the bufinefs 5 but wanted
the prudence and attention wffiich are neceifary to fe-
cure profperity in trade. He married the daughter of
Mr Clendon, a reverend empiric. Like his father, he
was both a philofopher and a poet j and wrote feveral
occafional poems in the periodical collections, fome of
which w ere much admired at the time ; but fo violent
was his turn for dramatic performance, that he repeat¬
edly engaged with the lowelt Itrolling companies, in
fpite of every effort of his father to reclaim him. The
public was indebted to him for “ The Companion to
the Play-houfe,” in two volumes, 1764, l2moj a work
wffiich, though imperfeCt, had confiderable merit, and
ffiow’ed that he poffeffed a very extenlive knowledge of
our dramatic authors ; and wffiich has fince (under the
title of “ Biographia Dramatica”) been confiderably
improved by the attention of a gentleman in every re-
fpeCt w7ell qualified for the undertaking.
Baker, a perfon wffiofe occupation or bufinefs is to
bake bread. See the articles Baking and Bread.
The learned are in great doubt about the time when
baking firit became a particular profeffion and bakers
were introduced. It is however generally agreed, that
they had their rife in the ealt, and paffed from Greece
U u 2 to
B A K
Baker
P
Baking.
[ 34° ]
B A K
to Italy after the war with Pyrrhus, about the year of
Rome 5 83. Till which time every houfewife was her
own baker *, for the word pijlor, which we find in Ro¬
man authors before that time, fignified a perfon who
ground or pounded the grain in a mill or mortar to
prepare it for baking, as Varro obferves. According
to Athenaeus, the Cappadocians were the moft ap¬
plauded bakers, after them the Lydians, then the
Phoenicians.—To the foreign bakers brought into
Rome, were added a number of freed men, who were
incorporated into a body, or, as they called it, a college ;
from which neither they nor their children were al¬
lowed to withdraw. They held their effefts in com¬
mon, and could not difpofe of any part, of them. Each
bake-houfe had a patronus, who had the fuperinten-
dency thereof j and thefe patroni elected one out of
their number each year, who had fuperintendence over
all the reft, and the care of the college. Out of the
body of the bakers every now and then one was ad¬
mitted among the fenators.—To preferve honour and
honefty in the college of bakers, they were exprefsly
pr-ohibited all alliance with comedians and gladiators 5
each had his ftrop or bake-houfe, and they were ditlri-
buted into fourteen regions of the city. They were
excufed from guardianfhips and other offices, which
might divert them from their employment.—By our
own ftatutes bakers are declared not to be handicrafts.
No man for ufing the myfteries or fciences of baking,
brewing, furgery, or writing, ffiall be interpreted a
handicraft. The bakers were a brotherhood in Eng¬
land before the year 1155, in the reign of King Henry
II. though the white bakers were not incorporated till
1407, by King Edward III. and the brown bakers
not till 1621, in King James I.’s time. Their hall
is in Harp-lane, Thames-ftreet; and their court-day on
the firft Monday of the month.—They make the 19th
company *, and confift of a warden, 4 mafters, 30 af-
fiftants, and 140 men on the livery, befides the com¬
monalty.—The French had formerly a great baker,
grand panetier de France, who had the fuperinten-
dency of all the bakers of Paris. But fince the begin¬
ning of this century, they have been put under the
jurifdiiftion of the lieutenant-general In iome
provinces of France, the lord is the only baker in his
1'eigneury ; keeping a public oven, to which all the
tenants are obliged to bring their bread. This right
is called furnagium, or furnaticum, and makes part of
the bannalite.
BAKE WELL, a pretty large town of Derbyfhire
in England, feated on the river Wye, on the north
fide of the Peak. It has a confiderable trade in lead.
W. Long. 2. 30. N. Lat. 55. 15.
BAKING, the art of preparing bread, or reducing
meals of any kind, whether fimple or compound, into
bread. See the article Bread.
The various forms of baking among us may be re¬
duced into two, the one for unleavened, the other for
leavened bread. For the firft, the chief is manchet-
baking ; and the procefs whereof is as follow's : The
meal, ground and boulted, is put into a trough ; and to
every buihel are poured in about three pints of warm
He, with barm and fait to feafon it. This is kneaded
well together with the hands through the brake ; or,
for want thereof, with the feet, through a cloth j after
which, having lain an hour to fwell, it is moulded into
manchets ; which, fcorched in the middle, and pricked Baking,
up at top, to give room to rife, are baked in the oven
by a gentle fire—For the fecond, fometimes called
cheat-bread baking, it is thus : Some leaven (favedfrom
a former batch) filled with fait, laid up to lour, and at
length difl'olved in water, is ftrained through a cloth
into a hole made in the middle of the heap of meal in
the trough 5 then it is worked w ith fome of the fiour
into a moderate confiftence : this is covered up with
meal, where it lies all night; and in the morning the
whole heap is ftirred up, and mixed with a little warm
water, barm, and fait, by which it is feafoned, foft-
ened, and brought to an even leaven : it is then knead¬
ed, moulded, and baked, as before.
Method oj raiftng a bujhel of flour with a teafpoonful
of barm ; by James Stone, of Amport, in Hampjhire.
—Suppofe you want to bake a buffiel of flour, and
have but one tea-fpoonful of barm. Put your flour
into your kneading-trough or trendle; then take
about three quarters of a pint of warm water, and take
the tea fpoonful of thick fteady barm and put it into
the w’ater, ftir it until it is thoroughly mixed with the
water : then make a hole in the middle of the flour large
enough to contain two gallons of water 5 pour in your
fmall quantity ; then take a flick about two feet long,
(which you may keep for that purpofe), and ftir in
fome of the flour, until it is as thick as you would make
batter for a pudding j then ftrew fome of the dry flour
over it, and go about your ufual bufinefs for about an
hour : then take about a quart of warm water more,
and pour in •, for in one hour you will find that fmall
quantity railed fo, that it will break through the dry
flour wffiich you (hook over it •, and when you have
poured in the quart of warm w’ater, take your flick as
before, and ftir in fome more flour, until it is as thick
as before 5 then ffiake fome more dry flour over it, and
leave it for two hours more, and then you will find it
rife and break through the dry flour again j then you
may add three quarts or a gallon of w'ater more, and
ftir in the flour and make it as thick as at firft, and
cover it wdth dry flour again j in about three or four
hours more you may mix up your dough, and then
cover it up warm •, and in four or five hours more you
may put it into the oven, and you wall have as light
bread as though you had put a pint of barm. It doe&
not take above a quarter of an hour more time than
the ufual way of baking, for there is no time loft but
that of adding water three or four times.
The author of this method allures us that he con-
ftantly bakes this way in the morning about fix or feven
o’clock, puts the flour out, and puts this fmall quan¬
tity of barm into the before-mentioned quantity of
water, in an hour’s time forne more, in two hours more
a greater quantity, about noon makes up the dough,
and about fix in the evening it is put into the oven, and
he has always good bread, never heavy nor bitter.
When you find, he fays, your body of flour fpunged
large enough, before you put in the reft of your water,
you Ihould, with both your hands, mix that which is
fpunged and the di'y flour altogether, and then add
the remainder of wTarm water, and your dough will
rife the better and eafier.
The reafon he affigns why people make heavy bread
is, not becaufe they have not barm enough, but be-
caufe they do not know that barm is the fame to flour
as
%
B A K [3
Sakou, as fire is to fuel \ that, as a fpark of fire will kindle a
Balaam. iarge body by only blowing of it up, fo will a thimble-
v full of barm, by adding of warm water, raife or fpung^
any body of flour *, for warm water gives frefh life to
that which is before at work *, fo that the reafon of
making bread heavy is, becaufe the body fpunged is
not large enough, but was made up and put into the
oven before it was ripe.
In regard to the difference of feafons, he prefcribes,
that in the fummer you flrould put your water blood-
warm } and in wunter, in cold frofty weather, as warm
as you can bear your hand in it without making it
fmart j being fure you cover up your dough very warm
in the winter, and your covering of it with dry dour
every time you add warm water, will keep in the heat j
when you have added fix or eight quarts of warm wa¬
ter, as before-mentioned, in fuch a gradual w-ay, you
will find all the body of dour wdiich is mixed wdth the
warm water, by virtue of that one tea-fpoonful of barm,
brought into great agitation, waxing or fermenting •,
for it is to the dour what the fpirit is to the body. It
foon fills it with motion.
BAKOU, or Baku, a towq of Perfia, in the pro¬
vince of Shirvan, fituated at the extremity of the gulf
of Ghilan on the Cafpian fea. It is edeemed the mod
commodious haven in this fea, as veffels may there ride
fecurely at anchor in feven fathom water •, but the
number of dioals, idands, and fand-banks, render the
entrance in fome places extremely difficult and danger¬
ous, particularly to the Ruffians, who are not very ex¬
pert failors. Baku is a fortrefs furrounded with high
brick wTalls ; its inhabitants, like thofe of Derbent, are
Perfians, Tartars, and a few Armenian merchants.
The principal articles of exportation which fupport the
trade of this place are naphtha, and the fined rock fait,
of both which there are mines on the ead fide of the
bay. The inhabitants cultivate faffron and the cotton
tree, but not to any confiderable advantage. The trade
of Baku, though more valuable than that of Derbent,
is dill inconfiderable, and chiedy carried on with Sha-
makee, from whence it draws raw filk and filken duffs.
A Ruffian conful is refident at this place. In 1777
Baku belonged to Melik-Mehmed, who was tributary
to Feth Ali khan of Kuba : the latter poffeffed the
whole province of Shirvan, and was the mod powerful
prince, next to the khan of Ghilan, upon the coad of
the Cafpian. Before we quit the province of Shirvan,
it may not be improper to mention its capital, the in¬
land town of Shamakee, which i» only 66 miles from
Baku, and fupplies that port with raw filk and filken
duffs. It owed its former commercial importance to
the filk which is cultivated in the neighbouring di-
ftrict *, this rich produddion dill preferves the town from
ruin ; though its traffic is greatly reduced by the ex¬
orbitant exactions of the khan of Kuba. Formerly the
Ruffians had a faddory at this place } and it was alfo
crowded with Turkiflr and Greek merchants ; but at
prefent there are only a few Armenian and Indian
traders. The inhabitants manufaddure filk and cotton
duffs, but far inferior to thofe made at this place in the
beginning of the prefent century. The filk of this
province is exported into the interior part of Perfia,
Turkey, Georgia* and Ruffia. E. Long. 51. 30. N.
Lat. 40. 20.
BALAAM, a prophet and diviner of the city of
+ i ] B A K
Pethor upon the Euphrates, whofe praddices with Ba- Balaam,
lak king of the Moabites are recorded in the book of 4 '
Numbers, chap. xxii. It is a quedion much debated
among divines, whether Balaam was a true prophet of
God, or no more than a magician or fortune-teller.
The Jews indeed are generally of opinion, that he was
a bufy and pretending adrologer, who, obferving when
men were under a bad afpedd of the dars, pronounced a
curfe upon them *, which fometimes coming to pafs,
gained him in fome neighbouring nations a reputation
in his rvay. Several of the ancient fathers fuppofe him
to be no more than a common foothfayer, wh® under¬
took to tell future events, and difcover fecrets, and by
no very judifiable arts. Origen wall needs have it,
that he was no prophet, but only one of the devil’s
forcerers, and that of him he went to inquire j but that.
God was pleafed to prevent him, and put what anfwers
he pleafed into his mouth. It cannot be denied, how¬
ever, that the fcripture expreffly calls him a prophet
(Pet. ii. 5.) \ and therefore fome later writers have
imagined that he had once been a good man and true
prophet, till loving the wages of iniquity, and prodi-
tuting the honour of his oHice to covetoufnefs, he apo-
datized from God, and betaking hnnfelf to idolatrous
praftices, fell under the delufion of the devil, of whom
he learned all his magical enchantments, though at
this jundfure, when the prefervation of his people was
concerned, it might be conddent with God’s wifdom
to appear to him, and vouchlafe his revelations. As
to what paffed between him and his afs, when that ani¬
mal w’as miraculoufly enabled to fpeak to its mader,
commentators are divided in their opinions concerning
this fadl, whether it really and literally happened as
Mofes relates it; or whether it be an allegory only, or
the mere imagination or vifion of Balaam. This in¬
deed is fo wonderful an indance, that feveral of the
Jewifh dodtors, who upon other occafions are fond
enough of miracles, feem as if they would hardly be
induced to affent to this. Philo, in his Life of Mofes,
paffes it over in dlence 5 and Maimonides pretends that
it happened to Balaam in a prophetic vifion only. But
St Peter (2 Pet. ii. ib.Jfpeaks of this fadl as literal
and certain, and fo all interpreters explain it. St Au-
din, who underdands it exadlly according to the letter,
finds nothing in the whole account moreTurprifing than
the dupidity of Balaam, who heard his afs fpeak to
him, and anfwered it as if he talked with a reafonable
perfon. He is of opinion, that this diviner was accu-
domed to prodigies like this, or that he wTas drangely
blinded by his avarice not to be dopped by an event
of fo extraordinary a nature. Le Clerc thinks, that
Balaam might probably have imbibed the dodhine of
tranfmigration of fouls, which was certainly very com¬
mon in the ead } and from thence he might be the lefs
adonifhed at hearing a brute fpeak. And Dr Patrick
thinks that Balaam was in fuch a rage and fury at the
fuppofed perverfenefs of his bead crufhing his foot, that
for the prefent he could think of nothing elfe j though
the concifenefs of Mofes’s relation, who mud be pre¬
fumed to have omitted many circumdances, which if
rightly known would dTpel this and many more diffi¬
culties that may be imagined in this traftfadlion, does
certainly farnifh us with a better and more fatisfadlory
anfwer. St Audin is of opinion, that God had not gi¬
ven the afs a reafonable foul j but permitted it to pro¬
nounce
B A L [ 342 ] B A L
Baiudan nounce certain words, in order to reprove the pro- winds as far as the ifland of Ceylon 5 and when the Balagnia
Balagate covetoufnefs. Gregory of Nyffa feems to think rays of the fun are refleaed from thefe mountains, ' li
Mountains, that the afs did not utter any word articulately or di- they feem to be all on fire. They make furprifmg al-, Balance.
—V-—' flmaiy ; but that, having brayed as ufual, the diviner, terations in the leafons ; for on the north fide of Cape
whofe practice it had been to draw prefages from the Comorin, it is winter in May, June, July, Auguff
cries of beads and Tinging of birds, comprehended ea- and September, in which months it is fummer on the
% afs’s meaning .by its noife ; Mofes, defigning to fouth fide of the cape $ on one fide there are continual
ridicule this fujjerftitious art of augurs and foothfay- tempefts, thunder and lightning, while the other enioys
ers, as if the afs really fpoke in words articulate. a conftant ferenity. When black clouds are gathered
We muft own, fays Calmet, that this is a miraculous about the mountains, they are followed by hidden rain
fact related by an infpired writer, whofe authority we which cauies the overflowing of the rivers, and choaks
are not allowed to call in queftion in the lead particu- them up with fand, infomuch that they are unnavigable
lar : but we diould dudy fuch ways of explaining it as for fome time afterwards. The buildings and clothes
are mod conformable to reafon, and mod proper to folve of the inhabitants are fcarce fufficient to defend them
the difficulties of it, without attacking the truth of the from the weather. They live upon rice, milk, roots
nidory. Now it is very podible for God to make an afs and herbs, with very little meat; they have likewife a
fpeak articulately ; it is indeed miraculous, and above fort of fmall arrack, but are never given to drunken-
the ordinary faculty of this animal, but not againd the nefs ; nor do they import foreign vices, for thev never
laws of nature. travel abroad.
BALADAN, the fcripture name for a king of Ba¬
bylon (Ifa. xxxix. 1. 2 Kings xx. 12.), called by pro¬
fane authors Belefus or Belejis, NabonaJJar or Nany-
brus. Baladan at fird was no more than governor of
Babylon 5 but entering into a confederacy with Ar-
baces governor of Media, and rebelling againd Sarda-
napalus king of Aflyria, thefe two generals marched
againd him with an army of 400,000 men, and were
beat in three different battles. But the Ba&rians de-
ferting the king, and coming over to Baladan and Ar-
baces, the rebels attacked the enemy in the night, and
made themfelves maders of his camp. After this mis¬
fortune, Sardanapalus retreated to Nineveh, and left
the command of his army to his brother-in-law Sala-
menes. The confpirators attacked Salamenes, and de¬
feated him in two great battles \ after which they laid
liege to Nineveh. Sardanapalus fudained the fiege for
three years ; but the Tigris, in the third year, over-
flowing its banks, beat down 20 furlongs of the walls j
whereupon the confpirators entered the city and took
poffedion of it, after Sardanapalus had burnt himfelf
and all his mod valuable effefts upon a funeral pile ereft-
ed for that purpofe in his palace. Baladan was ac¬
knowledged king of Babylon as Arbaces was of Media.
Berodach-baladan, who fent ambaffadors to Hezekiah
(2 Kings xx.), was the fonof Baladan.
BALA, a town of Merionethlhire in Wales. W.
Long- 3- 37- N. Lat. 52. 54.
BAL/ENA, or whale. See Cetology Index.
BALAGATE, a province of the Mogul empire,
and the larged of the three that compofe the kingdom
of Dekkan. It has Kandifh and Barar to the north,
I ellinga to the ead, Baglana with part of Guzerat
to the wed, and Vidapour to the fouth. It is a fruit¬
ful and pleafant country, abounding with cotton and
fugar. Here they have fheep without horns ; but fo
drong, that when bridled and faddled they will carry
boys of ten years of age. Its prefent capital is Au-
rengabad, but formerly was Dowlet Abad j and from
the latter the whole province is fometimes called Dow-
let-Abad.
Balagatf. Mountains, a chain of mountains which
divides the coad of Malabar from that of Coromandel,
running almod the whole length of the peninfula on
this fide the Ganges. Some parts of them are covered
with fine red earth, which is blown by the drong weft
I
BALAGNIA, a town of Mufcovy in the province
of Little Novogorod, feated on the Wolga. E. Long.
45. 5. N. Lat. 50. 36.
BALAGUER, a city of Catalonia in Spain, feated
on the north bank of the river Segra, at the foot of a
high mountain, on which there was formerly a fortrefs.
E. Long. o. 48. N. Lat. 41. 38.
BALAMBUAN, or Padambuan, a drong town
of Afia, in the Indies, on the ead end of the idand of
Java, and capital of a territory of the fame name. E.
Long. 115. 30. S. Lat. 7. 50.
BALANCE, or Balance, one of the fix fimple
powers in mechanics, principally ufed in determining
the equality or difference of weights in heavy bodies,
and confequently their maffes or quantities of matter.
The balance is of two kinds : the ancient and the
modern. The ancient or Roman, called alfo they?a-
tera Romana, or deel-yard, confids of a lever or beam,
moveable on a centre, and fufpended near one of its
extremities : the bodies to be weighed are applied on
one fide of the centre j and their weight is diown by
the divifion marked on the beam, where the weight,
which is moveable along the lever, keeps the deel-yard
in equilibria. This balance is dill frequently ufed in
weighing heavy bodies.
The modern balance now generally ufed confids of
a lever or beam fufpended exactly in the middle, ha¬
ving fcales or bafons hung to each extremity. The lever,
is called the jugum or beam; and the two moieties
thereof on each fide the axis, the brachia or arms.
The line on which the beam turns, or wdrich divides
its brachia, is called the axis ; and when confidered
with regard to the length of the brachia, is efteemed
a point only, and called the centre of the balance ; the
handle whereby it is held, or by wLich the whole ap¬
paratus is fufpended, is called trutina ; and the (lender
part perpendicular to the beam, whereby either the
equilibrium or preponderancy of bodies is indicated, is
called the tongue of the balance. Thus in fig. 1. PL 84. ab
is the beam, divided into two equal brachia or arms by
the white fpot in the centre, which is the axis or centre
of the balance, and c is the tongue. The trutina, on
which the axis is fufpended, is not reprefented in this
figure, in order to render the other parts more confpi-
cuous.
It follows, from what has been obferved, therefore,
that
Plate LXXXIV.
B A L [ 343 ] B A L
Balance, that in the Roman balance, the weight ufed for a coun-
v terpoife is the fame, but the point of application varies *,
in the common balance the counterpoife is various, and
the point of application the fame. The principle on
which each is founded, may be very eafily underlfood
from the following obfervations, and the general pro¬
perties of the lever. See Lever.
The beam A B (fig. 2.), is a lever of the firfl kind ;
but inftead of reifing on a fulcrum, is fufpended by
fomething faifened to its centre of motion: confequently
the mechanifrn of the balance depends on the fame
theorems as the lever.
Hence as the quantity of matter in a known weight is
to its dilfance from the centre of motion, fo is the di-
fiance of the unknown weight to its quantity of mat¬
ter. Hence the nature and ufe of the fteel-yard is
eafily known. Let AB (fig. 2.) reprefent an in-
flrument of this kind ; a, the trutina, or handle on
which the beam turns 5 a ring on which the balance
may be fufpended on a nail or hook ; f, the hook on
which the body to be weighed is hung *, c, a collar
or guard by which the hook jfis faftened to the beam j
g, a moveable collar ; a fwivel; z, the counterpoife.
From w’hat has been faid it evidently follows, that if
the body to be weighed be faftened to the hook f, and
the whole fufpended by the ring k, the divifion on which
the counterpoife is placed to maintain an equilibrium
in the balance, will Ihow the weight of the body re¬
quired ; provided the weight of the counterpoife i be •
known, and the large divifions, 1, 2, 3, &c. be equal
to the diftance between the centre of the balance and
the ferew which fallens the guard c to the fhorter arm
of the balance. It will alfo be neceffary that the fteel-
yard itfelf, with its whole apparatus, exclufive of the
counterpoife, be in equilibria, when fufpended on the
ring k. If the body to be weighed be heavier than the
divifions on the longer arm will indicate, the balance
is turned the lower fide upwards, and fufpended on the
other ring b; by which means the divifions become
Ihorter, becaufe the diftance between the trutina d, and
the ferew on which the guard c moves, is lefs : the di¬
vifions in the figure on this fide extending to 17,
W’hereas they extend only to 6 on the other. It wfill
be unneceffary perhaps to obferve, that the fame pre¬
caution, wdth regard to the centre of gravity when the
balance is fufpended, is alfo necefi'ary when this fide of
the balance is ufed, as we before mentioned with re¬
gard to the other.
We have already obferved, that in the common feales
the two brachia or arms of the balance, e f e tr,
fig. 3. are equal to each other, and confequently equal
weights placed in the feales d, d, will be in equilibria
when the balance is fufpended on its centre e, as in the
figure, where the ring at the extremity of the trutina
is hung on the tapering rod a b, fixed in the foot or
bafis c.
The DeceitfulBalakcf., or that which cheats by the
inequality of its brachia, is founded on the fame prin¬
ciple as the fteel-yard. Let there be, for example, a
balance fo conftru&ed, that both the brachia with their
feales fhall equiponderate, but that the length of the
one arm {hall be to that of the other as 10 to 9. In
this cafe, a weight of nine pounds put into the longeft
arm, will counterpoife one of ten pounds put into the
fiiorter one : but the cheat is immediately difeovered
by fhifting the weight from one fcale to the other $ in
which cafe, the balance will no longer remain in equi¬
libria.
fJJay-BALANCE, a very nice balance ufed in docima-
ftical operations, to determine exadlly the weight of
minute bodies; fee fig. 4. This balance fhould be
made of the beft fteei, and of the hardeft kind j becaufe
that metal is not fo eafily fpoiled wuth ruft as iron j
and it is more apt than anv other to take a perfedl po«
lift, which at the fame time prevents the ruft.
The ftrudlure of the affayer.’s fcale is little different
from that of common feales, otherwife than by its
nicety and fmallnefs. The longer the beam of it is
the more exadf may the weight of a body be found -r
however, 10 or 12 inches are fufficient length. Let
the thicknefs of it be fo little, that two drachms may
hardly be hung at either of its extremities without its
bending ; for the largeft weight put upon it feldom ex¬
ceeds one dram. The whole furface of this beam mull
be altogether without ornaments, wftich only increafe
the weight and gather duft, &c. The beam is fufpended
in a fork, the twm legs of which are fteei fprings joined
at top, but kept together below with a brafs pliant
clafp, parallel, and twro lines and a half diftant from
each other. This clafp being taken off, and the legs
of the fork being ftretched out, the axis of the beam
may be put into two holes made for that purpofe at the
ends of the legs, or be taken away from them. Let a
very (harp needle be fixed in the head of the fork, hand¬
ing perpendicularly downwurds, if the fork is fufpended,
and fo long, as that it may almoft touch the top of the
tongue of the beam put into the fork when in equi-
librio. This needle is the mark of the equilibrium ;
and that the artifts may be able to obferve this, the
legs of the fork muft be broader in that place, and have
an opening two or three lines w ide 5 this fork may
be adorned at pleafure, provided the motion of the ba¬
lance is not hindered by fuch ornaments : then take two
feales made of thin plate of filver, one inch and a half
in diameter, hanging on three fmall fiik firings, almoft;
as long as the beam, tied together at top, with a filver
hook in form of an S, and hang them to the extremities
of the beam : a fmaller filver dift or blued fteei, fome-
what lefs than one inch in diameter, belongs to each
ofthefe feales. You firft put into thefe difties, wdth a
pair of pincers, the bodies to be weighed, or wdth a
fpoon or a fmall (hovel, when they are pounded, and
then you put them into the feales ; therefore the fmall
difhes muft be perfe&ly equal in weight. We ufe them,
that bodies may be more conveniently put into and
taken out of the feales, and that thefe w hich are vaftly
thin may not be bent or foiled, ar«l thence rendered
falfe by wdping.
This balance is fufpended on a moveable brafs or
copper fupport, which confifts of a pedeftal, and of a
column fet upon it about 20 inches high, at the top
of which comes out at right angles an arm one inch
long. At the extremity of this arm, put a fmall pul¬
ley three lines in diameter, another at the top of the
column, and a third near the bottom of it} all which
pulleys muft turn very eafily on their axes. At the di¬
ftance of one inch and a half below the upper arm, let
another arm one inch and a half long come out of the
column at right angles, having a hole through it twro
lines long, a quarter of a line broad, and placed per¬
pendicularly
Balan
. B A L [ 344 ] B A L
lance. penJxcularly below the pulley of the upper arm, to re-
■V" * ceive a fmall plate, one inch and a half long \ and of
Fuch breadth ahd thicknefs, as that it may freely move
up and down, and yet not have too much play within
the hole. This plate mull alfo have a fmall hook at
each extremity.
And as Inch a balance will hardly Hand {fill in the
open air, and becomes falfe when fpoiled with dull,
it muft be put, together with its fupport, into a
fmall cafe as reprefented in fig. 4. having glafles, a,
a, <7, at top, and all round it, that you may fee what
is within.
Manner of ujing the A fay-Bulancs.—Pafs a filk
firing over the three pulleys of the fupport, and tie it
at it's upper extremity to the fmall hook introduced
into the hole of the inferior arm •, then put the fup¬
port in the middle of the fmall cafe, and pafs the other
extremity of the filk firing below, through a hole bo¬
red in the middle of the lower part of the frame, con¬
taining the window in,the fore part of the cafe, and
fallen it to a fmall weight of a cubic form. Sufpend
the fork of the balance on the inferior hook of the
plate. By this means if you move backwards and
forwards the weight faftened to the firing, placed upon
the top of the drawer jutting out beyond the fore-part
of the cafe, the balance wfithin is either lifted up or
let down. But you mull put the bodies to be weigh¬
ed, and the weights themfelves, into the fmall filver
difhes j and thefe, when loaded, into the fcales, through
the fide-windows, which mult be opened for that pur-
pofe. When any thing is to be added to or taken out
of them, you do it with the fmall pincers; or, if it is
powder, with the fmall fhovel or fpoon : but you mull
let the balance down every time any thing is to be ad¬
ded or taken away, that the fcales may reft upon the
bottom of the cafe *, and fhut the windows before the
balance is lifted up again, efpecially if the air is not
perfectly calm.
Hydrofatic Balance, an inftrument contrived to
determine accurately the fpecific gravity of both folid
and fluid bodies. It is conftrufted in various forms j
bi t we fhall content ourfelves here with defcribing that
which appears of all others the moft accurate.
VCG (fig. 5.) is the Hand or pillar of this hydro-
ftatic balance, which is to be fixed in a table. From
the top A hangs, by two filk firings, the horizontal
bar BB, from which it is fufpended by a ring 2, the
fine beam of a balance b ; which is prevented from de¬
fending too low on either fide by the gently fpringing
piece t xy fixed on the fupport M. The harnefs is
annulated at 0, to fhow diftinftly the perpendicular
pofition of the exasaen, by the fmall pointed index fix¬
ed above it.
The firings by which the balance is fufpended, paf-
fing over twm pulleys, one on each fide the piece at
A, go down to the bottom on the other fide, and are
hung over the hook at v ; which hook, by means of
a fcrew P, is moveable about one inch and a quar¬
ter, backward and forward, and therefore the balance
may be raifed or deprelfed fo much. But if a greater
elevation or depreflion be required, the Aiding piece
S, which carries the fcrew P, is readily moved to any
part of the fquare brafs rod VK, and fixed by means
of a fcrew.
The motion of the balance being thus adjufted,
2
the reft of the apparatus is as follows. HH is a fmall Balance,
board, fixed upon the piece D, under the fcales d and v'~~“
e, and is moveable up and down in a low flit in the
pillar above C, and fafiened at any part by a fcrew be¬
hind. From the point in the middle oP the bottom of
each fcale hangs, by a fine hook, a brafs wire ad
and a c. Thefe pafs through two holes m m in the
table. To the ware 27 2/ is fufpended a curious cylindric
wire r s, perforated at each end for that purpofe : this
wire r s is covered with paper, graduated by equal di-
vifions, and is about five inches long.
In the corner of the board at E, is fixed a brafs
tube, on which a round wire /> / is fo adapted as to
move neither too tight nor too free, by its flat head I.
Upon the lower part of this moves another tube
which has fufficient friftion to make it remain in any
pofition required : to this is fixed an index T, mo¬
ving horizontally when the wire h / is turned about,
and therefore may be eafily fet to the graduated wire
r s. To the lower end of the wire rs hangs a weight
L $ and to that a wire p n, with a fmall brafs ball g
about one-fourth of an inch diameter. On the other
fide, to the wire a c, hangs a large gl^fs bubble R, by
a horfe-hair.
Let us fir ft fuppofe the weight L taken aw'ay, and
the ware p n fufpended from S : and, on the other
fide, let the bubble R be taken aw'ay, and the weight
F, fufpended at c, in its room. This weight F we
• fuppofe to be fufficient to keep the feveral parts hang¬
ing to the other fcale in equilibrium j at the fame time
that the middle point of the wire /> 22 is at the furface of
the water in the vefffcl N. The wire p n is to be of
fuch a fize, that the length of one inch fhall weigh
four grains.
Now it is evident, fince brafs is eight times heavier
than w7ater, that for every inch the wire finks in the
wrater it wall become half a grain lighter, and half a
grain heavier for every inch it rifes out of the water:
confequently, by, finking two inches below the mid¬
dle point, or rifing two inches above it, the wire
wrill become one grain lighter or heavier. Therefore,
if, when the middle point is at the furface of the wa¬
ter in equilibrium, the index T be fet to the middle
point 27 of the graduated wire r s, and the diftance on
each fide ar and as contains 100 equal parts : then,if
in weighing bodies the weight is required to the hun¬
dredth part of a grain, it may be eafily had by pro¬
ceeding in the following manner.
Let the body to be weighed be placed in the fcale
d. Put the weight X in the fcale e ; and let this be
fo determined, that one grain more {hall be too much,
and one grain lefs too little. Then the balance be¬
ing moved gently up or down, by the fcrew P, till
the equilibrium be nicely ffiown at 0 ; if the index T
be at the middle point a of the wire r s, it ffiow7s
that the weights put into the fcale e are juft equal
to the weight of the body. By this method we find
the abfolute wreight of the body •, the relative weight
is found by weighing it hydroftatically in water, as
folio wrs.
Inftead of putting the body into the fcale e, as be¬
fore, let it hang with the wreight F, at the hook c, by
a horfe-hair, as at R, fuppofing the veflel O of water
were aw'ay. The equilibrium being then made, the
index T Handing between a and r, at the 36 divi-
B A L
Balaya
Balancer fl0n, fhows the weight of the body put in to be
, 1095-3^ grains* -As it thus hangs, let it be immerfed
— ^ the water of the veffel O, and it will become much
lighter . the fcale e will defcend till the beam of the
balance relt. on the lupport z. Then fuppofe 100
grains put into the fcale d reftore the equilibrium
precifely, fo that the index T Hand at the 36 divi-
lion above a; it is evident that the weight of an
equal bulk of water would, in this cafe, be exactly 100
grains.
After a like manner this balance may be applied to
iiud the fpecific gravity of liquids, as is ealy to con¬
ceive from what has been faid.
Balance of Trade. That which is commonly meant
by the balance of trade, is the equal importing of fo¬
reign commodities with the exporting of the native.
And n is reckoned that nation has the advantage in
the balance of trade, which exports more of the native
commodities, and imports lefs of the foreign. The
reaton of this is, that, if the native commodities be of
a greater value than are imported, the balance of that
account muft be made up in bullion or money j and the
nation grows fo much richer, as the balance'of that ac¬
count amounts to.
■o alance of a Clock, or Watch) is that part wrhich re¬
gulates the beats. See CiocK-Makinq.
Balance-FIJ}}. See Squalus, Ichthyology In¬
dex. .
BALANCER, in the hiftory of infers, a ftyle, or
oblong body, ending in a protuberance or head, found
under each wing of the two-winged flies ; thefe, it is
fuppofed, ferve to poife the body of the fly.
B ALANCING, among Seamen, the contra&ing a
fail into a narrower compafs, in a Ilorm, by retrench¬
ing, ot- folding up a part of it at one corner : this me¬
thod is ufed in contradiftindlion to reefing, which is
common to all the principal fails 5 whereas balancing is
peculiar to few, fuch as the mizen of a (hip, and the
main fail of thofe velfels wherein it is extended by a
boom. ^ See Boom and Reef.—The balance of the
mizen is thus performed : the mizen yard is lowered a
little, then a fmall portion of the fail is rolled up at the
peek or upper corner, and faftened to the yard about
one-fifth inward from the outer end or yard-arm to¬
ward the mall. See Mizen.—A boom main-fail is
balanced, after all its reefs are taken in, by rolling up
a fimilar portion of the hindmoft or aftmoft lower cor¬
ner called the c/W, and faftening it flrongly to the
boom, having previoufly wrapped a piece of old canvafs
round the part (which is done in both cafes) to pre¬
vent the fail from being fretted by the cord which fa¬
llens it.
BAL ANUS, the trivial name of a fpecies of lepas.
See Lepas, Conchology Index.
BALAUSTINES, in Botany. See Punica, Bo¬
tany Index.
BALAYAN, a province of the illand of Manilla in
the Eaft Indies, belonging to the Spaniards.—It lies
next to the city of Manilla, and extends along the
coaft on the eaft fide of the illand, a little beyond the
bay of Batangas. There were formerly gold mines in
it, but they have been long fince abandoned. It is in¬
habited by about 2500 tributary Indians, and abounds
in cotton, rice, and palm-trees. The province is well
Vgl. III. Part I,
[ 345 1
B A L
cultivated ; and the Spaniards, generally fpeaking, have Balbaflrc,
country-houfes in it. Balbec.
BALBASTRO, an epifcopal town of Spain, in the v
kingdom of Arragon, and capital of a diftridt of the
fame name. E. Long. o. 20. N. Lat. 41. 50.
B ALBEC, a city of Afia, in Syria, anciently called
IleliofioliS) and by the Arabians The 'wonder of Syria.
It is fituated at the foot of Anti-Lebanon, precifely
on the laft rifing ground wdrere the mountain termi¬
nates in the plain. As we arrive from the fouth we
difcover the city only at the diftance of a league and
a half,, behind a hedge of trees, over the verdant tops
of which appears a white edging of domes and mi¬
narets. After an hour’s journey we reach thefe trees,
which are very fine walnuts 5 and foon after, crofting
fonie ill cultivated gardens, by winding paths, arrive
at the entrance of the city. We there perceive a ruin¬
ed wall, flanked rvith fquare towers, which afcends the
declivity to the right, and traces the precindfs of the
ancient city. This wall, which is only ten or twelve
feet high, permits us to have a view of thofe void
fpaces and heaps of ruins which are the invariable ap¬
pendage of every Turkilh city; but what principally
attracts our attention is a large edifice on the left,
w'hich, by its lofty w^alls and rich columns, manifeftly
appears to be one of thofe temples which antiquity
has left for our admiration. Thefe ruins, which are
fome of the moft beautiful and beft preferved of any
in Afia, merit a particular defcription.
To give a juft idea of them, we muft fuppofe our-
felves defcending from the interior of the town. Af¬
ter having crofied the rubbifh and huts w ith which it
is filled, we.arrive at a vacant place wdiich appears to
have been a fquare 5 there, in front, towards the weft,
we perceive a grand ruin, which confifts of two pavi¬
lions ornamented with pilafters, joined at their bottom
angle by a wall 160 feet in length. This front com¬
mands the open country from a fort of terrace, on the
edge of which we diftinguifh with difficulty the bafes
of twelve columns, which formerly extended from one
pavilion to the other, and formed a portico. The
principal gate is obftrufted by heaps of ftones ; but,
that obftacle furmounted, we enter an empty fpace,
which is a hexagonal court of 180 feet diameter. This
court is ftrewed with broken columns, mutilated capi¬
tals, and the remains of pilafters, entablatures, and cor¬
nices ; around it is a row of ruined edifices, which dif-
play all the ornaments of the richeft architefture. At
the. end of this court, oppofite the w^eft, is an outlet,
which formerly was a gate, through which wre per¬
ceive a ftill more extenfive range of ruins, whofe mag¬
nificence ftrongly excites curiofity. To have a full
profpeft of thefe, we muft afcend a fiope, up which
were the fteps to this gate ; and we then arrive at the
entrance of a fquare court, much more fpacious than
the former, being 350 feet wide and 336 in length.
The eye is firft attrafted by the end of this court,
where fix enormous and majeftic columns render the
fcene aftoniftiingly grand and pi&urefque. Another
objetft not lefs interefting is a fecond range of columns
to the left, wrhich appear to have been part of the pe-
riftyle of a temple j but before w'e pafs thither, W'e
cannot refufe particular attention to the edifices which
enclofe this court on each fide. They form a fort of
X x gallery
<
B A L
Balbec.
[ 346 ]
B A L
gallery rvlilch contains various chambers, feven of
^ which may be reckoned in each of the principal wings,
viz. two in a femicircle and live in an oblong fquare.
The bottom of thefe apartments ftill retains pediments
of niches and tabernacles, the fupporters of which are
deftroyed. On the fide of the court they are open,
and prel'ent only four and fix columns totally deftroy¬
ed. It is not eafy to conceive the ufe of thefe apart¬
ments j but this does not diminilh our admiration at
the beauty of their pilafters and the richnefs of the frize
of the entablature. Neither is it poftible to avoid re¬
marking the lingular eftedl which refults from the mix¬
ture of the garlands, the large foliage of the capitals,
and the fculpture of wnld plants with which they are
everywhere ornamented. In traverfing the length of
the court, we find in the middle a little fquare efpla-
nade, where w^as a pavilion, of w7hich nothing remains
but the foundation. At length w?e arrive at the foot
of the fix columns •, and then firft conceive all the
boldnefs of their elevation and the richnefs of their
workmanlhip. Their ftiafts are 21 feet eight inches in
circumference and 58 high ; fo that the total height,
including the entablature, is from 71 to 72 feet. The
fight of this fuperb ruin, thus folitary and unaccom¬
panied, at lirft ftrikes us with aftoniftnnent j but, on
a more attentive examination, we difcover a feries of
foundations, wTich mark an oblong fquare of 268 feet
in length and 146 wide, and which, it feems probable,
was the periftyle of a grand temple, the primary pur-
pofe of this w’hole ftrudlure. It prefented to the great
court, that is to the eaft, a front of ten columns, with
19 on each fide, which, with the other fix, make in all
54. The ground on which it flood was an oblong
fquare, on a level with this court, but narrower than it,
fo that th'ere w7as only a terrace of 27 feet nude round the
colonnade ; the efplanade this produces fronts the open
country tow’ard the w7eft, by a Hoping wall of about 30
feet. This defcent, as you approach the city, becomes
lefs' fteep, fo that the foundation of the pavilion is on a
level with the termination of the hill 5 whence it is evi¬
dent that the w'hole ground of the courts has been ar¬
tificially railed. Such wTas the former ftate of this edi¬
fice ; but the fouthern fide of the grand temple wras af¬
terwards blocked up to build a fmaller one, the peri¬
ftyle and walls of which are ftill remaining. This
temple, fituated fomewhat lower than the other, pre-
fents a fide of 13 columns by eight in front (in all
34), wThich are likewufe of the Corinthian order; their
ftvafts are 1 <; feet eight inches in circumference, and 44
in height. The building they furround is an oblong
fquare, the front of wdiich, turned towards the eaft,
is out of the line of the left wfing of the great court.
To reach it you muft crofs trunks of columns, heaps
of ftone, and a ruinous wall by which it is now hid.
After furmounting thefe obftacles you arrive at the
gate, where you may furvey the enclofure which wras
once the habitation of a god ; but inftead of the aw?-
ful fcene of a proftrate people and facrifices offered
by a multitude of priefts, the fky is feen through
the open roof, which lets in light to fliow a chaos
of ruins covered with dull and weeds. The walls,
formerly enriched with all the ornaments of the Co¬
rinthian order, now prefent nothing but pediments of
niches and tabernacles, of which almoft all the fup¬
porters are fallen to the ground. Between thefe niches
is a range of fluted pilafters, whofe capitals fupport a Balbec.
broken entablature ; but what remains of it difplays a
rich frize of foliage refting on the heads of fatyrs,
horfes, bulls, &c. Over this entablature wTas the an¬
cient roof, which wTas 57 feet wide and 110 in length.
The walls wrhich fupported it are 31 feet high, and
without a window. It is impoflible to form any idea
of the ornaments of this roof, except from the frag¬
ments lying on the ground ; but it could not have been
richer than the gallery of the periftyle : the principal
remaining parts contain tablets in the form of lozen¬
ges, on which are reprefented Jupiter feated on his
eagle ; Leda careffed by the fwan ; Diana wdth her
bow and crefcent ; and feveral bufts w’hich feem to be
figures of emperors and empreffes. It would lead us
too far to enter more minutely into the defcription of
this aftonifhing edifice. The lovers of the arts will
find it defcribed with the greateft truth and accuracy
in a work publifhed at London in 1757, under the title
of Ruins of Balbec. This wrork, compiled by Mr Ro¬
bert Wood, the wmrld owes to the attention and libe¬
rality of Mr Dawkins, who in 1751 vifited Balbec
and Palmyra. But feveral changes, however, have
taken place fince their journey ; for example, they
found nine large columns ftanding, and in 1784 Mr
Volney found but fix. They reckoned 29 at the
leffer temple, but there now remain but 20 ; the others
have been overthrown by the earthquake of 1759. It
has likewfife fo ftiaken the walls of the leffer temple,
that the ftone of the fofht, or crofs ftone at the top of
the gate, has flid between the twTo adjoining ones, and
defcended eight inches; by which means the body of
the bird fculptured on that ftone is fufpended, detached
from its wings and the two garlands which hung from
its beak, and terminated in two genii. Nature alone
has not effefted this devaftation ; the Turks have had
their ftiare in the deftnnftion of the columns. Their
motive is to procure the iron cramps, which ferve to
join the feveral blocks of which each column is com-
pofed. Thefe cramps anfwer fo well the end intend¬
ed, that feveral of the columns are not even disjointed
by their fall ; one, among others, as Mr Wood ob-
ferves, has penetrated a ftone of the temple w7all with¬
out giving way ; nothing can furpafs the workmanftiip
of thefe columns; they are joined without any cement,
yet there is not room for the blade of a knife between
their interftices. After fo many ages, they in gene¬
ral ftill retain their original wrhiteneis. But what is
ftill more afloniftring, is the enormous ftones which
compofe the Hoping wall. To the weft the fecond
layer is formed of ftones which are from 28 to 35 feet
long, by about nine in height. Over this layer, at
the°north-weft angle, there are three ftones which
alone occupy a fpace of I75v feet; 5 the firft 58
feet feven inches, the fecond 58 feet it, and the third
exaftly 58 feet; and each of thefe is 12 feet thick.
Thefe ftones are of a white granite, with large Ihining
flakes like gypfum ; there is a quarry of this kind of
ftone under the whole city and in the adjacent moun¬
tain, which is open in feveral places, and among others
on the right, as we approach the city. There is ftill
lying there a ftone, hewm on three fides, wdiich is 69
feet two inches long, 12 feet 10 inches broad, and
13 feet three in thicknefs. By what means could the
ancieuts move thefe enormous maffes ? This is doubt-
lefs
B A L [ 347 1
Iklbec. lets a problem in mechanics curious to refolve. The of this
inhabitants of Balbec have a very commodious manner
of explaining it, by fuppofing thefe edifices to have
been conflrudled by Djenoun, or genii, who obeyed
the orders of King Solomon 5 adding, that the motive
of fuch immenfe works was to conceal in fubterraneous
caverns vaft treafures, which ftiil remain there. To
difcover thefe, many have defcended into the vaults
which range under the whole edifice : but the inutility
of their refearches, added to the oppreffions and ex¬
tortions of the governors, who have made their fup-
pofed difcoveries a pretext, have at length diiheartened
them ; but they imagine the Europeans would be more
fuccefsful, nor would it be poffible to perfuade them
but that we are poffeffed of the magic art of deflroy-
ing talifmans. It is in vain to oppofe reafon to igno¬
rance and prejudice : and it would be no lefs ridicu¬
lous to attempt to prove to them that Solomon never
wras acquainted with the Corinthian order, which was
only in ufe under the Roman-emperors. But their
tradition on the fubjedt of this prince may fuggeft three
important obfervations. ' Firft, That all tradition re¬
lative to high antiquity is as falfe among the Orientals
as the Europeans. With them, as with us, fadls which
happened 100 years before, when not preferved in
writing, are altered, mutilated, or forgotten. To ex¬
pert information from them with refpedt to events in
the time of David or Alexander, wmuld be as abfurd
as to make inquiries of the Flemilh peafants concern¬
ing Clovis or Charlemagne. Secondly, That through¬
out Syria, the Mahometans, as well as the Jews and
Chriftians, attribute every great work to Solomon :
not that the memory of hifn ftiPl remains by tradition
in thofe countries, but from certain palfages in the Old
Teftament j which, with the gofpel, is the fource of
almoft all their tradition, as thefe are the only hiftori-
cal books read or known ; but as their expounders are
very ignorant, their applications of what they are told
are generally very remote from truth. By an error of
this kind they pretend Balbec is the houfe of the forejl
of Lebanon built by Solomon : nor do they approach
nearer probability, when they attribute to that king the
well of Tyre and the buildings of Palmyra. Thirdly,
That the belief in hidden treafures has been confirmed
by difcoveries which have been really made from time
to time. It is not many years fince a fmall coffer wras
found at Hebron full of gold and filver medals, with
an ancient Arabic book on medicine. In the country
of the Drufes an individual difcovered likewife, fome
time fince, a jar with gold coin in the form of a cre-
fcent •, but as the chiefs and governors claim a right to
thefe difcoveries, and ruin thofe wTho have made them,
under pretext of obliging them to make reftoration,
thofe who find any thing endeavour carefully to con¬
ceal it \ they fecretly melt the antique coins, nay fre¬
quently bury them again in the fame place where they
found them, flom the fame fears which caufed their
firft concealment, and w’hich prove the fame tyranny
formerly exifted in thefe countries.
When we confider the extraordinary magnificence
of the temple of Balbec, we cannot but be aftonilhed
at the filence of the Greek and Roman authors. Mr
Wood, who has carefully examined all the ancient wri¬
ters, has found no mention of it except in a fragment
of John of Antioch, who attributes the conftrublion
B A L
edifice to Antoninus Pius. The infcriptions
which remain corroborate this opinion, wdiich perfedl-
ly accounts for the conftant ufe of the Corinthian or-'
der, fince that order wTas not in general ufe before the
third age of Rome ; but we ought by no means to al¬
lege as an additional proof the bird fculptured over
the gate ; for if his crooked beak, large claw?s, and
- the caduceus he bears, give him the appearance of an
eagle, the tuft of feathers on his head, like that of
certain pigeons, proves that he is not the Roman eagle ;
befides that the fame bird is found in the temple of
Palmyra ; and is therefore evidently an Oriental eagle,
confecrated to the fun, who was the divinity adored in
both thefe temples. His worlhip exifted at Balbec in
the moft remote antiquity. His ftatue, which refem-
bled that of Ofiris, had been tranfported there from
the Heliopolis of Egypt, and the ceremonies with
which he was w'orfhipped there have been defcribed
by Macrobius, in his curious wmrk entitled Saturnalia,
Mr Wood fuppofes with reafon, that the name of Bal¬
bec, which in Syriac fignifies City of Bal, or of the
fun, originated in this worftiip. The Greeks, by nam¬
ing it Heliopolis, have in this inftance only given a li¬
teral tranflation of the oriental word : a practice to
which they have not always adhered. We are igno¬
rant of the ftate of this city in remote antiquity ; but
it is to be prefumed, that its fituation on the road
from Tyre to Palmyra, gave it fome part of the com¬
merce of thefe opulent capitals. Under the Romans,
in the time of Auguftus, it is mentioned as a garrifon
town : and there is ftiil remaining, on the wall of the
fouthern gate, on the right, as we enter, an infcription
which proves the truth of this, the words kenturia
prim a, in Greek characters, being very legible. One
hundred and forty years after, Antoninus built there
the prefent temple, inftead of the ancient one, which
was doubtlefs falling into ruins : but Chriftianity hav¬
ing gained the afcendency under Conftantine, the mo ¬
dern temple was neglebted, and afterwards converted
into a church 5 a wall of which is now remaining, that
hid the fandtuary of the idols. It continued thus un¬
til the invafion of the Arabs, when it is probable they
envied the Chriftians fo beautiful a building. The
church being lefs frequented fell to decay ; wars fuc-
ceeded ; and it was converted into a place of defence ;
battlements were built on the wall which furrounded
it, on the pavilions and at the angles which ftiil fub-
fift } and from that time, the temple, expofed to the
fate of war, fell rapidly to ruin. The ftate of the
city is not lefs deplorable. The wretched government
of the emirs of the houfe of Harfoufhe had already
greatly impaired it, and the earthquake of 1759 com¬
pleted its deftrublion. The wars of the Emir Youfef
and Djezzar have rendered it ftiil more deferted and
ruinous. Of 5000 inhabitants, at which number they
were eftimated in I75I> no1: *200 are now remaining j
and all thefe poor, without induftry or commerce, and
cultivating nothing but a little cotton, fome maize, and
water-melons.
BALBINUS, Decimus Co emus, the Roman em¬
peror, being chofen by the fenate in 237, was mafla-
cred by the foldiers, who had a diffike to fuch empe¬
rors as were eledled only by the fenators. This prince
was eloquent, and wrote pretty good verfes.
BALBOA, Vasco Nugnes de, a Caftilian j a
X x 2 celebrated
Balbec,
Balboa.
B A L [ 348 ] B A L
£albus celebrated navigator, and one of tire firft difcoverers
Baldnef' Sout^ America. He was beheaded by the Spanifh
__a c ‘lc ^ governor of St Mary, through jealoufy of his growing
reputation, in 15x7, aged 42.
BALBUS, Lucius Cornelius Theofhanes,
was born at Cadiz, and diftinguiihed himfelf by his va¬
lour in the war carried on by the Romans in Spain
againft Sertorius and the Lufitanians, on which ac¬
count Pompey gave him the privileges of a Roman ci¬
tizen. He was conful in the 714th year of Rome, and
was the firft foreigner on whom that dignity rvas con¬
ferred. He was the friend of Pompey, Caefar, Craffus,
and Cicero.—-There were many other illuftrious Ro¬
mans of the name of Balbtis.
BALCONY, in ArchiteBure, a proje&ure in the
front of a houfe, or other building, fupported by pil¬
lars or confoles, and encompaffed with a baluffrade.
BALDACHIN, or Baldaojiin, in Architetfure,
a building in form of a canopy, lupported by pillars,
and frequently ufed as a covering to infulated altars.
Some alfo ufe the term baldachin for the Ihell over a
door.
BALDINUCCI, Philip, of Florence 5 a connoif-
feur in the polite arts, and the continuator of Vafari’s
Lives of the Painters. He died in 1696, aged 72.
BALDIVIA, or Valdivia, a fea port town of
Chili, in America, belonging to the Spaniards. It is
lituated between the rivers Callaculles and Portero,
where they fall into the South fea. W. Long. 80. 5.
S. Lat. 40. 5. It -was built in 1551 by the Spanilh
general Baldivia, from whom it takes its name. We
may judge of its importance from the fum granted
annually by the king for maintaining the garrifon and
keeping the fortifications in repair, being no lefs than
300,000 pieces of eight. It is defended by four ftrong
cartles, mounting 100 pieces of fine brafs cannon.
Notwith(landing which, however, as the garrifon is
compofed moflly of tranfported criminals, on whom no
dependence can be placed, and generally ill fupplied
with ammunition, &c. it could make but a poor de¬
fence. In 1643 it was eafily taken by the Dutch, who
would probably have maintained their conqueft again!!
all the powder of the Spanifh viceroy, had they not been
obliged to relinquifh it through ficknefs and famine.
The inhabitants of Baldivia amount to about 2000.
The trade is lefs confiderable than formerly, becaufe
the gold mines in the neighbourhood are fliut up : yet
feveral large (hips are employed in the trade between
this port and that of Lima, which confifls of gold,
corn, hides, and fait provifions, which are exchanged
for flaves, fugar, chocolate, and European commodi¬
ties and manufaflures.
. BALDNESS, a defeat of hair, chiefly on the finci-
put. It differs from alopecia, area, ophiajis, and tinea,
as thefe all arife from fome vice in the nutritious hu¬
mour ; baldnefs, from the defeat of it. When the eye¬
lids fhed their hair, it is called a ptilojis. Among the
caufes of baldnefs, immoderate venery is reputed one
of the chief; old age ufually brings it on of courfe.
Some will have the proximate caufe of baldnefs to be
the drynefs of the brain, and its fhrinking from the
cranium j it having been obfgrved, that in bald per-
fons there is always a vacuity or empty fpace between
the Ikull and the brain.—Calvus, bald-pate, was a fre¬
quent term of reproach among the Romans j among
whom this defe£l was in great difcredit. Hence di¬
vers arts to conceal it, as falfe hair, a galericulus con¬
trived on purpofe. The later Romans, however, feem
to have been reconciled to baldnefs 5 for we find a-
mong them a kind of officers, or fervants, called gla-
bratores or glabrarii, whofe bufinefs was to take off
the hair from all parts, even from the head. In an
ancient infcription, there is mention of one Diophan-
tus, TI, CzESARIS, ornator glabr, that is, Or-
nator Glabrarius.
BALDOC, a town of Hertfordfhire, in England,
chiefly noted for its trading in malt. W. Long. o. 10.
N. Lat. 51.55.
BALDOCK, Ralph de, biffiop of London in the
reigns of Edward I. and II. was educated at Merton-
college, in Oxford 5 became dean of St Paul’s 5 was-
afterwards promoted to the fee of London \ and at laft
was made lord high chancellor of England. He had
a very amiable charafter both for morals and learning;
and wrote Hijloria Anglica, or a Hiilory of the Britifli
Affairs down to his own time ; and, A Colledtion of
the Statutes and Conflitutions of the church of St
Paul. Bilhop Baldock died at Stepney, July 24.
13I3-
BALDWIN, archbifhop of Canterbury, was born
of obfcure parents at Exeter, where, in the early part
of his life, he taught a grammar fchool ; after which
he took orders, and was made archdeacon of Exeter ;
but he refigned that dignity, and became a Ciftertian
monk in the monaftery of Ford in Devonfiiire, of which
in a few7 years he was made abbot. In the year 1180,
he w7as confecrated biffiop of Worcefler. In n8/j,he
was promoted to the. fee of Canterbury by Pope Lu¬
cius III. and by his fucceffor Urban III. was appoint¬
ed legate for that diocefe. He laid the foundation of
a church and monaftery in honour of Thomas Becket,
at Hackington, near Canterbury, for fecular priefts ;
but, being oppofed by the monks of Canterbury and
the pope, was obliged to defift. In 1190 he crowned
King Richard I. at Weftminfter ; and loon after fol¬
lowed that prince to the holy land, wdrere he died at
the fiege of Ptolemais. Giraldus Cambrenfis, who ac¬
companied him in this expedition, fays, he was of a
mild difpofition, and of great abftinence. He w rote
various tradls on religious fubje&s, w hich were colled!-
ed and publifhed by Bertrand Tiffier in 1662.
BALE, John, bifhop of Offory in Ireland, was
born at Cove, near Dunwich in Suffolk, in the year
149^. At 12 years of age he was entered in the mo¬
naftery of Carmelites at Norwich, and w7as thence fent
to Jefus college in Oxford. He was educated a Ro¬
man catholic, but w7as converted to the Proteftant re¬
ligion by Thomas Lord Wentworth. On the death of
Lord Cromwell, favourite of Henry VIII. who pro-
tedfed him from the perfecutions of the Romifh cler¬
gy, he was obliged to retire into the Low Countries,
where he continued eight years. Soon after the ac-
ceflion of Edward VI. he was recalled ; and being firft
prefented to the living of Biftiop’s Stocke in Hamp-
fhire, in 1552, he w7as nominated to the fee of Offory.
During his refidence in Ireland he w7as remarkably af-
fiduous in propagating the Proteftant dodlrines ; but to
very little purpofe, and frequently at the hazard of his
life! Once, in particular, they murdered five of his
domeftics, \yho were xnaking hay in a meadow near
B A L [ 349 ] B A L
Balboa his houfe ; P.nd would probably have done the fame by
II him, if the fovereign of Kilkenny had not come to his
Baleares. a{^^ance with too horfe and 300 foot. On the accef-
"v '— fion of Queen Mary, the tide of oppofition became fo
powerful, that, to avoid affaffination, he embarked for
Holland, but was very unfortunate in his efcape. Firft
he was taken by a Dutch man of war, and robbed by
the captain of all his effefts. Then, being forced by
ftrefs of weather into St Ive’s in Cornwall, he was con¬
fined on fufpicion of trcafon. Being, however, relea¬
fed after a few days confinement, the ihip anchored in
Dover road,, where he was again feized on a falfe ac-
cufation. After his arrival in Idol]and, he was kept
prifoner for three weeks, and at length obtained his
liberty on paving 30I. From Holland he travelled to
Bafd in Switzerland, where he continued till Queen
Elizabeth afcended the throne. After his return to
England, he was in 1560 made prebendary of Canter¬
bury, probably not choofing to return to his former
flock of wolves. He died in November 1563, at Can¬
terbury, in the 68th year of his age. He was fo fe-
vere a writer againft the church of Rome, that his
books are particularly prohibited in the expurgatory
index publilhed at Madrid, in folio, in the year 1667.
He is the earlieft dramatic writer in the Englifh lan¬
guage, or at leaft author of the firft pieces of that kind
that we find in print. Of his writings in that tvay no
fewer than 21 have been enumerated ; only three of
them, however, have been feen in print, viz. 1. God’s
Promifes, an interlude •, 2, St John Baptift, an inter¬
lude j 3. Concerning the Laws, of Nature corrupted :
the firft of which has been reprinted by Dodfley in the
firft volume of his colleflion of old plays, and the only
copy extant of the laft is preferved in St Sepulchre’s
library in Dublin. As to the reft, they are mentioned
by himfelf as his own, in his account of the writers of
Britain before mentioned. He alfo tranflated the tra¬
gedies of Pammachius. His other works are very nu¬
merous ; but the chief is his catalogue of Britilh Au¬
thors : a book of fome merit, as it contains fome in¬
formation which is not elfewhere to be found ; but he
has deftroyed his credit by his intemperate Billingf-
gate abufe of all thofe who differed from him in reli¬
gion. The authentic part of his work is tranfcribed
from Leland. The title of it is, Illujlrium Majoris
Britannice fcriptorum catalogus, a Japheto fanEiiJJimi
Noa Jilio ad an. Dom. 1557.
Bale, in Commerce. Any goods packed up in
cloth, and corded round very tight, in order to keep
them from breaking, or preferve them from the wea¬
ther, is called a bale.—A bale of cotton yarn is from
300 to 400 weight; of raw filk, is from 100 to 400 ;
of lockram or dowlas, either three, three and a half,
or four pieces.
BjLE-Govds, among the Englilh merchants, are all
fuch as are imported or exported in bales ; but the
French give that name to certain hardwares and
other forts of merchandife which come to Paris, and
are commonly made by bad workmen of indifferent
materials.
BALEARES insult, or the Balearic Ijlands.
The appellation is commonly derived from B«;.As<v, be-
caufe the inhabitants were excellent {lingers. But Bo-
chart makes the name of*Punic or Phoenician original,
.as were the people ; Baal-jarey a mafter, or fkilful at
throwing ; the Phoenicians and Hebrews being dexte- Balearic
rous at the ufe of the (ling. The Greeks called thefe
iflands Gymnejice (Strabo) ; becaufe in fummer the in- galen.
habitants went naked (Diodorus, Livy), or rather be-' ,
caufe only armed with a fling in war (Hefychius).
They are two in number, the Greater and the Lefs,
or Major and Minor ; and hence the modern names
Majorca and Minorca. The Major is diftant from the
Minor 30 miles to the weft, in length 40 miles, and in
circuit 150 (Pliny). They were fubdued by Quintus
Metellus, thence furnamed Balcaricus, in the year 120
B. C. The Baleares, together with the adjacent
iflands, were a part of the Provincia Citerior or Tar-
raconenfis, and of the refort of the Conventus Cartha-
ginienfis or New Carthage. Thefe iflands are called
Choearades by Apollonius, and Cboeradades by Strabo,
i. e. “ rocky.” See Majorca and Minorca.
BALEARIC islands. See the preceding arti¬
cle.
BALECHOU, John Joseph, a very celebrated
and well known French engraver, flouriftred about
1750. He died, according to Bafan, fome few years
lince at Avignon. This extraordinary artift worked
entirely with the graver 5 and he was perfe&ly mafter
of that inftrument. The clearnefs of his ftrokes, and
the depth of colour which he produced, are far be¬
yond any production prior to his own. The two large
plates which he did from Vernet, one reprefenting a
Jlorm, the other a calm, muft ever be confidered as
very aftonifhing exertions of the artift. They are too
well known, and too much admired, to need any fur¬
ther eulogium} and were never equalled until they
were perhaps furpaffed by our countryman Woollet.
BALEN, Hendrick Van, hiftory and portrait
painter, was born at Antwerp in 1560, and was a
difciple of Adam Van Oort ; but he quitted that ma¬
fter to acquire a better tafte of defign and compofition,
by purfuing his ftudies at Rome, where he refided for
a confiderable time. He copied the antiques j he at¬
tended to the works of the moft memorable modern-
artifts 5 and at his return to his own country, the vifi-
ble improvement of his tafte recommended him to the
favour and efteem of the ableft judges of the art. He
diftinguiftied himfelf by a good manner of defigning,
and his works are admitted into the cabinets of the
curious among thofe of the principal painters. He
particularly excelled in the naked, and gave to his fi¬
gures fo much truth, roundnefs, and correftnefs of
outline, that few of his cotemporaries could enter into
competition with him. Several fine portraits of his
hand are at the Hague ; among which there is one
adorned with allegorical figures of Wifdom and Juftice,
which extorts commendation from all who attentively
confider it. He died in 1632. All the hiftorical fub-
jeCfs painted by Van Balen have abundant merit. His
defigns of the Deluge, of Mofes ftriking the Rock,
and the drowning of Pharaoh, are grand and noble
compofitions. Houbraken obferves, that Van Balen
with great judgment, hath introduced the Ifraelites in
a clear light in the back-ground, but the Egyptians in
a ftrong fhadow in the fore-ground, which had a very
fine effefl •, the figures being well defigned, the atti¬
tudes and draperies well chofen, and the number of the
figures being very confiderable. Of this painter’s hand
alfo, the Judgment of Paris is accounted a mafteily
performance 5
%
SAL [3io] SAL
Bales, performance ; in which the figure of Venus is fo ele-
gantly defigned, fo full of life, and fo round, that it
feems to Hand forth from the furface. The landfcapes
and back-grounds of the pictures compofed by Van
Balen were generally painted by the Velvet Breughel.
Balen, John Van, painter of hiftory, landfcapes,
and boys, w'as born at Antwerp in 1611 ; and derived
his knowledge of the art, and his fine tafte of draw¬
ing and defign, from his father Hendrick Van Balen ;
but as foon as he had made a Competent progrefs, he
travelled to Rome, and lived for feveral years in that
and other cities of Italy. There he acquired a good
gufto of defign, thouglr he was fometimes incorreft j
and his particular merit wTas fhown in his naked figures
of boys, cupids, nymphs bathing or hunting, of which
fulyedls he painted a confiderable number; and he pro¬
cured both praife and riches by his landfcapes and hif-
tories. His pictures w7ere well handled, his trees touch¬
ed with fpirit, and his herbage and verdure looked na¬
tural and lively. The carnations of his figures were
clear and frefh 5 his colouring in general was tranfpa-
rent ; and the airs of his heads were in the manner of
Albano.
BALES, Peter, a famous mailer in the art of pen-
manlhip, or fair writing 5 and one of the firft inventors
of Ihort-hand waiting. He was born in 1547, and is
Ityled by Anthony Wood “ a molt dexterous perfon in
his profeffion, to the great wonder of fcholars and
others j” who adds, that “ he fpent feveral years in
fciences among Oxonians, particularly as it feems in
Gloucefter-hall: but that Itudy, which he ufed for a di-
verfion only, proved at length an employment of pro¬
fit.” He is recorded for his fkill in micrography, or mi¬
niature-writing, in Hollinfhed’s Chronicle, anno 1575;
and Mr Evelyn alfo has celebrated his wonderful fkill
in this delicate operation of the hand. “ Hadrian Ju¬
nius fpeaking as a miracle of fomebody, who w'rote the
Apoftles Creed, and the beginning of St John’s Gof-
pel, withing the compafs of a farthing: wrhat w’ould he
"have faid,” fays Mr Evelyn, “ of our famous Peter
Bales ; who, in the year 1575, wrote the Lord’s Pray¬
er, the Creed, Decalogue, with two fhort prayers in
Latin, his own name, motto, day of the month, year of
the Lord, and reign of the Queen, to whom he pre-
fented it at Hampton Court, all of it written within
the circle of a fingle penny, inchaced in a ring and
borders of gold ; and covered with a cryltal fo ac¬
curately wrought, as to be very plainly legible, to the
great admiration of her Majefty, the whole Privy Coun¬
cil, and feveral ambaffadors then at Court ?” He was
farther very dexterous in imitating hand-writing, and
about 1586, wTas employed by Secretary Walfingham
in certain political manoeuvres. We find him at the
head of a fchool, near the Old Bailey, London, in
1590 } in which year he publifhed his “ Writing
Schoolmafler, in three parts : the firft teaching fwift
writing ; the fecond, true writing 5 the third, fair
writing.” In 1 595, he had a great trial of fkill in the
Black-friars with one Daniel Johnfon, for a golden pen
of 20I. value, and won it ; and a cotemporary author
farther relates, that he had alfo the arms of Calligra¬
phy given him, which are Azure, a Pen, Or, as a prize,
at a trial of fkill in this art among the belt penmen in
-London. In 1597, he republifhed his “ Writing
, Schoolmafter j” which wras in fuch high reputation,
2
that no lefs than eighteen copies of commendatory Baleftra,
verfes compofed by learned and ingenious men of that Baley-
time, were printed before it. Wood fays, that he wras vr~~
engaged in Effex’s treafons in 1600 but Wood was
miftaken : he was only engaged, and very innocently
fo, in ferving the treacherous purpofes of one of that
earl’s mercenary dependants. We know little more
of this curious perfon, but that he feems to have died
about the year 1610.
BALESTRA, Antonio, an excellent hiftorical
painter, wTas born at Verona in 1666. At the age of
21 he w ent to Venice, where he entered himfelf in the
fchool of Antonio Bellucci, and continued for three
years under his diredtion ; but from thence he vifited
Bologna and Rome, and at the latter became the dif-
ciple of Carlo Maratti. Under the tuition of fo emi¬
nent a genius, he made a very great proficiency, and
exerted himfelf for fome hours of each day in defign-
ing after the antiques, after Raphael, Correggio, Han¬
nibal Carracci, and other admired painters ; by which
condudt he fo effedlually confirmed his tafte and free¬
dom of hand, that he obtained the prize of merit in
the Academy of St Luke, in the year 1694, when he
was only 28 yTears of age. From that time his repu
tation wras eftabliftied, and he received fufficient en¬
couragement •, being engaged to work for moft of the
churches, and in the palaces of the nobility, and his
paintings were admired in every part of Europe. His
ftyle is fweet and agreeable, not unlike that of Marat¬
ti ; and the judicious obferve in the works of Baleftra,
a certain mixture of the feveral manners of Raphael,
Correggio, and Carracci. He died in 1740. In the
church of Santa Maria Mater Domini at Venice, there
is one of the moft capital performances of Baleftra, re-
prefenting the nativity of our Saviour. It is defigned
in a grand ftyle, the compofition is excellent, and has
a great deal of grace. The heads are peculiarly fine j
and the whole has a noble effeeft, with remarkable har¬
mony. In a chapel belonging to the church of S.
Geminiano, in the fame city, there is a dead Chrift in
the arms of the Virgin, painted by this mafter in a
grand tafte ; and although the compofition confifts but
of a few figures, they are finely defigned 5 and in every
part of it there is fufficient merit to claim and juftify
applaufe.
BALEY, Walter, the fon of Henry Baley of
Warnwell in Dorfetffiire, was born at Potffiam in the
fame county, and educated at Winchefter fchool. From
thence he was fent to Oxford } and, after twTo years pro¬
bation, w7as admitted perpetual fellow of New College
in the year 1550. Having taken his degrees in arts,
he pradfifed phyfic, and in 1558 was prodlor of the
univerfity. About this time he obtained a prebend
of Wells, which he refigned in 1579. In the year
1561 he was appointed queen’s profeffor of phyfic, in
1563 proceeded dodtor in that faculty, and afterwTards
became one of her majefty’s phyficians in ordinary.
He was thought fkilful in his profeffion, and had con¬
fiderable pradlice. He died in 1592, aged 63 j and
was buried in the inner chapel of New College. His
works are, 1. A difeourfe of three kinds of paper in cotn-
tnon ufe, 1588, 8-uo. 2. Brief treatife of the preferva-
tion of the eye-fight ; firft printed in the reign of Eli¬
zabeth, in izmoj afterwards at Oxford in 1616 and
16^4, 8vo. 3. Direhiions for health natural and ar^
tif.cial;
B A L. . f 3
tijicuil; with medicines for oil difeafes of the eyes, 1626,
4to. 4. Explioatio Galeni depotu convalefcentmm et fe-
num, &c. manufcript, formerly in Lord Aylefbury’s
library.
BALI, an idand of Alia, In the Eaft Indies, form¬
ing the north lide of the ftraits of Java, through which
the Eaft India ftrips fometimes return from China to
Europe : but the paffage is commonly difficult on ac¬
count of contrary winds. The ifland is extremely po¬
pulous, and abounds in rice and other produ&ions pe¬
culiar to that climate. The inhabitants are Pagans,
and very rvarlike. E. Long. 115. 30. S. Lat. 9. o.
BALIOL, or Balliol, Sir John de, founder of
Baliol-college in Oxford, was the fon of Hugh Baliol,
of Bernard’s caftle, In the diocefe of Durham 5 and was
a perfon very eminent for his power and riches. During
the contefts and wars between King Henry III. and
his barons, he firmly adhered to the king. In 1263,
he began the foundation and endowment of Baliol col¬
lege, which wTas afterwards perfected by his widow.
He died in the year 1269.
Baliol, Balliol, or Boilliol, John, the com¬
petitor wdth Robert Bruce for the crown of Scotland,
was the great grandfon of David earl of Huntington,
third fon of King David I. See Scotland.
BALISORE, a fea-port town of Afia, in the Eaft
Indies, to the north-weft of the bay of Bengal. It is
about four miles from the fea by land, but 20 by the
river j feated in a very fruitful foil, producing rice,
wheat, aromatic feeds, tobacco, &c. The inhabitants
make feveral forts of fluffs of cotton, filk, and a kind
of grafs. The Engliffi, French, and Dutch, have fac¬
tories here •, but they are now of no great account.
E. Long. 85. 20. N. Lat. 21. 30.
BALISTES. See Ichthyology Index.
BALI VO amovendo, in Law, was a writ for re¬
moving a bailiff from his office, for want of having fuf-
iicient land in this bailiwick to anfwer the king and his
people, according to the ftatute of Weftminfter, 2 reg.
Orig. 78^
BALK, among builders, is fometimes ufed for the
fummer beam of a houfe ; fometimes for the poles and
rafters, which fupport the roofs of barns, &c. 5 and
fometimes for the beams ufed in making fea holds.
Balk, or Balhh,, a province of Great Bukharia in
Afia, about 360 miles long and 250 broad, fituated
to the fouth of the province of Samarkand, and to the
eaft of Bukharia Proper. It is the leaft of the three
provinces that make up what is called Great Bukharia ;
but being extremely fertile and well cultivated, the
prince draws a great revenue from it. The country
particularly abounds with filk, of which the inhabitants
make pretty manufaflures. The Uzbecks fubjeft to
the khan of Baikh are the moft civilized of all the Tar¬
tars inhabiting Great Bukharia, owing probably to
their commerce with the Perfians : they are likewife
more induftrious, and more honeft, than the reft ; but
in other refpedls have the fame cuftoms with the reft
of the Tartars. The province is fubdivided into feve¬
ral counties ; the moft remarkable of which are Khotlan
or Katlan, Tokhareftan, and Badagfhan. Its chief
cities are Balk, Fariyab, Talkhan, Badagffian, and
Anderab.
Balk, the capital of the above-mentioned province,
iltuated on the frontiers of Perlia, in E. Long. 65. 20.
i ] B A L
N. Lat. 37. o. It is probably the ancient Ba61ra,
capital of the kingdom of Baftria ; and is faid by the
Perfians to have been founded by Kay-umaraz the l
firft king of Perfia, becaufe he met his brother upon
the fpot wffiere it flood, after he had been loft for a
long time ; ba/khiden, or ba/ghiden, in the Perfic lan¬
guage, fignifying to receive and embrace a friend.
The firft kings of Perfia wffio refided in the province
of Media or Aderbijan, confidered this city as one of
their principal frontiers on the fide of Scythia. In
the 27th year of the Hegira, of Chrift 647, Balk was
reduced by the Arabs, under the command of Abdal¬
lah Ebn Amer. It continued fubjefl to Arab princes
till the year of the Hegira 432, of Chrift 1041 *, when
it was reduced by Togrol Beg, the Tangrolipix of the
Greeks, and prince of the Seljukian dynafty. It w’as
taken by Jenghiz Khan, A. D. 1221, wffio with his
ufual and unparalleled cruelty caufed all the inhabi¬
tants to be brought without the w^alls and maffacred
without mercy. In 1369, Sultan Hofein, the laft of
the race of Jenghiz Khan, wjas driven from Balk by
Tamerlane, whofe fucceffors were driven out by the
Uzbccks in the 15th century. It was afterwards re¬
deemed by Shah Ifmael Sufi ; but finally wrefted out
of his hands by the Uzbeck Tartars, between whom
and the Perfians it is the occafion of almoft continual
wars. It w;as not long fince the refidence of a khan
of Tartars. It is the moft confiderable city poffeffed
in thefe parts by the Mahometan Tartars, is large,
well built, and populous, the houfes confifling for the
moft part of ftone or brick. The fortifications confift
of bulwarks of earth, fenced without with a ftrong
wall high enough to cover the foldiers employed in
defence of thofe fortifications. As this place is the
refort of all the bufinefs tranfafted between the Indies
and Great Bukharia, trade flourifires extremely at
Balk j efpecially as it has a fine river paffing through-
its fuburbs, which is of vaft fervice to the town. This-
river falls into the Amu, in N. Lat. 38. 30. upon the
confines of Great Bukharia and Kowarazm. The
khan’s palace, or caftle, is a large edifice built after-
the oriental manner j and confifts almoft entirely of
marble, of which there are fine quarries in the neigh¬
bourhood. The khan of Balk, howTever, wns obliged'
in 1739 to fubmit to the Perfians under Khouli Kan ;
but fince that time has moft probably regained his in¬
dependency.
BALKERS, in the fiffiery, perfons placed on rocks
and eminences at fea to fpy the herring droves, and
give notice to the filhermen, by waving boughs, what-
way they go, and wffiere they may be found.
BALL, in a general fenfe, a fpherical and round
body, whether naturally fo, or formed into that figure
by art.
Ball, in the Military Art, comprehends all forts-
of bullets for fire-arms, from the cannon to the piftol.
Cannon-balls are of iron 5 mulket-balls, piftol-baJls,
&c. are of lead. The experiment has been tried of
iron balls for piftols and fufees: . but they are juftly re¬
jected, not only on account of their lightnefs, which
prevents them from flying ftraight, but becaufe they*
are apt to furrow the barrel of the piftol, &c.
Ball of a Pendulum, the wTeight at the bottom. In
ftiorter pendulums this is called the bob.
Ball, in Pyrotechnics^ is alfo a compcfition of va^
B A L [ 352 1 B A L
Ball rious combuftible ingredients, ferving to burn, fmoke,
M II give light, &c. In this fenfe we read of fire-balls,
BaUr light-balls, fmoke-balls, flink-balls, Iky-balls, water-
—-y—balls, land-balls.
Ball, among the Cornilh miners, fignifies a tin-
mine.
Ball, among Printers, a kind of wooden tunnel
•fluffed with wool, contained in a leather cover, wdiich
is nailed to the wood, wdth which the ink is applied on
the forms to be wrought off. See Printing.
Horfe-BALis, among Farriers. Horfes have a very
nice tafte ; it is therefore proper to give the more dis¬
agreeable drugs in the form of balls, and to make
drenches of the more palatable. Balls fhould be of an
oval fhape, not exceeding the fize of a pullet’s egg ;
and fhould be dipped in fweet oil to make them flip
dowm the eafier. Some horfes have a ftrait gullet,
which makes them very averfe to a ball being thruft
dowm their throats; fuch horfes had better have
drenches given them, or their medicines may be mix¬
ed with bran, or in their mafhes. See Farriery,
pqfim.
BALL-Vein, in Mineralogy, a name given by the
miners of Suffex to a fort of iron ore common there,
and wu'ought to confiderable advantage. It yields not
any great quantity of metal, but what it has runs freely
in the fire ; it is ufually found in loofe maffes, not in
the form of a ftratum, and is often covered with one
or more crufts. It generally contains Some Sparkling
particles ; and is ufually of a circular form in the per-
fe£l maffes, thickeft in the middle, and gradually thin¬
ner as it approaches the fides. The ores of Suffex in
general are poor, but they require very little trouble
in the working 5 fo that a confiderable profit is made
annually from them.
Ball and Socket, an inftrument made of brafs, with
a perpetual fcrew, fo as to move horizontally, vertically,
and obliquely ; and is generally ufed for the managing
of Surveying or aftronomical inftruments.
Buff-BALL, the Englifti name of the lycoperdon.
See Lycoperdon, Botany Index.
Martial Balls, in Pharmacy, are a mixture of fil¬
ings of iron and cream of tartar, formed into a Solid
confiftence and form of a ball, wkich is ufed to im¬
pregnate water or other liquids rvith iron diflblved by
the tartareous acid. To make thefe balls, one part of
filings of iron and two parts powdered cream of tartar
aie mixed well together, and put into an earthen or
iron veffel wuth feme wrater. This mixture is to be Stir¬
red from time to time, till it becomes almoft dry j and
then it is to receive more water, and to be flirred as
before. This treatment is to be continued till it ac¬
quires, when nearly dry, fomewhat of the conliftence
and tenacity of foftened rofin. Then it is be rolled
up in the form of a ball, which is generally kept tied
up in rag ; and when intended to be ufed, it is to
be infufed in wTater, till it gives fome colour to that
liquid. The infufion of martial balls is tonic, vulne¬
rary, difeutient, and aperitive ; and is employed both
internally and externally. Iron being foluble in all
acids, is attacked in this preparation by the tartareous
acid, which reduces it to a kind of neutral fait not
cryftallizable. This fait w7ould remain liquid, and would
form a foluble martial tartar, called tartarifed tincture
of Mars. If proper proportions of filings of iron and
1
cream of tartar be ufed, and treated long enough for Mercurial
an entire and complete combination, nothing would be ■Balls
obtained but a liquor or magma, which could not be p;rc_f>alls
preferved in a folid form, but wrould be continual- -   .
ly moift. Therefore, in the martial ball there is a
good deal of the cream of tartar and filings of iron
not combined together, by which its folidity is pre¬
ferved.
Mercurial Balls, in Pharmacy, are an amalgam of
mercury and tin, iufflciently folid to be moulded, and
to preferve a given form. The method of making them
is by adding mercury to melted tin, and pouring the
fluid mafs into a round hollow mould. Thefe balls are
employed to purify water, in which they are boiled ;
for which purpofe travellers often carry fome along
wuth them. Nothing, however, can be more pernicious
than fuch a practice, Ihould the water contain any ni¬
trous acid, which it very often does.
Balls of Silk-worms and Spiders, are little cafes or
cones of filk, wherein thofe infedls depofite their eggs.
Spiders are extremely tender of their balls, wuiich they
carry about wuth them, adhering to the papillae about
their anus. Grew mentions balls or bags of a fpecies
of filk-worms in Virginia as big as hens eggs, and con¬
taining each four aurelias.
Zoologifts fpeak of a fort of balls of hair covered
over with a fmooth ftiining coat or {hell, found in the
ftomachs of oxen, cowrs, calves, horfes, fheep, and goats.
See the article Bezoar.
Balls of Fire, in Meteorology. See Fire, Balls
°f- . . .
Balls, in FleElncity, are twro pieces of cork, or pith
of elder, nicely turned in a lathe to the fize of a fmall
pea, and fufpended by fine linen threads j intended as
eleftrometers, and of excellent ufe to difeover fmall
degrees of eleflricity, to obferve the changes of it from
pofitive to negative, and vice verfa; and to eftimate
the force of a {hock before the difeharge, fo that the
operator fhould always be able to tell very nearly be¬
fore the difeharge, by knowung how high he has
charged his jars, what the explofion will be.
Fire-BALLS, are bags of canvas filled with gun¬
powder, fulphur, faltpetre, pitch, &c. to be thrown by
the foldiers, or out of mortars, in order to fire the houfes
incommoding trenches, advanced polls, or the like.—
The Greeks had divers kinds of fire-balls, or flv^o/Sohoi
XiSei-, one kind called, more particularly, truvlx^iu, or
erx.v1xXthi, made of wood, fometimes a foot or even
a cubit long ; their heads being armed with fpikes of
iron, beneath which were hemp, pitch, and other
combuftibles, which being fet on fire, they were call
among the enemy. The preparations of fire-balls,
among the moderns, confift of feveral operations, viz.
making the bag, preparing the compofition, tying,
and, laftly, dipping the ball. 1. The bags for this
purpofe are either oval or round. 2. The compofition
wherewith fire-balls are filled is various: To ten
pounds of meal-gunpowder add two of faltpetre, one
of fulphur, and one of colophony ; or to fix pounds
of gunpow'der, add four of faltpetre, four of fulphur,
one of powdered glafs, half a pound of antimony, as
much camphor, an ounce of fal-ammoniac, and four
of common fait, all pulverifed. Sometimes they even fill
fire-balls with hand grenades. 3. For tying the fire¬
balls, they prepare tw'O iron rings, one fitted round the
aperture,
B A L [ 353 1 B A L
Light-Balls aperture, where the ball is to be lighted, the other
W ter near ^ts bafe. A cord is tied to thefe rings in fuch a
Balls, manner, as that the feveral turns reprelent femicircles
t ■■ ■ t ■ 1 of the fphere cutting the globe through the poles : over
the cords, extended according to the length of the ball,
others are tied, cutting the former at right angles, and
parallel to each other, making a knot at each interfec-
tion : laftly, after putting in a leaden bullet, the reft of
the fpace is filled with tow or paper. 4. Thus com¬
pleted, the fire-ball remains to be dipped in a compofi-
tion of melted pitch four pounds, colophony two, and
linfeed oil or oil of turpentine two ; after dipping, they
cover it round with tow, and dip again, till it be
brought to the juft diameter required.
Light-BALis, are fuch as diffufe an intenfe light
around ; or they are balls which, being call out of the
hand or a mortar, burn for feme time, and illuminate
the adjacent parts. 1. Luminous or light-balls for
the hand arc made of ground porvder, faltpetre,
brimftone, camphor, and borax, all fprinkled with oil,
and moulded into a mals with fuet ; and this is wrap¬
ped up in tow, with a Iheet of llrong paper over it.
To fire it, they make a hole into it with a bodkin, in¬
to which they put fome priming that will burn (low.
Its ufe is to be call into any works they would difeover
in the night-time. 2. For the larger light-balls, or
thofe to be thrown to a greater diftance, they melt
equal quantities of fulphur, turpentine, and pitch ) and
therein dip an earthen or ftone ball, of a diameter much
lefs than that of the mortar out of which the fire¬
ball is to be call : then rolling it in gunpowder, and
rovering it round with gauze, they dip it again, and
repeat the reft till it come to fit the cavity of the
mortar: laftly, they fprinkle it around with gun¬
powder. This, being once kindled, will ftrongly il¬
luminate all around the place where it is thrown, and
give opportunity to examine the ftate and condition
thereof.
Smoke or Detrk-BALis, thofe which fill the air with
fmoke, and thus darken a place to prevent difeoveries.
To prepare a darkening ball, make an oval or fpheri-
cal bag ; melt rofin over the coals, and add an equal
part of faltpetre not purified, alfo of fulphur, and a
fifth part of charcoal. The whole being well incorpo¬
rated, put in tow firft {bred, and fill the bags with
-this compofition, and dip it after the fame manner as a
fire-ball.
Stink-BALLS, thofe which yield a great ftench where
fired to annoy the enemy. Their preparation is thus :
Melt ten pounds of pitch, fix of rofin, twenty of falt-
'petre, eight of gunpowder, and four of colophony 5 to
"thefe add two of charcoal, fix of horfe-hoofs cut
fmall, three of afafoetida, one of ftinking-faracen, and
any other offenfive ingredients. The reft as in the
former.
Sky-BAiLS, thofe caft on high out of mortars, and
which, when arrived at their height, burfting like
rockets, afford a fpeftacle of decoration. Sky-balls are
made of a wooden ftiell, filled with various compofi-
tions, particularly that of the ftars of rockets. Thefe
are fometimes intermixed with crackers and other com-
buflibles, making rains of fire, &c.
]Voter-BALi.$, thofe which fwim and burn a confi-
derable time in the water, and at length burft therein.
Thefe are made in a wooden fiiell, the cavity of which
V01. III. Part I.
is filled with refined faltpetre, fulphur, faw-duft boiled Land-Ealh
in wrater of faltpetre, and dried ; to rvhich fometimes II
other ingredients are added, as iron filings, Greek . ,
pitch, amber dull, powdered glafs, and camphor. The
ingredients are to be ground, mixed up, and moiftened
with linfeed oil, nut oil, olive oil, hempfeed oil, or pe¬
trol. At the bottom is placed an iron coffin, filled
with whole gunpowder, that the ball may at laft burft
with a greater noife : and, laftly, the ball is by the ad¬
dition of lead or otherwife, made of the fame fpecific
gravity with water.
Land-BALLS are thofe which, being thrown out of a
mortar, fall to the ground, burn, and burft there. The
ingredients are much the lame as in the watei'-ba/Is,
only the fpecific gravity is not attended to.
BALLAGHAN, a town of Ireland, in the county
of Sligo, and province of Connaught. W. Long. 9. 50,
N. Lat. 53. 48.
BALL AN, a towm of France, in the diocefe of
Mons, feated on the river Orne. E. Long. o. 26.
N. Lat. 48. 10.
BALLAD, a kind of fong, adapted to the capa¬
city of the lower clafs of people ; who, being mightily
taken with this fpecies of poetry, are thereby not a
little influenced in the condudl of their lives. Hence
wo find, that feditious and defigning men never fail to
fpread ballads among the people, with a view to gain
them over to their fide.
BALLAST, any heavy matter, as ftone, gravel,
iron, &c. throwm into the hold of a ffiip, in order to
make her fink a proper depth in the water, that ffie
may be capable of carrying a fufficient quantity of fail
without overfetting.
There is often great difference in the proportion of
ballaft required to prepare (hips of equal burden for a
voyage *, the quantity being always more or lefs ac¬
cording to the ffiarpnefs or flatiiefs of the fhip’s bottom,
which feamen call the fioor.
The knowledge of ballafting a fhip with propriety,
is certainly an article that deferves the attention of the
fkilful mariner : for although it is knowrn, that fhips in
general will not carry a fufficient quantity of fail till
they are laden fo deep that the furface of the water will
nearly glance on the extreme breadth amidffiips, yet
there is more than this general knowledge required j
fince, if flie has a great weight of heavy ballaft, as lead,
iron, &c. in the bottom, it will place the centre of
gravity too low in the hold ; and although this will
enable her to carry a great fail, ffie will neverthelefs
fail very heavily, and run the rifk of being difmafted by
her violent rolling.
To ballaft a ffiip, therefore, is the art of difpofing
thofe materials fo that fhe may be duly poifed, and
maintain a proper equilibrium on the water, fo as nei¬
ther to be X.oo /Jijjf nor too crank, qualities equally per¬
nicious : as in the firft, although the ftiip may be fitted
to carry a great fail, yet her velocity will not be pro-
portionably increafed j whilft her mafts are more en¬
dangered by her hidden jerks and exceffive labouring :
and in the laft, fhe will be incapable of carrying fail,
without the rifk of overfetting.
StiJJhefs, in ballafting, is occafioned by difpofing a
great quantity of heavy bailaft, as lead, iron, &c. in the
bottom, which naturally places the centre of gravity
very near the keel j and that being the centre about
Y y which
B A L jr 354 1 B A L
Eallan- wliicli tlie vibrations are made, the lower it is placed,
Ba°enden t^le more vi°lent will be the motion of rolling.
. ‘' Cranknefs, on the other hand, is occafioned by ha¬
ving too little ballad, or by difpolxng the fhip’s lading
fo as to raife the centre of gravity too high, which alfo
endangers the mall in carrying fail wThen it blows hard:
for when the mails lofe their perpendicular height, they
drain on the Ihrouds in the nature of a lever, which in-
creafes as the fine of their obliquity ; and a Ihip that
lofes her malts is in great danger of being loll.
The whole art of ballalting, therefore, confilts in
placing the centre of the gravity to correfpond with
the trim and fhape of the velfel, fo as neither to
be too high nor too low j neither too far forward
nor too far aft, and to lade the Ihip fo deep, that the
furface of the water may nearly rife to the extreme
breadth amidlhips •, and thus Ihe will be enabled to
carry a good fail, incline but little, and ply well to the
windward.
Ships are faid to be in ballaji when they have no
other loading. Mailers of veffels are obliged to declare
the quantity of ballall they bear, and to unload it at
certain places. They are prohibited unloading their
ballall in havens, roads, &c. the negleft of which has
ruined many excellent ports.—Ships and veffels taking
in ballalt in the river Thames are to pay fo much a
ton to Trinity-houfe, Deptford \ who {hall employ bal-
laftmen, and regulate them j and their lighters to be
marked, &c. on pain of 10I.
BALLATOONS, large heavy luggage-boats ufed
for carrying wood by the river from Ailracan and the
Cafpian fea to Mofcow. Thefe will carry from too
to 200 tons, and have from looto 120 men employed
to rowr and tow them along.
BALLENDEN, Sir John, a Scotifh poet, in
the reign of James V. of Scotland, was defcended from
,an ancient family in that kingdom. His father, Mr
.Thomas Ballenden of Auchinoul, was dire<5lor to the
chancery in the year 1540, and clerk regiller in 1541.
sWhere our poet wTas educated, we are not informed ;
but from one of his poems we learn, that in his youth
he had fome employment at the court of King James V.
and that he wTas in great favour with that prince. Ha¬
ving taken orders, and being created do£lor of divinity,
at the Sorbonne, he was made canon of Rofs, and arch¬
deacon of Moray. He likewnfe obtained the place of
clerk-regiller, but was afterwards deprived of that em¬
ployment by the fa&ions of the times •, however, in
the fucceeding reign of Mary, he recovered that office,
and was one of the lords of feffion. Being a zealous
papill, he, in conjunflion with Dr Laing, was extremely
affiduous in retarding the progrefs of the reformation j
till at lait, finding the oppofition too powerful, he quit¬
ted Scotland, and went to Rome, where he died in the
year 1550. He is generally elleemed one of the bell
Scotilh poets of that age. His works are, 1. The
hijlory and chronicles of Scotland of llecdor Boris (Boe¬
thius), tranflatcd by Mr John Ballenden, Edinb. 1 >36.
1 his is not a mere tranllation, Ballenden having cor-
re&ed feveral millakes of his author, and made large
additions. It is in folio, and black letter. 2. Cofmo-
graphy to the hi/lory of Scotland, writh a poetical poem.
3. A defer iption of Albany, 4. Tranfation cf Booth iuBs
defeription of Scotland. 5. Epiftles to King James V.
Bale fays he had feen thefe letters. 6. Several poems
in Carmichael’s colleclion of Scottilh poems 5 befides Ballet
many others in manufeript, in private libraries in Scot- II
land. 7. Virtue and Vyce, a poem addreffed to King a lt^lirr‘.
James V.
BALLET, Balet, or Balletto, a kind of dra¬
matic poem, reprefenting lome fabulous a£lion or fub-
jeft divided into feveral entries j wherein feveral per-
fons appear, and recite things under the name of fome
deity, or other illullrious charafrer.
Ballet is more particularly ufed for a kind of comic
dance, confiding of a feries of feveral airs of different
kinds of movements, which together reprefent fome fub-
je<5l or aftion. They are performed chiefly by malks
reprefenting fylvans, tritons, nymphs, Ihepherds, and
the like j and confill of three parts, the entry, figure,
and the retreat. The word is of Greek origin, formed
from /ZctXXuy, jacere, to call, throw, or tofs •, whence
alfo in wwiters of the middle age, we find ballationcs
for faltationes, dancings 5 and ba/lare for faltare, to
dance.
BALLIAGE, or Bailiage, in Co?nmerce, a fmall
duty paid to the city of London by aliens, and even
denizens, for certain commodities exported by them.
BALLICONNEL, a town of Ireland in the coun¬
ty of Cavan, and province of Ulller. W. Long. 7. 45.
N. Lat. 54. 6.
BALLISHANNON, a large town of Ireland, in
the county of Donegal, or Tyrconnel, with a good ha¬
ven. W. Long. 8. 25. N. Lat. 54. 25.
BALLISTA, a machine ufed by the ancients for
{hooting darts 5 it refembled in fome meafure our crofs-
bow. The word is Latin, fignifying acrofs-bow; and
is derived from the Greek, PccXXu, to fh'oot, or throve.
Vegetius informs us, that the ballilla difeharged
darts with fuch rapidity and violence, that nothing
could refill their force : and Athenaeus adds, that Agi-
llratus made one of little more than two leet in length
which {hot darts 500 paces.
In Plate LXXXIV. is reprefented the ballilla ufed in
fieges, according to the chevalier Folard : 2, 2, the bale
of the ballilla ; 3, 4, upright beams j 5, 6, tranfverfe
beams ; 7, 7, the two capitals in the upper tranfverfe
beam, (the lower tranfverfe beam has alfo two fimilar
capitals, which cannot be feen in this tranfverfe figure) $
9, 9, two polls or fupports for lirengthening the tranl-
verfe beams', 10, 10, two Ikains of cords failened to
the capitals ; ix, 11, twm arms inferted between the
two Hands, or parts of the Ikains ; 1 2, a cord failened
to the two arms ; 13, darts which are Ihot by the bal¬
lilla ; 14, 14, curves in the upright beams, and in the
concavity of which culhions are failened, in order to
break the force of the arms which llrike againll.them
with great force when the dart is difeharged ; 16, the
arbor of the machine, in which a groove or canal per-
feclly ftraight is formed, and in which the darts are
placed in order to their being {hot by the ballilla *, 17,
the nut of the trigger *, 18, the roll or windlafs, about
which the cord is wound j 19, a hook, by which the
cord is drawn towards the centre, and the ballilla cock¬
ed •, 20, a llage or table on which the arbor is in part
fullained.
BALLISTEUM, or Ballistr^a, in antiquity,
a military fong or dance ufed on occafions of vidlory.
Vopifcus has preferved the balijleum fung in honour of
Aurelian, who, in the Sarmatian war, was faid to
have
B A L f 35S ] B A L
SUlliftie,
Walloon.
liat'e killed 48 of the enemy in one day ivith his o^vn
hand. Mille, mille, mille mille, mills^ mille decolla-
virhus : Unus homo mille, mille, mille, mille deco/lavit;
mille, mille, mille vivdt, qui mille, mille occidit. Tan-
turn vini hahet nemo, quantum fudit fanguinis. The
lame writer fubjoins another popular fong of the fame
kind: Mille Francos, mille Sarmatas, femel occidimus ;
nii/le, mille, mille, mille, mille, Perfas queer;mus. It
took the denomination ballijleum from the Greek /3xX>.a),
jacio, or ja Bo, to call or tofs* on account of the mo¬
tions ufed in this dance, which was attended with great
elevations and fwingings of the hands. I he halliflcea
Were a kind of popular ballads, compofed by poets of
the lower dafs, without much regard to the laws of
metre.
BALLISTIC pendulum, an ingenious machine
invented by Benjamin Robins, for afeertaining the velo¬
city of military projectiles, and confequently the force
of fired gun-powder. It confiits of a large block of
wood, annexed to the end of a ftrong iron Item, having
a crofs Heel axis at the other end, placed horizontally,
about which the whole vibrates together like the pendu¬
lum of a clock. The machine being at reft, a piece
of ordnance is pointed ftraight towards the wooden
block, or ball of this pendulum, and then difeharged :
the confequence is this the ball difeharged from the
gun ftrikes and enters the block, and caufes the pen¬
dulum to vibrate more or lefs according to the velocity
of the projeCtile, or the force of the blow; and by ob-
ferving the extent of the vibration, the force of that
blow becomes known, or the greatelt velocity with
Which the block is moved out of its place, and confe-
quently the velocity of the projeCtile itfelf which ftruck
the blow and urged the pendulum. Hutton's Mathe-
mat. DiB.
BALLOON, or Ballou, in a general fenfe, fig-
nifies any fpherical hollow body, of whatever matter
it be compofed, or for whatever purpofes it be defigned.
Thus, with chemifts, balloon denotes a round ihort-
iiecked veflel, ufed to receive what is diftilled by means
of fire ; in archite&ure, a round globe on the top of
a pillar 5 and among engineers, a kind of bomb made
of pa'fteboard, and played off, in fire-works, either in
the air or on the water, in imitation of a real bomb.
Air-BAVLOou. See Aerostation.
Balloon alfo denotes a kind of game fomething
refembling tennis. The balloon is played in the open
field, with a great round ball of double leather blown
up with wind, and thus driven to and fro with the
ftrength of a man’s arm, fortified with a brace of wood.
Balloon, or Balloen, is more particularly ufed
among voyagers for the ftate-barges of Siam. The
balloons are a kind of brigantine, managed with oars,
of very odd figures, as ferpents, fea-horfes, See. but
by their fharpnefs and number of oars, of incredible
iwiftnefs. The balloons are faid to be made of a fingle
piece of timber, of uncommonTength •, they are railed
high, and much decorated with carving at head and
flern : fome are gilt over, and carry 120 or even 150
rowers on each fide. The oars are either plated over
with filver, or gilt, or radiated with gold ; and the
come or canopy in the middle, where the company is
placed, is ornamented with fome rich fluff, and furnifhed
with a balluftrade of ivory, or other coftly matter, en¬
riched with gilding. The edges of the balloon juft
touch the water, but the extremities rife with a fweep Baffmm
to a great height. Some are adorned writh variety of ^ ^ N ^
figures, made of pieces of mother-of-pearl in.laid : the . ‘ _
richer fort, inftead of a dome, carry a kind of fteeple in
the middle \ fo that, confidering the ffendernefs of the
vefiel, which is ufually 100 or 1 20 feet long, and fcarce
fix broad, the height of the two ends, and of the fteeple
with the load of decorations, it is a kind of miracle
they are not overfet.
Balloon, in the French paper-trade, is a term for
a quantity of paper, containing 24 reams.
Balloon, Ballon, or Ballot, in the French
glafs trade, fignifies a certain quantity of^glafs-plates,
fmaller or greater according to their quality. The
ballon of white glafs contains 25 bundles, of fix plates
per bundle; but the ballon of coloured glafs is only of
t2\ bundles, and of three plates to a bundle.
BALLOTA, white horehound. See Botany
Index.
BALLOTADE, in the Manege, the leap of a horfe
between two pillars, or upon a ftraight line, made wuth
juftnefs of time, with the aid of the hand and the
calves of the legs: and in fuch a manner, that when his
fore-feet are in the air, he fhows nothing but the fhoes
of his hinder-feet without yerking out.
BALLOTING, a method of voting at elections,
&.c. by means of little balls ufually of different colours,
by the French called ballots i which are put into a
box privately.
BALLS, or Ballets, in Heraldry, a frequent bear¬
ing in coats of arms, ufually denominated, according
to their colour, bezantes, plates, hurts, &c.
BALLUSTER, a fmall kind of pillar ufed for
balluftrades.
BALLUSTRADE, a feries or rowr of ballufters,
joined by a rail; ferving as well for a reft to the elbows
as for a fence or enclofure to balconies, altars, ftaircafes,
&c. See Architecture, N° 74.
BALM. See Melissa, Botany Index.
Balm, or Balsam. See Balsam.
Balm of Gilead. See Amyris, Botany Index.
BALNAVES, Henry, a Scottifh Proteftant divine,
born in the fhire of Fife, in the reign of James V.
and educated at the univerfity of St Andrew’s. He
went afterwrards to France in order to finifh his ftudies;
and returning to Scotland, was admitted into the fa¬
mily of the earl of Arran, who at that time governed
the kingdom : but in the year 1542 the earl difmifled
him for having embraced the Proteftant religion. In
1564, he joined, fays Mackenzie, the murderers of
Cardinal Beaton ; for which he was declared a traitor,
and excommunicated. Whilft that party w7ere be-
fieged in the caftle of St Andrew’s, they fent Balnaves
to England, w7ho returned with a confiderable fupply
of provifions and money ; but being at laft obliged to
furrender to the French, he> was fent with the reft
of the garrifon to France. He returned to Scotland,
about the year 1559 ; and having joined the Congre¬
gation, he was appointed one of the commiftioners to
treat with the duke of Norfolk on the part of Queen
Elizabeth. In 1563 he was made one of the lords of
feflion, and appointed by the general affembly, with
other learned men, to revife the Book of Difcipline.
Knox, his cotemporary, and fellow-labourer, gives him.
the character of a very learned and pious divine. -He
Y y 2 died
s
B A L [ 356 ] B A L
Balnearii died at Edinburgh in the year 1579' wrote>
0 1. AT7-eatife concerning Jujli/ication. Edinb. 1550,
timCM'a 3vo> 2. si Catcchifni, or ConfeJJton of Faith. Edmb,
1584, 8vo.
BALNEARII servi, in antiquity, fervants or at¬
tendants belonging to the baths. Some were appoint¬
ed to heat them, called fornicatores ; others were de¬
nominated capfarii, who kept the clothes of thole that
went into them ; others alliptce, whofe care it wras to
pull off the hair \ others un£iuani, who anointed and
perfumed the body.
BALMEARIUS FUR, in antiquity, a kind of thief
who praftifed ftealingthe clothes of perfons in the baths j
fometimes alfo called fur balnearutn. The crime of
thofe thieves was a kind of facrilege', for the hot baths
were facred : hence they were more feverely punifhed
than common thieves who Hole out of private houfes.
The latter w^ere acquitted wuth paying double the value
of the thing ftolen j whereas the former were punifhed
with death.
BALNEUM, a term ufed by chemifts to fignify a
veffel filled with fome matter, as land, water, or the like,
in which another is placed that requires a more gentle
heat than the naked fire.
BALSA, an ancient town of Lufitania, in the Ager
Cunaeusj now Favira, capital of Algarva.
BALSAM, or Native Balsam, an oily, refinous,
liquid fubftance, flowing either ipontaneoufly, or by
means of incifion, from certain plants. There are a
great variety of balfams, generally denominated from
the fubftances from which they are obtained \ and
which are explained under their names as they occur.
BALSAMICS. Balfamica is a Latin word wEich
fignifies mitigating. The term balfamic is a very lax
one ; it includes medicines of very different qualities,
Motherly s as emollients, detergents, refloratives, &c. but in me-
Med. DiSi. dicines of all thefe kinds there feems to be this requi-
fite in them, viz. that they be foft, yielding, and ad-
hefive, alfo that by their fmallnefs they have a ready
difpofition to motion. Medicines of this tribe are
generally required for complaints whofe feat is in the
vifcera; and as they cannot be conveyed there but by
the common road of the circulation, it follows, that no
great effects can be expefted from them but by their
long continuation. Hoffman calls by the name of bal-
farnics thofe medicines which are hot and acrid, alfo
the natural balfams, gums, &c. by which the vital heat
is increafed.
BALSORA. See Bassora.
BALTAGI, among the Turks, porters, and hewr-
ers of wood, in the court of the grand fignior j who
alfo mount on horfeback w’hen the emperor rides out.
Part of them alfo, who, for that purpofe, muff be ca-
ilrated, keep wratch at the gates of the firft and fecond
courts of the feraglio. The firft are called capigi, and
their commander capigi pafcha.
BALTIC sea, a great gulf furrounded by Swe¬
den, Ruflia, Courland, Pruflia, Pomerania, and Den¬
mark. The king of Denmark levies a tax at Elfineur
on every (hip that enters the Baltic fea. It is remark¬
able that this fea neither ebbs nor flows, and there is
alwrays a current lets through the Sound into the ocean.
It is generally frozen over three or four months in the
year. Yellow amber is found in plenty on this coaft.
BALTIMORA, xn Botany. See Botany Index.
BALTIMORE, a town of Ireland in the county Baltimore
of Corke, and province of Munfter, with the title of a II
barony. It is feated on a headland which runs into the , ^'^yur' ,
fea, five miles north-call of Cape Clear. W. Long. 9. y "
10. N. Lat. 51. 15.
Baltimore, county and town of, Maryland in
America.
Baltimore Bird. See Oriolus, Ornithology
Index.
BALTZAR, Thomas, a native of Lubec, was an
eminent mufical compofer, and efteemed the fineft per¬
former on the violin of his time. He came into Eng¬
land in the year 1658, and lived about two years in
the houfe of Sir Anthony Cope of Hanwel in Oxford-
flflre. He w as the great competitor of Davis Mell,
who, though a clockmaker by trade, tvas, till Baltzar
came hither, allowed to be the finelt performer on the
violin in England •, and after his arrival he divided w ith .
him the public applaufe, it being agreed that Mell ex¬
celled in the finenefs of his tone and the fweetnefs of
his manner, and Baltzar in the power of execution and
command of the inffrument. Moreover, it is faid of
the latter, that he firft taught the Englilh the praftice
of Ihifting, and the ufe of the upper part of the finger¬
board. Baltzar was given to intemperance, and is faid
to have Ihortened his days by exceflive drinking : he
was buried in Weftminiiier-abbey on the 27th day of
July 1663.
BALUCLAVO, or Jambol, a fea-port town of
Crimea on the Black fea, where they build (hips for the
grand fignior. E. Long. 35. 15. N. Lat. 44. 50.
BALUZE, Stephen, a French writer, born ii*
1651, and fome time librarian to M. Colbert. In 1693
he obtained a penfion, with the poll of diredlor of the
Royal College, for writing the lives of the popes of
Avignon ; both which advantages he foon loft in the
fluftuation of court parties. M. Baluze is much more
noted for collefting ancient MSS. and illuftrating them
by notes, than famed for his owm compofitions.
BALYUR, or Baliur, a fea-port of Africa in the
kingdom of Dancali, about 14 hours journey weft from
Babel-Mandel. It is remarkable only for being the
landing place of the Abyflmian patriarch Alphonfus
Mendez, with his Jefuits and Portuguefe, on April 3d
1724. The king, who had received orders from the
Abyflinian emperor to give them a proper reception,
defpatched his fon to meet them and condudt them to
him. The royal palace they found to confift of about
half a dozen of tents, and a fcore of huts, fenced about
with a thorn hedge, and ftiaded by fome wild kinds of
trees. Near the palace was a river, which was then
quite dried up, and no water to be found but what was
digged for in the channel. The hall of audience w’as
only a large tent about a mufket-lhot from the reft.
At the upper end wTas a kind of throne made of ftones
and clay, covered wuth a carpet, and twro velvet cu-
(hions. At the other end was his raajefty’s horfe, with
the faddle and other accoutrements hanging on one
fide ; it being the cuftom of this country for the mafter
and horfe to lie together, w’hether king or fubjeft. A-
round the hall were about 50 young men fitting crofs-
legged ; and when the Portuguefe ambaffadors were
admitted, they wrere made to fit down in the fame po-
fture. Soon after came the king preceded by fome of
his domeftics, one having an earthen pitcher full of
hydromel.
BAM
Balzac, hydromel, another a cup made of porcelain, a third
carrying a cocoa-fhell full of tobacco, and a fourth
v bringing a hlver tobacco-pipe with fome fire. Next to
them was the king, dreffed in a light filk fluff, having
on his head a turban, from the rims of which hung a
parcel of rings nicely wrought, which dangled before
his face. He had in his hand a fliort kind of javelin,
and was followed by all the chief officers of his court
and houfehold. The refpedl paid him at his coming
in was by Handing on their feet, and fquatting down
again twice, after which they went forward to kifs his
hand.
BALZAC, John Lewis Guez de, born at An-
gouleme in 1595. Voltaire allows him the merit of
having given numbers and harmony to the French
prole, but cenfures his llyle as fomewhat bombaff. 7 he
critics of his own time gave him no little difquiet; and
he gave them no little advantage over him by his Tal¬
lies of vanity, and fome particular propofitions which
were a little dangerous. M. Balzac, getting rid of
thefe difputes by his moderation, fettled at his country-
feat •, refined his flyle and genius ; and got by his let¬
ters and other writings which he publifhed from time
to time, the reputation of being the fir ft writer in
France. He was at length drawn from his retirement
By the hopes of making his fortune under Cardinal
Richlieu, who had formerly courted his friendthip j but
in a few years he retired again, difgufted with the fla-
vhh dependence of a court life. All he obtained from
the court was a penfion of 2000 livres, with the titles
of counfellor of Hate and hiftoriographer of France.
He died in 1654; and was buried in the hofpital of
Notre Dame des Anges, to which he bequeathed
I 2,000 livres. He left an eftate of 100 franks per
annum, for a gold medal to be beftowed every two
years for the beft difcourfe on fome moral fubje£L Be-
* fides his letters he wrote a work called Oeuvres Diver-
fes, i. e. on various fubje£ls •, The Prince 5 The Chri-
ftian Socrates, &c. and many other pieces j all of which
have been publilhed in two vols folio.
BAMBA, a province of the kingdom of Congo in
Africa.—It is fituated between the rivers of Ambrifi
and Lofe •, the laft of which parts it from Pemba on
the eaft, as the Ambrift does from the province of Sog-
no on the north. Along the fea-coaft it extends it-
felf northward to the river Lelunda *, and on the fouth
to that of Danda, which parts it from the kingdom of
Angola. The governors of this province bear the ti¬
tle of dukes, and are always fome of the princes of the
royal family. They are as defpotic and arbitrary as if
they were really kings, notwithftanding the care and
pains their monarchs have taken to keep them within
due bounds. The foil of this province is very fertile 5
and would produce all the neceffaries of life in great
plenty, were the inhabitants but induftrious in its cul¬
tivation. The fea-coafts produce a vail quantity of
fait, which could be purified with little trouble, and
would yield an extraordinary revenue if the duties were
duly paid ; but thefe the governors find means to fink
moftly into their own coffers.—Here is alfo the fifhery
of the zimbis, or little fea-fnail, whofe ihell is the cur-
vent coin not only in this and the neighbouring king¬
doms, but alfo in the moft diftant parts of Africa. Here
are alfo laid to be mines of gold, diver, quickfilver,
f 357 1 BAM
copper, tin, and iron ; but none except the iron mines Bamberg,
are allowed to be worked. Earoboccic,
BAMBERG, a large bandfome town of Franconia ' y
in Germany, and capital of a biftiopric of the lame
name. It was formerly imperial, but is now fubjeft
to the bilhop. The country about it produces plenty
of corn, fruits, and liquorice. It has an univerfity,
founded in 1585 j and is fituated at the confluence oi
the rivers Main and Reidnitz. E. Long. 10. 15.
N. Lat. 50. to.
Bamberg, a town of Bohemia, fituated at the foot
of a mountain. E. Long. 16. 5c. N. Lat. 49. $3.
BAMBOCCIO, a celebrated painter of converfa-
tions, landfcapes, cattle, &c. was born at Laeren, near
Narden, in 1613. His name was Peter an Laer }
but in Italy they gave him the name of Bamboccio,
on account of the uncommon Ihape of his body, the
lower part being one third part longer than the upper,
and his neck fo fhoit that it was buried between his'
{boulders. He had, however, an ample amends for
the unfeemlinefs of his limbs, in the fuperior beauties
of his mind : he was endowed with an extenfive genius j
and, indeed, had an univerfal tafte for every part of
painting. He refided at Rome for fixteen years fuc-
ceflively } every day ftudying to improve himfelf by
thofe beautiful models which were continually open to
his obfervation, and by the lovely fcenery in the envi¬
rons of that city. He was held in the higheft efteem
by all ranks of men, as well as by thofe of his own
profeflion ; not only on account of his extraordinary
abilities, but alfo for the amiable qualities of his mind.
He ftudied nature inceffantly *, obferving with a cu¬
rious exa£lnefs every effe6l of light on different objects,
at different hours of the day j and whatfoever incident
afforded pleafure to his imagination, his memory for
ever perfeftly retained. His ftyle of painting is fweet
and true j and his touch delicate, with great tranfparency
of colouring. His figures are always of a fmall fize,
well proportioned, and corredlly defigned $ and al¬
though his fubjefts are taken but from the lower kind
of nature, fuch as plunderings, playing at bowls, inns,
farrier fhops, cattle, or converfations ; yet whatever
he painted was fo excellently defigned, fo happily exe¬
cuted, and fo highly finifhed, that his manner was a-
dopted by many of the Italian painters of his time.
His works are ftill univerfally admired, and he is juft-
ly ranked among the firft clafs of the eminent mailers.
His hand was as quick as his imagination, fo that he
rarely made {ketches or defigns for any of his works j
he only marked the fubjecl with a crayon on the can¬
vas, and finiftied it without more delay. His memory
was amazing : for whatever objeifts he faw, if he con-
fidered them with any intention to infert them in his
compofitions, the idea of them was fo ftrongly impref-
fed on his mind, that he could reprefent them with as
much truth as if they were placed before his eyes.
Sandrart obferves, that although painters who are ac~
cuftomed to a fmall fize are frequently inaccurate in
the difpofition of the different parts of their fubje6l,
feeming content if the whole appears natural; yet Bam-
boccio was as minutely exa6l in having his figures,
trees, grounds, and diftances, determined with the ut-
moft precifion and perfpedftive truth, as the bell ma¬
ilers ufually are in pi&ures of the largeft fize j which
\i
BAM [ 353 ] BA M
Eamboe, is one circumllance that caufes the eye to be fo agree-
Bam- ably deluded by the paintings of Bamboccio. In the
tr,., v-:_ ‘ latter part of his life, he was feverely tormented with
an allhmatic complaint, which he endured with much
impatience 5 and it is reported, that as the diforder
leemed to him unfupportable, he threw himfelf into a
canal to Ihorten his mifery, and was drowned. His
death happened in 1673.
BAMBOE, in Botany, the trivial name of a fpe-
cies of arundo. See Arundo, Botany Index.
BAMBOK-Habit; a Chinefe contrivance by which a
perfon who cannot fwim may ealily keep himfelf above
w'ater. The following account of it is from a letter
to the author of the Seaman's Pnefervative. “ In the
year 1730, I was paffenger in a Ihip from Batavia to
China, burden about 400 tons, called the Pridae,
Francifco Xavier commander, freighted by Englilh,
Chinefe, and Portuguefe. Near the coaft of China
we met one of thofe ftorms called a tuftoon (tau-fong),
or a great wdnd, which carried away all our mails,
bow fprit, and rudder ; and in our hold we had fix feet
of water, expedling every moment the ihip would
founder.—We confequently were confulting our prefer-
vation : the Engliih and Portuguefe flood in their ihirts
only, ready to be thrown off; but the Chinefe mer¬
chants came upon deck, not in a cork-jacket, but I
wall call it a bamboe-habit, w;hich had lain ready in
their chefts againft fuch dangers ; and it was thus con-
itrufted ; four bamboes, two before and two behind
their bodies, were placed horizontally, and projefled
about 28 inches. Thefe wTere croffed on each fide by
two others, and the whole properly fecured, leaving a
fpace for their body ; fo that they had only to put it
over their heads, and tie the fame fecurely, which wras
done in two minutes, and wTe were fatisfied they could
not poflibly fink.” The fhape is here fubjoined.
BAMBOROUGH, an inconfiderable village in
Northumberland, on the fea coaft, 14 miles north of
Alnwick, was once a royal borough, and fent two
members to parliament ‘ it even gave name to a large
tradl extending fouthward, which was called Bam-
boroughjlnre. It had alfo three religious foundations 5
a houfe of friars preachers founded by Henry III. a
cell of canons regular of St Auftin, and an hofpital.
Its very ancient caftle ftands on an almoft perpendicu¬
lar rock clofe to the fea, and acceflible only on the
fouth-eaft fide, on a fpot where, according to the mon-
kiih hiftorians, there flood the caftle or palace of the
kings of Northumberland ; built, as it is laid, by King
Ida, who began his reign about the year 5 $9. Part
.of the prefent ruins are by fome fuppoled to be the re¬
gains of King Ida’s work. The ancient name of this
2
place was, it is faid, Bebbanborough; which name Cam- Sarti*
den, from the authority of Bede, imagines borrowed borough,
from Bebba, Ida’s queen ; but the author of the addi-^^ir”^
tions to that writer is of a contrary opinion, as in the
Saxon copy it is called Cynclicanberg, or the “ roval
manfion.” According to Florilegus, King Ida at firft
fenced it only with a wooden enclofure, but afterwards
furrounded it with a wall. It is thus deferibed by Roger
Ploveden, who wrote in the year 1192 : “ Bebba is a
very ftrong city, but not exceeding large ; containing
not more than two or three acres of ground. It has
but one hollowr entrance into it, which is admirably
railed by fteps. On the top of the hill ftands a fair-
church ; and in the weftern point is a well curi-
oufly adorned, and of fweat clean water.” This caflle
was befieged anno 642 by Penda, the Pagan king of
the Mercians, who, as the ftory goes, attempted to burn
it: for which purpofe he laid vaft quantities of wood
under the w-alls, and fet fire to it as foon as the wind
was favourable ; but no fooner was it kindled, than by
the prayers of St Adian, the wind changed and carried
the flames into his camp, fo that he was obliged to
raife the fiege. In 710, King Ofred, on the death of
Alfred his father, took flicker in this caftle with Bri-
thric his tutor or guardian ; one Edulph having feized
the crown, by whom, with his partisans, they wrre
unfuccefsfully befieged. Brithric made fo gallant a
defence, that the fiege wras turned into a blockade,
which gave the loyal iubjefts time to arm in defence
of their young king. On their marching hither to his
relief, Edulph fled ; but was followed, taken, and put
to death by Brithric, wrho thereby fecurely feated Of¬
red on the throne, w-hen this caftle became his palace.
In the reign of Egbert, Kenulph bilhop of Lindisfarne
wras confined here 30 years from 750 to 780. In 933,
it was plundered and totally ruined by the Danes ; but
being of great importance in defending the northern
parts againft the continual incurfions of the Scots, it
was foon after repaired, and made a place of confider-
able ftrength. It is faid to have been in good repair
at the time of the Conqueft, w-hen it w-as probably put
into the cuftody of fome trufty Norman, and had in all
likelihood fome additions made to its works ; and this
is the more probable* as the prefent area, contained
within its w-alls, meafures upw-ards of 80 acres, inftead
of three, as when deferibed by Hoveden. About the
year 1095 it was in poffeflion of Robert de Mow-bray
earl of Northumberland, who engaging infome treafon-
able praftices againft William Rufus, that king laid fiege
to it, and obliged it to furrender. In the next reign it
was intrufted by Henry I. to Euftace Fitz-John, who
was difpoffefl'ed of it and his othej employments by King
Stephen, that king being jealous of his attachment to
Maud, daughter of Henry I. Irritated at this, Fitz-
John delivered the caftle of Alnw-ick to David king
of Scotland, and brought to his aid all the forces he
could raife ; he was, however, afterw-ard reconciled to
King Stephen, and held the manors of Burg and
Knareiborough in Yorklhire, but never recovered the
government of this caftle.
In the 16th of Henry II. fome great repairs feem to
have been done here, as in Madox’s hiftory of the ex¬
chequer, under the article of Amercements, it appears
one William, fon of Waldef, was fined five marks for
refufing his afliftance in the king’s w-orks at Baenburg
caftle.
Bam-
borough.
BAM t 35
cafilc. Its keep is fuppofed to have been the work of
this reign.
Edward I. (limmoned Baliol to meet him here 1296;
and on his refufal invaded Scotland and took him pri-
foner. Edward II. fheltered Gavefton here I310- It
was taken by the Yorkifts after the battle of Hexham.
In the reign of Elizabeth Sir John Forefter, warden of
the marches, was governor of it, and made a knight
banneret after the battle of Muffelburgh j and his
grandfon John obtained a grant of both caflle and ma¬
nor from James I. His defcendant Thomas forfeited
it in 1715 but his maternal uncle Nathaniel Crew
bilhop of Durham purchafed and bequeathed them to
unconfined charitable ufes. The ruins are Hill con-
fiderable j but many of them are now filled with land,
caught up by the winds which rage here with great
violence, and carried to very diftant places. 1 he re¬
mains of a great hall are very fingular j it had been
warmed by two fire-places of a vail fize, and from the
top of every window ran a flue like that of a chimney,
which reached the fummits of the battlements. I hefe
flues feem defigned as fo many fupernumerary chimneys
to give vent to the fmoke that the immenfe fires of
thofe hofpitable times filled the rooms with ; for halls
fmoky, but filled with good cheer, were in thofe days
thought no inconvenience. In the year I757» t-Ile
truftees for Lord Crew’s charity began the repairs of
the keep or great tower ; the direction and manage¬
ment being committed to Dr Sharp archdeacon of
Durham, one of their number j who has made a moil
judicious and humane application of his lordihip’s ge¬
nerous bequeil. The walls are from 9 to 12 feet thick.
The upper parts of the building have been formed into
granaries 5 whence, in times of fcarcity, corn is fold
to the indigent without any diilinftion at four ihillings
per bufhel. A hall and fome fmall apartments are re-
ferved by the Doctor, who frequently refides here to
fee that this noble plan is properly executed.—Among
the variety of diilrefled who find relief from the judi¬
cious difpofition of this charity, are the mariners navi¬
gating this dangerous coaft, lor whofe benefit a con-
llant watch is kept on the top of the tower ; from
whence fignals are given to the filhermen of Holy
Ifland when any flop is difcovered in diftrefs, thefe
fifliermen by theit fituation being able to put off their
boats when none from the land can get over the break¬
ers. The fignals are fo regulated as to point out the
particular place where the diftreffed vefiel lies. Be-
fides which, in every great fform, two men on hoife-
back patrole the adjacent coal! from fun-fet to fun-rife,
who, in cafe of any fhipwreck, are to give immediate
jiotice at the callle. Premiums are likewife paid for
the earliefl information of any fuch misfortune. By
thefe means the lives of many feamen have been, and
will be, preferved, who would otherwife have periflied
for want of timely afliftance. Nor does this benevo¬
lent arrangement flop here. The fhipwrecked mariner
finds an hofpitable reception in this caftle; and is here
maintained for a week or longer, as circumftances may
require. Here, likewife, are ftore-houfes for depofit-
ing the goods which may be faved 5 inftruments and
tackle for weighing and raifing the funken and ftrand-
ed veffels; and, to complete the whole, at the expence
of this fund, the laft offices are decently performed to
the bodies of fuch drowned Tailors as are caff on ftiore,
9 j BAM
BAMBUCK, a country of Africa, of which the Batnbuck,
following account is given by the Abbe Raynal, on , BalTllh ,
the credit of a modern traveller whom he does not
name. “ In the interior part of Africa, under the
12th or 13th degree of north latitude, there is (fays a
modern traveller) a pretty large country, known by
the name of Bambuch. It is not fubjetff to a particular
king j but governed by village lords, called farms.
Thefe hereditary and independent chiefs are all ob¬
liged to unite for the defence of the ftate, when it is
either attacked as a community, or only in one of its
branches.
“ The territory of this ariftocratical ftate is dry and
barren. It produces neither maize, rice, nor pulfe.
The infupportable heat it is fubjedt to, proceeds^ in
part from its being furrounded by high mountains,
which prevent the wind from refreffiing the air. The
climate is as unwholefome as it is difagreeable : va ¬
pours, which continually iflue from the bowels of a foil
replete with minerals, render this country unfit to live
in, efpecially to ftrangers.
“ It is gold that hath made this miferable country
an objedt worthy of notice ; gold, which in the eyes of ,
the covetous man feems to compenfate for all the evils
of nature, though in reality it increafes them all. This
metal is fo common in this country, that it is found
almoft indifcriminately everywhere. To obtain it,
fometimes it is fufficient to fcrape the furface of the
earth, which is clayilh, light, and mixed with fand.
When the mine is very rich,, it is digged only to the
depth of a few feet, and never deeper; though it has-
been obferved, that the lower it was digged, the more
gold the foil afforded. The miners are too indolent to
purfue a toil which conftantly becomes more tedious,
and too ignorant to perceive the inconveniences it,
would be attended with. Their negligence and theit*
folly are in this inftance fo extraordinary, that in waffl¬
ing the gold, in order to feparate it from the earth,
they only preferve the larger pieces: the light parts
pafs away with the water, which flows down an in¬
clined plane.
“ The inhabitants of Bambuck do not work thefe
mines at all times, nor are they at liberty to dp it
when they pleafe. They are obliged to wait till pri¬
vate or public wants determine the farims to grant this
permiffion. When it is proclaimed, all who are able
to avail themfelves of this advantage meet at the ap¬
pointed place. When their work is finiihed, a divifion
is made. Half of the gold goes to the lord, and the
remainder is equally diftributed among the labourers.
Thofe who want gold at any other time than that of
the general digging, fearch for it in the beds of the n*
vers, where it is very common.
“ The French and Englilh have fucceffively been
defirous of appropriating to themfelves thefe real or
imaginary riches. Some thought they could reach this
country by the Niger, others by the Salum. Far from
having fucceeded in their attempts of becoming mailers
of this country, they have not yet afeertained its ex-
iftence. The unfuccefsfulnefs of paft efforts hath re¬
doubled the aftivity of fanguine minds j fenfible and
judicious merchants have chofen to limit themfelves to
a commerce much more important, which is that ot
fiaves.”
BAILIFF, a (hire of Scotland; comprehending past
: of
BAM [ 360 ]
BamfF. of Buchan, with the diftrifts of Strathdevron, Boyn, Parifh.
""“Y’—"• Enzie, Strathaven, and Balvenie, extends 32 miles
from eaft to weft, and 13 in breadth from north to Forglen
fouth. On the fouth, it is feparated from part of Bu* Garnrie
chan by the river Ugie ; on the eaft it is watered by Grange
the Devron and the German ocean ; on the weft it is Inveraven
bounded by the Spey and the county of Murray 5 on 15 Inverkiethnle
the louth-weft, it borders on Badenoch and the Braes Keith
of Mar •, and on the north, it is confined by the Mur- Kirkmichael
ray Frith. The face of the country is agreeably di- Marnoch
verfified with hill and dale, not without woods, wTell Mortlich
watered with rivers, and exhibiting many feats and 20 Ordiquhill
plantations. The air is pure and keen, the climate Rathven
healthy, and the foil fertile, producing plentiful crops Rothiemay
of corn. The diftrift of Buchan, extending north- 23 St Fergus
wards from the river Ugie to the fea, and wTeftwfard as
far as Devron, comprehending a trafl of 20 miles in
length and nine in breadth, is more free from hills
and mountains than any other diftridt of the fame ex¬
tent in the kingdom of Scotland. It is inhabited chief¬
ly by Lowlanders, and gives the title of earl to the
family of Erfkine ; of which family, how’ever, Erlkine
of Mar is the chief. The county of Bamff abounds
with the neceffaries and comforts of life. The pafture-
grounds yield fheep, cattle, and horfes: the arable
lands produce plenty of corn •, while the rivers and fea
fupply great quantities of fifti. Various minerals have
been found in different parts of the (hire ; and a piece
of amber, as large as a horfe, was once caft afhore on
the beach. In the mountainous diftrift of Balvenie
on the weftern fide of the fhire, watered by the Spey,
there is a noted rock, which produces hones and whet-
ftones fufficient to fupply the whole ifland. Here are
alfo veins of alum ftone, and fprings of alum water.
Strathallan, another diftrift to the north-eaft of Bal¬
venie, abounds with fuch plenty of limeftone, that
.the inhabitants ufe it as common ftone in building their
houfes ; and moreover burn a great quantity of it into
lime, which they fell to good advantage in the village
of Keith, on the river Devron. Along this whole
coaft, there are ancient Danifh monuments, fuch as
cairns, tumuli, and huge ftones (landing ere£t. In
Strathaven, a hilly country, lying along the limpid
river Aven, which falls into the Spey, wTe meet with
Gordon caftle, belonging to the duke of Gordon, the
moft princely edifice in the north of Scotland, confid¬
ing of noble apartments magnificently finifhed, and
environed with fine gardens and parks w’ell ftored writh
fallow-deer. The fame nobleman poffeffes feveral other
feats in this county.
The following is the population of the different pa-
rifties of this county at two different periods:
BAM
Population
in *755-
607
2083
1797
2464
2683
1288
<*894
2374
666
2898
1190
1271
Population iu
179°—1798.
600
2000
1572
2244
460
3°57
1276
i960
ipjg
51-7
3524
1125
j 240
BamfT
II
BanuyaUi
36>521
38»487
36^2I
Increafe, 1966
Tarifh*
1 Aberlour
Alva
Bamff
Bellie
5 Boharm
Botriphnie
Boyndie
Cullen
Delkford
10 Fordyce
Population
in I7S5-
1010
1161
3000
1730
835
953
994
900
940
3212
Population in
1790—1798.
920
1070
35*0
1919
1294
630
1260
1214
7S2
3425
Bamff, the capital of the (hire of that name in
Scotland, is pleafantly fituated on the fide of a hill, at
the mouth of the river Devron. It has feveral ftreetsj
of which that with the towm-houfe in it, adorned with
a new fpire, is very handfome. This place was ere£l-
ed into a borough by virtue of a charter from Robert
II. dated October 7. 1372, endowing it with the fame
privileges, and putting it on the fame footing, with the
burgh of Aberdeen ; but tradition fays it was founded
in the reign of Malcolm Canmore. It gives title of
baron to a branch of the Ogilvie family. The harbour
is very bad, as the entrance at the mouth of the Devron
is very uncertain, being often flopped by the (hifting
of the fands, wrhich are continually changing in great
ftorms *, the pier is therefore placed on the outfide.
Much falmon is exported from hence. About Troop-
head fome kelp is made j and the adventurers pay the
lord of the manor 50I. per annum for the liberty of
collefting the materials. Near the town is a moft
magnificent feat lately built by the earl of Fife. It
lies in a beautiful plain wafhed by the Devron, the
lofty banks of which, clothed with wTood on the oppo-
fite fide, afford a delightful contraft to the foft vale be¬
neath. W. Long. 2. 5. N. Lat. 57. 40.
BAMIER, the name of a plant common in Egypt.
It produces a pyramidal hufk, with feveral compart¬
ments, of the colour of a lemon, and filled with mufky
feeds. This hulk dreffed with meat is a wholefome
food, and has a very agreeable flavour. The Egyp¬
tians make great ufe of it in their ragouts.
BAMIYAN, a city of Afia, fituated in the pro¬
vince of Zableftan, 10 days journey from Balkh, and
eight from Gazna. It is remarkable only for its
dreadful cataftrophe when taken by Jenghiz Khan in
1221. At that time the city belonged to Sultan Jalal-
lodin, the laft of the famous Mahmud Gazni’s race.
Jenghiz Khan was at that time about to attack Gazna,
that prince’s capital; but was flopped by the garrifon
of Gazna, which he had hoped would give him no
trouble. In this, however, he was difappointed. The
people had for a long time expefled an attack j and had
therefore ruined the country for five or fix leagues
round, while the peafants bad carried away the ftones,
and every thing that could be of ufe to the befiegers.
Accordingly,
BAN [ 361 ] ' - BAN
•BamotK- Accordingly, Jenghiz Khan having ere&ed wooden
Basil towers, and planted his engines upon them, was in a
j,J|)c (liort time obliged to give over his attacks till millftones
, ' , and other materials could be brought from a great di-
ftance. The walls of the city were very ftrong, fo that
the engines of the Moguls made but little impreflion ;
and the garrifon making frequent and furious fallies,
cut off whole fquadrons of their enemies, and frequent¬
ly overthrew their towers and engines. This exceed¬
ingly chagrined jenghiz Khan j who one day returning
from a fruitlefs attack, and hearing of the defeat of
one of his generals by Jalallodin, fwore to be revenged
on Bamiyan. This fury colt the life of one of his
grandchildren ) who expofmg himfelf too much, to
pleafe his grandfather, was flain with an arrow._At
lali, however, by the numberlefs multitude of the Mo¬
guls, who continued the attacks without intermiffion,
the city was taken, after its walls had been ruined in
many places, and the braved: foldiers and officers of the
garrifon flain in its defence. The mother of the young
prince who had been killed entering with the troops,
and more deferving the name of a fiend than a woman,
caufed the throats of all the inhabitants to be cut,
without excepting one. She even gave orders to rip
up the bellies of all the women with child, that not an
infant might be left alive. In fhort, to gratify the rage
of this inhuman monfter, the buildings were all levelled
with the ground ; the cattle, and every living creature,
deftroyed •, infomuch that the hardened Moguls them-
felves gave this place the name of Mauba/ig, which in
their language fignifies the unfortunate city. A ftrong
caftle has fince been built out of its ruins.
BAMOTH-baal, in Ancient Geography, one of
the towns of the tribe of Reuben, which feems alfo to
have had a temple of Baal on an eminence ; lying
•eaftwards, and not far from the river Arnon, and the
territory of Moab. Jerome calls it Bamoth, a city of
the Amorites, beyond Jordan, in the poflefTion of the
fons of Reuben. Whether the fame with that men¬
tioned Numb. xxi. is doubtful, from the difagreement
of interpreters •, and yet we may admit it to be the
place of encampment of the Ifraelites, and of Balaam’s
firlt ftation, or where he had the firfl view of the rear
of the people.
B AMPTON, a town of Devonfhire, fituated in a
bottom furrounded with high hills. W. Long. 4. 25.
N. Lat. 51. 5.
BAN, or Bans. See Bank.
Ban, in Commerce, a fort of fine fmooth muflin,
which the Englilh import from the Eaft Indies. The
piece is almoft a yard broad, and runs about 20 yards
and a half.
BANANA tree, a fpecies of the mufa or plan¬
tain. See Musa, Botany Index.
BANARES, or Benares, a handfome town of
Afia, in the dominions of the Great Mogul, greatly
celebrated for its fanftity, and being the univerfity of
the Indian Bramins. It is feated on the north fide of
the river Ganges, in E. Long. 82. 30. N. Lat. 26. 20.
See Observatory.
BANBURY, a town of Oxfordlhire in England,,
fituated on the river Charwell, in W. Long. 1. 20.
N. Lat. 52. o. It fends one member to parliament.
BANC, or Benca, in Law, denotes a tribunal, or
Voi. III. Part I,
judgment-feat; hence king's banc is the fame with the Banc?
court of kinfs bench, and common banc with that of „ K
common pleas. ,
BANCI jus, or the privilege of having a bench,
was anciently only allowed to the king’s judges, qui
fummam adminiftrant jufitiam. Inferior courts, as
courts-baron, hundred courts, &c. were not allowed
that prerogative ; and even at this day the hundred-
court at Freibridge in Norfolk is held under an oak
at Gey-wood ; and that of Woolfry in Herefordftiire,
under an oak near Aftiton in that county, called
Hundred oak.
BANCA, an ifland of Afia in the Eaft Indies, be¬
tween Sumatra and Borneo 5 from the firft of which it
is feparated only by a narrow channel. This ifiand is
famous on account of its tin mines. The prince of the
illand, who is alfo pofleffor of the territory of Palam-
bang on the river of the fame name in Sumatra, where
he has his conftant refidence, had a contraft with the
Dutch by wdiofe troops his authority and independence
are preferved, for the tin which he compels his fub-
jefls to deliver to him at a low price. Their profit it
is faid, was not lefs than 150,000!. annually. In con-
fequence of the perfection which the miners had arrived
at in the redudtion of the ore, the tin of this illand was
preferred to the tin from Europe at the Canton mar¬
ket. E. Long. 105. 10. N. Lat. 13. 25.
BANCALIS, a fea-port town on the eaft coaft of
the illand of Sumatra, where the Dutch have a fettle-
ment. E. Long. 99. 7. N. Lat. 1.5.
BANCK, Pete*. Vander, an engraver of confider-
able repute, was born at Paris, and received his in-
ftrudtions in the art from the celebrated Francois de
Poilly. He came over into England with Gafcar the
painter, about the year 1674 j and married the lifter
of a gentleman of eftate in Hertfordlhire, named Fo-
refter. He was a laborious artift : but the pay he re¬
ceived for his plates being by no means adequate to
the time he bellowed upon them, he was reduced to
want; and, retiring from bufinefs, fought an afylum
in the. houfe of his brother-in-law. He died at Brad-
field, and was buried in the church there, in 1674 ;
leaving his widow in pofieffion of the chief part of his
plates, which he difpofed of to Brown, a print-
feller, to great advantage, and left -an eafy fortune.—•
His chief employment was engraving of portraits *, and,
according to Virtue’s account of this artift publilhed
by the Hon. Mr Walpole, he was the firft in England
who engraved them on fo large a feale. But even their
novelty, it feems, added to their merit, could not fuf-
ficiently recommend them to fupport the artift. Like
many of Poilly’s difciples,' his great merit, according
to Mr Strutt, confifts in the laboured neatnefs and
management of the mechanical part of the art. Free¬
dom, harmony, and chaftenefs of outline, are by no
means the charadferiftic of his prints. However, though
they cannot rank with the fuperior produdlions of
Edelink or Nantueil, &c. they have their lhare of me¬
rit j and doubtlefs will be always efteemed in England,
as preferving the beft refemblance of many eminent
perfons who were living at that time.
BANCO, an Italian word which fignifies bank. It
is commonly ufed to fignify the bank of Venice.
BANCOCK, a town of-the kingdom of Siam in
Z z Afiaj
Bard
Bandajre.
B A* N [36
Afia, with a fort, which was once in the poffeflion of
the French, but they were driven from it in 1688.
E. Long. iox. 5. N. Lat. 13. 25.
BAND, in a general fenle, fome fmall narrow7 li¬
gament, wherewith any thing is bound, tied, or fa¬
ttened.
Band, in Architecture, a general name for any flat
low member, or moulding, that is broad but not very
deep.
Band of Soldiers, in Military Affairs, thofe who fight
under the fame flag or enfigm
Band of Benf oners, a company of 120 gentlemen,
who receive a yearly allowance of tool, for attending
on his majefty on folemn occafions.
Band is alfo the denomination of a military order in
Spain, inftituted by Alphonfirs XI. king of Caftile, for
the younger fons of the nobility ; who, before their ad-
miflion, mutt ferve 10 years at leaft, either in the army
or at court 5 and are bound to take up arms for the ca¬
tholic faith againft the infidels.
Band, in Surgery. See Bandage.
BANDA islands, the general name of five iflands
in the Eaft Indies, belonging to the Dutch. Two of
them are uncultivated, and almolf entirely uninhabited j
the other three claim the diftindlion of being the only
iflands in the world that produce the nutmeg.
If we except this valuable fpice, the iflands of Banda,
like all the Moluccas, are barren to a dreadful degree.
What they produce in fuperfluities they w7ant in necef-
faries. The land will not bring forth any kind of corn ;
and the pith of the fago ferves the natives of the coun¬
try inflead of bread.
As this food is not fufficient for the Europeans who
fettle in the Moluccas, they are allowed to fetch pro-
vifions from Java, Macaffar, or the extremely fertile
ifland of Bali. The company itfelf carries fome mer-
chandife to Banda. ,
This is the only fettlement in the Eaft Indies that
•can be confidered as an European colony 5 becaufe it
is the only one where the Europeans are proprietors of
lands. The company finding that the inhabitants of
Banda were favage, cruel, and treacherous, becaufe
they w7ere impatient under their yoke, refolved to ex¬
terminate them. Their poffeflions w7ere divided among
the white people, who got flaves from fome of the neigh¬
bouring iflands to cultivate the lands. Thefe white
people are for the moft part Creoles, or malecontents
who have quitted the fervice of the country. In the
fmall ifland of Rofinging, there are likewufe feveral ban¬
ditti, whom the law7s have branded with difgrace ; and
young men of abandoned principles, whofe families
wanted to get rid of them : fo that Banda is called the
inland of correBion. The climate is fo unhealthy, that
thefe unhappy men live but a ftiort time. It is on ac¬
count of the lofs of fo great a number of hands, that
attempts have been made to transfer the culture of the
nutmeg to Amboyna ; and the company were likewife
probably influenced by two other ftrong motives of in¬
tercity as their trade would be carried on with lefs ex¬
pence and greater fafety. But the experiments that
have been made have proved unfuccefsful, and matters
Yemain in their former ftate.
BANDAGE, in Surgery, a fillet, roller, or fwath,
tjfed in drelfmg and binding up wounds, reftraining
2 ] BAN
dangerous hemorrhagies, and in joining fra&ured and Barulaker
diflocated bones. ||
BANDALEER, or Bandeleer, in Military Af . ^an^lt:th _
fairs, a large leathern belt, thrown over the right '
fhoulder, and hanging under the left arm •, worn by the
ancient mufqueteers, both for the fuftaining of their
fire-arms, and for the carriage of their mulket charges,
which being put up in little wooden cafes, coated with
leather, were hung, to the number of twelve, to each
bandaleer.
BANDELET, or Bandlet, in Archite&ure, any
little band, or flat moulding, as that which crowns the
Doric architrave.
BANDER Congo, a fmall fea-port town in Afia, -
feated on the Perfian gulf. E. Long. 54. 10. N. Lat,.
19. o. t
BANDERET, a general, or one of the comman¬
ders in chief of the forces.—This appellation Is given
to the principal commanders of the troops of the canton
of Bern in Switzerland, where there are four banderets,
who command all the forces of that canton.
BANDEROLE, a little flag, in form of a guidon,
extended more in length than in breadth, ufed to be
hung out on the mafts of veffels, &c.
BANDITTI, from the Italian bandito; perfons
proferibed, or, as we call it, outlawed : fometimes
denominated bSnniti or fo7'is banniti. It is alio a
denomination given to highwaymen or robbers who
in fell the roads in troops, efpecially in Italy, France,
and Sicily. Mr Brydone, ih his Tour through Sicily,
informs us, that in the eaftern part, called ValDenioni,
from the devils that are fuppofed to inhabit Mount
i£tna, it has ever been found altogether impraclicable
to extirpate the banditti; there being numberlefs ca¬
verns and fubterraneous palfages round that mountain,
where no troops could poffibly purfue them : be-
fideS, they are known to be perfeftly determined and
refolute, never failing to take a dreadful revenge on all
who have offended them. Hence the prince of Villa
Franca has embraced it, not only as the fafeft, but
likewife as the wifeft and moft political fcheme, to be¬
come their declared patron and proteftor: and fuch
of them as think proper to leave their mountains and
forefts, though perhaps only for a time, are fure to
meet with good encouragement and a certain protec¬
tion in his fervice, where they enjoy the moft un¬
bounded confidence, which, in no inftance, they have
ever yet been found to make an improper or a diftioneft
ufe of. They are clothed in the prince’s livery, yel¬
low and green, with filver lace ; and wear likewife a
badge of their honourable order, which entitles them
to univerfal fear and refpeft from the people.
In fome circumftances, thefe banditti are the moft
refpedftable people of the ifland, and have by much
the high eft and moft romantic notions of what they
call their point of honour. However criminal they
may be with regard to fociety in general; yet, with
refpeft to one another, and to every perfon to whom
they have once profeffed it, they have ever maintained
the moft unftiaken fidelity. The magiftrates have of¬
ten been obliged to protefl them, and pay them
court, as they are known to be perfeftly determined
and defperate, and fo extremely vindictive, that they
will certainly put any perfon to death that has ever
given
BAN [ 363 ] BAN
Band ora given them juft caufe of provocation. On the other
II hand, it never was known that any perfon who had
Bangor, ^ hjmfe]f under their protedlion, and ftiowed that he
had confidence in them, had caufe to repent of it, or
was injured by any of them in the moft minute trifle j
but, on the contrary, they will protect him from im-
pofitions of every kind, and fcorn to go halves with
the landlord, like moft other conduftors and tra¬
velling fervants, and will defend him with their lives
if there is occafion. Thofe of their number who have
thus enlifted themfelves in the fervice of fociety, are
known and refpected by the other banditti all over
the illand and the perfons of thofe they accompany
are ever held facred. For thefe reafons, moft travellers
choofe to hire a couple of them from town to town j
and mav thus travel over the whole ifland in fafety.
* BANDORA, the capital of the illand of Salfet, on
the weft coaft of the peninfula on this fide the Ganges.
It is feparated from the illand of Bombay by a narrow
channel, and fubjefl to the Portuguefe. E. Long. 72. 30.
N. Lat. 19. o.
BANDORE, the name of a mufical inftrument
with firings, refembling a lute, and faid to be invent¬
ed in the fourth year of Queen Elizabeth, by John
Rofe, a citizen of London.
BANDY-legs, from the French bander, ‘ to bend,’
a diftortion of the legs, when they turn either inward
or outward on either fide; arifing from fome defedl
in the birth, or imprudence in the nurfe, endeavour¬
ing to make a child Hand or wralk before his legs were
ftrong enough or fuftain the weight of his body. See
Valgus.
BANE (from the Saxon bana, a murderer), figni-
fies deftru&ion or overthrow. Thus, “ I will be the
bane of fuch a man,” is a common faying. So, when a
perfon receives a mortal injury by any thing, we fay,
“ it was his bane p’ and he who is the caufe of ano¬
ther man’s death, is faid to be le bane, i. e. a malefac¬
tor.
BANFF. SeeBAMFF.
BANGHIR, a town of Ireland, in King’s county in
the province of Leinfter, feated on the river Shannon.
W. Long. 8. 5. N. Lat. 53. 10.
BANGLE ears, an imperfe6tion in a horfe, reme¬
died in the following manner. Place his ears in fuch a
manner as you would have them Hand bind them
ivith two little boards fo fail that they cannot ftir, and
then clip away all the empty wrinkled Ikin clofe by the
head.
BANGIUS, Thomas, a Danilh divine, and an
elegant Latin writer on the origin of languages and a
variety other fubjedds. He died in 1661.
BANGOR, an epifcopal city of Caernarvonlhire in
North Wales. In ancient times it was fo confiderable,
that it was called Bangor the Great, and defended by
a ftrong caftle *, but it is now a very mean place •, the
principal buildings being the cathedral, the bifhop’s
palace, and free fchool. The fee is of very great
antiquity, and its founder unknown. The church is
dedicated to St Daniel, who was biihop here about the
year $16 •, but for near 500 years afterwards, there is
no certainty of the names of his fucceiTors. Owen
Gdendower greatly defaced the cathedral church *, but
Biihop Dean repaired it again. This fee met a ftill
more cruel ravager than Owen Glendower, in the per¬
fon of Biihop Bulkeley ; who not only alienated many Bangor,
of the lands belonging to it, but even fold the bells of ^ai1gue-
the church. This diocefe.contains the whole of Caer-
narvonihire except three parilhes, the Ihire of Anglefey,
and part of the Ihires of Denbigh, Merioneth, and
Montgomery ; in which are 107 parilhes, whereof 36
are impropriated. It has three archdeaconries, viz. Ban¬
gor, Anglefey, and Merioneth j of which the two firft
are commonly annexed to the bilhopric for its better
fupport. This fee is valued in the king’s books at
131I. 16s. 4d. and is computed to be worth annually
1200I. The tenths of the clergy are 15xl. 14s. q^d.
To the cathedral there belong a biihop, a dean, an
archdeacon, a treafurer, and two prebendaries, endow¬
ed j a precentor, a chancellor, and three canons, not
endowed ; three vicars choral, an orgapift, lay-clerks,
chorifters, and two officers. W. Long. 4. 10. N. Lat.
S3- 2°- ' .
Bangor, a town of Ireland, in the county of Down
and province of Ulfter. It is feated on the fouth Ihore
of the bay of Garrick Fergus, oppofite to the town of
that name ; and fends two members to parliament,
W. Long. 6. N. Lat. 54. 42.
BANGUE, a fpecies of opiate, in great ufe through¬
out the call:, for drowning cares and infpiring joy—-
This by the Perfians is called beng; by the Arabs,
ejjrar, corruptly ajferal, and ajjarth ; by the Turks,
bengitie, and vulgarly called majlach; by the Euro¬
pean naturalifis, bangue or bang.—It is the leaf of a
kind of wild hemp, growing in the countries of the
Levant •, it differs little, either as to leaf or feed, from
our hemp, except in fize. Some have miftaken it for
a fpecies of althaea.
There are divers manners of preparing it, in different
countries. Olearius defcribes the metlqod ufed in Per-
fia. Mr Sale tells us, that, among the Arabs, the leaf
is made into pills, or conferves. But the moft diftindl
account is that given by Alexander Maurocordato,
counfellor and phyfician of the Ottoman Porte, in a
letter to Wedelius. According to this author, bangue
is made of the leaves of wild hemp, dried in the ffiade,
then ground to powder ; put into a pot wherein butter
has been kept •, fet in an oven till it begin to terrify ;
then taken out, and pulverized again *, thus to be ufed
occafionally, as much at a time as tvill lie on the point
of a knife. Such is the Turkiih bangue.—The effefts
of this drug are, To confound the underftanding fet
the imagination loofe ; induce a kind of folly and for-
getfulnefs, wherein all cares are left, and joy and gaiety
take place thereof. Bangue, in reality, is a fucceda-
neum to wine, and obtains in thofe countries wrhere
Mahometanifm is eftablilhed •, which prohibiting the
ufe of that liquor abfolutely, the poor muffelmans are
forced to have recourfe to fuccedanea, to roufe their
fpirits. The principal are opium and this bangue.
As to the opinion among Europeans, that the Turks
prepare themfelves for {rattle by a dofe of bangue,
which roufes their courage, and drives them, with
eagernefs, to certain death ; Dr Maurocordato affures
. us, that it is a popular error ; the Turks think they
are then going affuredly to receive the crown of mar¬
tyrdom •, and w'ould not, for any confideration, lofe
the merit of it, which they would do, by eating the
* bangue, as being held unlawful by their apoftle, among
other things which intoxicate.
Z z 2
BANIALUCH.
BAN
Bamaluch
Banians
Diftcv.
Relig. Ba-
*iian.
BANIALUCH, or Bagnaluch, a city of Euro¬
pean Turkey, the capital of Bofnia, upon the frontiers
. of Dalmatia, near the river Setina. E. Long. 18. 2C.
N. Lat. 44. 20. ,
BANIaN-tree. See Ficus, Botany Index.
BANIANS, a religious left in the empire of the
Mogul, who believe a metempfychofis ; and will there¬
fore eat no living creature, nor kill even noxious ani¬
mals, but endeavour to releafe them when in the hands
of others—The name of Banian is ufed with fome
diverfity, which has occafioned much confufion, and
many miftakes. Sometimes it is taken in a lefs proper
fenfe, and extended to all the idolaters of India, as
contradiftinguilhed from the Mahometans : in which
fenfe, Banians includes the Bramins and other calls.
Banians, in a more proper fenfe, is reftrained to a pe¬
culiar call, or tribe, of Indians, whofe office or pro-
feffion is trade and merchandife : in which fenfe, Ba¬
nians Hand contradillinguifhed from Bramins, Cattery,
and Wyfe, the three other calls into which the Indians
are divided. The four calls are abfolutely feparate as
to occupation, relation, marriage, &c. though all of
the fame religion; which is more properly denominated
the religion of the Bramins, who make the eccleliaflical
tribe, than of the Banians, who make the mercantile.
The proper Banians are called, in the JloaJler, or book
of their law, by the name of Shuddery ; under which
are comprehended all who live after the manner of
merchants, or that deal and tranfaft for others, as bro¬
kers } exclulive of the mechanics, or artificers, who
make another call, called Wyfe. Thefe Banians have
no peculiar feft or religion, unlefs it be, that two of
the eight general precepts given by their legillator
Brama to the Indian nation, are, on account of the
profeffion of the Banians, fuppofed more immediately
to relate to them, viz. thofe which enjoin veracity in
their word and dealings, and avoiding all praftices of
circumvention in buying and felling. Some of the
Banians, quitting their profeffion, and retiring from
the world, commence religious, affume a peculiar habit,
and devote themfelves more immediately to God, under
the denomination oiVertea. Thefe, though they do not
hereby change their cad, are commonly reckoned as
bramins of a more devout kind •, much as monks in the
Romilh church, though frequently not in orders, are
reputed as a more facred order than the regular clergy.
The name Banian imports as much, in the Bramin lan¬
guage (wherein their law is written), as a people in¬
nocent and harmlefs 5 void of all guile ; fo gentle,
that they cannot endure to fee either a fly or a worm
injured j and who, when flruck, will patiently bear it,
without refilling or returning the blow.—Their mien
and *appearance is defcribed by Lord *, in terms a little
precife, but very fignificant: “ A people prefented
themfelves to my eyes clothed in linen garments; fome-
what low defcending ; of a geflure and garb, as I may
fay, maidenly, and well nigh effeminate ; of a counte¬
nance fhy and fomewhat eifranged.^ Gemelli Careri
divides the Banians into 22 tribes, all diifinft, and not
allowed to marry with each other. Lord affures us
they are divided into 82 caffs or tribes, correfpondent
to the caffs or divifions of the Bramins or priefts, un¬
der whofe difcipline'they are as to religious matters;
though the generality of the Banians choofe to be un-
[ 364 1
BAN
der the direftion of the two Bramin tribes, the Vifal-
nagranaugers and Vulnagranaugers.
The Banians are the great faftors, by whom moft ^
of the trade of India is managed ; in this refpeft, '
comparable to the Jews and Armenians, and not be¬
hind either, in point of ikill and experience, in what¬
ever relates to commerce. Nothing is bought but by
their mediation. They feem to claim a kind of jus
divinum to the adminiftration of the traffic of the na¬
tion, grounded on their facred books, as the Bramins
do that of religion. They are difperfed, for this
purpofe, through all parts of Afia, and abound in
Perfia, particularly at Ifpahan and Gombroon, where
many of them are extremely rich, yet not above aft-
ing as brokers* where a penny is to be got. The chief
agents of the Englifh, Dutch, and French Eall India
Companies, are of this nation ; they are faithful, and
are generally trufted with the cafh of thofe companies
in their keeping. They aft alfo as bankers, and can
give bills of exchange for moft cities in the Eaft In¬
dies. Their form of contraft in buying and felling is
remarkable; being done without words, in the pro-
foundeft filence, only by touching each other’s fingers :
the buyer loofing his pamerin or girdle, fpreads it
on his knee, and both he and the feller having their
hands underneath, by the intercourfe of the fingers,
mark the price of pounds, fhillings, &c. demanded,
offered, and at length agreed on. When the feller
takes the buyer’s whole hand, it denotes a thoufand ;
and, as many times as he fqueezes it, as many thou¬
fand pagods, or rupees, according to the fpecies in
queftion, are demanded : when he only takes the five
fingers, it denotes five hundred ; and when only one,
one hundred : taking only half a finger, to the fecond
joint, denotes fifty ; the fmall end of the finger, to the
firll joint, ftands for ten.
BANIE, Anthony, licentiate in laws, member of
the academy of infcriptions and belles lettres, and ec-
clefiaftic of the diocefe of Clermont in Auvergne ; died
in November 1741, aged 69. He is principally cele¬
brated for his tranflation of the Metamorphofes of Ovid,
with hirtorical remarks and explanations; which was
publifhed in 1732, at Amfterdam, in folio, finely orna¬
mented with copperplates, by Picart ; and reprinted
at Paris 1738, in two vols 4to : and for his Mythology,
or Fables of the Ancients, explained by hiftory ; a
work full of the moft important information, which
was tranflated into Englifh, and printed at London in
1741, in 4 vols 8vo.
BANISHMENT, exile, among us is of two kinds :
the one voluntary, and upon oath ; the other by com-
pulfion, for fome offence or crime. The former pro¬
perly called abjuration, is norv ceafed ; the latter is
chiefly enjoined by judgment of parliament. Yet out¬
lawing and tranfportation may alfo be confidered as
fpecies of exile.
BANISTER, John, a phyfician and furgeon in the
reign of Queen Elizabeth, was educated at Oxford,
where, fays Anthony Wood, he ftudied logicals for a
time ; but afterwards applied himfelf folely to phyfic
and furgery. In 1573 he took the degree of bachelor
of phyfic ; and, obtaining a licenfe from the univer-
fity to praftife, fettled at Nottingham, where he lived'
many years in great repute, and wrote feveral medical
treatifes-
Blnie
1!
Banifter.
BAN
[ 365 ]
BAN
Bank.
I. Compa¬
ny-banks.
Bank of
England ;
its eita-
bliihinent,
Banffteria treatifes. His works were collected and publilhed in
1633, 4to.
BANISTERIA. See Botany Index.
BANK, in Commerce, a common repofitory, where
many perfons agree to keep their money, to be al¬
ways ready at their call or direction : or, certain fo-
cieties or communities, who take the charge of other
people’s money, either to improve it, or to keep it
fecure.
The firft inftitution of banks was in Italy, where
the Lombard Jews kept benches in the market-places
for the exchange of money and bills} and banco being
the Italian name for bench, banks took their title from
this word.
Banks are of two principal kinds. 1. One fort is
either public, confiding of a company of moneyed men,
who being duly eftablilhed, and incorporated by the
laws of their country, agree to depofite a confiderable
fund, or joint ftock, to be employed for the ufe of the
fpciety, as in lending money upon good fecurity, buying
and felling bullion, difcounting bills of exchange, &.C.:
or private, i. e. fet up by private perfons, or partner-
(hips, who deal in the fame way as the former upon
their own fingle ftock and credit.
The greateft bank of circulation in Europe is the
Bank of England. The company was incorporated by
Duinmenr, parliament in the fifth and fixth years of King William
regulation’s, and Queen Mary, by the name of The Governors and
import ance, Company of the Bank of England: in confideration of
8w:* the loan of 1,200,000!. granted to the government;
for which the fubfcribers received almoft 8 per cent.
By this charter, the company are not to borrow under
their common feal, unlefs by adt of parliament ; they
are not to trade, or fuffer any perfon in truft for them
to trade, in any goods or merchandife ; but they may
deal in bills of exchange, in buying or felling bullion,
and foreign gold and filver coin, &c.
By an aft of parliament palled in the 8th and 9th years
of William III. they were empowered to enlarge their
capital ftock to 2,201,171!. 10s. It was then alfo
enafted, that bank-ftock fhould be a perfonal, and not
a real eftate ; that no contraft either in word or writ¬
ing for buying or felling bank-ftock, ftiould be good
in law, unlefs regiftered in the books of the bank within
7 days, and the ftock transferred in 14 days; and that
it {hall be felony, without benefit of clergy, to counter¬
feit the common feal of the bank, or any fealed bank-
bill, or any bank-note, or to alter or erafe fuch bills or
notes. By another aft paffed in the 7th of Queen
Anne, the company were empowered to augment their
capital to 4,402,343!. and they then advanced 400,000
more to the government; and in I7I4» advanced
another loan of 1,500,000!.
In the third year of the reign of King George I.
the intereft of their capital ftock was reduced to 5 per
cent, when the bank agreed to deliver up as many ex¬
chequer bills as amounted to 2,000,000!. and to ac¬
cept an annuity of ico,oool. and it was declared lawr-
ful for the bank to call from their members,, in propor¬
tion to their interefts in the capital ftock, fuch fums of
money as in a general court ftiould be round neceffary.
If any member ftiould negleft to pay his ftiare of the
moneys fo called for, at the time appointed by notice
in the London Gazette, and fixed upon the Royal Ex¬
change, it fhould be lawful for the bank, not only to
flop the dividend of fuch member, and to apply it to- ^
wards payment of the money in queftion, but alfo
to flop the transfers of the fhare of fuch defaulter, and
to charge him with an intereft of 5 p£t' cent. per annum,
for the money fo omitted to be paid ; and ii tne prin¬
cipal and intereft ftiould be three months unpaid, the
bank (hould then have power to fell fo much of the
ftock belonging to the defaulter as would fatisfy the
fame. After this, the bank reduced the intereft of the
2,000,cool, lent to the government, from 5 to 4 per
cent, and purchafed feveral other annuities, which were
afterwards redeemed by the government, and the na¬
tional debt due to the bank reduced to i,6oc,oool.
But in 1742, the company engaged to fupply the go¬
vernment with i,6oo,oool. at 3 per cent, which is now
called the 3 per cent, annuities; fo that the govern¬
ment was now indebted to the company 3,200,000!.
the one half carrying 4, and the other 3 per cent.
In the(year 1746, the company agreed that the fum
of 986,800!. due to them in the exchequer bills unfa-
tisfied, on the duties for licenfes to fell fpirituous li¬
quors by retail, ftiould be cancelled, and in lieu thereof
to accept of an annuity of 39,442!. the intereft of
that fum at 4 per cent. The company alfo agreed to
advance the further fum of i,ooo,oool. into the exche¬
quer, upon the credit of the duties arifing by the malt
and land tax at 4 per cent, for exchequer bills to be
blued for that purpofe ; in confideration of which, the
company wrere enabled to augment their capital with
986,800!. the intereft of which, as well as that of the
other annuities, was reduced to 34 per cent, till the
25th of December 1757, and from that time to carry-
only 3 per cent.
And in order to enable them to circulate the faid.
exchequer bills, they eftabliihed what is now called
bank circulation. The nature of wrhich may be under-
ftood from what follows.
The company of the bank are obliged to keep caftr
fufficient not only to anfwer the common, but alfo any
extraordinary demand that may be made upon them 5
and whatever money they have by them, over and a-
bove the fum fuppofed neceflary for thefe purpofes, they
employ in what may be called the trade of the company,
that is to fay, in difcounting bills of exchange, in buy¬
ing of gold and filver, and in government fecurities,
&c. But when the bank entered into the above-men¬
tioned contraft, as they did not keep unemployed a
larger fum of money than what they deemed neceffary
to anfwer their ordinary and extraordinary demands,
they could not conveniently take out of their current
caflr fo large a fum as a million, with which they were
obliged to furnifh the government, wuthout either lei-
fening that fum they employed in difcounting, buying
gold and filver, &c. (which would have been very dif-
advantageous to them), or inventing fome method that
fhould anfwer all the purpofes of keeping the million
in caftr. The method which they chofe, and which,
fully anfwers their end, w'as as follows :
They opened a fubfeription, which they renew an¬
nually, for a million of money; wherein the fubfcribers
advance 10 per cent, and enter into a contraft to pay
the remainder, or any part thereof, whenever the bank
{hall call upon them, under penalty of forfeiting the
10 per cent, fo advanced; in confideration of which,
the bank pays the fubfcribers 4 per cent, intereft foe.
th-5
Bank.
Bfmk.
BAN [ 366
the money paid in, and ^ per cent, for the whole fum
they agree to furnifh j and in cafe a call fhall be made
upon them for the whole, or any part thereof, the banl^
further agrees to pay them at the rate of 5 per cent,
per annum for fuch fum till they repay it, which they
are under an obligation to do at the end of the year.
By this means the bank obtains all the purpofes of
keeping a million of money by them ; and though the
fubfcribers, if no call is made upon them (which is in
general the cafe), receive per cent, for the money
they advance, yet the company gains the fum of
2^,$00 per annum by the contra# j as will appear by
the following account :
The bank receives from the government
for the advance of a million - £% 30,000
The bank pays the fubfcribers who advance
loo,oool. and engage to pay (when called
for) 900,000!. more
6,500
The clear gain to the bank thereof is
23,500
This is the ftate of the cafe, provided the company
fhould make no call on the fubfcribers; which they
will be very unwilling to do, becaufe it would not on¬
ly lefifen their profit, but affe# the public credit in ge¬
neral. '
Bank-flock may not improperly be called a trading
finch, fince with this they deal very largely in foreign
gold and filver, in difcounting bills of exchange, &c.
Befides wdrich, they are allowed by the government
very confiderable fums annually for the management of
the annuities paid at their office. All which advan¬
tages render a (hare in their flock very valuable $
though it is not equal in value to the Eafl India flock.
The company make dividends of the profits half year¬
ly, of which notice is publicly given ; when thofe who
have occafion for their money may readily receive it j
but private perfons, if they judge convenient, are per¬
mitted to continue their funds, and to have their inte-
refl added to the principal.
This company is under the direction of a governor,
deputy-governor, and 24 diredlors, who are annually
elefted by the general court, in the fame manner as in
the Eafl India Company. Thirteen, or more, com-
pofe a court of direftors for managing the affairs of the
company. The officers of this company are very nu¬
merous.
The ftability of the bank of England is equal to that
of the Britiffi government. All that it has advanced
to the public muff be loll before its creditors can fu-
llain any lofs. No other banking company in England
can be eflablifhed by a# of parliament, or can confifl
of more than fix members. It ads, not only as an or¬
dinary bank, but (as we have already feen) as a great
engine of ftate \ receiving and paying the greater part
of the annuities which are due to the creditors of the
public ; circulating exchequer bills ; and advancing to
government the annual amount of the land and malt
taxes, which are frequently not paid up till fome years
thereafter. It likewife has, upon feveral different oc-
cafions, fupported the credit of the principal houfes,
not only in England, but of Hamburgh and Holland.
Upon one occafion it is faid to have advanced for this
purpofe, in one wTeek, about 600,000b a great part
of it in bullion. 1
] BAN
. In Scotland there are two public banks, both at E- Bank,
dinburgh, I he one, called doe Bank of Scotland, was "v '
eflablifhed by ad of parliament in 1695 •, the other. ?cotch
called The^Royal Bank, by royal charter in 1727. blk^f5*
Within thefe 30 years there have alfo been ereded private,
private banking companies in almoft every confiderable
town, and even in fome villages. Hence the bufinefs
of the country is almoft entirely carried on by paper-
currency, L e.by the notes of thofe different banking
companies > with which purchafes and payments of all
kinds are commonly made. Silver very feldom appears,
except in the change of a twenty-fhilling bank-note,
and gold ftili feldomer. But though the condud of all
thofe different companies has not been unexceptionable,
and has accordingly required an ad of parliament to
regulate it ; the country, notwithftanding, has evident¬
ly derived great beneift from their trade. It has been
afferted, that the trade of the city of Glafgow doubled
in about 15 years after the firft eredion of the banks
there ; and that the trade of Scotland has more than
quadrupled fince the firft eredion of the two public
banks at Edinburgh. Whether the trade, either of
Scotland in general, or of the city-of Glafgow' in par¬
ticular, has really increafed in fo great a proportion,
during fo ffiort a period, w’e do not pretend to know'.
If either of them has increafed in this proportion, it
feems to be an effed too great to be accounted for by
the foie operation of this caufe. That the trade and
induftry of Scotland, however, have increafed very con-
fiderably during this period, and that the banks have
contributed a good deal to this increafe, cannot be
doubted.
The value of the filver money which circulated in Smith's
Scotland before the Union in 1707, and wffiich imme- Wealth vf
diately after it was brought into the bank of Scotland Nations,
in order to be recoined, amounted to 411,117I. 10s. pd. J?*
Sterling. No account has been got of the gold coin : ll'
but it appears from the ancient accounts of the mint
of Scotland, that the value of the gold annually coined
fomewhat exceeded that of the filver. There were a
good many people too upon this occafion, who, from a
diffidence of repayment, did not bring their filver into
the bank of Scotland j and there was, befides, fome
Englifh coin, wffiich was not called in. The whole va¬
lue of the gold and filver, therefore, which circulated
in Scotland before the Union, cannot be eftimated at
lefs than a million Serling. It feems to have confti-
tuted alrnofl the wffiole circulation of that country ;
for though the circulation of the bank of Scotland,
which had then no rival, W'as confiderable, it feems to
have made but a very fmall part of the whole. In the
prefent times, the whole circulation of Scotland cannot
be eftimated at lefs than two millions, of which that
part which confifts of gold and filver molt probably
does not amount to half a million. But though the cir¬
culating gold and filver of Scotland have fuffered fo
great a diminution during this period, its real riches
and profperity do not appear to have fuffered any. Its
agriculture, raanufadures, and trade, on the contrary,
the annual produce of its land and labour, have evi¬
dently been augmented.
It is chiefty by difcounting bills of exchange, that Difcount-
is, by advancing money upon them before they are ir]£ Qf
due, that the greater part of banks and bankers iffue bilis’
their promiffory notes. They dedud ahvays upon what¬
ever
Bank-
BAN [ 367 ]
ever fum they advance, the legal intereft till the bill
BAN
Bank.
Cafh-ac
counts.
Advan-
(hall become due. The payment of the bill, when it
becomes due, replaces to the bank the value of what
had been advanced, together with a clear profit of the
intereff. The banker, who advances to the merchant
whofe bill he difcounts not gold and filver, but his own
promiffbry notes, has the advantage of being able to
difcount to a greater amount, by the whole value of
his promiffbry notes, which he finds by experience are
commonly in circulation. He is thereby enabled to
make his clear gain of intereft on fo much larger a
fum.
The commerce of Scotland, which at prefent is not
very great, was ftill more inconfiderable when the two
firft banking companies wrere eftablifhed *, and thofe
companies wmuld have had but little trade, had they
confined their bufmefs to the difcounting of bills of ex¬
change. They invented, therefore, another method of
iffuing their promiflbry notes, by granting what they
called, ca/h-accounts; that is, by giving credit to the
extent of a certain fum ( 2000I. or 3000I. for exam¬
ple), to -any individual wrho could procure two perfons
of undoubted credit and good landed eftate to become
furety for him, that whatever money fhould be advan¬
ced to him within the fum for wdlich the credit had
been given fhould be repaid upon demand, together
with the legal intereft. Credits of this kind are com¬
monly granted by banks and bankers in all different
parts of the world. But the eafy terms on w?hich the
Scots banking companies accept of repayment are pe¬
culiar to them, and have perhaps been the principal
thefS *r0m cau^e’ l^le great tr«de of thofe companies and
of the benefit which the country has received from it.
Whoever has a credit of this kind with one of thofe
companies, and borrows icool. upon it, for example,
may repay this fum piecemeal, by 20I. and 30I. at a
time, the company difcounting a proportionable part
of the intereft of the great fum from the day on which
each of thofe fmall fums is paid in, till the whole be in
this manner repaid. All merchants, therefore, and
almoft all men of bufinefs, find it convenient to keep
fuch cafh-accounts with them ; and are thereby inte-
eanks, and refted to promote the trade of thofe companies, by rea¬
dily receiving their notes in all payments, and by en¬
couraging all thofe with wdiom they have any influ¬
ence to do the fame. The banks, when their cufto-
mers apply to them for money, generally advance it
to them in their owrn promiffbry notes. Thefe the mer¬
chants pay away to the manufadlurers for goods, the
manufadlurers to the farmers for materials and provi-
fions, the farmers to their landlords for rent, the land¬
lords repay them to the merchants for the convenien¬
ces and luxuries with which they fupply them, and the
merchants again return them to the banks in order to
balance their cafh-accounts, or to replace what they
may have borrowed of them; and thus almoft the
wdiole money-bufinefs of the country is tranfadfed by
means of them. Hence the great trade of thofe com¬
panies.
By means of thofe cafh-accounts, every merchant
can, without imprudence, carry on a greater trade
than he otherwife could do. If there are two mer¬
chants, one in London and the other in Edinburgh,
w7ho employ equal flocks in the fame branch of trade,
the Edinburgh merchant can, without imprudence,
to the
to the
country-
carry on a greater trade, and give employment to a
greater number of people, than the London merchant. ' "v
The, London merchant muft always keep by him a con-
fiderable fum of money, either in his own coffers, or in
thofe of his banker (who gives him no intereft for it),
in order to anfwer the demands continually coming
upon him for payment of the goods which he purchafes
upon credit. Let the ordinary amount of this fum be
fuppofed 500I. The value of the goods in his ware-
houfe muft always be lefs by 500!. than it would have
been, had he not been obliged to keep fuch a fum un¬
employed. Let us fujipofe that he generally difpofes
of his wdiole flock upon hand, or of goods to the va¬
lue of his whole flock upon hand, once in the year.
By being obliged to keep fuch a great fum unemploy¬
ed, he muft fell in a year 5C0I. worth lefs goods than ,
he might otherwife have done. His annual profits muft
be lefs by all that he could have made by the fale of
500I. wTortb more goods j and the number of people
employed in preparing his goods for the market, muft
be lefs by all thofe that 500I. more flock could have
employed. The merchant in Edinburgh, on the other
hand, keeps no money unemployed for anfwering fuch
occafional demands. When they actually come upon
him, he fatisfies them from his cafh-account with the
bank, and gradually replaces the fum borrowed with
the money or paper which comes in from the occafion¬
al fales of his goods. With the fame flock, there¬
fore, he can, without imprudence, have at all times
in his warehoufe a larger quantity of goods than the
London merchant; and can thereby both make a
greater profit himfelf, and give conftant employment
to a greater number of induftrxous people who pre¬
pare thofe goods for the market. Hence the great
benefit which the country has derived from this
trade.
The late multiplication of banking companies in
both parts of the united kingdom, an event by which
many people have been much alarmed, inftead of di-
minifhing, increafes the fecurity of the public. It
obliges all of them to be more circumfpeft in their con-
'du£t, and, by not extending their currency beyond its
due proportion to their cafh, to guard themfelves a-
gainft thofe malicious runs which the rivalfhip of fo
many competitors is always ready to bring upon them.
It reftrains the circulation of each particular company
within a narrower circle, and reduces their circulating
notes to a fmaller number. By dividing the whole
circulation into a greater number of parts, the failure
of any one company, an accident w-hich, in the courfe
of things, muft fometimes happen, becomes of lefs con-
fequence to the public. This free competition too
obliges all bankers to be more liberal in their dealings
with their cuftomers, left their rivals fhould carry them
away. In general, if any branch of trade, or any di-
vifion of labour, be advantageous to the public, the
freer and more general the competition, it will always
be the more fo. See further, the article Paper-
money.
2. The other kind of banks confift of fuch as are H. Banks c-f
inftituted w’holly on the public account, and ait called
Banks of Depojit; the nature of which not being gene¬
rally underflood, the following particular explanation
may not be unacceptable.
The currency of a great ftate, fuch as Britain, ge¬
nerally
BAN t 36S ] BAN
Bank, nerally confifts almoft entirely of its own coin. Should
' this currency, therefore, be at any time worn, dipt, or
^Width of ot:herwife degraded below its flandard value, the Hate
NationsJ ky a reformation of its coin can effefhially re-eftablifir
Book IV. its currency. But the currency of a fmall Hate, fuch
chap. iii. as Genoa or Hamburgh, can feldom conlift altogether
in its own coin, but mull be made up, in a great mea-
fur'e, of the coins of all the neighbouring Hates with
which its inhabitants have a continual intercourfe.
Such a Hate, therefore, by reforming its coin, will not
always be able to reform its currency. If foreign bills
of exchange are paid in this currency, the uncertain
value of any fum, of what is in its own nature fo un¬
certain, muH render the exchange always very much
againH fuch a Hate, its currency being, in all foreign
Hates, necelTarily valued even below what it is w^orth.
In order to remedy the inconvenience to which this
difadvantageous exchange muH have fubjeded their
merchants, fuch fmall Hates, when they began to at¬
tend to the intereH of trade, have frequently enabled,
that foreign bills of exchange of a certain Value fliould
be paid, not in common currency, but by an order up¬
on, or by a transfer in, the books of a certain bank,
eHablifhed upon the credit and under the prote£Hon of
the Hate ; this bank being always obliged to pay, in
good and true money, exaftly according to the fland¬
ard of the Hate. The banks of Venice, Genoa, Am-
fterdam, Hamburgh, and Nuremberg, feem to have
been all originally eHablilhed with this view, though
Home of them may have afterwards been made fubfer-
vient to other purpofes. The money of Rich banks,
being better than the common currency of the coun¬
try, neceffarily bore an agio, wdiich wras greater or
fmaller, according as the currency was fuppofed to be
more or lefs degraded below the flandard of the Hate.
The agio of the bank of Hamburgh, for example,
which is faid to be commonly about 14 per cetit. is
the fuppofed difference between the good flandard mo¬
ney of the ftate, and the dipt, worn, and diminifhed
currency poured into it from all the neighbouring
dates.
Before 1609, the great quantity of dipt and worn
foreign coin, wdich the extenfive trade of Amfterdam
brought from all parts of Europe, reduced the value of
its currency about 9 per cent, below that of good mo¬
ney frefh from the mint. Such money no fooner ap¬
peared, that it was melted down or carried away, as
it always is in fuch circumftances. The merchants,
with plenty of currency, could not always find a fuffi-
cient quantity of good money to pay their bills of ex¬
change ; and the value of thofe bills, in fpite of feve-
ral regulations which wrere made to prevent it, became
lT1{t in a great meafure uncertain. In order to remedy
dam one thefe inconveniences, a bank w’as eftabliflied in 1609
of the moft under the guarantee of the city. The bank received
famous. both foreign coin, and the light and worn coin of the
Its inftitu- country, at its real and intrinfic value in the good
lation^uti" ftandard money of the country, deducing only fo much
lit/, Sec. as was neceffary for defraying the expence of coinage,
and other neceffary expence of management. For the
value which remained after this fmall dedudlion was
made, it gave a credit in its books. This credit was
called bank-money ; wdiich, as it reprefented money ex¬
actly according to the ftandard of the mint, was always
of the fame real value, and intrinfically worth more
2
than current money. It was at the fame time enabled, Bank,
that all bills drawn upon or negociated at Amflerdam ““ v““
of the value of 600 guilders and upwards fliould be paid
in bank-money, which at once took away all uncer¬
tainty in the value of thofe bills. Every merchant, in
confequence of this regulation, was obliged to keep an
account with the bank in order to pay his foreign bills
of exchange, which neceffarily occafioned a certain de¬
mand for bank-money.
Bank-money, over and above both its intrinfic fu-
periority to currency, and the additional value which
this demand neceffarily gives it, has likewife fome
other advantages. It is fecure from fire, robbery, and
other accidents 5 the city of Amflerdam is bound for
it j it can be paid aw'ay by a Ample transfer, without
the trouble of counting, or the rifle of tranfporting it.
from one place to another. In confequence of thofe
different advantages, it feems from the beginning to
have borne an agio ; and it is generally believed that
all the money originally depolited in the bank was al¬
lowed to remain there, nobody caring to demand pay¬
ment of a debt which he could fell for a premium in
the market. Befides, this money could not be brought
from thofe coffers, as it will appear by and by, with¬
out previouily paying for the keeping.
Thofe depofits of coin, or which the bank wras bound
to reftore in coin, Conflituted the original capital of the
bank, or the whole value of wdrat w’as reprefented by
wrhat is called bank money. At prefent they are fup¬
pofed to conffitute but a very fmall part of it. In or¬
der to facilitate the trade in bullion, the bank has
been for thefe many years in the pradHce of giving
credit in its books upon depofits of gold and filver bul¬
lion. This credit is generally about 5 per cent, below
the mint pfice of fuch bullion. The bank grants at
the fame time what is called a recipice or receipt, en¬
titling the perfon wdro makes the depofit, or the bear¬
er, to take out the bullion again at any time within
fix months, upon re-.transferring to the bank a quan¬
tity of bank-money equal to that for which credit had
been given in its books when the depofit was made, and
upon paying ^ per cent, for the keeping if the depofit
was in filver, and i per cent, if it was in gold \ but at
the fame time declaring, that in default of fuch pay¬
ment, and upon the expiration of this term, the depo-
fit fhould belong to the bank at the price at which it
had been received, or for which credit had been given
in the transfer books. What is thus paid for the keep¬
ing of the depofit may be confidered as a fort of ware-
houfe-rent; and why this warehoufe-rent fliould be fo
much dearer for gold than for filver, feveral different
reafons have been afligned. The finenefs of gold, it
has been faid, is more difficult to be" afeertained than
that of filver. Frauds are more eafily pra&ifed, and
occafion a greater lofs in the more precious metal.
Silver, befides, being the ftandard metal, the ftate, it
has been faid, wuffies to encourage more the making
of depofits of filver than thofe of gold.
Depofits of bullion are moft commonly made when
the price is fomewhat lower than ordinary 5 and they
are taken out again when it happens to rife. In Hol¬
land the market price of bullion is generally above the
mint price, for the fame reafon that it was fo in Eng¬
land before the late reformation of the gold coin. The
differenee is faid to be commonly from about fix to
fixteen
BAN [ 369 1 BAN
fixteen ftivers upon the mark, or eight ounces of filver
of eleven parts fine and one part alloy. The bank-
price, or the credit which the bank gives for depofits
of luch filver (when made in foreign coin, of which the
finenefs is well known and afcertained, fuch as Mexico
dollars), is 22 gilders the mark ; the mint-price is about
23 gilders , and the market-price is from 23 gilders fix
ifivers to 23 gilders 16 ftivers, or from 2 to 3 per cent.
above the mint-price. The proportions between the
bank-price, the mint-price, and the market-price, of
gold bullion, are nearly the fame. A perfon can gene¬
rally fell his receipt for the difference between the jnint-
price of bullion and the market-price. A receipt for
bullion is almoft always worth fomething and it very
feldom happens, therefore, that anybody buffers his re¬
ceipt to expire, or allows-his bullion to fall to the bank
at the price at which it had been received, either by
not taking it out before the end of the fix months, or
by neglecting to pay the or 1 per cent, in order to
obtain a new receipt for another fix months. This,
however, though it feldom happens, is faid to happen
fometimes, and more frequently with regard to gold
than with regard to filver, on account of the higher
warehoufe-rent which is paid for the keeping of the
more precious metal.
' The perfon who by making a depofit of bullion ob¬
tains both a bank-credit and a receipt, pays his bills of
exchange as they become due with his bank-credit; and
either fells or keeps his receipt, according as he judges
that the price of bullion is likely to rife or to fall. The
receipt and the bank-credit feldom keep long together,
and there is no occafion that they Ihould. The perfon
who has a receipt, and who wants to take out bullion,
finds always plenty of bank-credits, or bank-money, to
buy at the ordinary price ; and the perfon who has
bank-money, and wants to take out bullion, finds re¬
ceipts always in equal abundance.
The owners of bank-credits and the holders of re¬
ceipts conftitute twro different forts of creditors againft
the bank. The holder of a receipt cannot draw out
the bullion for which it is granted, without re-afiigning
to the bank a fum of bank-money equal to the price at
which the bullion had been received. If he has no
bank-money of his own, he muft purchafe it of thofe
who have it. The owner of bank-money cannot draw
out bullion without producing to the bank receipts for
the quantity w'hich he wants. If he has none of his
own, he muft buy them of thofe who have them. The
holder of a receipt, when he purchafes bank-money,
purchafes the power of taking out a quantity of bul¬
lion, of which the mint-price is 5 per cent, above the
bank-price. The agio of 5 per cent, therefore, which
he commonly pays for it, is paid, not for an imagina¬
ry, but for a real value. The owner of bank-money,
when he purchafes a receipt, purchafes the power of
taking out a quantity of bullion, of which the market-
price is commonly from 2 to 3 per cent, above the mint-
price. The price which he pays for it, therefore, is
paid likewife for a real value. The price of the re¬
ceipt, and the price of the bank-money, compound or
-make up between them the full value or price of the
bullion.
Upon depofits of the coin current in the country,
the bank grants receipts likewife as well as bank-credits;
tint thofe receipts are frequently of no value, and will
Vol. III. Part I.
bring no price in the market. Upon ducatoons, for Ear.k.
example, which in the currency pafs for three gilders ”v
three ftivers each, the bank gives a credit of three gil¬
ders only, or 5 per cent, below their current Value. It
grants a receipt likewife entitling the bearer to take
out the number of ducatoons depofited at any time
within fix months, upon paying \ per cent, for the
keeping. This receipt will frequently bring no price
in the market. Three gilders bank-money generally
fell in the market for three gilders three ftivers, the full
value of the ducatoons if they were taken out of the
bank ; and before they can be taken outj -J- per cent.
muft; be paid for the keeping, which would be mere
lofs to the holder of the receipt. If the agio of the
bank, however, Ihould at any time fall to 3 per cent.
fuch receipts might bring fome price in the market,
and might fell for 1-^ per cent. But the agio of
the bank being now7 generally about 5 per cent, fuch
receipts are frequently allowed to expire, or, as they
exprefs it, to fall to the bank. The 5 per cent, which
the bank gains, when depofits either of coin or bul¬
lion are allowed to fall to it, may be confidered as the
warehoufe rent for the perpetual keeping of fuch de¬
pofits.
The fum of bank-money for which the receipts are
expired muft be very confiderable. It muft compre¬
hend the w'hole original capital of the bank, which,
it is generally fuppofed, has been allowed to remain
there from the time it rvas firft depofited, nobody
caring either to renew- his receipt or to take out his
depofit, as, for the reafons already afligned, neither
the one nor the other could be done without lofs. But
whatever may be the amount of this fum, the propor¬
tion which it bears to the whole mafs of bank-money is
fuppofed to be very fmall. The bank of Amfterdam
has for thefe many years paft been the great warehoufe
ef Europe for bullion, for which the receipts are very
fcldom allowed to expire, or, as they exprefs it, to fall
to the bank. The far greater part of the bank-money,
or of the credits upon the books of the bank, is fup¬
pofed to have been created, for thefe many years paft,
by fuch depofits which the dealers in bullion are con¬
tinually both making and withdrawing.
No demand can be made upon the bank but by means
of a recipice or receipt. The fmaller mafs of bank-
money, for W'hich the receipts are expired, is mixed
and confounded with the much greater mafs for w'hich
they are ftill in force ; fo that, though there may be
a confiderable fum of bank-money for rvhich there are
no receipts, there is no fpecific fum or portion of it
W'hich may not at any time be demanded by one.
The bank cannot be debtor to two perfons for the
fame thing ; and the owmer of bank-money who has
no receipt cannot demand payment of the bank till
he buys one. In ordinary and quiet times, he can
find no difficulty in getting one to buy at the market-
price, w'hich generally correfponds with the price at
what he can fell the coin or bullion it entitles him to
take out of the bank.
It might be otherwdfe during a public calamity : an
invafion, for example, fuch as that of the French in
1672. The owners of bank-money being then all eager
to draw it out of the bank, in order to have it in their
own keeping, the demand for receipts might raife their
price to an exorbitant height. The holders of them
3 A might
BAN
Bank-
might form extravagant expectations, and inftead of
2 or 5 per cent, demand half the bank-money for which
credit had been given upon the depolits that the re¬
ceipts had refpe&ively been granted for. The enemy,
informed of the conftitution of the bank, might even
buy them up in order to prevent the carrying away of
the treafure. In fuch emergencies, the bank, it is fup-
pofed, would break through its ordinary rule of making
payment only to the holders of receipts. The holders
of receipts, who had no bank-money, muft have recei¬
ved within 2 or 3 per cent, of the value of the depofit
for which their refpeCtive receipts had been granted.
The bank, therefore, it is faid, would in this cafe make
no fcruple of paying, either with money or bullion, the
full value of what the owmers of bank-money who could
get no receipts were credited for in its books j paying
at the fame time 2 or 3 per cent, to fuch holders of re¬
ceipts as had no bank-money, that being the whole
value which in this ftate of things could iuftly be fup-
pofed due to them.
Even in ordinary and quiet times it is the interefl of
the holders of receipts to deprefs the agio, in order ei¬
ther to buy bank-money (and confequently the bullion
W’hich their receipts w'ould then enable them to take
out of the bank) fo much cheaper, or to fell their re¬
ceipts to thofe who have bank-money, and wTho w*ant
to take out bullion, fo much dearer} the price of a re¬
ceipt being generally equal to the difference between
the market-price of bank money and that of the coin
or bullion for which the receipt had been granted. It
is the intereft of the owners of bank-money, on the
contrary, to raife the agio, in order either to fell their
bank-money fo much dearer, or to buy a receipt fo
much cheaper. To prevent the flock-jobbing tricks
which thofe oppofite interefls might fometimes occa-
fion, the bank has of late years come to a refolution to
fell at all times bank-money for currency, at 5 per cent.
agio, and to buy it again at 4 per cent, agio. In con-
lequence of this refolution, the agio can never either
rife above $ or fink below 4 per cen*. and the propor¬
tion between the market-price of the bank and that of
current money is kept at all times very near to the pro¬
portion betw’een their intrinfic values. Before this re¬
folution wras taken, the market-price of money ufed
fometimes to rife fo high as 9 per cent, agio, and fome¬
times to fink fo low as par, according as oppofite in¬
terefls happened to influence the market.
The bank of Amflerdam profeffes to lend out no part
of what is depo/ited with it, but, for every gilder for
which it gives credit in its books, to keep in’ its repo-
htories the value of a gilder either in money or bullion.
That it keeps in its repofitories all the money or bullion
for which there are receipts in force, for which it is at
all times liable to be called upon, and which, in reality,
is continually going from it and returning to it again,
cannot well be doubted. But whether it does fo like-
wife with regard to that part of its capital for which
the receipts are long ago expired, for which in ordi¬
nary and quiet times it cannot be called upon, and
■which in reality is very likely to remain wuth it for
ever, or as long as the States of the United Provinces
fubfift, may appear perhaps more uncertain. At Am¬
flerdam, however, no part of faith is better eftablifhed,
than that for every gilder circulated as bank-money
there is a correfpondent gilder in gold and filver to be
[ 37° 3
BAN
found in the treafure of the bank. The city is gua¬
rantee that it fhould be fo. The bank is under the di-
reftion of the four reigning burgomafters, who are
changed every year. Each new fet of burgomafters vi-
ftts the treafure, compares it with the books, receives
it upon oath, and delivers it over, with the fame awful
folemnity, to the fet which fucceeds it; and in that fo-
ber and religious country oaths are not yet difregarded.
A rotation of this kind feems alone a fufficient fecurity
againil any praflices which cannot be avowed. Amidil
all the revolutions which faflion has ever occafioned in
the government of Amllerdam, the prevailing party
has at no time accufed their predeceffors of infidelity
in the adminiftration of the bank. No accufation could
have affected more deeply the reputation and fortune of
the difgraced party ; and if fuch an accufation could
have been fupported, we may be affured that it would
have been brought. In 1672, when the French king
was at Utrecht, the bank of Amfterdam paid fo readi¬
ly as left no doubt of the fidelity with which it had
obferved its engagements. Some of the pieces which
were then brought from its repofttories appeared to
have been fcorched with the fire which happened
in the town-houfe foon after the bank was eftablifh¬
ed. Thofe pieces, therefore, muft have lain there from
that time.
What may be the amount of the treafure in the
bank is a queftion winch has long employed the fpecu-
lations of the curious. Nothing but conje£lure can be
offered concerning it. It is generally reckoned, that
there are about 2000 people who keep accounts with
the bank; and allowing them to have, one with another,
the value of 1500I. lying upon their refpe£live ac¬
counts (a very large allowance), the whole quantity of
bank-money, and confequently of treafure in the bank,
will amount to 3,000,000!. or, at 11 gilders the pound
Sterling, 33,000,000 of gilders ; a great fum, and fuf¬
ficient to carry on a very extenfive circulation, but
vaftly below the extravagant ideas which fome people
have formed of this treafure.
The city of Amfterdam derives a confiderable revenue
from the bank, Befides what may be called the ware-
houfe rent above-mentioned, each perfon, upon firft;
opening an account with the bank, pays a fee of 10 gil¬
ders ; and for every new account, 3 gilders 3 ftivers j
for every transfer, 2 ftivers; and if the transfer is for
lefs than 300 gilders, 6 ftivers ; in order to difcourage
the multiplicity of fmall tranfaftions. The perfon who
neglects to balance his accounts twice in the year for¬
feits 25 gilders.. The perfon who orders a transfer for
more than is upon his account, is obliged to pay 3 per
cent, for the fum overdrawn, and his order is fet afide
into the bargain. The bank is fuppofed, too, to make
a confiderable profit by the fale of the foreign coin or
bullion which fometimes falls to it by the expiring of
receipts, and which is always kept till it can be fold
with advantage. It makes a profit likewife by felling
bank-money at 5 per cent, agio, and buying it in at 4.
Thefe different emoluments amount to a good deal more
than what is neceffaryfor paying the falaries of officers,
and defraying the expence of management. What is
paid for the keeping of bullion upon receipts, is alone
fuppofed to amount to a neat annual revenue of be¬
tween 150,000 and 200,000 gilders. Public utility,
howeverj and not revenue, was the original object of
this
Bank.
BAN [ 371 ] BAN
Banker this inllitution. Its objeft was to relieve the merchants
it from the inconvenience of a difadvantageous exchange.
Bankrupt., revenue which has arifen from it was unforefeen,
and may be confidered as accidental.
Bank, in fea affairs, denotes an elevation of the
ground or bottom of the fea, fo as fometimes to fur-
mount the furface of the water, or at lead to leave the
water fo (hallow as ufually not to allow a veffel to re¬
main afloat over it.—In this fenfe, bank amounts to
much the fame as flat, flioal, &c. There are banks
of fand, and others of (tone, called alfo /helves, or
rocks. In the North fea they alfo fpeak of banks of
ice, which are large pieces of that matter floating.
BANKER, a perfon who traffics and negociates in
moneys who receives and remits money from place to
place by commiflion from correfpondents, or by means
of bills or letters of exchange, &c.
The ancient bankers were called argentarii, and num-
mularii; by the Greeks, and «g-
yv^ag.oifiot. Their chief bufinefs was to put out the
money of private perfons to intereft ; they had their
boards and benches, for this purpofe, in all the markets
and public places, where they took in the money from
•fome to lend it to others.
BANKING, the making of banks to oppofe the
force of the fea, rivers, or the like, and fecure the land
from being overflowed thereby. With refpetl to the
water which is to be kept out, this is called banking;
with refpeft to the land, which is hereby to be de¬
fended, imbanking.
Banking is alfo applied to the keeping a bank, or
the employment of a banker. Banking, in this fenfe,
•fignifies the trading in money, or remitting it from
place to place, by means of bills of exchange. This
anfwers to what the French call faire la banque. In
France, every body is allowed to bank, whether mer¬
chant or not*, even foreigners are indulged in this kind
of traffic. In Italy, banking does not derogate from
nobility, efpecially in the republican ftates *, whence it
is, that moft of the younger fons of great families en¬
gage in it. In reality, it was the nobility of Venice
and Genoa, that, for a long time, were the chief
bankers in the other countries of Europe.
BANKISH, a province of the Mogul’s dominions,
in the north part of the Hither India, lying fouth-
weft of the province of Caffimere.
BANKRUPT, (bancus ruptus), is fo called, be-
caufe, when the bank or flock is broken or exhaufled,
the owner is faid to be a bankrupt. And this word
bankrupt is derived from the French banqueroute, which
fignifies a breaking or failing in the world : banque in
French is as much as tnenfa in Latin, and route is the
fame as vejligiutn ; and this term is faid to have been
taken originally from the Roman menfarii, which were
let in public places j and when a tradefman flipped away,
with an intention to deceive his creditors, he left only
fome vejiigia or figns of his table or Ihop behind him.
But a bankrupt with us, from the feveral defcriptions
given of him in our ftatute-law, may be defined “ a
trader, who fecretes himfelf, or does certain other a£ls Bankrupt,
tending to defraud his creditors.” For the better un- v-~-y—^
derftanding of this article, it will be proper to confi-
der, j. Who may become a bankrupt. 2. What obis
make a bankrupt. 3. The proceedings on a commif-
fion of bankruptcy: and, 4. In what manner an eftate
in goods and chattels may be transferred by bankrupt¬
cy.—But of thefe, the two laft being treated under the
article Commission of Bankruptcy, the two firft only be¬
long to this place.
i. A bankrupt was formerly confidered merely in
the light of a criminal or offender ; and in this fpirit
we are told by Sir Edward Coke, that we have fetched
as w’ell the name, as the wickednefs, of bankrupts from
foreign nations. But at prefent the laws of bank¬
ruptcy are confidered as laws calculated for the benefit
of trade, and founded on the principles of humanity as
wTell as juftice ; and to that end they confer fome pri¬
vileges not only on the creditors, but alfo on the bank¬
rupt or debtor himfelf. On the creditors ; by com¬
pelling the bankrupt to give up all his eft’ecls to their
ufe, without any fraudulent concealment : on the debt¬
or, by exempting him from the rigour of the general
law, whereby his perfon might be confined at the dil-
cretion of his creditor, though in reality he has nothing
to fatisfy the debt \ whereas the law of bankrupts, ta¬
king into confideration the hidden and unavoidable ac¬
cidents to which men in trade are liable, has given
them the liberty of their perfons, and fome pecuniary
emoluments, upon condition they furrender up their
whole eftate to be divided among their creditors.
In this refpeft our legiflature feems to have attended
to the example of the Roman law. We mean not the Blactf.
terrible lawr of the twelve tables, whereby the creditors Comm. II.
might cut the debtor’s body into pieces, and each of472- &■"*
them take his proportionable ftiare : if indeed that law,
de debitore in partes fecando, is to be underftood in fo
very butcherly a light; wdiich many learned men have
with reafon doubted. Nor do w;e mean thofe lefs in¬
human law's (if they may be called fo, as their meaning
is indifputably certain), of imprifoning the debtor’s
perfon in chains 5 fubjedling him to ftripes and hard
labour, at the mercy of his rigid creditor ; and fome¬
times felling him, his wife, and children, to perpetual
foreign flavery trans Tiberim (a) : an oppreflion which
produced fo many popular infurreflions, and feceffions
to the mans facer. But we mean the law’ of ceflion, in¬
troduced by the Chriftian emperors ; whereby, if a
debtor ceded or yielded up all his fortune to his cre¬
ditors, he was fecured from being dragged to a gaol,
“ omni quoque corporali cruciatu femoto.'n For, as the
emperor juftly obferves, “ inhuinanum erat fpoliatum
fortunis fuis in folidum damnariy Thus far was juft
and reafonable : but as the departing from one ex¬
treme is apt to produce its oppofite, we find it after¬
wards enadled, that if the debtor by any unforefeen
accident was reduced to low circumftances, and would
fw'ear that he had not fufticient left to pay his debts, he
ihould not be compelled to cede or give up even that
3 A 2 which
(a) In Pegu, and the adjacent countries in the Eaft Indies, the creditor is entitled to difpofe of the debtor
himfelf, and likcw’ife of his wife and children ; infomuch, that he may even violate with impunity the chaftity of
the debtor’s wife; but then, by fo doing, the debt is underftood to be difeharged.
BAN [ 372
Bankrupt, which he had in his pofleflion ; a law which, under a
£ajpe notJon 0f humanity, feems to be fertile of perjury,
injuftice, and abfurdity.
The laws of England, more wifely, have fleered in
the middle between both extremes : providing at once
againll the inhumanity of the creditor, who is not fuf
fered to confine an honeft bankrupt after his effe&s are
delivered up ; and at the fame time taking care that
all his juft debts fhall be paid, fo far as the effefts will
extend. But ftill they are cautious of encouraging
prodigality and extravagance by this indulgence to
debtors : and therefore they allow the benefit of the
laws of bankruptcy to none but aflual traders 5 fince
that fet of men are, generally fpeaking, the only per-
fons liable to accidental Ioffes, and to an inability of
paying their debts, without any fault of their own. If
perfons in other fituations of life run in debt without
the power of payment, they muff take the confequence
of their own indifcretion, even though they meet with
fudden accidents that may reduce their fortunes : for
the law holds it to be an unjuftifiable praftice, for any
perfon but a trader to encumber himfelf with debts of
any confiderable value. If a gentleman, or one in a
liberal profeffion, at the time of contracting his debts,
has a iufficient fund to pay them, the delay of pav-
ment is a fpecies of difhonefty, and a temporary inju¬
ftice to his creditor : and if, at fuch time, he has not
fufficient fund, the difhonefty and injuftice is the great¬
er. He cannot therefore murmur, if he fuffers the pu-
nifhment which he has voluntarily drawn upon himfelf.
But in mercantile tranfaClions the cafe is far otherwife.
Trade cannot be carried on without mutual credit on
both fides ; the contracting of debts is therefore here
not only ju.ftifiable but neceflary. And if, by acci¬
dental calamities, as by the lofs of a ftiip in a tempeft,
the failure of brother-traders, or by the non-payment
of perfons out of trade, a merchant or trader becomes
incapable of difcharging his own debts, it is his mif-
fortune and not his fault. To the misfortunes therefore
of debtors, the law has given a compaffionate remedy,
but denied it to their faults : fince, at the fame time
that it provides for the fecurity of commerce, by en-
aCling that every confiderable trader may be declared
a bankrupt, for the benefit of his creditors as well as
himfelf, it has alfo, to difcourage extravagance, decla¬
red that no one lhall be capable of being made a bank¬
rupt, but only a trader •, nor capable of receiving the
full benefit of the ftatutes, but only an induftrious tra¬
der.
In the interpretation of the feveral ftatutes made
f 34 Hen. concerning Engliih bankrupts f, it hath been held,
VIII. c. 4. that buying only, or felling only, will not qualify a
13 Eh-z. c. man to he a bankrupt; but it muft be both buying
and felling, and alfo getting a livelihood by it : as, by
exercifing the calling of a merchant, a grocer, a mer¬
cer, or, in one general word, a chapman, who is one
that buys and fells any thing. But no handicraft oc¬
cupation (where nothing is bought or fold, and there¬
fore an extenfive credit, for the ftock in trade, is not
necefiary to be had) will make a man a regular bank¬
rupt ; as that of a hufbandman, a gardener, and the
like, who are paid for their work and labour. Alfo an
innkeeper cannot, as fuch, be a bankrupt : for his
gain or livelihood does not arife from buying and fell¬
ing in the way of merchandife, but greatly from the
BAN
21 'Jac.
£. 19.
5 Gen. II.
W 3°-
ufe of his rooms and furniture, his attendance, and the Bankrupt.
like •, and though he may buy corn and victuals, to —y- 
fell again at a profit, yet that no more makes him a
trader, than a fchoolmafter or other perfon is, that
keeps a boarding-houfe, and makes confiderable gains
by buying and felling what he fpends in the houfe,
and fuch a one is clearly not within the ftatutes. But
where perfons buy goods, and make them up into
faleable commodities, as Ihoemakers, fmiths, and the
like 5 here, though part of the gain is by bodily la¬
bour, and not by buying and felling, yet they are
within the ftatutes of bankrupts j for the labour is
only in melioration of the commodity, and rendering
it more fit for fale.
2. To learn what the a£ts of bankruptcy are which
render a man a bankrupt, we murt confult the feveral
ftatutes, and the refolutions formed by the courts
thereon. Among thefe may therefore be reckoned,
1. Departing from the realm, whereby a man with¬
draws himfelf from the jurifdiftion and coercion of the
law, with an intent to defraud his creditors. 2. De¬
parting from his own houfe, with an intent to fecrete
himfelf and avoid his creditors. 3. Keeping in his
own houfe, privately (except for juft and necefiary
caufe), fo as not to be feen or fpoken with by his cre¬
ditors 5 which is likewife conftrued to be an intention
to defraud his creditors, by avoiding the procefs of the
law. 4. Procuring or fufferiug himfelf willingly to be
arrefted, or outlawed, or imprifoned, without juft and
lawful caufe ; which is likewife deemed an attempt to
defraud his creditors. 5. Procuring his money, goods,
chattels, and effects, to be attached or fequeftrated by
any legal procefs 5 which is another plain and diredt
endeavour to difappoint his creditors of their fecurity.
6. Making any fraudulent conveyance to a friend, or
fecret truftee, of his lands, tenements, goods, or chat¬
tels : which is an ad! of the fame fufpicious nature with
the laid. 7. Procuring any protedlion, not being him¬
felf privileged by parliament, in order to fcreen his
perfon from arrefts ; which alfo is an endeavour to
elude thejuftice of the law. 8. Endeavouring, or de-
firing, by any petition to the king, or bill exhibited in
any of the king’s courts again!! any creditors, to com¬
pel them to take lefs than their juft debts •, or to pro-
craftinate the time of payment, originally contradled
for ; which are an acknowledgment of either his po¬
verty or his knavery. 9. Lying in prifon for two
months, or more, upon arreft or other detention for
debt, without finding bail, in order to obtain his li¬
berty. For the inability to procure bail argues a ftrong
deficiency in his credit, owing either to his fufpedled
poverty, or ill charadler ; and his negled! to do it, if
able, can arife only from a fraudulent intention : in
either of which cafes, it is high time for his creditors
to look to themfelves, and compel a diftribution of his
effedls. 10. Efcaping from prifon after an arreft for
a juft debt of 100I. or upwards. For no man would
break prifon, that was able and defirous to procure
bail ; which brings it within the reafon of the laft cafe,
ix. Neglecting to make fatisfaftion for any juft debt
to the amount of icol. within two months after fer-
vice of legal procefs, for fuch debt, upon any trader
having privilege of parliament.
Thefe are the feveral a£ts of bankruptcy exprefsly
defined by the ftatutes relating to this article j which
being
BAN . C 37
Banks, being fo numerous, and tbe whole law of bankrupts
—being an innovation on the common law, our courts
of juftice have been tender of extending or multiplying
acts of bankruptcy by any conftruction or implication.
And therefore Sir John Holt held, that a man’s re¬
moving his goods privately to prevent their being fei-
zed in execution, wras no act of bankruptcy. For the
Itatutes mention only fraudulent gifts to third perfons,
and procuring them to be feized by {ham procefs, in
order to defraud creditors : but this, though a pal¬
pable fraud, yet, falling within neither of thofe cafes,
cannot be adjudged an a£t of bankruptcy. So alfo it
has been determined exprefsly, that a banker’s flop¬
ping or refufing payment is no aft of bankruptcy : for
it is not within the defcription of any of the flatutes 5
and there may be good reafons for his fo doing, as
fufpicion of forgery, and the like : and if, in confe-
quence of fuch refufal, he is arrefted, and puts in bail,
{till it is no aft of bankruptcy 5 but if he goes to pri-
fon, and lies there two months, then, and not before,
is he become a bankrupt.
As to the confequences refulting from the unhappy
fituation of a bankrupt, fee the article Commission of
Bankruptcy.
BANKS, John, a dramatic writer, was bred to
the law, and belonged to the fociety of Gray’s Inn \
but this profefTion not fuiting his natural difpofition,
he quitted it for the fervice of the mufes. Here, how¬
ever, he found his rewards by no means adequate to
his deferts. His emoluments at the belt were preca¬
rious, and the various fucceffes of his pieces too feel¬
ingly convinced him of the error in his choice. This,
however, did not prevent him from purfuing with
cheerfulnefs the path he had taken 5 his thirft of fame,
and warmth of poetic enthufiafm, alleviating to his
imagination many dilagreeable circumftancesinto which
indigence, the too frequent attendant on poetical pur-
fuits, frequently threw him. His turn was entirely to
tragedy •, his merit in ■which is of a peculiar kind.
For at the fame time that his language muft be confef-
fed to be extremely unpoetical, and his numbers un¬
couth and unharmonious 5 nay, even his charafters ve¬
ry far from being ftrongly marked or diltinguifhed,
and his epifodes extremely irregular : yet it is impof-
fible to avoid being deeply aftefted at the reprefenta-
tion, and even at the reading, of his tragic pieces.
This is owing in the general to a happy choice of his
fubjefts ; which are all borrowed from hiftory, either
real or romantic •, and indeed the moft of them from
circumltances in the annals of our own country, wThich,
not only from their being familiar to our continual re¬
collection, but even from their having fome degree of
relation to ourfelves, we are apt to receive with a kind
of partial prepoitettion, and a pre-determination to be
pleafed. He has conftantly chofen as the bafis of his
plays fuch tales as were in themfelves and their well-
known cataftrophes moft truly adapted to the purpofes
of the drama. He has indeed but little varied from
the ftriftnefs of hiftorical faCts *, yet he feems to have
made it his conltant rule to keep the fcene perpetually
alive, and never fuffer his characters to droop. His
verfe is not poetry, but profe run mad. Yet will the
falfe gem fometimes approach fo near in glitter to the
true one, at lead in the eyes of all but real connoiffeurs
(and how fmall a part of an audience are to be ranked
3 ] BAN
in this clafs it will need no ghoft to inform us,) that
bombaft will frequently pafs for the true fublime ; and
where it is rendered the vehicle of incidents in ih.em-
felves affeCting, and in which the heart is apt to inte-
reft itfelf, it will perhaps be found to have a ftronger
power on the human pallions than even that property
to which it is in reality no more than a bare fucceda-
neum. And from thefe principles it is that wTe mult
account for IVIr Banks’s writings having in the gene¬
ral drawm more tears from, and excited more terror in,
even judicious audiences, than thofe of much more cor¬
rect and more truly poetical authors. The tragedies
he has left behind him are, 1. Albion Queens. 2. Cyrus
the Great. 3. DeftruCtion of Troy. 4. Innocent U-
furper. 5. Itland Queens. This is only the Albion
Queens altered. 6. Rival Kings. 7. Virtue Betray¬
ed. 8. Unhappy Favourite. The Albion Queens was
rejeCted by the managers in 1684 j but was aCted by
Queen Anne’s command in 1706, with great applaufe,
and has been feveral times revived. The Unhappy
Favourite continued till very lately a flock tragedy at
the theatres; but gives way at prefent to the latter
tragedies from the fame ftory, by Jones and Brooke..—
Neither the time of the birth, nor that of the death,
of this author, are afcertained. His remains, howe¬
ver, lie interred in the church of St James’s, Weft-
minfter.
BANKS’S ISLAND, a fmall ifland in the South fea,
difcovered' by Captain Cook in 1770, in S. Lat. 53.
32. W. Long. 186. 30. It is of a circular figure, and
about 24 leagues in compafs r it is fufficiently high to
be feen at the diftance of 1 2 or 15 leagues ; and the
land has a broken irregular furface, with the appear¬
ance of barrennefs rather than fertility. It is, how^-
ever, inhabited j as fome ftraggiing favages were ob-
ferved upon it.
BANKSIA. See Botany Index.
BANN, or Ban (from the Brit, ban, i. e. clamour),
is a proclamation or public notice ; any public fum-
rnons or ediCt, whereby a thing is commanded or for¬
bidden. It is a word ordinary among the feudifts y
and there is both hanus and banttm, which fignify twro
feveral things.—The word banns is particularly ufed in
England in publifhing matrimonial contrails ; v-hich
is done in the church before marriage, to the end that
if any perfons can fpeak againlt the intention of the
parties, either in refpeit of kindred, precontract, or
for other juft caufe, they may take their exception in
time, before the marriage is confummated } and in the
canon law, Ban rue funt proclamationes fponfi et fponfr
in eccle/iis fierifo/ita. But there may be a faculty or
licenfe for the marriage, and then this ceremony is
omitted : and minifters are not to celebrate matrimony
between any penons without a licenfe, except the
banns have been firit publifhed three feveral times, up¬
on pain of fufpenfion, &c. Can, 62.
The ufe of matrimonial banns is faid to have been
firit introduced in the Gallican church, though fome-
thing like it obtained even in the primitive times j and
it is this that Tertullian is fuppofed to mean hx trinun
dina promu/gatio. The council of Lateran firft ex¬
tended, and made the ufage general. By the ordi¬
nance of Blois, no perfon could validly contract mar¬
riage, without a preceding proclamation of three banns y
nor could any perfon whatever be difpenfed with, ex-
cent
Bark?
Bann.
BAN
^ann.
Banner
cept for the two laft. But the French themfelves have
abated much of this feverity ; and only minors are now
under an abfolute neceffity of fubmitting to the forma¬
lity of banns. For majors, or thofe of age, after pub¬
lication of the firft banns, the two latter are eafily
bought off.
Bank, is alfo ufed to denote profcription or banifh-
xnent for a crime proved ; becaufe anciently publilh-
ed by found of trumpet; or, as Voffius thinks, be¬
caufe thofe who did not appear at the above-mentioned
fummons, were punifiled by profcription. Hence, to
put a prince under the bann cf the empire, is to declare
him diverted of all his dignities. The fentence only
denotes an interdift of all intercourfe, and offices
of humanity, with the offender; the form of which
feems taken from that of the Romans, who baniihed
perfons by forbidding them the ufe of fire and water.
_Sometimes alfo cities are put under the imperial bann j
that is, ftripped of their rights and privileges.
Bann alfo denotes a pecuniary mulct, or penalty,
laid on a delinquent for offending againft a bann.
Bann, or Bann us, a title anciently given to the
governor or viceroy of Croatia, Dalmatia, and Scla-
vonia.
Epifcopal Bann (Bannus Epifcopalis), a mul£t paid
to. the bilhop by thofe guilty of facrilege and other
crimes.
Bann is alfo ufed for a folemn anathema, or ex-
communication attended with curies, &c. In this
ienfe w'e read of papal banns, &c.
Bann, in Military Affairs, a proclamation made in
the army by beat of drum, found of trumpet, &c.
requiring the ftridt obfervance of difcipline, either for
the declaring a new officer, or puniffiing an offender.
BANNER denotes either a fquare flag, or the
principal ftandard belonging to a prince.
We find a multiplicity of opinions concerning the
etymology of the wmrd banner ; fome deriving it from
the Latin bandum, “ a band or flag j” others from the
Word bann, “ to fummons the vaffals to appear in arms j5’
others again from the German ban, “ a field or tene¬
ment,” becaufe landed men alone wrere allowed a ban¬
ner : and, finally, there are fome who think it is a cor¬
ruption of panniere, from pannus, “ cloth,” becaufe
banners wxre originally made of cloth.
'The Banner of France, was the largeft and richeft
of all the flags borne by the ancient kings in their great
military expeditions. St Martin’s cap wTas in ufe 600
years as the banner of France ; it was made of tafiety,
painted with the image of that faint, and laid one or
two days on his tomb to prepare it for ufe. About
the year 1100 came in a more pompous apparatus.
The banner royal w'as fattened to the top of a matt, or
fome tall tree, planted on a fcaffold, borne on a car¬
riage drawn by oxen, covered with velvet houfings, de¬
corated with devices or cyphers of the prince reigning.
At the foot of the tree wras a prieft, who faid mafs early
every morning. Ten knights mounted guard on the
fcaffold night and day, and as many trumpets at the
foot of the tree never cealed flouriffiing, to animate the
troops. This cumberfome machine, the mode of which
■was brought from Italy, continued in ufe about 130
years. Its port was in the centre of the army. And
here it was that the chief feats were performed, to car¬
ry off and defend the royal banner $ for there was no
I
[ 374 1
BAN
vi&ory witnout it, nor was any army reputed vanquifn- Bannerets,
ed till they had loft this banner. w
ERETS, aj-j ancient order of knights, or
feudal lords; who, poffeffing feveral large fbes/led
their vaffals to battle under their own flag or banner
when fummoned thereto by the king. The word
feems formed from banner, “ a fquare flag ;” or from
band, which anciently denoted a flag.—Bannerets are
alio called in ancient w riters mHites vexiUiferi, and ve-
xillaru bannerarii, bannarii, banderifei, &c.
Anciently there were two kinds of knights, great
and littlei the firft whereof were called bannerets, the
fecond bachelors; the firft composed the upper, the
fecond the middle, nobility.
The banneret was a dignity allowed to march un¬
der his own flag, v- hzreas, xhe bachelarius eques ioMow -
ed that of another, i o be qualified for a banneret,
one muft be a gentleman of family, and muft have a
power to raife to certain number of armed men, with
eftate enough to fubfift at Jeaft 28 or 30 men. This
muft have been very confiderable in thofe days ; be¬
caufe each man, befides his fervant, had two horfemen
to wait on him armed, the one with a crofs-bow, the
other wuth a bow and hatchet. As he was not allow¬
ed to be a baron who had not above 13 knights fees,
fo he was not admitted to be a banneret if he had lefs
than 10.
Banneret, according to Spelman, was a middle or¬
der between a baron and a Ample knight; called fome-
times alfo vexillarius minor, to diftmguilh him from the
greater, that is, from the baron, to whom alone pro¬
perly belonged theyW vexilli, or privilege of the fquare
flag. Hence the banneret w’as alfo called banncrettus,
quaff baro minor $ a word frequently ufed by Englilh
waiters in the fame fenfe as banneret wTas by the French,
though neither of them occur before the time of Ed¬
ward II.
Some will have bannerets to have originally been
perlons who had fome portion of a barony affigned
them ; and enjoyed it under the title of baro proximus,
and that with the fame prerogatives as the baron him-
felf. Some, again, find the origin of bannerets in
France, others in Brittany, others in England. Thefe
laft attribute the inftitution of bannerets to Conan,
lieutenant of Maximus, who commanded the Roman
legions in England under the empire of Gratian in 383.
This general, fay they, revolting, divided England into
40cantons, and in theiecantonsdiftributed 40 knights;
to whom he gave a power of affembling, on occafion,
under their feveral banners, as many of the effe&ive
men as were found in their refpe&ive diftri&s: whence
they are called bannerets. However this be, it appears
from Froiflart, &c. that anciently fuch of the military
men as were rich enough to raife and fubfift a company
of armed men, and had a right to do fo, were called
bannerets. Not, however, that thefe qualifications
rendered them knights, but only bannerets ; the appel¬
lation of hnight being only added thereto, becaufe they
were Ample knights before.
Bannerets were fecond to none but knights of the
garter. They were reputed the next degree below the
nobility; and were allowed to bear arms with fup.
porters, which none elfe may under the degree of a
baron. In France, it is faid, the dignity was heredi¬
tary ; but in England it died with the perfon that
gained
Bannefet
II
Banquet¬
ing.
BAN
The order dwindled on the
[ 375
inftitution of
gained it
baronets by King James I. and at length became ex¬
tinct. The laft perfon created banneret was Sir John
Smith, made fo after Edghill fight, for refcuing the
ftandard of King Charles I.
The form of the banneret’s creation was this. On
a day of battle, the candidate prefented his flag to the
king or general *, who, cutting oft the train or fldrt
thereof, and making it a fquare, returned it again, the
proper banner of bannerets j who are hence fometimes
called hntghts of the fquare fag. Tnere feem to have
been bannerets created either in a different manner, or
by others than the fovereign-, fince Kmg James, in the
patents of baronets, gives them precedence to all knights
bannerets, except fuch as are created by the king him-
felf in the field j which implies, either that there are
fome of this order created out of the field, or by infe¬
rior perfons.
Banneret is alfo the name of an officer or magi-
ftrate of Rome towards the dole of the 14th century.
—The people of that city, and throughout the terri¬
tory of the church, during the difputes of the anti¬
popes, had formed a kind of republican government j
where the whole power was lodged in the hands of a
magiftrate called fenator, and twelve heads of quarters
called bannerets, by reafon of the banners which each
raifed in his diftrid.
BANNOCK, a kind of oat-cake, baked in the em¬
bers, or on a ftone placed before the fire. It is common
in the northern parts of this kingdom.
B ANNUM, in Law, fignifies the utmoft bounds of a
manor or town.
BANQUET, a feaft or entertainment where people
regale themfelves with pleafant foods or fruits.
Banquet, in the Manege, that fmall part of the
branch of a bridle that is under the eye 5 wffiich being
rounded like a fmall rod, gathers and joins the extre¬
mities of the bit to the branch, in fuch a manner that
the banquet is not feen, but covered by the cope, or that
part of the bit that is next the branch.
Banquet-Line, an imaginary line drawm, in making
a bit, along the banquet, and prolonged up or down,
to adjuft the defigned force or weaknefs of the branch,
in order to make it ftiff or eafy.
Banquet, or Banquette, in Tortifcation, a little
foot-bank, or elevation of earth, forming a path which
runs along the infide of a parapet, upon which the
mulketeers get up, in order to difeover the counter-
fcarp, or to fire on the enemy, in the moat or in the
covert-wTay.
BANQUETING room or house. See Saloon.
The ancient Romans flipped in the atrium, or vefti-
bule, of their houfes *, but, in after-times, magnificent
faloons, or banqueting-rooms, were built, for the more
commodious and fplendid entertainment of their guefts.
Lucullus had feveral of thefe, each diftinguiftied by the
name of fome god ; and there was a particular rate of
expence appropriated to each. Plutarch relates with
what magnificence he entertained Cicero and Pompey,
who went with defign to flirprife him, by only telling a
flave who waited, that the cloth ffiould be laid in the
Apollo. The emperor Claudius, among others, had a
fplendid banqueting-room named iV/ercwry. But every
thing of this kind was outdone by the luftre of that
celebrated banqueting-houfe of Nero, called domtts au-
] BAN
which, by the circular motion of its partitions Bambckie
and ceilings, imitated the revolution of the heavens,
and reprefented the different feafons of the year, which 1
changed at every fervice, and fhowered dowm flowers,
effences, and perfumes, on the guefts.
BANSTICKLE. See Gasterosteus, Ichthyo¬
logy Index.
BANTAM, a town of the ifland of Java, in the
Eaft Indies, fituated in E. Long. 105. 16. S. Lat.
6. 20. It is the capital of a kingdom of the fame
name, with a harbour and caftle ; but the harbour is
now fo choked up that it is inacceffible to veffels oi
any great burden. It is divided into two towns fepa-
rated by a river, and one of them inhabited by the
Chiuefe. Bantam once enjoyed a flouriffiing trade. It
was a great mart for pepper and other fpicesj but this
trade, as well as the power of its fovereign, had fallen
to decay. For its hiftory, &c. fee Java.
Bantam-worr, a kind of painted or carved work*;
refembling that of Japan, only more gaudy.
There are twTo forts of Bantam, as well as of Japan
wmrk. As, in the latter, fome are flat, lying even
with the black, and others high and emboffed ; fo, in
Bantam-work, fome are flat and others in-cut, or
carved into the wood, as we find in many large fereens:
with this difference, that the Japan artifts work chiefly
in gold and other metals ; and thofe of Bantam gene¬
rally in colours, with a fmall fprinkling of gold here
and there : for the flat Bantam-work is done in co¬
lours, mixed with gum-water, proper for the thing de¬
figned to be imitated. For the carved, or in-cut kind,
the method of performing it is thus deferibed by an in¬
genious artift : I. The wmod is to be primed with
whiting and fize, fo often till the primer lie near a
quarter of an inch thick $ then it is to be water-plain¬
ed, e. rubbed wdth a fine wet cjoth, and, fome time
after, rubbed very fmooth, the blacks laid on, varniftied
up with a good body, and poliffied well, though with
a gentle hand. This done, the defign is to be traced
out with vermilion and gum-water, exaflly in the
manner wherein it is intended to be cut; the figures,
trees, buildings, &c. in their due proportion : then the
graver is applied, with other tools, of proper flrapes,
differing according to the workman’s fancy : with thefe
he cuts deep or fhallow7, as is found convenient, but
never deeper than the whiting lies, the wood being
never to feel the edge 'of the inftrument. Lines, or
parts of the black, are ftill to be left for the draperies,
and other outlines, and for the diftinflion of one
thing from another; the rule being to cut where the
white is, and leave the black untouched. The carving
being finilhed, then take to the pencil, with which the
colours are laid into the cut-work : after this, the gold
is to be laid in thofe places which the defign requires $
for which purpofe, a ftrong thick gum-arabic water is
taken and laid with a pencil on the work •, and, while
this remains wet, leaf-gold is cut writh a iharp fmooth
edged knife, in little pieces, ffiaped to the bignefs and
figure of the places where they are to be laid. Thefe
being taken up with a little cotton, they daub them
with the fame clofe to the gum-water, which affords a
rich lurtre. The work thus finiffied, they clear up the
black with oil, taking care not to touch the colours.
The European workmen ordinarily ufe brafs-duft, which
is lefs bright and beautiful,
& .BANTRY,
Various
names
given to
baptifm.
BAP . t 3
BAN fR if, a town of Ireland, in the county of
Cork, and province of Manlier. It is feated on a
bay of the fame name, in W. Long. 9. ij. N. Lat.
S1- So-
BAOBAB, the name given by Profper Alpinus to
the African calabalh-tree, fince called Adansonia.
See Botany bidc-x.
BAP I’lSM, in matters of religion, the ceremony
of walking ; or a facrament, by which a perfon is ini¬
tiated into the Chriftian church.—The word is formed
from the Greek of /ZxTtiu to dip or wa/h. Bap¬
tifm is known, in ecclelialfical writers, by divers other
names and titles. Sometimes it is called palingencjia,
or laver of regeneration ; fometimes fa/us, or life and
falvatwn ; lometimes o-'fccyis, fignaculum Domini, and
Binghams ftgnaculum fidei, or the feat of faith ; fometimes abfo-
(Jrig. AWi/Tutely myjiemum, and facr amentum ; fometimes the fa¬
crament of faith; fometimes viaticum, from its being
adminiilered to departing perfons j fometimes facerdo-
tiumlaici, or the laypriejihood, becaufe allowed, in cafes
of neceility, to be conferred by laymen : fometimes it is
called the great circumci/ion, becaufe it was imagined to
lucceed in the room of circumcifion, and to be a feal of
the Chriilian covenant, as that was the feal of the cove¬
nant made with Abraham: fo, in regard that baptifm had
Chrill for its author, and not man, it was anciently known
by the name of Aaga* and Kv^ix, the gift of the
Lord: fometimes it was fimply called au^ov, without any
other addition, by way of eminence, becaufe it was
both a gratuitous and lingular gift of Chrilt : in refe¬
rence to the making men complete members of Chrilt’s
body, the church, it had the name of TsAs<w<r<f, and
TsAsoj, the confecration, and confummation ; becaufe it
, gave men the perfeftion of Chrillians, and a right to
partake of the To TtXioy, which was the Lord's Supper:
it had alfo the name of and f-ivTctyuyict, the ini¬
tiation, becaufe it was the admittance of men to all the
facred rites and myfteries of the Chriilian religion.
Baptifm has been fuppofed by many learned authors
to have had its origin from the Jewith church, in
which, as they maintain, it was the pradlice long be¬
fore Chrilt’s time, to baptize profelytes or converts to
their faith, as part of the ceremony of their admiffion j
a pra£tice which, according to fome, obtains among
them to this day ; a perfon turning Jew, is firit cir-
cumcifed, and, when healed, is bathed, or baptized in
water, in prefence of their rabbins j after which he is
reputed a good Jew. Others, however, infill that the
Jewifh profelyte baptifm is not by far fo ancient, and
that John the Baptill was the firll adminillrator of
baptifm among the Jews. Of this opinion were Dey-
lingius, J. G. Carpzovius, Boernerus, Wernfdorfius,
Zeltnerus, Owen, Knatchbull, Jennings, Gill, and
others.
Grotius is of opinion, that the rite of baptifm had
its original from the time of the deluge ; immediately
after which, he thinks, it was inllituted in memory of
the world having been purged by water. Some learned
men think it was added to circumcifion, foon after the
Samaritan fchifm, as a mark of dillin&ion to the ortho¬
dox Jews. Spencer, who is fond of deriving the rites
of the Jewifii religion from the ceremonies of the Pa¬
gans, lays it down as a probable fuppofition, that the
-Jews received the baptifm of profelytes from the neigh¬
bouring nations, who were wont to prepare candidates
2
Its origin,
&.C.
76 1 BAP
for the more facred fundtions of their religion, by' a fo- Baptifm.
lemn ablution ; that by this affinity of facred rites,' V—~
they might draw the Gentiles to embrace their religion,
and that the profelytes (in gaining of whom they were
extremely diligent (might the more eafily comply with
the tranfition from Gentilifm to Judaifm. In confiima
tion of this opinion, he obferves, firll, that there is
no divine precept for the baptifm of profelytes, God
having enjoined only the rite of circumcifion for the
admiflion of llrangers into the Jewilh religion. Se¬
condly, that, among foieign nations, the Egyptians, Per-
fians, Greeks, Romans, and others, it was cullomary that
thole who were to be initiated into their myileries, or fa¬
cred rites, Ihould be firit purified by dipping their whole
body in water. That learned writer adds, as a farther
confirmation of his opinion, that the cup of bleffing
likewife, added to the pafchal fupper, feems plainly to
have been derived from a pagan original : for the
Greeks, at their fealts, had one cup, called ttot/i^iov
ctytoOx extuavn;, the cup of the good dxmon or god, which
they drank at the conclufion of their entertainment,
when the table was removed. Since then, a rite of
Gentile origin was added to one of the Jewilh facra-
ments, viz. the paflbver, there can be no abfurdity in
luppofing, that baptifm, which was added to the other
facrament, namely circumcifion, might be derived from
the fame fource. In the lall place, he obferves, that
Chrill, in the inllitution of his facraments, paid a pe¬
culiar regard to thofe rites which were borrowed from
the Gentiles: for rejedling circumcifion and the pafchal
fupper, he adopted into his religion baptifm and the
facred cup 5 thus preparing the way for the converfion
and reception of the Gentiles into his church.
The defign of the Jewilh baptifm, if baptifm be
pracliled by them, is fuppofed to be, to import a rege¬
neration, whereby the profelyte is rendered a new- man,
and of a Have becomes free. The effeft of it is, to
cancel all former relations •, fo that thofe who were
before akin to the perfon, after the ceremony ceafed to
be fo. It is to this ceremony Chrilt is fuppofed to have
alluded, in his expreffiion to Nicodemus, that it was
neceflary that he fliould be born again, in order to be¬
come his difciple.—The neceffiity of baptifm to falva-
tion, is grounded on thofe two layings of our Saviour:
He that belitveth, and is baptixed, jhall be faved ; and,
Except a man be born of water and of the Spirit,he cannot
enter into the kingdom of God. The ancients did not ge- Qp;njons
nerally think the mere want of baptifm, where the pro-concern;ng
curing it was impracticable, excluded men abfolutely the effects
from the hopes of eternal falvation. Some few of them, °1 baptifin.
indeed, are pretty fevere upon infants dying without
baptilm ; and fome others feem alfo, in general terms,
to deny eternal life to adult perfons dying without it :
but when they interpret themlelves, and fpeak more
diltindtly, they make fome allowances, and except fe-
veral cafes, in which the want of baptifm may be fup-
plied by other means. Such are, martyrdom, which
commonly goes by the name of fecond baptifm in men's
own blood, in the writings of the ancients j becaufe of
the powTer and efficacy it was thought to have to lave
men by the invifible baptifm of the Spirit, wuthout the
external element of w'ater. Faith, and repentance,
were alfo efteemed a fupplement to the want of bap¬
tifm, in fuch catechumens as died while they were pi-
oufly preparing themfelves for baptifm. Conftantly
communicating
BAP
Of the
time, place,
and fub-
jjedts of
baptifm.
Baptifm. communicating with the church, was thought to fup-
ply the w'ant of baptifm, in perfons w’ho had been ad¬
mitted to communion, on a prefumption of their being
duly baptized, though the contrary afterwards appear¬
ed. For infants dying without baptifm, the cafe -was
thought more dangerous 5 as here, no perfonal faith,
repentance, or the like, could be pleaded, to fupply the
defeft, and wafh away original fin : on this account,
they who fpoke moll favourably of them, as Greg.
Nazianz'en, and Severus bilhop of Antioch, only aflign-
ed them a middle ftate, neither in heaven nor hell.
But the Latins, as St Auguftin, Fulgentius, Marius
Mercator, &c. who never received the opinion of a
middle ftate, concluded, as they could not be received
into heaven, they muft go to hell. Pelagius, and his
followers, who denied original fin, afferted, that they
might be admitted to eternal life and falvation, though
not to the kingdom of heaven; between which they
diftinguiftied. Where the fault was not on the fide of
the child, nor his parents, but of the minifter, or
where any unavoidable accident rendered baptifm ab-
folutely impoflible, Hincmar, and others, make an
exception, in holding the child faved without bap¬
tifm.
The receiving baptifm is not limited to any time, or
age of life. Some contend for its being adminifter-
ed like circumcifion, precifely on the eighth day, as
Greg. Nazianzen ; and others wrould have it deferred
till the child is three years of age, and able to hear the
myftic words, and make anfwer thereto, though he
do not underftand them. In the canon law we find
divers injunctions againft deferring the baptifm of in¬
fants beyond the 37th day, 30th day, and the 9th day;
feme of them under pecuniary forfeitures.
Salmafius, and Suicerus from him, deliver it as
authentic hiftory, that for the two firft ages, no one
received baptifm, who was not firft inftruCted in the
faith and doCtrine of Chrift, fo as to be able to an¬
fwer for himfelf, that he believed ; becaufe of thofe
words, He that believetb, and is bapti%ed; which, in
effeCt, is to fay, that no infant, for the firft twm ages,
was ever admitted to Chriftian baptifm. But, after¬
wards, they own, that paedo-baptifm came in, upon
the opinion that baptifm was neceffary to falvation.
But Voffms, Dr Forbes, Dr Hammond, Mr Walker,
and efpecially Mr Wall, who has exaCtly confidered
the teftimony and authority of almoft every ancient
writer that has faid any thing upon this fubjeCt, en¬
deavour to evince, that infants were baptized even in
the apoftolical age. It is certain, Tertullian pleads
ftrongly againft: giving baptifm to infants; which (hows,
at leaft, that there was fome fuch praCHce in his age,
though he di(approved of it. It is certain, the ordi¬
nary fubjeCIs of this facrament, in the firft ages, were
converts from Judaifm and Gentilifm, who, before they
could be admitted to baptifm, were obliged to fpend
fome time in the ftate of catechumens, to qualify them
to make their profeflions of faith, and a Chriftian life,
in their own perfons: ftw, without fuch perfonal pro¬
feflions, there wras ordinarily no admiflion of them to
the privilege of baptifm. Thofe baptized in their
fick-beds were called clinici ; and were held in fome re¬
proach, as not being reputed true Chriftians. Hence
feveral cenfures, in councils'and ecclefiaftical workers,
of clinic baptifm. This clinic baptifm was not fuffi-
Von. HI. Part I.
t 377 1
BAP
cicnt to qualify the perfon, in cafe of recovery, for BaptilW.
ordination. Some had their baptifm put off by way't-—
of punifnment, when they fell into grofs and fcanda-
lous crimes, which were to be expiated by a longer
courfe of difeipline and repentance. This was fome-
times 5, 10, 20 years, or more ; even all their lives
to the hour of death, when their crimes were very fla¬
grant.
In the earlieft ages of the church, there was no ftated
time or place for the reception of baptifm. After¬
wards Eafter, Whitfuntide, and Epiphany, became
folemn feafons, out of which baptifm was not admi-
niftered, except in cafes of neceflity. The catechu¬
mens who were to receive it at thefe times, w?ere called
competentes: and to thefe it is that St Cyril addreffes
his catechefes. In the apoftolical age, and fome time
after, before churches and baptifteries were generally
eredled, they baptized in any place .where they had
convenience ; as John baptized in Jordan, and Philip
baptized the eunuch in the wildernefs, and Paul the
failor in his own houfe. But in after ages, baptifteries
were built adjoining to the church ; and then rules
were made, that baptifm (hould ordinarily be admini-
ftered nowhere but in thefe buildings. Juftinian, in
one of his novels, refers to ancient laws, appointing
that none of the facred myfteries of the church fhould
be celebrated in private houfes. Men might have pri¬
vate oratories for prayer in their own houfes; but they
were not to adminifter baptifm or the eucharift in them,
unlefs by a particular licenfe from the bifhop of the
place. Such baptifms are frequently condemned in
the ancient councils, under the name Tra^aficiTpiis-ftcftce,,
baptifms in private conventicles.
As to the attendant ceremonies and manner of bap- Ancient ce «
tifm in the ancient church : The perfon to be baptized, reInon‘e5•
if an adult, was firft examined by the biftiop or offi¬
ciating prieft, who put fome queftions to him ; as, firft,
Whether he abjured the devil and all his works; fecond-
ly, Whether he gave a firm affent to all the articles of
the Chriftian faith; to both which he anfwered in the
affirmative. If the perfon to be baptized was an in¬
fant, thefe interrogatories were anfwered by his fpon~
fores, or godfathers. Whether the ufe of fponfors
was as old as the apoftles days, is uncertain : perhaps
it was not, fince Juftin Martyr, fpeaking of the me¬
thod and form of baptifm, fays not a word of them.—
After the queftions and anfwers, followed exorcifm; the
manner and end of which w'as this: The minifter laid
his hands on the perfon’s head, and breathed in his
face, implying thereby the driving away or expelling
of the devil from him, and preparing him for baptifm,
by which the good and holy fpirit was to be conferred
upon him.—After exorcifm, followed baptifm itfelf:
and firft the minifter,> by prayer, confecrated the water
for that ufe. Tertullian fays, “ any waters may be
applied to that ufe : but then God muft: be firft invo-
cated ; and then the Holy Ghoft prefently comes down
from heaven, and moves upon them, and fanblifies
them.” The waters being confecrated, the perfon was
baptized “ in the name of the Father, and of the Son,
and of the Holy Ghoft:;” by which, “ dedication of him
to the bleffed Trinity, the perfon (fays Clemens Alexan-
drinus) is delivered from the corrupt trinity, the devil,
the world, and the flefti.” In performing the ceremony
of baptifm, the ufual cuftom (except in clinical cafes,
3 B or
I
■ B A P . I 3
Baptifin. or where there was fcarcity of water), was to immerfe
v u' * and dip the whole body. 1'hus St Barnabas, defcrib-
ing a baptized perfon, fays, “ We go down into the
water full of fin and filth, but wt afcend bearing fruit
in our hearts.” And this praftice of immerfing the
whole body was fo general, that we find no exceptions
made in refpeft either to the tendernefs of infants, or
the balhfulnefs of the other fex, unlefs in cafe of fick-
nefs or other difability. But to prevent any indecency,
men and women were baptized apart. To which end,
either the baptifteries wrere divided into two apart¬
ments, one for the men, the ether for the w’omen, as
Bingham has obferved 5 or the men wyere baptized at
one time and the women at another, as is Ihown by
Voffius, from the f)rdo Romanus, Gregory’s Sacramen-
tarium, &c. Add, that there was anciently an order
of deaconeffes, one part of rvhofe bufinefs w’as to aflifi:
at the baptifm of wmmen. The precautions, however,
rather indicate a fcrupulous attention to delicacy, than
imply any indecency in the circumftance of immerfion
itfelf. From the candidates being immerfed, there is
at Jeaft no reafon to infer that they were naked : The
prefent Baptifts never baptize naked, though they al¬
ways immerfe. After immerfion, followed the unftion;
by which (fays St Cyril) wTas fignified that they were
now cut oil from the wild olive, and were ingrafted in¬
to Chrilt, the true olive tree j or elfe to Ihow' that they
were now to be champions for the gofpel, and xvere
anointed thereto, as the old athletae were againft their
folemn games. With this anointing was joined the fign
of the crofs, made upon the forehead of the perfon
baptized ; which being done, he had a w'hite garment
given him, to denote his being walhed from the defile¬
ments of fin, or in allufion to that of the apoftle, “ As
many as are baptized in Chrift have put on Chrift.”
From this cuftom the feaft of Pentecoft, which rvas
one of the annual feafons of baptifm, came to be called
IVhitfunday, i. e. White-funday. Tills garment was
afterwards laid up in the church, that it might be an
evidence againft inch perfons as violated or denied that
faith which they had owned in baptifm.—When the
baptifm was performed, the perfon baptized, according
to Juftin Martyr, “ was received into the number of
the faithful, who then fent up their public prayers to
God, for all men, for themlelves, and for thofe who
had been baptized.”
The ordinary minifters, who had the right of ad-
miniftering this facrament, that is, of applying the
water to the body,'and pronouncing the formula, rvere
prelbytefs or bilhops ; though on extraordinary occa-
fions laymen were admitted to perform the fame.
Modern to the prefent form of adminiftering baptifm,
forms; in the the church of Rome ufes the following. When a
church of child is to be baptized, the perfons who bring it
wait for the prieft at the door of the church, who
comes thither in his furplice and purple Hole, attended
by his clerks. He begins with queftioning the god¬
fathers, whether they promife, in the child’s name, to
live and die in the true catholic and apoftolic faith, and
what name they would give the child. Then follows
an exhortation to the fponfors •, after which the prieft,
calling the child by its name, alks it as follows : What
doji ih< u demand of the church? The godfather an-
fwers, Fternal life. The prieft goes on : If you are de-
frous of obtaining eternal life, keep G odd commandments,
Rome.
78 ] BAP
thou /halt love the Lord thy God, &c. After which he Eaptifm,
breathes three times in the child’s face', faying, Come—y——^
out of this child, thou evil fpint, and make room for the
Holy Ghofl. Ibis faid, he makes the fign of the crofs
on the child’s forehead and breaft, faying, Receive the
fgn of the crofs on thy forehead, and in thy heart. Then
taking off his cap, he repeats a thort prayer-, and laying
his hand gently on the child’s head, repeats a fecond
prayer : which ended, he bleffes fome fait; and putting
a little of it into the child’s mouth, pronounces theie
wrords, Receive the fait of wifdom. All this is per¬
formed at the church-door. The prieft, with the god¬
fathers and god-mothers, coming into the church, and
advancing towards the font, repeat the apoftles-creed
and the Lord’s-prayer. Being come to the font, the
prieft exorcifes the evil fpirit again 5 and taking a little
of his own fpittle, with the thumb of his right-hand,
rubs it on the child’s ears and noftrils, repeating, as he
touches the right ear, the fame word (Ephatha, be thou
opened) which our Saviour made ule of to the man born
deaf and dumb. Laftly, they-pull off its Iwaddling-
clothes, or ftrip it below the Ihoulders, during which
the prieft prepares the oils, &c. The fponfors then
hold the child direftly over the font, obferving to turn
it due eaft and weft : whereupon the prieft alks the
child, Whether he renounces the devil and all his works?
and the godlather having anfwered in the affirmative,
the prieft anoints the child between the Ihoulders in the
form of a crofs. Then taking fome of the confecrated
water, he pours part of it thrice on the child’s head,
at each perfufion calling on one of the Perfons of the
Holy Trinity. The prieft concludes the ceremony of
baptilm with an exhortation The Romilh church al¬
lows midwives, in cales of danger, to baptize a child
before it comes entirely out of its mother’s womb : #
where it is to be obferved, that ieme part of the body
of the child muft appear before it can be baptized, and
that it is baptized on the part which firft appears : if it
be the head, it is not neceffary to rebaptize the child ;
but if only a foot or hand appears, it is neceffary to
repeat baptifm. A ftillborn child thus baptized may be
buried in confecrated ground.
The Greek church differs from the Romifh, as to in the
the rite of baptifm, chiefly in performing it by immer- Greek
fion, or plunging the infant all over in the water. church.
The forms of adminiftering baptifm among us being
too well known to require a particular delcription, rve form in the
lhall only mention one or two of the more material dif- 'fturgy of
ferences between the form, as it flood in the firft litur-
gy of King Edward, and that in the Englilh Com¬
mon Prayer Book at prefent. Firft, the form of con-
fecrating the water did not make a part of the office,
in King Edward’s liturgy, as it does in the prefent,
becaufe the water in the font was changed, and confe¬
crated, but once a month. The form likewife itfelf
w-as fomething different from that now ufed ; and was
introduced w-ith a fhort prayer, that Jsfus Chriji, upon
whom {when he was baptized) the Holy Ghof came down
in the hkenefs of a dove, would fend down the fame Holy
Spirit, to fanclify the fountain of baptifm; which prayer
was afterw-ards left out, at the fecond review.—By
King Edward’s firft book, the minifter is to dip the
child in the water thrice 5 firft, dipping the right-fide ;
fecondly, the left ; the third time, dipping the face to¬
ward the foot. This trine immerfion was a very an,
cient
BAP [ 379 1 B A P
Saptifm. fcient prai^ice in the Chriftian church, and ufed in ho-
v rJ nour 0f t|1£ pjQly Trinity j though fome later writers
fay, it was done to reprefent the death, burial, and rer
furre£tion, of Chrift, together with his three days con¬
tinuance in the grave. Afterwards, the Arians ma¬
king an ill ufe of it, by perfuading the people that it
Was ufed to denote that the three Perfons in the Tri¬
nity were three diftinft fubftances, the orthodox left it
off, and ufed only one fingle immerfion.
By the iirft common-prayer of King Edward, after
the child was baptized, the godfathers and godmothers
Were to lay their hands upon it, and the minifter was
to put on him the white veftment commonly called the
vbryfome, and to fay, “ Take this white vefture, as a
token oi the innocency, which, by God’s grace, in
this holy facrament of baptifm, is given unto thee }
and for a hgn, whereby thou art admonilhed, fo long as
thou liveft, to give thyfelf to innocence of living, that
after this tranlitory life thou may eft be partaker of
the life everlafting. Amen.” As foon as he had pro¬
nounced thefe words, he w^as to anoint the infant on
the head, faying, “ Almighty God, the father of our
Lord Jefus Chrift, who hath regenerated thee by wa¬
ter and the Holy Ghoft, and hath given unto thee re-
miftion of all thy fins ; may he vouchfafe to anoint thee
with the unftion of his Ploly Spirit, and bring thee to
the inheritance of everlafting life. Amen.” This was
tnanifeftly done in imitation of the praftice of the pri¬
mitive church.
The cuftom of fprinkling children, inftead of dip¬
ping them in the font, wdrich at firft was allowed in
Gale of the wreaknefs or ficknefs of the infant, has i’o
far prevailed, that immerfion is at length quite exclu¬
ded. What principally tended to confirm the praflice
of affufion or fprinkling, was, that feveral of our Pro-
teftant divines, Hying into Germany and Switzerland
during the bloody reign of Queen Mary, and returning
home when Queen Elizabeth came to the crown,
brought back with them a great zeal for the Proteftant
churches beyond fea, -where they had been dickered
and received j and having obferved, that at Geneva
and fome other places, baptifm ivas adminiftered by
fprinkling, they thought they could not do the church
of England a greater piece of fervice than by intro¬
ducing a praftice dictated by fo great an oracle as Cal¬
vin. 'Phis, together with the coldnefs of our northern
climate, was what contributed to banifh entirely the
praftice of dipping infants in the font.
Notions Many different notions have been entertained con-
concerning cerning the effects of baptifm, which it would be end-
the eftetts ]efs j-0 enumerate.—The Remonftrants and Socinians
reduce baptifm to a mere fign of divine grace. The
Romanifts, on the contrary, exalt its power; hold¬
ing, that all fin is entirely taken away by it; that it
abfolutely Confers the grace of juftification, and con-
fequently grace ex opere operato. Some alfo fpeak of
an indelible chara£fer impreffed on the foul by it, call¬
ed charaBer dominicusy and charaBer regius : but this
is held, by others, a mere chimera ; for that the fpi-
litual charafter, conferred in regeneration, may eafily
be effaced by mortal fins. Dodwell maintained, that
it is by baptifm the foul is made immortal j fo that
thofe who die without it will not rife again. It muft
be added, he reftrains this effefl ,to epifcopal baptifm
alone. From the effefls ordinarily afcribed to bap-
of baptifm.
tifm, even by ancient writers, it fhould feem, that the Baptlfnt*
ceremony is as much of heathen as Jewifh origin ;
fince Chriftians do not reftrain the ufe of it, like the
Jews, to the admiffion of new-members into the church,
but hold, with the heathens, a virtue in it for remit¬
ting and waffling away fins. The Bramins are ftill
faid to baptize with this latter view, at certain fea-
fons, in the river Ganges ; to the waters tvhereof they
have annexed a cleanfing or famftifying quality ; and
hence it is that they flock from all parts, even of Tar¬
tary, driven by the expectation of their being cafed
of their load of fins. But, in this point, many Chri¬
ftians feem to have gone beyond the folly of the hea»
thens. It wTas only the fmaller fins of infirmity which
thefe latter held to be expiable by wafliing ; for crimes
of a blacker dye, they allowed no water could efface
them, no purgation could difcharge them. The Chri-
ftian doCtrine of a total remiflion of fins by baptifm
could not fail, therefore, to fcandalize many among
the heathens, and furniflied Julian an occallon of fati-
rifing Chriftianity itfelf: “ Whoever (fays he) is guilty
of rapes, murders, facrilege, or any abominable crime,
let him be walked wuth wTater, and he wall become pure
and holy.”
In the ancient church, baptifm was frequently con-
ferx*ed on Jews by violence : but the church itfelf never
feems to have allowed of force on this occafion. By
a canon of the fourth council of Toledo, it is exprefs-
ly forbid to baptize any againft their wills. That
which looks moft like force in this cafe, allowed by
law, were two orders of Juftinian j one of which ap¬
points the heathens, and the other Samaritans, to be
baptized, with their wives and children and fervants,
under pain of confifcation. By the ancient laws, bap¬
tifm was not to be conferred on image-makers, ftage-
players, gladiators, auriga or public drivers, magi¬
cians, or even ftrolling beggars, till they quitted fuch
profeffions. Slaves w'ere not allowed the privilege of
baptifm without the teftimony and confent of their Bingham,
mafters 5 excepting the flaves of Jews, Heathens, and QriS' Ecd>
heretics ; who were not only admitted to baptifm, but, 1 ‘j cg‘ S*
in confequence thereof, had their freedom. Voflius^ ix."§ 17
has a learned and elaborate work De Baptif?7io, where¬
in he accurately difcuffes all the queftions concerning
baptifm according to the doftrine of the ancients.
Baptism by Fire, fpoken of by St John the Baptift,
has occafioned much conjecfure. The generality of the
fathers held, that believers, before they enter paradife,
are to p&fs through a certain fire, which is to purify
them from all pollutions "remaining on them unexpia¬
ted. Others, with St Bafil, underftand it of the fire
"of hell; others, of that of tribulation and temptation.
Others, with St Chryfoftom, will have it denote an
abundance of graces. Others fuppofe it to mean the
defcent of the Holy Ghoft on the apoftles, in form of
fiery tongues. Laftly, others maintain, that the wrord
Jire here is an interpolation ; and that we are only to
read the text, He that [hall come after me will baptise
you with the Holy Ghojl. In reality, it is not found in
divers manufcript copies of St Matthew.
The ancient Selucians and Hermians, underftand-
ing the paflage literally, maintained, that material fire
was neceffary in the adminiftration of baptifm. But
we do not find how or to what part of the body they
applied it, or whether they were fatisfied with obliging
3 B 2 the
bap [ 380 ] BAP
Eaptifm
Solemn
Baptifm.
tlie perfon baptized to pafs through the fire. Valenti¬
nus rebaptized all who had received water-baptilm, and
conferred on them the baptifm of fire.
Bis docuit tingi, traduBoque corporcJJamma.
Tkrtull. Cann. contr. Marc. 1. t.
Heracleon, cited by Clemens Alexandrinus, fays, that
fome applied a red-hot iron to the ears of the perfon
baptized, as if to imprefs fome mark upon him.
Baptism of the Dead, a cuftom which anciently pre¬
vailed among fome people in Africa, of giving baptifm
to the dead. The third council of Carthage fpeaks of
it as a thing that ignorant Chrillians were fond of.
Gregory Nazianzen alfo takes notice of the fame fuper-
llitious opinion prevailing among fome who delayed
to be baptized. In his addrefs to this kind of men,
he a Iks, whether they flayed to be. baptized after
death ? Philaftrius alfo notes it as the general error of
the Montanifts or Cataphrygians, that they baptized
men after death. The pra&ice feems to be grounded
on a vain opinion, that, when men had negledfed to
receive baptifm in their life-time, fome compenfation
might be made for this default by receiving it after
death.
Baptifm of the Dead was alfo a fort of vicarious bap¬
tifm, formerly in ufe, wdren a perfon dying without
baptifm, another was baptized in his ftead.
St Chryfofiom tells us, this was praflifed among
the Marcionites with a great deal of ridiculous cere¬
mony ; which he thus defcribcs: After any catechu¬
men wras dead, they hid a living man under the bed of
the deceafed ; then coming to the dead man, they afked
him, whether he would receive baptifm j and he ma¬
king no anfwer, the other anfwered for him, and faid,
he Would be baptized in his Head : and fo they bapti¬
zed the living for the dead.
Epiphanius allures us, the like was alfo practifed
among the Corinthians. This praftice they pretended
to found on the Apoftle’s authority ; alleging that text
of St Paul for it, If the dead rife not at all, what Jhall
they do who are baptized for the dead ? A text which
has given occafion to a great variety of different fyftems
and explications. Voflius enumerates no lefs than nine
different opinions among learned divines concerning the
fenfe of the phrafe, being baptized for the dead.
St Ambrofe and Walafred Strabo feem clearly of
opinion, that the apolfle had refpedl to fuch a cuftom
then in being 5 and feveral moderns have given into
the fame opinion, as Baronius, Jof. Scaliger, Juftellus,
and Grotius.
Several among the Roman Catholics, as Bellarmin,
Salmeron, Menochius, and a number of fchoolmen,
underftand it of the baptifm of tears, and penance, and
prayers, which the living undergo for the dead 5 and
thus allege it as a proof of the belief of purgatory in
St Paul’s days.
Hypothetical Baptism, that formerly adminiftered in
certain doubtful cafes, w ith this formula : If thou art
baptized, 1 do not rebaptize ; if thou art not, I baptize
thee in the name of the Father, &c. This fort of bap¬
tifm, enjoined by fome ancient conftitutions of the
Englilh church, is now fallen into difufe.
Solemn Baptism, that conferred at ftated feafons ;
fuch, in the ancient church, were the Pafchal baptifm.
and that at Whitfuntide. This is fometimes alfo called
general baptifm.
Lay Baptism, we find to have been permitted by
both the Common-prayer Books of King Edward and
that of Queen Elizabeth, when an infant is in imme¬
diate danger of death, and a lawful minifter cannot
be bad. I his w*as founded upon the miftaken notion
of the impoliibility of falvation without the facrament
of baptifm : but afterwards, when they came to have
clearer notions of the facraments, it w>as u^animouiiy
refolved in a convocation, held in the year 1575, that
even private baptiim, in a cafe of nccefllty, was only to
be adminiftered by a lawful minifter.
Baptism is alfo applied, abufively, to certain cere¬
monies ufed in giving names to things inanimate.
The ancients knew nothing of the cuftom of giving
baptifm to inanimate things, as bells, fhips, and the
like, by a fuperftitious confecration of them. The firft
notice we have of this is in the Capitulars of Charles
the Great, where it is only mentioned to be cenfured ;
but, afterwards, it crept into the Roman offices by de¬
grees. Baronius carries its antiquity no higher than
the year 968, when the greateft bell of the church of
Lateran was chriftened by Pope John III. At laft it
grew to that fuperftitious height, as to be thought pro¬
per to be complained of in the Centum Gravamina of
the German nation, drawn up in the public diet of the
empire held at Nuremberg anno 158x5 where (after
having deferibed the ceremony of baptizing a bell, w ith
godfathers, who make refponfes as in baptifm, and
give it a name, and clothe it with a new garment as
Chriftians were ufed to be clothed, and all this to make
it capable of driving aw^ay tempefts and devils) they
conclude againft it, as not only a fuperftitious pra&ice,
but contrary to the Chriftian religion, and a mere fe-
duflion of the fimple people.
Bapti sm, in the fea language, a ceremony in long
voyages on board merchant ffiips, praftifed both on
perfons and veffels who pafs the tropic or line for the
firft time. The baptizing the veffels is fimple, and
confifts only in waffiing them throughout with fea-w a-
ter 5 that of the paffengers is more myfterious. The
oldeft of the crew, that has paft the tropic or line,
comes wfith his face blacked, a grotefque cap on his
head, and fome fea-book in his hand, followed by the
reft of the Teamen dreffed like himfelf, each having
fome kitchen utenfil in his hand, with drums beating 5
he places himfelf on a feat on the deck, at the foot of
the mainmaft. At the tribunal of this mock magi-
ftrate, each paffenger not yet initiated, {wears he will
take care the fame ceremony be obferved, whenever he
is in the like circumftances : Then, by giving a little
money by way of gratification, he is difeharged with
a little fprinkling. of water 5 othenvife he is heartily
drenched with ftreams of water poured upon him 5 and
the ftiip boys are enclofed in a cage, and ducked at dif-
cretiou.— The feamen, on the baptizing a ftup, pretend
to a right of cutting off the beak-head unlefs redeem¬
ed by the captain.
BAPTISMAL, fomething belonging to baptifm 5
thus we fay baptifmal vow, prefents, &c.
Baptismal Vow or Covenant, a profeffion of obedi¬
ence to the lawTs of Chrift, which perfons in the an¬
cient church made before baptifm. It was an indif-
penfable
Lay Bap-
tifin
Baptifmal
Vow.
BAP
Baptifts.
Baptifmal penfable part of the obligation on catechumens, before
Frefents t]ley were admitted to the ceremony of regeneration.
11 it was made* by turning to the call j for what myftical
reafons, is not well agreed on.
Baptismal Prefents are in ufe in Germany, made
by the fponfors to the infant, confifting of money,
plate, or even fometimes fiefs of lands j which by the
laws of the country are to be kept for the child till ot
age, the parents having only the truft, not the right,
of difpofing of them. An anonymous author has pub-
lithed a difcourfe exprefs on this occafion, entitled, De
pecunia lujlrica. - . a
BAPTIST, John Monnoyer, a painter ot tiowers
and fruit, was born at Lille in 1635, and educated at
Antwerp, where he perfeaed himielf in the knowledge
of his art, and in his firft years was intended for a
painter of hiftory : but having foon obferved. that his
genius more ftrongly inclined him to the painting ot
flowers, he applied his talents to thofe fubjefts, and in
that ftyle became one of the greateft mailers. His
pictures are not fo exquifitely fimlhed as thole of Van
Huyfum, but his compofition and colouring are in a
bolder ftyle. His flowers have generally a remarkable
freedom and loofenefs, as well in the dilpofition as in
the penciling *, together with a tone of colouring that is
lively, admirable, and nature itfelf. The difpofition of
his obiedts is furprifingly elegant and beautiful; and in
that refpedl his compofitions are eafily known and as
eafily diftinguilhed from the performances of others.
He died in rbyq.—He left a fon, Anthony vvho paint¬
ed flowers in the fame ftyle and manner, and had great
m BAPTISTS, in EcclejlajllcalHijlory, (from
I baptise) ; a denomination of Chriftians, diftinguilhed
from other Chriftians by their particular opinions re-
fpecting the mode and the fubjeHs of baptifm.
Inftead of adminiftering the ordinance by fprmkbng
or pouring water, they maintain that it ought to be
adminiftered only by immerfion. Such they mfift, is
the meaning of the word J fo that a command
to baptize is a command to immerfe. Thus it was un-
derftood by thofe who firft adminiftered it. John the
Baptift and the apoftles of Chrift, adminiftered it in
Iordan and other rivers and places where there was
much water. Both the adminiftrators and the fubjeHs
are defcribed as going down into, and coming up again
out of, the water} and the baptized are faid to be bu¬
ried in baptifm, and to be railed again : which lan¬
guage could not, they fay, be properly adopted on
fuopofition of the ordinance being adminiftered m any
other manner than by immerfion. Thus alfo, they at-
firm, it was in general adminiftered in the primitive
church. Thus it is now adminiftered in the Ruffian
and Greek church : and thus it is, at this day, dire He d
to be adminiftered in the church of England, to all
who are thought capable of fubmitting to it m this
manner. With regard to the fubjefls of baptifm, the
Baptifts fay, that this ordinance ought not to be admi¬
niftered to children or infants at all, nor to grown up
perfons in general; but to adults only of a certain elm-
rafter and defeription. Our Saviour’s commiffion to
his apoftles, by which Chriftian baptifm was inftitu-
ted, is to go and teach all nations, baptizing them :
that is, fay they, not to baptize all they meet with 5
but firft to inftruft them—to teach all nations, or to
381 1
BAP
preach the gofpel to every creature—and whoever re- Baptifts,
ceives it, him to baptize in the name of the Father, ,r“*“
and of the Son, and of the -Holy Ghoft. To fuch
perfons, and to fuch only, baptifm appears to have been
adminiftered by the apoftles, and the immediate dif-
ciples of Chrift. They are defcribed as repenting of
their fins, as believing in Chrift, and as having gladly
received the word. Without thefe qualifications, Pe¬
ter acquaints thofe who were converted by his fermon,
that he could not have admitted them to baptiim,
Philips holds the fame language in his difcourfe with
the eunuch-, and Paul treats Lydia, the jailor, and
others, in the fame manner. Without thefe qualifica¬
tions, Chriftians in general think it wrong to admit
perfons to the Lord’s fupper 5 and, for the fame rea¬
fons, without thefe qualifications, at leaft a profefiion
of them, the Baptifts think it wrong to admit any to.
baptifm. Wherefore they withhold it, not only from
the impenitently vicious and profane, and from infi¬
dels who have no faith -, but alfo from infants and chil¬
dren, who have no knowledge, and are incapable of
every aftion civil and religious. They further infill,
that all pofitive inftitutions depend entirely upon the
will and declaration of the inftitutor 5 and therefore,
that reafoning by analogy from abrogated Jewifti rites
is to be rejefted, and the exprefs commands of Chrift
refpefting the mode and fubjefts of baptifm ought to
be our only rule.
The Baptifts in England form one of the denomina¬
tions of Proteftant Diffenters. They feparate from the
eftablifhment for the fame reafons as their brethren ®f
the other denominations do 5 and from additional mo¬
tives derived from their particular tenets refpefting
baptifm. The conftitution of their churches, and their
modes of wyrftnp, are congregational or independent :
in the exercife of which they are protefted, in com¬
mon with other diffenters, by the aft of toleration.
Before this aft, they were liable to pains and penalties
as nonconformifts, and often for their peculiar fenti-
ments as Baptifts. A proclamation was iffued out
a gain ft them, and fome of them were burnt in Smith-
field in 153S. They bore a confiderable fhare in the
perfecutions of the laft and of the preceding centuries;
and, as it Ihould feem, in thofe of fome centuries be¬
fore • for there were feveral among the Lollards and
the followers of Wickliff, who difapproved of infant-
baptifm. There were many of this perfuafion among
the Proteftants and reformers abroad. In Holland,
Germany, and the North, they went by the names of
Anabaptists, and Mennonites 5 .and, in Pied¬
mont and the fouth, they were found aniong the Al-
bigenses and Waldenses. See tne hiftones of the
Reformation, and the above articles in this Diftion-
ary. . . . -
The Baptijls fubfift under two denominations, viz.
the Particular or Calviniftical, and the General or Ar- ,
minian. The former is by far the moft numerous.
Some of both denominations allow of mixed communion,
viz. of perfons who have been fprinkled in their in¬
fancy, and therefore unbaptized in the view of the
Baptifts ; others difallow it; and fome of them ob-
ferve the feventh day of the wreek as the Sabbatu, ap¬
prehending the law that enjoined it not to have been
repealed by Chrift or his apoftles. But a difference
of opinion refpefting thefe and other matters, is not
A R f 1 BAR
i^aptiftery peculiar to tlie Baptids : it is common to all Chri-
II Ilians, and to all bodies of men who think and iudp-e
, Ey; , for themfelves. S
BAPTISTERY, in ecclefiaftical writers, a place
in which the ceremony of baptifm is performed.
In the ancient church it was one of the exedrae or
buildings diltinct from the church itfelf: and confided
of a pdrch or anti-room where the perfons to be bap¬
tized made their confeffion of faith, and an inner room
where the ceremony of baptifm was performed. Thus
it continued till the fixth century, when the baptide-
ries began to be taken into the chutch-porch, and af¬
terwards into the church itfelf.
The ancient baptideries were commonly called
r/ioix, photijleria, q. d. places of illumination } an ap¬
pellation fometinles given to baptifm. Or they might
have the name for another reafon, becaufe they were
the places of an illumination, or indruftion, preceding
baptifm : for here the catechumens feem to have been
trained up, and indrufted in the fird rudiments of the
Chridian faith.
Thofe baptideries were anciently very capacious ;
becaufe, as Dr Cave obferves, the dated times of bap¬
tifm returning but feldom, there were ufually great
multitudes to be baptized at the fame time : and then
the manner of baptizing, by immerfion, or dipping
under water, made it neceffary to have a large font
likewife. In Venantius Fortunatus, it is called aula
b apt if mat is, the large hall of baptifm ; which ■was in¬
deed fo capacious, that we fometimes read of councils
meeting and fitting therein. This hall, or chapel,
was always kept Oiut during Lent, and the door feal-
ed up with the bidrop’s feal, not to be opened till
Maunday-Thurfday.
The baptillery was always reputed a facred place.
In the Roman order, wre find the ceremonies ufed in
the confecration of the baptideries : they were to be
built of a round figure, and didinguilhed with the
image of St John the Baptid 5 over the bafon or font
was a figure of a dove in gold or filver, to reprelent
the Holy Ghod.
The name bapti/lery is fometimes alfo given to a
kind of chapel in a large church, which ferved for the
fame office. It is an obfervation of fome learned men,
that anciently there was but one baptidery in a city,
and that at the bifhop’s church 5 and that afterwards
they were fet up in pariffi churches, with the fpecial
allowance however of the bilhop.
BAR, in a general fenfe, denotes a dender piece of
wood or iron, for keeping things clofe together.
Bar, in courts of judice, an enclofure made with a
drong partition of timber, where the counfel are pla¬
ced to plead caufes. It is alio applied to the benches
where the lawyers or advocates are feated, becaufe an¬
ciently there was a bar to feparate the pleaders from
the attorneys and others. Hence our lawyers who are
called to the bar, or licenfed to plead, are termed bar¬
riers, an appellation equivalent to licentiate in other
countries.
Bar, or Barr, (Latin barra, and in French barre),
in a legal fenfe, is a plea or peremptory exception of a
defendant, fufficient to deitroy the plaintiff’s a6Hon.
And it is divided into bar to common intendment, and
bar fpecial; bar temporary, and perpetual. Bar to a
common intendment is an ordinary or general bar, which
2
ufually difaoleth ihe declaration of the plaintiff} bar
Ipecial is that which is more than ordinary, and falls
out upon fome fpecial circumftance of the fadl as to
the cafe in hand. Bar temporary is fuch a bar as is
good for the pyefent, but may afterwards fail ; and
bar perpetual is that which overthrows the a&ion of
the plaintiff for ever.
Bar, in Heraldry, an ordinary in form of the fefs
but much lefs. See Heraldry.
Bar,, in the Manege, the higheft part of that place
of a horfe’s mouth fituated between the grinders and
tuffies, fo that the part of the mouth which lies under
and at the fide of the bars retains the name of the
gum. A horfe with fenfible bars has a fine light mouth,
with an even and firm appui. See Appui.
To Bar. a Vein, in Farriery, is an operation per¬
formed upon the veins of the legs of a horfe and other
parts, with intent to flop the malignant humours. It
is done by opening the Ikin above it, difengagincr it,
and tying it both above and below, and fluking be¬
tween the twm ligatures.
Bar, In Mufic, a ftroke drawn perpendicularly a-
crois the lines of a piece of mufic, including between
each two a certain quantity or meafure of time, which
is farious as the time of the mufic is either triple or
common. In common time, between each two bars is
included the meafure of four crotchets 5 in triple,
three. The principal ufe of bars is to regulate the
beating of time in a concert. The ufe of bars is not
to be traced higher than the time wdien the Engliih
tranflation of Adrian le Roy’s book on the Tablature
was publiflied, viz. the year 1574; and it was fome
time after that before the ufe of bars became general.
To come nearer to the point, Barnard’s cathedral mu¬
fic, printed in 1641, is without bars •, but bars are to
be found throughout in the Ayres and Dialogues of
Henry Lawes publiffied in 1653 ; from whence it may
be conjeftured that we owe to Lawes this improve¬
ment.
Bar, in Hydrography, denotes a bank of fand, or
other matter, whereby the mouth of a river is in a
manner choked up.
'The term bar is alfo ufed for a ftrong beam where¬
with the entrance of a harbour is fecured : this is more
commonly called boom.
Bar of a tavern or coffeehoufe, the place where the
waiters attend to anfwer the calls -of the cuftomers.
Bar, among printers, denotes a piece of iron with
a w’ooden handle, whereby the ferew of the prefs is
turned in printing. See Printing.
Bars of Iron, are made of the metal of the fows
and pigs as they come from the furnace. Thefe pafs
through two forges called the finery and the chaufery ;
where, undergoing five feveral heats, they are formed
into bars.
Bar, a very flrong city of Podolia in Poland, upon
the river Kiow. E. Long. 28. 30. N. Lat. 50. 6.
Bar, formerly a duchy of France, now the depart¬
ment of Meufe, is bounded on the eaft by Lorrain,
on the north by Luxembourg, on the weft by Cham¬
pagne, on the fouth by part of the fame country, and
by Franche Compte. It is croffed by the river Meufe
from north to fouth, and watered by feveral other
rivers, which render it very fertile. It was divided
into four balliages,' viz. Baffilyni, Bar, St Michael,
and
BAR
[ 333 ]
BAR
JJouel's De
fenp tine
‘Travels
through Si-
eily, &C.
and Clermont. The chief towns are Bar-le-duc, Cler¬
mont, St Michael, Longuey, Pont a Mouflbn, and
Stenay. In 1736, it was given to Staniilaus then king
of Poland.
BAR-le-duc, the capital of the late duchy of Bar, in
the department of Meufe, is feated on the declivity of
a hill. It is divided into the higher and lower town :
the lower is watered by the rivulet Orney, which a-
bounds with excellent trouts. The wines are excel¬
lent, and not inferior to thofe of Champagne. E.
Long- 5- 30> N- Lat- 48-,35-
BAR-le-Mont, a town of the French Netherlands, in
Hainault, lituated on the river Sombre. E. Long. 3. 4c.
N. Lat. 50. 10.
Bar fur Aube, an ancient town of France, in the
department of Aube, feated at the foot of a mountain.
It is much celebrated for excellent wanes. E. Long.
4. 50. N. Lat. 48. 14. '
B 4R fur Seine, a town of France, in the duchy of
Burgundy, nowr in the department of Aube, feated be-
tween a mountain which covers it on the weft, and the
river Seine which runs on the eaft. E. Long. 4. 30.
N. Lat. 48. 5.
BAR-Mafer, among miners, the perfon w'ho keeps
the gauge, or dilh, for meafuring the ore.
BARA, in Ancient Geography, a final! ifland in the
Adriatic, oppoftte to Brundufium : the Pharos of Me¬
la. Alfo a frith or arm of the fea of Britannia Se-
cunda (Ptolemy) ; fuppofed to be the Murray frith.
Bara, one of the Hebrides or Weftern iftands of
Scotland. It is a fmall rock, only a quarter of a mile
in circumference, being part of a chain called the
Long If and, the whole clufter appearing at low w7ater
as one ifland. Bara is altogether barren ; but abounds
with great numbers of fea-fowd, luch as folan geefe,
guillamotes, puffins, &c.
Bara, the name of a feftival celebrated with much
magnificence at Meffina, and reprefenting the affump-
tion of the Virgin. The bara, though ufed as the
general denomination of this feftival, fignifies more
particularly a vaft machine 50 feet high, at the top of
which a young girl of 14, reprefenting the Virgin,
Hands upon the hand of an image of Jefus Chrift.
Round him turn vertically, in a circle, 12 little chil¬
dren which reprefent the feraphims 5 below them, in
another circle, which turns horizontally, are 12 more
reprefenting the cherubims : below thefe a fun turns
vertically, with a child at the extremity of each of the
four principal radii of his circle, wrho afeend and de-
feend with his rotation, yet ftill ftand upright. Be¬
low the fun is the loweft circle, about feven feet from
the ground, in which 1 2 boys turn horizontally with¬
out interruption •, thefe are intended for the twrelve
apoftles, who are fuppofed to furround tl\p tomb of
the Virgin at the moment when Ihe afeends into- hea¬
ven. This complication of fuperftitious whirligigs may
have already nearly turned the ftomachs of fome of our
readers, or at leaft rendered them fqueamilh. But
think of the poor little cherubims, feraphims, and apo-
files, who are twirled about in this proceflion ! for, fays
Mr Houel “ fome of them fall afleep, many of them
vomit, and fevenil do ftill worfe but thefe unfeemly
effufions are no drawback upon the edification of the
people *, and nothing is more coxnmon than to fee fa¬
thers and mothers foliciting writh ardour for their boys
Ba.
RA.
LIP.
and girls the pious diftinhlion of puking at the bara.
This machine is not drawn by affes or mules, but by a
multitude of rebuff: monks.
BARABINZIANS, a tribe of Tartars, living on
both fides of the river Irtis. They feem to derive their
name from the Barabaian delert, whole lakes fupply
them abundantly with filh, on which and their cattle
they chiefly fubfift. They have plenty of game and
■wild-fowl of every kind, particularly ducks and puf¬
fins. Moft of them are heathens, but Mahometaniim
daily gains ground among them. Some of them pay
tribute to the emprefs of Ruffia, and others to the
Khan Taifha. •
BARACOA, a town in the north-eaft part of the
ifland of Cuba. W. Long. 76. 10. N. Lat. 21. 5.
BARALIPTON, among logicians, a term deno¬
ting the firft indirect mode of the firft figure of fyllogilm.
A fyllogifm in baralipton, is wdren the two firft propo-
fitions are general, and the third particular, the mid¬
dle term being the fubje6t in the firft propolition and
the predicate in the fecond. The following is of this
kind :
Every evil ought to be feared ;
Every violent paflion is an evil y
Therefore fomething that ought to be fear¬
ed is a violent paflion.
BARALLOTS, in Church Hiflory, a fe£t of here¬
tics at Bologna in Italy, who had all things in common,
even their wives and children. Their facility in com¬
plying with all manner of debauchery made them get .
the name obedientes, “ compliers.”
BARANCA de malambo, & town of TerraFirma
in America, with a bilhop’s fee and a good haven.
It is a place of great trade, and is feated on the river
Magdaline. W. Long. 75. 30. N. Lat. 11. 10.
BARANGI, officers among the Greeks of the lowTer
empire. Cujas calls them in Latin proteBores, and
others give them the name offecurigeri. It was their
bufinefs to keep the keys of the city gates, where the
emperor refided.
BARANWAHR, a town of Lower Hungary, in
a county of the fame name, taken by the emperor of
Germany from the Turks in 16S4. It is feated be¬
tween Buda and Belgrade, in E. Long. 10. 5. N. Lat.
46. o.
BARATHRUM, in Antiquity, a deep dark pit at
Athens, into which condemned perfons were caft head¬
long. It had (harp fpikes at the top, that no man
might efcape out y and others at the bottom, to pierce
and torment fuch as were caft in. Its depth and ca-
pacioufnefs made it to be applied proverbially to a co¬
vetous peribn : to a glutton, called Barathro by the
Romans (Lucretius, Horace), and Barathrum in the
fame fenfe (Horace) } and for a common proftitute
(Plautus).
BARATIERE, Philip, a moft extraordinary in-
ftance of the early and rapid exertion of mental facul¬
ties. This furprifing genius was the fon of Francis Ba-
ratiere, minifter of the French church at Schwobach
near Nuremberg, where he was born Jan. 10th 1721.
The French was his mother tongue, together with fome-
words of High Dutch y but by means of his father
infenfibly talking Latin to him, it became as familiar to
him as the reft : fo that, wfftheut knowing the rules of
grammar, he at four years of age talked French to hio
mother^.
Barabin-
zians
II
Baratiere.
Baratiere
Baratz.
BAR [ 384
mother, Latin to his father, High Dutch to the maid
or neighbouring children ; and all this without mixing
or confounding the refpeddive languages. About the
middle of his fifth year he acquired Greek in like man¬
ner ; fo that in x 5 months he perfectly uuderftood all
the Greek books in the Old and New Teftament,
which he readily tranilated into Latin. When he was
five years and eight months old, he entered upon He¬
brew ; and in three years time was fo expert in the He¬
brew text, that from a bible without points, he could
give the fcnfe of the original in Latin or French ; or
tranflate extempore the Latin or French verfions into
Hebrew, almoft word for word ; and had all the He¬
brew pfalms by heart. He compofed at this time a
di&ionary of rare and difficult Hebrew words, with
critical remarks and philological obfervations, in about
400 pages in 4to-j and, about his tenth year, amufed
himfeif for twelve months with the Rabbinical wri¬
ters. With thefe he intermixed a knowledge of the
Chaldaic, Syriac, and Arabic j and acquired a talle
for divinity and 'ecclcfiaftical antiquity, by ftudying
the Greek fathers, and councils of the firft four ages
of the church. In the midft of thefe occupations, a
pair of globes coming into his poffeffion, he could in
8 or 10 days time refolve all the problems on them ; and
in about three months, in Jan. 1735, devifed his pro-
jeft for the difcovery of the longitude, which he com¬
municated to the Royal Society at London and the
Royal Academy of Sciences at Berlin. In June 17 31,
he was matriculated in the univerfity of Alftorf; and^ at
the clofe of the year 1732, he was prefented by his fa¬
ther at the meeting of the reformed churches of the
circle of Franconia ; who, aftonifhed at his wonderful
talents, admitted him to affift in the deliberations of
the fynod ; and to preferve the memory of fo fingular
an event, it was ordered to be regilfered in their adls.
£734i .th6 margrave of Brandenburgh Anfpach
granted this young fcholar the ufe of whatever books
he wanted from the Anfpach library, together with a
penfion of 50 florins, which he enjoyed three years ;
and his father receiving a call to the French church at
Stetin in Pomerania, young Baratiere was, on the jour¬
ney, admitted matter of arts, with univerfal applaufe,
at the univerfity of Hall ; at Berlin he was honoured
with feveral converfations with the king of Pruffia, and
was received into the Royal Academy. Towards the
clofe of his life he acquired a tafte for medals, infcrip-
tions, and antiquities ; metaphyfical inquiries, and ex¬
perimental philofophy, intervening occafionally between
thefe ftudies. He wrote feveral elfays and diflerta-
tionsj made aftronomical remarks, and laborious calcu¬
lations ; took great pains toward a hiftory of the he-
refies of the anti-trinitarians, and of the 30 years war
in Germany : his laft publication, which appeared in
1740, was on the fucceffion of the bilhops of Rome.
The final work he engaged in, and for which he had
gathered large materials, was Inquiries concerning the
Egyptian Antiquities. Bqt the fubftance of this bla¬
zing meteor was now almoft exhaufted: he was always
weak and fickly ; and died O&ober ?. 1740, aged 19
years 8 months and 16 days. He publilhed 11 different
pieces, and left 29 manufcripts on various fubje&s, the
contents of which may be feen in his life written by
M. Formey profefibr of philofophy at Berlin.
Rx^RATZ, Turkish, letters-patent granted by
1
Barb
] BAR
the Turkifli emperors to the Greek patriarch, blfhops,
&c. for the exercife of their ecclefiaftical funaions. 11
This Barat%' gives the bifhops full power and autho-Earbiidoe^
rity to eftabljfti and depofe the inferior clergy, and all '
other religious perfons j to grant licenfes formarriapes,
and iffue out divorces; to colle6! the revenues belong¬
ing to the churches ; to receive the pious legacies be¬
queathed to them j in fhort, to enjoy all the privileges
and advantages belonging to their high ftation : and
all this (as it is expreffed in the baratz itfelf) “ ac¬
cording to the vain and idle ceremonies of the Chri-
ftlRns.”
BARB, or Barbe, a horfe brought from Barbary,
See Equus, Mammalia Iriitx.
BARBA, in Botany, a fpecies of pules, or down,
with which the furface of fome plants is covered. The
term was invented by Linnaeus; and by its application
in the Species Plant arum, feems to fignify a tuft or bunch
of ftrong hairs terminating the leaves. Mefemhryanthe-
tnum barbatum furnifhes an example.
1 he w’ord is alfo often ufed in compofition with
fome other, to form the trivial names of feveral plants,
as barb a joins, barba capree, Stc.
BARBACAN, or Barbican, an outer defence or
fortification to a city or cattle, ufed efpecially as a fence t
to the city or walls; alfo an aperture made in the wall
of a fortrefs, to fire through upon the enemy. See
Castle.
Barbacan is alfo ufed to denote a fort at the en¬
trance of a bridge, or the outlet of a city, having a
double wall with towers.
BARBADOES, the moft eafterly of all the Carib-
bee itlands, lubjtil to Great Britain, and, according to
the beft geographers, lying between 590 50' and 6o° 2'
of weft longitude, and between 120 56' and 130 16' uf
north latitude. Its extent is not certainly known : the
moft general opinion is, that it i§ 25 miles from north
to fouth, and 15 from eaft to wreft ; but thefe menfu-
rations are fubjeft to fo many difficulties and uncer¬
tainties, that it will perhaps convey a more adequate
idea of this ifland to tell the reader that in reality it
does not contain above 107,000 acres. The climate is
hot, but not unwholefome, the heat being qualified by
fea-breezes ; and a temperate regimen renders this
ifland as fafe to live in as any climate fouth of Great
Britain ; and, according to the opinion of many, as
even Great Britain itfelf. This ifland has on its eaft
fide two ft reams that are called rivers, and in the middle
is faid to have a bituminous fpring which fends forth a
liquor like tar, and ferves for the fame ufes as pitch or
lamp-oil. The ifland abounds in wells of good w;ater,
and has feveral refervoirs for rain-wrater. Some parts
of the foil are faid to be hollowed into caves, fome of
them capable of containing 300 people. Thefe are
imagined to have been the lurking-places of runaway
negroes, but may as probably be natural excavations.
The wmods that formerly grew upon the ifland have
been all cut down, and the ground converted into
fugar plantations. When thofe plantations vrere firft
formed, the foil was prodigioufly fertile, but has fince
been worn out, infomuch, that about the year 1730,
the planters were obliged to raife cattle for the fake of
their dung, by which means the profit of their planta¬
tions was reduced to lefs than a tenth of its ufual value.
Notwithftanding the fmallnefs of Barbadoes, its foil is
different 4
*
BAR
[ 385 1
BAR
BarlaJoes. different; being in fome places Tandy and light, and
others rich, and in others fpongy j but all of it is culti¬
vated according to its proper nature, fo that the ifiand
prefents to the eye the molt beautiful appearance that
can be imagined. Oranges and lemons grow in Bar-
badoes in great plenty, and in their utmolt perfection.
The lemon juice here has a peculiar fragrancy. I he
citrons of Barbadoes afford the belt drams and fweet-
meats of any in the world, the Barbadoes ladies excel¬
ling in the art of preferving the rind of the citron
fruit. The juice of the limes, or dwarf lemons, is the
molt agreeable Touring we know, and great quantities
of it have of late been imported into Britain and Ire¬
land. The pine apple is alfo a native ot Barbadoes,
and grows there to much greater perfection than it can
. be made to do in Europe by any artificial means. A.
vaft number of different trees peculiar to the climate are
alfo found to flourilh in Barbadoes in great perfection j
fuch as the aloe, mangrove, calabath, cedar, cotton,
maitich, &c. Here likewife are produced fome fenfi-
tive plants, with a good deal of garden ftufi, which is
common in other places. In fhort, a native of the fineft,
the richeft, and molt diverfified country in Europe, can
hardly form an idea of the variety of delicious and at
the fame time nutritive vegetable productions with
which this ifiand abounds.
When Barbadoes was firft difcovered by the Englilh,
few or no quadrupeds were found upon it, except hogs,
which had been left there by the Portuguefe. For con¬
venience of carriage to the fea fide, fome of the planters
at firft procured camels j which undoubtedly would in
all refpeCts have been preferable to horfes for their fu-
gar and other works ; but the nature of the climate
difagreeing with that animal, it was found impoflible
to preferve the breed. They then applied for horfes
to Old and Nerv England: from the former they had
thofe that were fit for Ihow and draught •, from the
latter thofe that were proper for mounting their mi¬
litia, and for the faddle. They had likewife fome of
an inferior breed from Curaffao, and other fettle-
ments. They are reported to have had their firft
breed of black cattle from Bonavifta and the ifie of
Mayo j they now breed upon the ifland, and often
do the work of horfes. Their affes are very fer-
viceable in carrying burdens to and from the planta¬
tions. The hogs of Barbadoes are finer eating than
thofe of Britain, but the fexv ftieep they have are not
near fo good. They likewife have goats, which when
young are excellent food. Racoons and monkeys are
alfo found here in great abundance. A variety of birds
are produced on Barbadoes, of which the humming
bird is the moft remarkable. Wild fowl do not often
frequent this ifiand : but fometimes teal are found near
their ponds. A bird which they call the man of 'tvar,
is faid to meet (hips at 20 leagues from land, and their
return is, to the inhabitants, a fure fign of the arrival
of thefe (hips. When the wind blows from the fouth
and fouth-weft, they have flocks of curlews, plovers,
fnipes, wild pigeons, and wild ducks. The wild pi¬
geons are very fat and plentiful at fuch Teafons, and
rather larger than thofe of England. The tame pi¬
geons, pullets, ducks, and poultry of all kinds, that
are bred at Barbadoes, have alfo a fine flavour, and are
accounted more delicious than thofe of Europe. 'I heir
rabbits are fcarce; they have no hares $ and if they
Vol. III. Part I.
have deer of any kind, they are kept as curiofities. Barbactoes.
The infe&s of Barbadoes are not venomous, nor do ei-1 ^
ther their fnakes or fcorpions ever fling. 1 he mu-
fkettoes are troublelome, and bite, but are more tole¬
rable in Barbadoes than on the continent. Various
other infefts are found on the ifland, fome of which
are troublefome, but in no greater degree than thole
that are produced by every warm fummer in England,
Barbadoes is well fupplied with fifh 5 and iome caught
in the fea furrounding it are almoft peculiar to itlelf j
fuch as the parrot-filh, Inappers, grey cavallos, terbums,
and coney-filh. The mullets, lobiters, and crabs,
caught here are excellent j and the green turtle is per¬
haps the greateil delicacy that ancient or modern lux¬
ury can boaft of. At Barbadoes this delicious fhell-
fifh feldom fells for lefs than a flailing a pound, and
often for more. There is found in this ifiand a kind
of land crab which eats herbs wherever it can find
them, and (belters itfelf in houfes and hollows of trees.
According to report, they are a fhell-fifh of paffage ,
for in March they travel to the fea in great numbers.
See Cancer.
The inhabitants may be reduced to three claffes j
viz. the mafters, the white lervants, and the blacks.
The former are either Englifh, Scots, or Irifh : but
the great encouragement given by government to the
peopling of this and other Weft Indian iflands, induced
fome Dutch, French, Portuguefe, and Jews, to fettle
among them with their eftates ; by which, after a cer¬
tain time, they acquire the rights of naturalization in
Great Britain. The white fervants, whether by cove¬
nant or purchafe, lead more eafy lives than the day-
labourers in England 5 and when they come to be over-
feers, their wages and other allowances are confiderable.
As to the treatment of the negro Haves in this and
the other iflands, that falls to be fpoken of under the
articles Negro, Slave, West-Indies j which fee.
The manners of the white inhabitants, in general, are
the fame as in moft polite towns and countries in Eu¬
rope. The capital of the ifland is called Bridge-Town;
fee that article.
As the hiftory of this ifland furnifhes no very remark¬
able events, the following fliort hints concerning it may
fuffice.
When the Englifh, fome time after the year 1625,
firft landed here, they found it the moft favage and
deftitute place they had hitherto vifited. It had not
the leaft appearance of ever having been peopled even
by fava. es. There -was no kind of beads of pafture
or of prey, no fruit, no herb, no root fit tor fupport-
ing the life of man. Yet as the climate was fo good,
and the foil appeared fertile, fome gentlemen of fmall
fortune in England refolved to become adventurers
thither. The trees were fo large, and of a wood fo
hard and ftubborn, that it was with great difficulty they
could clear as much ground as was necefiary for their
fubfiftence. By unremitting perfeverance, however,
they brought it to yield them a tolerable fupport 5 and
they found that cotton and indigo agreed well with
the foil 5 and that tobacco, which was beginning to
come into repute in England, anfwered tolerably.
Thefe profpe&s, together with the ftorm between the
king and parliament, which was beginning to break
out* in England, induced many new adventurers to
tranfport themfelves into this ifland. And what is ex-
3 C tremely
BAR
[
Barhadces tremely remarkable, fo great was the xncreafe of people
||r in Barbadoes, 25 years after its fir ft fettlement, that
BarbarolTa. 111 1 ^5° ^ contained more than 50,000 whites, and a
much greater number of negro and Indian flaves. The
latter they acquired by means not at all to their ho-
nour : for they feized upon all thofe unhappy men,
without any pretence, in the neighbouring iflands, and
carried them into flavery ; a pra&ice which has ren¬
dered the Caribbee Indians irreconcilable to us ever
fince. They had begun a little before this to cultivate
fugar, which foon rendered them extremely wealthy.
The number of ftaves, therefore, was ftill augmented ;
and in 1676 it is fuppofed that their number amount¬
ed to 100,000, which, together with 50,000 wdiites,
make 150,000 on this fmall ipot: a degree of popu¬
lation unknown in Holland, in China, or any other
part of the world moft renowned for numbers. At this
time Barbadoes employed 400 fail of ftiips, one with
■another of 150 tons, in their trade. 1 heir annual ex¬
ports, in fugar, indigo, ginger, cotton, and citron-
water, were above 350,000b and their circulating
cafh at home was 2oo,oool. Such was the increale
of population, trade, and wealth, in the courfe of t;o
years. But fince that time this illand has been much
on the decline ; which is to be attributed partly to the
growth ol the French fugar colonies, and partly to
our own eftabhlhments in the neighbouring ifles. Their
numbers at prefent are faid to be 20,000 whites and
ico.ooo Haves. Their commerce confifts of the fame
articles as formerly, though they deal in them to lefs
extent.
BARBADOF.s-Tar, a mineral fluid of the nature of the
thicker fluid bitumens, of a naufeous bitterifli tafte,
very ftrong and difagreeable fmell, found in many parts
America trickling down the fides of the mountains,
and fometimes floating on the furface of the waters. It
has been greatly recommended in coughs and other
diforders of the breaft and lungs.
BARBARA, among Logicians, the firft mode of
the firft figure of fyllogifm's. A fyllogifm in barbara
is one whereof all the propofitions are univerfal and
affirmative ; the middle term being the fubjedb of the
firft propofition, and attribute in the fecond.
TLxamp. Bar. Every wicked man is miferable 5
Ba. All tyrants are wicked men ;
Ra. Therefore all tyrants are miferable.
BARBARIAN, a name given by the ancient
Greeks and Romans to all who were not of their own
country, or w’ere not initiated in their language, man¬
ners,- and cuftoms. In this fenfe, the word fignified
with them no more than foreigner ; not fignitying, as
among us, a wild, rude, or uncivilized perfon.
BARBARISM, in a general fenfe, a rudenefs of
language or behaviour.
Barbarism, in Grammar, an offence againft the pu¬
rity of ftyle or language ; or an ungrammatical way of
fpeaking or writing, contrary to the true idiom of any
particular language.
BARBAROUS A, Aruch, and Hayradin, two
famous corfairs, the Ions of a potter in the iiie of JLef-
bos 5 who, turning pirates, carried on their depreda¬
tions with fuch fucceis and conduft, that they w^ere
foon pofleffed of 1 2 galleys befides fmaller veflels. Of
this fleet Aruth the elder brother, called Barbarojfa
386 ] BAR
from the rednefs of his beard, was admiral, and Hay- Barbaroili
radm the iecond in command : they called themfelves II
th e friends of thefea, and the enemies of all -who failed Farbarus-
upon it; and their names became terrible from the
ftraits of Dardanelles to thofe of Gibraltar. With Inch
a power they wanted an eftabliftiment 5 and the oppor¬
tunity of fettling themfelves offered in 1516, by the
inconfiderate application of Eutemi king of Algiers to
them for afliftance againft the Spaniards. Aruch, lea¬
ving his brother to command the fleet, carried 50C0
men to Algiers, where he was received as their deli¬
verer } and iecretly murdering 'the prince he came to
aid, caufed himfelf to be proclaimed king in his Head,
I o this ufurpation he added the conqueft of Treme-
cen \ when his exploits and piracies induced the em¬
peror Charles V. to furnifti the marquis de Gomarez
governor of Oran with troops to fupprefs him ; by
whom he was defeated and killed near Trepaecen. His
brother Hayradin, known alfo by the name of Barba-
roffa, affumed the fceptre at Algiers with the fame abi¬
lities, and with better fortune j for the Spaniards, fuf-
ficiently employed in Europe, giving him no dilturb-
ance he regulated the interior police of his kingdom
wdth great prudence, carried on his naval operations
wdth vigour, and extended his conquells on the conti¬
nent of Africa. He put his dominions under the pro-
teftion of the Grand Signior, Solyman the Magnifi¬
cent 5 and obtained the command of the Turkifh fleet.
With fo powerful a protedor, he acquired the king¬
dom of Tunis in a manner limilar to that by which his
brother gained Algiers. Since the time of the Barba-
rollas, Algiers has been underftood to be dependent
on the Porte 5 but this dependence is now’ little more
than merely nominal.
BARBARUS, Francis, a noble Venetian, was a
man of great fame in the 15th century, not only for
learning, but likewile for a fkilful addrefs in the ma¬
nagement of public affairs. He is author of a book De
Re Uxona, and fome fpeeches.
Barbarus, Hertnolaus, grandfon of the preceding,
one of the moft learned men in the 15th century. The
public employments he wus intrufted with early, did
not prevent him from cultivating polite learning with
great application. As he was very Ikilful in the Greek,
he undertook the moft difficult tranflaticns, and began
with a famous paraphrafe upon Ariftotle. He then
attempted Diofcorides, whole text be correded, gave
a tranflation of him, and added a commentary. But
of all his works, there is none which has gained him fa
much reputation as that which he made upon Pliny 3
he correded in him above yoco paffages, and occa-
fionally reftored 300 in Pcmponius Mela. Pope In¬
nocent VIII. to whom he wTas ambaffador, conferred
the partriarchate of Aquileia upon him. He was fo
imprudent as to accept of it without waiting for the
confent of his fuperiors; though he could not be ig¬
norant that the republic of Venice had made laws to
foibid all the minifters they fent to the court of Rome
to accept any benefice. His fuperiors were inflexible j
and not being able to gain any thing upon them either
by his flattery or his father’s intereft, the father died
of grief, and the fon foon followed him.
Barbarus, Daniel, of the fame family with the
preceding, was patriarch of Aquileia, and famous for
his learning. He was ambaffador from Venice to Eng¬
land )
2
Whence
named.
BAR _ l 3
ftivhary. land j and was one of tKe fathers of the council of Trent,
where he afted with great zeal for the interefl of the
pope. He wrote, i. A commentary upon Vitruvius.
'1. Catena Grtecorum Patrilm in rjuinquaginta Pfaltnos
Latine vcrfa. 3. La Pratica della Perfpeciha. He
died in 1569, at 41 years of age.
BAR B ARY, a kingdom of Africa, including the
Rates of Algiers, Morocco, Tripoli, and Tunis; (fee
thofe articles). This country contains almoft the whole
1 6f what the Romans polTeiTed of the continent of A-
JiKtent,See. fnCa? excepting Egypt. It ftretches itfelf in length
from call to weft, beginning at the fouthern limits of
Egypt, to the ftraits of Gibraltar full 35 degrees of
longitude j and from thence to Santa Cruz, the utmoft
weftern edge of it, about fix more, in all 41 degrees;
fo that the utmoft length of Barbary from eaft to weft
is computed at above 759 German leagues. On the
fouth, indeed, it is confined within much narrower
bounds, extending no farther than from 27 to 35v de¬
grees of north latitude ; fo that its utmoft breadth from
north to fouth, does not exceed 128 German miles.
More particularly, Barbary begins on the weft of the
famed Mount Atlas, called by the Arabs Ay Duacal,
cr Al Duacal, enclofing the ancient kingdoms of Suez
and Dela, now provinces of Morocco ; thence ftretch-
ing north-eaftward along the Atlantic to the pillars of
Hercules at Cape Finifterre, then along the coaft of the
Mediterranean, it is at laft bounded by the city of A-
lexandria in Egypt.
Concerning the origin of the name Barbary, there
are many conjedtures. According to fome, the Ro¬
mans, after they had conquered this large country,
gave it that name out of contempt and dillike t» the
barbarous manners of the natives, according to their
cuftom of calling all other people but themfelves Bar¬
barians. Marmol on the contrary, derives the word
Barbary from Berber, a name which the Arabs gave
to its ancient inhabitants, and which they retain to
this day in many parts of the country, efpecially along
the great ridge of the mountains of Atlas; and which
name was given them on account of the barrennefs of
their country. According to Leo Africanus, the name
of Barbary was given by the Arabs on account of the
ftrange language of the natives, which appeared to
them more like a murmur or grumbling of fome brute
animals than articulate founds. Others, however, de¬
rive it from the Arabic word bar, fignifying a defert,
twice repeated ; which wras given by one Ifric, or A-
fricus, a king of Arabia, from whom the whole conti¬
nent of Africa is pretended to have taken its name.
According to them, this king being driven out of his
own dominions, and clofely purfued by his enemies, fome
of his retinue called out to him Bar, Bar ; that is, 70
the defert, To the defert ; from which the country was
afterwards called Barbary.
Among the Romans this country was divided into
the provinces of Mauritania, Africa Propria, &c. and
they continued abfolute mafters of it from the time of
Julius Cmfar till the year of Chrift 428. At that time
Bonifacius the Roman governor of thefe provinces,
having through the treachery of TEtius been forced to
revolt, called in to his afliftance Genferic king of the
Vandals^ Vandals, who had been fome time fettled in Spain.
The terms offered, according to Procopius, were, that
Genferic ftiould have two thirds, and Bonifacius one
Subjedt to
the Ro-
4
Bonitacius
g; ] BAR
third, of Africa, provided they could maintain ttiem- Barbary* (
felves againft the Roman power; and to accomplilh this
they were to afllft each other to the utmoft.—This pro-
pofal was inftantly complied with; and Genleric fet fail
from Spain in May 428, with an army of 80,000 men, "
according to fome, or only 24,000 according to o~
thers, together with their wives, children, and all their
effects. In the mean time, however, the emprefs P!a-
cidia having difeovered the true caufe of Bonifacius’s
revolt, wrote a moft kind and obliging letter to him,
in which fire affured him of her favour and proteftion.
for the future, exhorting him to return to his duty, and
exert his ufual zeal for the welfare of the empire, by-
driving out the Barbarians whom the malice of his*
enemies had obliged him to call in for his own fatety
and prefervation*. ^ 5
Bonifacius readily complied with this requeft, and Rndeavourt
offered the Vandals confiderable fums if they would tu,jyto^_
retire out of Africa and return to Spaim But Genfe-them
ric, already mafter of the greateft part of the country, to return,
firft returned a fcoffing anfwer, and then, falling unex-
peftedly on him, cut moft >of his men to pieces, and
obliged Bonifatius himfelf to fiy to Hippo, which place
he invefted in May 430. The fiege lafted till the
month of July the following year; when the Vandals
were forced, by a famine that began to rage in their
camp, to drop the enterprife, and retire. Soon after,
Bonifacius having received two reinforcements, one
from Rome, and the other, under the conduft of the
celebrated Afpar, from Gonftantinople, a refolution
was taken by the Roman generals to offer the enemy 4
battle. The Vandals readily accepting the challenge, Romans
a bloody engagement enfued, in which the Romans were^^*^
utterly defeated, a prodigious number of them taken, ^;ng 0f tj,e
and the reft obliged to Ihelter themfelves among the Vandals,
rocks and mountains. Afpar, who commanded the
eaftern troops, efcaped with difficulty to Conftanti-
nople, and Bonifacius was recalled to Italy. Upon
their departure, the Vandals overran all Africa, com¬
mitting everywhere the moft terrible ravages ; which
ftruck the inhabitants of Hippo with fuch terror, that
they abandoned their city, which wras firft plundered,
and then fet on fire by the vi&orious enemy ; fo that
Cirtha and Carthage were now the only ftrong places
poffeffed by the Romans. 7
In 435, Genferic, probably being afraid of an at-Peaceco!R
tack by the united forces of the eaftern and weftern
empires, concluded a peace with the Romans, whojais<
yielded to him part of Numidia, the province of Pro-
conlularis, and lij^ewife Byzancene; for which, accord¬
ing to Profper, he was to pay a yearly tribute to the
emperor of the eaft. Genferic delivered up his foil
Hunneric by way of hoftage ; but fo great was the
confidence which the Romans placed in this Barbarian,
that fome time after they fent him back his fon. Of
this they foon had reafon to repent; for in 439, the
Romans being engaged in a -war with the Goths in -5
Gaul, Genferic laid hold of that opportunity to feize Genfenc's
upon the city of Carthage; by which he confiderablytreachery“
enlarged his African dominionSi Valentir.ian, the Ro¬
man emperor, however, maintained as long as he lived
the two Mauritanias, with Tripolitana, Tingitana, and
that part of Numidia where Cirtha flood.
On the taking of Carthage, Genferic made it the
feat of his empire; and in 440 made a defeent on the
3 C 2 ifland
BAR [ 388 ] 15 A
Barbary. i{land of Sicily, where he ravaged the open country, were fufficienf for expelling the
9
-Makes
himfelf ma¬
tter of all
the Roman
provinces.
rs
Defeated
by Ricimer
and Majo-
rianus.
II
Genferic
defeats the
eaftern em¬
peror’s
fleet.
and even laid fiege to Palermo. Not being able, how¬
ever, to reduce that place, he foon returned to Africa
with an imrnenfe booty and a vaft number of captives.
Being now become-formidable to both empires, Theo-
dofius emperor of the eaft refolved to affift Valentinian
againft fo potverful an enemy. Accordingly, he fitted
out a fleet confifting of 1100 large Ihips 5 and putting
on Board of it the flower of his army, under the con-
du6t of Arcovindas, Anfllus, and’ Germanus, he or¬
dered them to land in Africa, and, joining the weftern
forces there, to drive Genferic out of the countries he
had feized. But Genferic in the meantime pretending
a defire to be reconciled with both empires, amufed
the Roman general with propolals of peace, till the
feafon for adlion was over ; and, next year, Theodo-
flus being obliged to recal his forces to oppofe the
Huns, Valentinian found it neceflary to conclude a
peace with the Vandals; and this he could obtain on
no other terms than yielding to them the quiet polfef-
iion of the countries thev had feized.
So powerful was Genferic now become, or rather
fo low was the Roman empire by this time reduced,
that in 4 ,5 he took and plundered the city of Rome
itfelf, as is fully related under the article Rome ; and,
after his return to Africa, made himfelf mailer of the
remaining countries held by the Romans in that part
of the world. Hereupon Avitus, who had fucceeded
Valentinian in the empire, defpatched ambafladors to
Genferic, putting him in mind of the treaty he had
concluded with the empire in 442 ; and threatening, if
he did not obferve the articles at that time agreed up¬
on, to make xvar upon him not only with his own for¬
ces, but with thofe of his allies the Veligoths, wdro
were ready to pafs over into Africa. To this Genferic
was fo far from paying anyr regard, that he immediate¬
ly put to fea with a fleet of 60 Drips ; but being at¬
tacked by the Roman fleet under Ricimer, he was ut¬
terly defeated, and forced to fly back into Africa : he
returned, howTever, foon after with a more powerful
fleet, committing great ravages on the coaft of Italy ;
but in a fecond expedition he was not attended with fo
good fuccefs ; the Romans falling unexpectedly upon
his men while bufied in plundering the country, put
great numbers of them to the fword, and among the
reft the brother-in-law of Genferic himfelf. Not con¬
tent with this fmall advantage, Majorianus, at that
time emperor, refolved to pafs over into Africa, and
attempt the recovery of that country. For this pur-
pofe he made great preparations ; but his fleet being
lurprifed and defeated by the Vandals, through the
treachery, it is faid, of fome of his commanders, the
enterprife mifcarried.
Notwithftanding this misfortune, however, Majo¬
rianus perflfted in his refolution j and would in all like¬
lihood have accomplilhed his purpofe, had not he him¬
felf been murdered foon after by Ricimer. After his
death, Genferic committed what ravages he pleafed in
the poor remains of the weftern empire, and even made
defcents on Peloponnefus and the iftands belonging to
the emperor of Conftantinople. To revenge this affront,
Leo made vaft preparations for the invafion of Africa,
infomuch, that, according to Procopius, he laid out
130,000 pounds weight of gold in the equipment of his
army and navy. The forces employed on this occafion
R
_ Vandals, had they Barbary.
been much more powerful than they were j but the  v-w
command being given to Bafilifcus a covetous and am¬
bitious man, the fleet was utterly defeated through his
treachery, and all the vaft preparations came to nothino-.
By this laft defeat the pow er of the Vandals in Africa
was fully eftablilhed, and Genferic made himfelf mafter
of Sicily, as well as of all the other iilands between
Italy and Africa, without oppofition from the weftern
emperors, wTofe power was entirely taken awray in the
year 476. . _ I3
Thus was the Vandalic monarchy in Barbary found-Kingdom of
ed by Genferic, between the years 428 and 468. If wethcVan£laIs
take a view' of that prince’s government in his new do-^°un^e^'
minions, it prefents no very agreeable profpett. Being 2^4^
himfelf an abfolute barbarian in the ftrifteft fenfe of the and tyran-
word, and an utter ftranger to every ufeful art, he didny of Gen-
not fail to ftiow his owm prowefs by the deftrudlion of161'*0,
all the monuments of Roman greatnefs which were fo
numerous in the country he had conquered. Accord-
ingly, inftead of improving his country, he laid it
wafte, by demoliftiing all the ftately ftru&ures both
public and private, and all other valuable and fump-
tuous works with which thofe proud conquerors had
adorned this part of their dominions. So that, what¬
ever monuments the Romans had been at fuch an im-
menfe expence to erecl, in order to eternize their own
glory, the barbarous Vandals wTere now at no leis pains
to reduce into heaps of ruins. Befldes this kind of
devaftations, Genferic made his dominions a fcene of
blood and flaughter, by perfecuting the orthodox
Chriftians j being himfelf, as well as moft of his coun¬
trymen, a zealous Arian 5 and for this his long
reign is chiefly remarkable. He died in 477, after a
reign of Co years j and W’as fucceeded by his fon Hun-
neric.
The new king proved yet a greater tyrant than hisHunnerica
father, perfecuting the orthodox with the utmoft fury;bloody ty-
and, during his flrort reign of feven years and a half,rant'
deftroyed more of them than Genferic had done in all 15
his lifetime. He is faid to have died in the fame man- terr^e
ner as the herefiarch Arius*; before which time his'^j^^
ficfti had been rotting upon his bones, and crawling
with worms, fo that he looked more like a dead car-
cafe than a living man. Concerning his fucceffors Gu-
tamund, Thrafamund, and Hilderic, we find nothing
remarkable, except that they fometimes perfecuted,
and fometimes were favourable to, the orthodox ; and
by his favour for them the laft king was ruined. For,
having unadvifedly publifhed, in the beginning of his
reign, a manifefto, wherein he repealed all the adls of
his predeceffors againft the orthodox, a rebellion was
the immediate confequence. At the head of the mal-Hilderic
contents was one Gilimer, or Gildemar, a prince of^eP°^e^
the blood-royal, who by degrees became fo powerful,Gliimer*
as to depofe Hilderic in the feventh year of his reign ;
after w hich he caufed the unhappy monarch, with all
his family, to be clofely confined, and was himfelf
crowned king of the Vandals at Carthage.
Gilimer proved a greater tyrant than any that had
gone before him. He not only cruelly perfecuted the
orthodox, but horribly oppreffed all the reft, fo that
he was held in univerfal abhorrence and deteftation
when the Greek emperor Juftinian proje£led an invafion Belifarius
of Africa, This expedition of Juftinian’s is faid toinvarle5
have Africa;
defeats the
Vandals;
BAR [ 389 ]
Barbary. have been occafioned by an apparition of Ltetus an mafters of this country
v—African bilbop, who had been murdered iome time be¬
fore, but now commanded the emperor to attempt the
recovery of Africa, and afl'ured him of fuccefs. Ac¬
cordingly, this, or fome other motive, prevailed upon
Juftinian fo far, that, notwithftanding 'his being at that
time engaged in a war with Perfia, he fent a powerful
fleet and army to Africa, under the command of the
celebrated general Belifarius, who was for that reafon
recalled from Perfia.
So much was Gilimer, all this time, taken up with
his own pleafures, or with opprefling his fubje&s, that
he knew little or nothing of the formidable prepara¬
tions that'were making againft him. On the arrival of
Belifarius, however, he was conftrained to put himfelf
into a pofture of defence. The management of his
army he committed to his two brothers Gundimer and
Gelamund, who accordingly attacked the Romans at
,8 the head of a numerous force. The engagement was
long and bloody ; but at laft the Vandals were defeated,
and the two princes flain. Gilimer, grown defperate
at this news, fallied out at the head of his corps de re-
ferve, with full purpofe to renew the attack with the
utmoft vigour ; but by his own indiferetion loft a fair
opportunity of defeating the Romans. For no fooner
did they perceive Gilimer haftening after them at the
head of a frefh army, than they betook themfelves to
flight; and the greateft part w-ere difperfed in fuch a
manner, that, had the king followed them clofe, they
muft have been totally cut off. Inftead of this, hovv-
cver, ftumbling unfortunately on the body of one of his
flain brothers, the fight of it made him lofe all thoughts
about the enemy •, and inftead of purfuing them, he
fpent part of his time in idle lamentations, and part in
burying the corpfe with fuitable pomp and dignity.
By this means Belilarius had an opportunity of rally¬
ing his men 5 which he did fo effectually, that, coming
unexpedfedly upon Gilimer, he eafily gained a new and
complete viftory over him.
This defeat wTas fallowed by the lofs of Carthage,
which the barbarians had been at no pains to put into
a pofture of defence. After which Gilimer, having in
vain endeavoured to obtain afliftance from the Moors
and Goths, wTa$ obliged to recal his brother I zafon from
Sardinia. The meeting between the two brothers w'as
very mournful $ but they foon came to a refolution of
making one defperate attempt to regain the loft king¬
dom, or at leaft recover their captives out of the hands
of the enemy. The confequence of his refolution was
another engagement, in which Tzafon was killed with
800 of his choiceft men, w'hile the Romans loft no
more than 50 ; after which Belifarius moving fudden-
ly forward at the head of all his army, fell upon the
camp of the Vandals. This Gilimer wras no fooner ap-
prifed of, than, without flaying to give any more orders
to the reft of his army, hefted towards Numidia in the
utmoft confternation. His flight was not immediate¬
ly known among his troops ; but when it was, fuch an
univerfal confufion enfued, that they abandoned their
camp to the Romans, who had now nothing to do but
*0 plunder it j and not content with this, they maffacred
and puts all the men found in it, carrying away the women cap-
sm end to tiVes>
iwJn Thus a total end was put to the power of the Van-
dais ’in Barbary, and the Romans once, more became
19
takes Car¬
thage;
BAR
The Vandal inhabitants were Barbary.
permitted to remain as they were, on condition of ex-
changing the herefy of Arius for the orthodox faith.
As for Gilimer, he fled with the utmoft expedition to
Medamus, a town fituated on the top of the Pappuan
mountain, and almoft inacceflible by reafon of its
height and ruggednefs. The fiege of this place was
committed to Pharas, an ofticer of great experience,
who having ftmt up all avenues to the town, the un- 2T
happy Gilimer wras reduced to the greateft ftraits for GilimerV
want of provifions. Pharas being foon apprized of the extreme di-
diftrefs he was in, wrote him a moft friendly and pa-*1^5-
thetic letter, earneftly exhorting him to put an end to
the diftrefs of himfelf and his friends by a furrender.
This Gilimer declined •, but at the fame time concluded
his an fiver with a moft fubmiflive requeft, that Pharas
would fo far pity his great diftrefs as to fend him a loaf
of bread, a fponge, and a lute. This ftrange requeft
greatly furprifed Pharas ; but at laft it was explained
by the meflenger, who told him that the king had not
tafted any baked bread ftnee his arrival on that moun¬
tain, and earneftly longed to eat a morfel of it before-
he died : the fponge he wanted to allay a tumour that
was fallen on one of his eyes ; and the lute, on v.’hich
he had learned to play, was to afiifthimin fetting fome
elegiac verfes he had compofed on the fubjeft of his
misfortunes to a fuitable tune. At this mournful re¬
port Pharas could not reftrain from tears, and imme¬
diately defpatched tbe meffenger with the things he
wanted.
Gilimer had fpent near three winter months on the
fummit of this inhofpitable mountain, his mifery har¬
dening him ftill more againft the thoughts of furren¬
dering, when a melancholy feene in his own family at
once reconciled him to it. This was a bloody ftruggle
between two boys, one of them his fifter’s fon, about
a flat bit of dough, laid on the coals ; which the one
feized upon, burning hot as it was, and clapped it in¬
to his mouth ; but the other by dint of blows forced it
out, and eat it from him. This quarrel, which might
have ended fatally had not Gilimer interpofed, made fo
deep an impreflion upon him, that he immediately def¬
patched a meffenger to Pharas, acquainting him that
he was willing to furrender himfelf and all his effedls
upon the conditions he had offered, as foon as he was
affured that they were embraced by Belifarius. Pha¬
ras loft no time to get them ratified and fent back tw
him ; after which he was conducted to Belilarius, who
gave him a very kind reception. Gilimer was after¬
wards brought before Juftinian in gold chains, whom
he befought in the moft fubmiffive manner to fpare his „ ?
life. This was readily granted by the emperor ; who Kindly
alfo allowed him a handfome yearly penfion to live up-treated by
on as a private gentleman. But his mind and heart
were too much unfettled and broken to enjoy the fvveets
of a private ftate ; fo that Gilimer, oppreffed with grief,
died in the year 534, the firft of his captivity, and five
years after he had been raifed to the throne.
Barbary being thus again reduced under the power
of the Romans, its hiftory falls to be taken notice of
under that of Rome. In the caliphate of Omar, thisBarb2a^y
country was reduced by tbe Saracens, as we have al- fhbdued by-
ready related under the article Arabia. It continued the-Sara-
fubjefl to the caliphs of Arabia and Bagdad till the
reign of Harun AI Rafchid, who having appointed_I-
brahinr
B A R
Barbary.
24
Principal
city of the
Aglabites
founded.
25
Habfeafah
invades
.■Egypt.
brahim Ebn Aglab governor of tire weftern parts of
bis empire, that prefect: took tlie opportunity, fir ft
of affuming greater powers to himfelf than had been
granted by the caliph, and then erefting a princi¬
pality altogether independent of the caliphs. The
race of Aglab continued to enjoy their new principa¬
lity peaceably till the year of the Hegira 297 or 298,
during which time they made feveral defcents on the
illand of Sicily, and conquered part of it. About this
time, however, one Obeidallah rebelled againft the
houfe of Aglab, and allumed the title of caliph of
Kairwan (the ancient Cyrene, and refidence of the
Aglabite princes). To give the greater weight to his
pretenfions he alio took the furname of A1 Mohdi, or
A1 Mahedi, the direflor. According to fome, allb, he
pretended to be defcended in a right line from Ali Ebn
Abu Taleb, and Fatema the daughter of Mahomet} for
which reafon, fay they, the Arabs called him and his
defcendants Fatemites. He likewife encouraged him-
lelf and his followers by a traditional prophecy of Ma¬
homet, that at the end of 300 years the fun fhould rife
Driven out out of the Weft. Having at length driven the Agla-
dfthe fir-ft1 ^teS where they became known by the
Patemite nam.e of Magrebians, he extended his dominions in
caliph. Africa and Sicily, making Kairwan the place of his
26 refidence.
Hu general In the 300th year of the Hegira, Habbafah, one
of A1 Mbhdi’s generals, overthrew the caliph A1 Mokh-
tader’s forces in the neighbourhood of Barca, and
made himfelf mafter of that city. After which he re^
duced. Alexandria itfelf} and was making great pro-
grels in the conquert of the whole country, when Al-
Mokhtader defpatched againft him his two generals
Fakin and A1 Kafem, with an army of 100,000 mem
Habbafah being informed that the caliph’s troops w^ere
in motion, advanced at the head of his army to give
them battle, and at laft came up with them in an illand
called by the Arabs Ard Al Khamjin. Here he at¬
tacked them with incredible bravery, notwithftanding
their force was much fuperior to his} but the approach
of night obliged both generals to found a retreat. 
The aftion therefore was by no means decifive, though
extremely bloody, the caliph’s generals having loft
20,000, and Habbafah 10,000. The latter, however,
durft not renew the fight next morning } but ftole off
in the night, and returned home, fo that Al Mokhta-
der in effeft gained a victory. In the 302d year of
the Hegira, however, Habbafah returned, poffeffed
himfelf of. Alexandria a fecond time, defeated a body
of the caliph’s forces, and killed 7000 of them upon
the fpot. What further progrefs he made at that
time we are not certainly told } but in the 307th year
of the Hegira,. Abul Kafern, fon to the Fatemite ca¬
liph Al Mohdi, again entered Egypt with an army of
100,000 men. At firft he met with extraordinary fuc-
cefs, and overran a confiderable part of that fine coun¬
try. He made himfelf mafter of Alexandria, Al Tay-
um, Ai Baknafa, and the ifle of Al Afhmaryin, pene¬
trating even to Al Jizah, where the caliph’s army un¬
der the command of Mimes was ported in order to op-
pofe him. In this country he found means to main¬
tain himfelf till the 308th year of the Hegira. This
year, however, he was entirely defeated by Munes,
who made himfelf mafter of all his baggage, as well as
of the plunder he had acquired} and this blow ob-
[ 39° ]
bar
37
As does al
fo his Ion
Abul Ka-
feiB,
28
who is ut¬
terly de¬
feated by
Munes.
liged him to fly to Kairwan with the {battered remains Barbary,
of his army, where he remained without making any ' w—-
further attempt on Egypt.
Al Mohdi reigned 24 years} and was fucceeded by
his Ion Abul Kafem above-mentioned, who then took
the furname A/. Kayem Mohdi. During his rei-n
we read .of nothing remarkable, except the revolt of
one Vezid Ebn Condat, a man of mean extraction, but
who, having been, raifed to the dignity of chancellor, 20
found means to raife fuch a ftrong party, that the caliph Rebellion
was obliged to ihut himfelf up in the caftle of Mohedia.ofYe^-
ezid, being tken at the head of a powerful army,
foon reduced the capital of Kairwan, the cities of Al
Rakkada and Tunis, and feveral other fortreffes. He
was no lefs fuccefsful in defeating a confiderable num¬
ber of troops which Al Kayem had raifed and fent
againft him } after which he clofely befieged the caliph
himfelf in the caftle where he had fhut himfelf up.
The fiege continued feven months' during which time
the place was reduced to fuch ftraits, that the caliph
muft either have ftirrendered it or been ftarved, when
death put an end to his anxiety in the I 2th year of his
reign, and 334th of the Hegira. ' 20
Al Kayem was fucceeded by his fon "iftimael, who Al Manfu*
immediately took upon himfelf the title of A/ Manfur. ca]iPh'
1 his caliph thought proper to conceal the death of his
father, till he had made the preparations neceffary for
1 educing the rebels. In this he was fo fuccefsful that
he obliged Yezid to raife the fiege of Mohedia the fame
year } and in the following gave him two great over¬
throws, obliging him to {hut himfelf up in the fortrefs
of Kothama, or Cutama, where he befieged him in his
turn. Yezid defended the place a long time with de-
fperate bravery } but finding the garrifon at laft obliged
to capitulate, he made fliift to efcape privately. ^Al
Manfur immediately defpatched a body of forces in pur-
fuit of him 5 who overtook, and brought him back in
fetters } but not till after a vigorous defence, in which
Yezid received feveral dangerous wounds, of which he ,r
died in prifon. After his. death, Al Manfur caufed his Deiiih of
body, to .be flayed, and his {kin fluffed and expofed toYezid*
public view. Of Al Manfur’s exploits in Sicily an ac¬
count is given under that article. Nothing farther re¬
markable happened in his African dominions } and he
died after a reign of feven years and 16 days, in the
341ft: of the Hegira.
Al Manfur was fucceeded by his fon Abu Zammin A1 Moez
Moad, who affumed the furname of Al Moe% Ledinil- Ledinillali
lab. He proved a very warlike prince, and maintained caliPh*
a bloody conteft with Abdalrahman, caliph of Anda-
lufia } for a particular account of which fee the article
Spain. In the 347th year of the Hegira, beginning
March 25th, 958, Al Moez fent a powerful army to the
weftern extremity of Africa, under the command of
Abul Hafan Jawhar, one of his Haves, whom he had
advanced to the dignity of vizir. Jawhar firft ad¬
vanced to a city called Tahart, which he befieged for
fome time ineffe&ually. From thence he marched to
Fez, and made proper difpofitions for attacking that>
city. But finding that Ahmed Ebn Beer, the emir
of the place, was refolved to defend it to the laft, he
thought proper to abandon the enterprife. However,
having trayerfed all the tra& between that capital and
the Atlantic ocean, he again fat down before Fez, and
took it by ftornl the following year,
But
34
and trans-
ment to
that coun¬
try.
BAR [ 39
Barbary. But the greatefl atchievement performed by this
caliph was his conqueit of Egypt, and the removal of
the caliphate to that country. This conqueit, though
long projected, he did not attempt till the year of the
Hegira 358. Having then made all neceil'ary prepa¬
rations for it, he committed the care of that expedition
to a faithful and experienced general called Giafary or
Jaafar; but in the mean time, this enterprii'e did not
divert A1 Moez from the care of his other conquefts,
particularly thofe of Sicily and Sardinia : to the laft
of which he failed in the year of the Hegira 361, con¬
tinuing a whole year in it, and leaving the care of his
African dominions to an experienced officer named
Yu/ef Ben Zeiri. He failed thence the following year
for Tripoli in Barbary, where he had not llaid long
before he received the agreeable news that his general
had made himfelf mailer of Alexandria. He loft no
time, but immediately embarked for it, leaving the
government of his old African dominions in the hands
of his trufty fervant Yufef above-mentioned, and arri¬
ving fafely at that port was received with all the de-
monftrations of joy. Here he began to lay the founda-
fers the feattions of his new Egyptian dynafty, which was to put a
of govern- final end to the old one of Kairwan after it had con¬
tinued about 65 years.
A1 Moez prelerved all his old dominions of Kair-
wan or Africa Proper. But the ambition or avarice
of the governors whom he appointed fuffered them to
run quickly to a ftiameful decay j particularly the new
and opulent metropolis of Mohedia, on which immenfe
fums had been laviihed, as well as labour and care, fo
as to render it not only one of the richeft and ftate-
lieft, but one of the ftrongeft, cities in the world : fo
that we may truly fay, the wealth and fplendor of this
once famed, though ffiort-lived ftate, took their final
leave of it with the departure of the caliph A1 Moez,
feeing the whole maritime tra£l from the Egyptian
confines to the ftraits of Gibraltar hath fince become
the neft of the moft odious piratical crew that can be
imagined.
Under the article Algiers we have given a ffiort
account of the erection of a new kingdom in Barbary
by Texefien *, which, however, is there no farther con¬
tinued than is neceffary for the proper underftanding
the hiftory of that country. A general hiftory might
here be given of the whole country of Barbary j but as
that would neceffarily occafton repetitions under the
articles Morocco^ Tripoli, Tunis, See. we muft
refer to thofe articles for the hiftorical part, as well as
for an account of the climate, inhabitants, &c.
BARBATELLI, Bernardino, otherwife called
Tochetti, a painter of hiftory, fruit, animals, and flowers,
was born at Florence in 1542. He was the difciple of
Ridclfo Ghirlandaio at Florence 3 from whofe fchool
he went to Rome, and ftudied there with fuch uncom¬
mon affiduity, that he was frequently fo abftradted,
and fo abfolutely engroiTed by the objects of his con¬
templations, as to forget the neceffary refreffiments of
fleep and food. He was excellent for painting every
fpecies of animals, fruit, or flowers 3 and in thofe
fubjefts not only imitated, but equalled nature. His
touch was free, light and delicate, and the colouring
of his obje&s inexpreffibly true 3 and, beftde his me¬
rit in this moft ufual ftyle of painting, the hiftori-
calYubjects which he deftgped from facred or profane
He died Barbe
I!.
Baibermo,
1 ] BAR
authors were much efteemed and admired,
in 1612.
BARBE, or Barb. See Barb.
Barbe in the military art. To fire in barbe, means
to fire the cannon over the parapet, inftead of firing
through the embrafures 3 in which -cafe, the parapet
muft not be above three feet and a half high.
Barbe, or Barde, is an old word, denoting the
armour of the horfes of the ancient knights and foldiers,
who were accoutred at all points. It is faid to have
been an armour of iron and leather, wherewith the
neck, breaft, and fhoulders of the horfe were covered.
Barbe, a town of Bifcay in Mexico, near which
are rich filver mines. W. Long. 109. 55. N. Lat.
26. o.
BARBED, in a general fenfe, bearded like a fifti-
hook fet with barbs 3 alfo ffiaved or trimmed.
Barbed and Crejled, in Heraldry, an appellation
given to the combs and gills of a cock, when parti¬
cularized for being of a different tinfture from the
body.
A barbed crofs, is a crofs the extremities whereof are
like the barbed irons ufed for ftriking fiftr.
BARBEL, in Ichthyology. See Cyprinus.
BARBELICOTyE, an ancient feet of Gnoftics,
fpoken of by Theodoret. Their doctrines were ab-
furd, and their ceremonies too abominable to be re¬
peated.
BARBER, one who makes a trade of {having or
trimming the beards of other men for money. An¬
ciently a lute or viol, or fome fuch mufical inftrument,.
was part of the furniture of a barber’s (hop, which was
ufed then to be frequented by peribns above the ordi¬
nary level of the people, who reforted to the barber ei¬
ther for the cure of wounds, or to undergo fome chi-.
rurgical operation, or, as it wras then called, to be
trimmed, a word that fignified either ihaviag or cutting
and curling the hair 3 thefe, together with letting
blood, were the ancient occupations of the barber-
furgeon. As to the other important, branch of iurgery,
the fetting of fractured limbs, that was pradlifed by
another clafs of men called bone-fetters, of whom there
are hardly any now remaining. The mufical inftru-
ments in his (hop were for the entertainment of wait¬
ing cuftomers 3 and anfwrered the. end of a newfpaper,
with which at this day thofe who wait for their turn
at the barber’s amufe themfelves. For the origin of
the barber’s^>0/?, fee the article Appellation.
BARBERINI, Francis, one of the moft excellent
poets of his age, was born at Barberino, in Tufcany,
in the year 1264. As his mother was of Florence, he.
fettled in that city 3 where his profeffion of the law,
but efpecially the beauty of his poetry, raifed him a
very confiderable character. The greateft part of his
works are loft 3 but that which is entitled the Precepts
of Love, which is a moral poem calculated in inftruCt
thofe in their duty who have a regard for glory, virtue,
and eternity, has had a better fate. It was publiftied
at Rome, adorned with beautiful figures, in 1640, by
Frederic Ubaldini 3 he prefixed the author’s life 3 and,
as there are in the poem many words which are grown
obfolete, he added a gloffary to explain them, which
illuftrates, the fenfe by the authority of cotemporary
poets.
BARBERINO, a town of Tufcany 14 Italy, fi-
tviaUdJ
BAR [ 392 ] BAR
Barberry tuated at tlie foot of the Apennine mountains, in E.
Barbieri. Lon^ I2' N’ Lat- 43- 40-
^ _r BARBERRY. See Berberis, Botany Index.
BARBESUL in Ancient Geography, a town and ri¬
ver of Baetica, and a colony in the refort of the
Conventus Gaditanus in Spain : now Morbe/la in Gre¬
nada.
BARBET in Natural HiJIory, a name given by
M. Reaumur, and other of the French writers, to a
peculiar fpecies of the worms which feed on the puce-
ronsor aphides. See Aphis, Entomology Index.-
BARBETS, the name of the inhabitants of feveral
valleys in Piedmont, particularly thofe of Lucern, An-
grona, Perufa, and St Martin.
BARBEYRAC, John, was born in Befiers in
Lower Languedoc in 1674. H-e was made profeflbr
of law and hiftory at Laufanne in 1710 : which he en¬
joyed for feven years, and during that time wras three
times re£lor : in 1,717, he was profeffor of public and
private law at Groningen, He tranilated into French
the twro celebrated works of Puffendorf, his Law of
Nature and Nations, and his Duties of a Man and a
Citizen ; to both which he wrote excellent notes, and
to the former an introductory preface. He tranflated
alfo Grotius’s treatife De Jure Belli ac Pads, with
large and excellent notes'; and feveral of Tillotfon’s
fermons. He wrote a work entitled Traite de Jen,
2 vols. 8vo.
BARBEZIEUH, a town of Saintonge in France,
with the title of a marquifate. It hath a manufacture
of linen cloth ; and lies in W. Long. o. 5. N. Lat. 45.
23-
BARBICAN, or Barbacan. See Barbacan.
BARBIERI, Giovanni Francesco, otherwife
called Guercino da Cento, an eminent hiftorical painter,
was born at Cento, a village not far from Bologna, in
1590. At firft he was the difciple of Benedetto Gen-
»ari; but he afterwards ftudied for fome time in the
fchool of the Caracci, though he did not adopt the
manner of that famous academy. He feemed to pre¬
fer the flyle of Caravaggio to that of Guido or Alba-
no, imagining it impoflible to imitate nature truly,
without the atTiftance of ftrong lights and llrong Iha-
dows ; and from that principle, his light was admitted
into his painting room from above. In effeCt, by the
oppofition of his ftrong lights and Ihadows, he gave
fuch force to his pictures, that few, except thole of
Caravaggio, can Hand near them, and not feem feeble
in their effeCt: however, that manner is cenfured as
not being like nature, becaufe it makes objeCls appear
as if they were feen by candle-light, or by the bright-
nefs of a fun-beam, which alone canjuftify the deep-
nefs of his fhadowing. The principal attention of Guer¬
cino feems to have been fixed on arriving at perfec¬
tion in colouring ; he faw the aftonifhing effects pro¬
duced by the colouring of the celebrated Venetian
mailers; and obferved, that notwithftanding any im¬
perfections in regard to grace, correClnefs, or elegance,
the works of thefe mailers were the objeCls of univerfal
admiration. From which obfervation, he feems to
have devoted his whole ftudy to excel in colouring ; as
if he were convinced, that few are qualified to difcern
the elevation of thought, which conftitutes the excel¬
lence of a compofition ; few may be touched with the
grandeur or beauty of the defign, or perhaps have a ca-
I
pacity to examine even the correftnefs of any part of a
painting ; and yet every eye, and even every imperfeft
judge of a picture, may be fenfibly alledted by the
force and beauty of the colouring. His taffe of defign
was natural, eafy, and often grand, but without any
extraordinary lhare of elevation, correftnefs, or ele¬
gance. The airs of his heads often want dignity, and
his local colours want truth. However, there is great
union and harmony in his colours, although his carna¬
tions are not very frelh ; and in all his works there is a
porwerful and expreflive imitation of life, which will
for ever render them eitimable. Towards the decline
of his life, he obferved that the clearer and brighter
llyle of Guido and Albano had attracted the admira¬
tion of all Europe ; and therefore he altered his man¬
ner, even againlt his own judgment. But he apologized
for that conduct, by declaring, that in his former time
he painted for fame, and to pleafe the judicious; and
he now painted to pleafe the igncrant, and enrich him-
felf. He died in 1666.—The molt capital performance
of Guercino, is the hiltory of S. Petronilla, which is
confidered as one of the ornaments of St Peter’s at
Rome.
Barbieri, Paolo Antonio, da Cento, painter of
Hill life and animals, was the brother of Guercino, and
born at Cento in 1596. He chofe for his fubjefts
fruit, flowers, infects, and animals ; which he painted
after nature with a lively tint of colour, great tender-
nefs of pencil, and a ffrong character of truth and life.
He died in 1640.
BARBITOS, or Barbiton, an ancient inffrument
of mufic, mounted w-ith three, others fay feven, firings}
much ufed by Sappho and Alcaeus, whence it is alfo
denominated Lejboum.
BARBLES, or Barbs, in Farriery, the knots or
fuperfluous flelh that grow up in the channels of a
horfe’s mouth ; that is, in the intervals that feparate the
bars, and lie under the tongue. Thefe, w'hich are alfo
Called harbes, obtain in black cattle as well as horfes,
and obftruft their eating. For the cure, they caff the
beaft, take out his tongue, and clip off the barbies wuth
a pair of fciffars, or cut them with a (harp knife } others
choofe to burn them off with a hot iron.
BARBOUR, John, archdeacon of Aberdeen, was
efteemed an excellent poet in the reign of David I. He
wrote the hiftory of Robert the Bruce, in an heroic
poem, which is ftill extant, and which contains many
fa£ts and anecdotes omitted by other hiftorians. The
lateft edition of this book is that of Glafgow, 8vo.
printed in the year 1672. It is entitled, “ The adls
and life of the moft victorious conqueror Robert Bruce
king of Scotland ; wherein alfo are contained the mar¬
tial deeds of the valiant princes Edward Bruce, Sir
James Dowglafs, Earl Thomas Randel, Walter Stew¬
ard, and fundry others.” In one paffage, he calls it a
romance ; but that word was then of good reputation :
every body knows that the ‘ Romant of romants’
has been innocently applied to true hiftory, as well as
the ‘ Ballad of ballads’ to a facred fong.
BARBUDA, one of the Britifti Caribbee iflands,
about 20 miles long and 1 2 broad. It is low land, but
fruitful and pretty populous.’ The inhabitants employ
themfelves in hufbandry, and find always a ready mar¬
ket for their corn and cattle in the fugar iflands. Bar¬
buda is the properly of the Codrington family, who
have
Barbieri
I!
Barbuda.
i
BAR
[ 393 1
BAR
Barca, have great numbers of negroes here as well as in Bar-
"■’■v—1—' badoes. It lies in W. Long. 6l. 3. N. Lat. 18. 5.
BARCA, a large country of Africa, lying on the
coafl: of the Mediterranean fea, between the kingdoms
of Egypt and Tripoli, extending itfelf in length from
, eaft to well from the 39th to the 46th degree of call
longitude, and in breadth from north to fouth about
30 leagues, as is generally fuppofed. It is for the moll
part, efpecially in the middle, a dry fandy defert : on
which account the Arabs call it Sahart, or Ceyart
Barka, that is, the delert or road of whirlwinds or
hurricanes. It labours almoft everywhere under a
great fcarcity of water } and except in tne neighbour¬
hood of towns and villages, where the ground produces
fome fmall quantities of grain, fuch as millet and fome
maize, the reft is in a manner quite barren and uncul¬
tivated, or, to fpeak more properly, uncultivable : and
even of that fmall quantity which thofe few .fpots pro¬
duce, the poor inhabitants are obliged to exchange
fome part with their indigent neighbours, for dates,
fheep, and camels, which they ftand in greater need of
than they, by reafon of their great fcarcity of grafs
and other proper food *, for want of which, thofe that
are brought to them feldom thrive or live long. In this
country ftood the famed temple of Jupiter Ammon $
and notwithftanding the pleafantnefs of the fpot where
it ftood, this part of the country is faid to have been
the moft dangerous of any, being furrounded with fuch
quick and burning fands as are Very detrimental to tra¬
vellers ; not only as they fink under their feet, but be¬
ing light, and heated by the rays of the fun, are eafily
raifed by every breath of wind j which, if it chance to
be in their faces, almoft burns their eyes out, and ftiffies
them for want of breath j or if vehement, often over¬
whelms whole caravans. Againft this temple Cambyfes
king of Perfia defpatched an army of 50,000 men.
They fet out from Thebes in Upper Egypt, and under
the conduft of proper guides reached the city of Oafis
feven dayf journey from that place : but what was their
fate afterwards is uncertain •, for they never returned
either to Egypt or to their own country. The Am-
monians informed Herodotus, that, after the army
had entered the fandy defert which lies beyond Oafis,
a violent wind began to blow from, the fouth at the
time of their dinner, and raifed the fand to fuch a de¬
gree, that the whole army was overwhelmed and bu¬
ried alive. • 1
Concerning the government or cbmmerce of this
country we know nothing certain. Moft probably the
maritime towns are under the prote&ion of the Porte :
but whether under the balhaw of Egypt or. Tripoli, or
whether they have formed themfelves into independent
ftates like thofe of Algiers and Tunis, we cannot fay 5
only we are told that the inhabitants of the maritime
towns are more civilized than thofe that dwell in the
inland parts. The firft profefs Mahometanifm, and
have imbibed fome notions of humanity and juftice •,
whilft the latter, who have neither religion nor any
fign of worfhip among them, are altogether favage and
brutifh. They are a fort of Arabs, and like them live
entirely upon theft and plunder. By them this traft,
which before was a continued defert, was firft inhabited.
At their firft coming in, they fettled themfelves in one
of the heft places of the country •, but as they multi¬
plied, and had frequent wars with one another, the
Vol. III. Part I.
ftrongeft drove the weakeft out of the beft fpots, and Barcaiun,
fent them to wander in the defert parts, where they live ; ^—,,
in the moft miferable manner, their country hardly af¬
fording one fingle neceffary of life. Hence it is that
they are laid to be the uglieft of all the Arabs : their
bodies having fcarcely any thing but fkin and bone,
their faces meagre, with fierce ravenous looks *, their
garb, which is commonly what they take from the paf-
fengers who go through thefe parts, tattered with long
wearing while the pooreft of them have fcarce a rag
to cover their nakednefs. They are moft expert and
refolute robbers, that being their chief employment
and livelihood $ but the travellers in thefe parts are fo
few, that the Barcans are often neceflitated to make
diftant excurlions into Numidia, Libya, and other
fouthern countries. Thofe that fall into their nands
are made to drink plenty of warm milk then they
hang them up by the feet, and {hake them, in order to
make them vomit up any money they think they have
fwallowed j after which, they ftrip them of all their
clothes, even to the laft rag : but with all this inhu¬
manity, they commonly fpare their life, w hich is more
than the other African robbers do. Yet notwithftand¬
ing every artifice they can ufe, the Barcans are fo poor,
that they commonly let, pledge, or even fell, their chil¬
dren to the Sicilians and others from whom they have
their corn, efpecially before they fet out on any long
excurfion.
BARCALON, an appellation given to the prime
minifter of the king of Siam. The barcalon has in his
department every thing relating to commerce, both at
home and abroad. He is likewife fuperintendant of
the king’s magazines.
BARCELONA, ahandfome, rich, and ftrong city
of Spain, in the province of Catalonia, of which it is
the capital. This city was originally founded by Ha-
milcar Barcas, and from him called Barcino. It was
reduced by the Romans, and continued lubjeft to them
till the kingdom of Spain w'as overrun by the Goths
and Vandals, and afterwards by the Saracens or Moors.
In the beginning of the 9th century, Barcelona was in
the hands of the Moors, and binder the government of
one Zade. This governor having more than once abu-
fed the clemency of Charlemagne, at laft irritated Levris
king of Aquitain, and Ion to Charles, to fuch a degree,
that he gave orders to his generals to inveft the city,
and not to rife from before it till they had put Zade
into his hands. The Moor made a moft obftinate re-
fiftance, fo that the fiege lafted many months : at laft,
finding it impoflible to preferve the city much longer,
and being deftitute of all hopes of relief, he determined,
or rather was compelled by the inhabitants, to go to the
Chrifiian camp and implore the emperor’s mercy ; but
here he was no fooner arrived than he was arrefted and
fent prifoner to Charlemagne, who condemned him to
perpetual baniftiment. The people gaining nothing by
this expedient, continued to hold out for fix weeks
longer, when the king of Aquitain himfelf took the
command of the fiege. To him they made a propofal,
that if he would allow them to march out and go
where they pleafed, they would furrender. the place.
Lewus having agreed to this, made his public entry .in¬
to Barcelona, where he formed a defign of extending
his father’s dominions as far as the Lbro J but being
recalled before he could put his defign in execution,
3D he
BAR
Barcelona.^ he appointed one Beta count of Barcelona. _ _
continued fubjeft to him and his fucceffbrs, who ttill
enjoyed the title of counts of Barcelona, from the year
802 to 1131 j during which time we find nothing re¬
markable, except that the city was once taken by the
Moors, but foon after retaken by the alliftance of
Lewis IV. king of France. In 1131 it was united to
the crown of Arragon by the marriage of Don Ray¬
mond V. count of Barcelona with the daughter of Don
Ramiro the monk, king of Arragon. In 1465 the
Catalonians revolted againll Don Juan II. king of Ar¬
ragon, out of hatred to his queen Donna Juanna} the
confequence of which was, that Barcelona was befieged'
by that monarch in 1471. Various efforts were made
by Lewis XL of France and the duke of Lorrain in
order to raife the fiege, but without effe£I. Things
at length w^ere brought to the utmoft extremity, when
the king offered to pardon them all, without the fmall-
eit punilhment either in perfon or property, provided
they would fubmit : but thefe terms they rejefted,
chiefly through the influence of the Count de Pailhars,
who had been pardoned the year before. The armv,
on the other hand, was very earneft on being led on to
the affault, in hopes of plunder. I he king, however,
wrote a letter to the citizens, dated the 6th of Ofto-
ber, in terms as affe&ionate as if he had been writing
to his children, bewailing the miferies they had brought
on themfelves, and concluding with a proteflation that
they, and not he, mult be anfwerable for the confe-
quences. Upon this, at the perfuafion of a prielt who
had a reputation for fan&ity, they fent deputies to the
king, and made a capitulation on the 17th of the lame
month. In this the king acknowdedged they had
taken up arms on juft motives; and forgave every body
except Pailhars, who was, however, fuffered to efcape.
On the 22d of October the king made his entry into
the city, and confirmed all their ancient privileges. In
1697, Barcelona veas taken by the French, after a
bloody fiege of 52 days ; and the lofs of this city had
a confiderable effect in difpofing the Spaniards to aoree
to the treaty of Ryfwick. In Queen Anne’s time it
was taken by the allies under the earl of Peterborough j
but being afterwards lhamefully denied afliftance by the
Englilh miniftry, was obliged to fubmit to Philip II.
by whom the whole province was deprived of its an¬
cient privileges ; for a particular account of which, fee
the article Spain.
Barcelona is fituated by the fea-fide, of a form be¬
tween a fquare and an oval. It is furrounded with a
good brick w’all, round which is another, with 14 ba-
ftions, horn-works, ramparts, and ditches ; the ram¬
parts are high, broad, and fpacious, infomuch that
IOO coaches may be feen every evening driving thereon
for pleafure. The city is divided into two parts, the
Old and the New, which are feparated from each other
by a wall and a large ditch ; the ftreets are handfome,
well paved with large ftones, wide, and very clean. It
is the refidence of a viceroy, is a bifhop’s fee, has a
fine univerfity, a mint, a good port, and is adorned
with handfome buildings. Here is a court of inquifi-
tion, which the inhabitants look upon as an advantace.
The remarkable buildings are the cathedral, which"is
large, handfome, and adorned with two high towers
the church of the Virgin Mary, the palace of the bilhop’
that of the inquifition, and fevexal religious houfes;
[ 394 1 bar
I he city add to thele the palace of the viceroy j the arfenal, Barcelona
which contains arms for icoo men j the exchange, II
where the merchants meet ; the terfana, where they , EarCiay-
build the galleys ; and the palace where the nobility
of the country meet, called La Cafa de la Deputation.
This laft is built with fine large freeftone, and adorn¬
ed with columns of marble : there is in it a large hall
with a gilt cieling and a handfome portico, wherein
perfons may either walk or fit; the hall is adorned
with the portraits of all the counts of Barcelona.
There are feveral fine fquares, particularly that of St-
Michael, into which all the great ftreets run. The
port is wide, fpacious, deep, and fafe ; defended on
the one fide by a great mole, and on the other fhelter-
ed from the weft wind by two mountains that advance
into the fea, and form a kind of promontory : the mole
is 750 paces long, with ajquay, at the end of which
is a light-houfe and a fmalTfort. One of the moun¬
tains, called Mount Joy, is very high, and rifes in the
middle of the plain near the city : it is covered with
gardens, vineyards, groves of trees, and has a firong
fort for the defence of the city. This mountain, being
a rock, yields an inexhauftible quarry of fine hard free¬
ftone. Barcelona is a place of great trade, on account
of the conveniency of its harbour j and it has a manu¬
facture of knives greatly efteemed in Spain, as alfo of
blafikets. Here are alfo feveral glafs-houfes. The in¬
habitants are diligent, and equally fit for labour and
trade j they are alfo very civil to ftrangers. The wo¬
men are well ftiaped, and as handfome as any in Spain;
they are brifk and lively in their converfation, and more
free and unreftrained in their behaviour than in other
parts of Spain. E. Long. 2. 5. N. Lat. 41. 26.
BARCELONETTA, a town of France, in the
department of the Lower Alps, formerly in the go¬
vernment of Dauphiny, and capital of the valley of
its own name. It belonged tojhe duke of Savoy, and
v'as ceded to France by the treaty of Utrecht in 1712. ^
E. Long. 6. 40. N. Lat. 44. 26.
B ARCELOR, a town of Afia, in the Eaft Indies,
on the coaft of Malabar. It is a Dutch fadory, where
they carry on a confiderable trade in pepper. E. Long.
74. 15. N. Lat. 13. 45.
BARCELOS, a town of Portugal, with the title
of a duchy. It is feated on the river Cavado, over
which there is a handfome bridge. W. Long. 7. o.
N. Lat. 41. 20.
BARCINO in Ancient Geography, a town of the
Terraconenfis in Spain, and capital of the Laletani.
Now Barcelona. See that article.
BARCLAY, Ale zander, a learned monk in the
rejgn of Henry VIII. W here he was born, though
ot no great importance, was neverthelefs a matter of
virulent contention among his former biographers.
Bale, who wTas his cotemporary, is of opinion he was
born in Somerfetfhire. There is indeed a village of
his name, and a numerous family, in that county. Pits
thinks he was born in Devonftiire. Mackenzie is po-
fitive he was a Scotchman ; but without proof, unlefs
we admit as fuch his name Alexander. He was, how¬
ever, educated in Oriel-college Oxford. After leaving
the univerfity he went abroad, and continued fome
time in France, Italy, and Germany, where he ac¬
quired a competent knowledge of the languages ofthofe
countries, as appears from feveral tranflations of books,
which
bar [ 59? ] BAR
1?&rchy. tvlncli lie afterwards publiflied. On his return to Eng-
land, lie was made chaplain to his patron the bifliop
of Tyne, who likewife appointed him a prieft of St
Mary, at the college of Ottery in Devonfhire, found¬
ed by Grandifon bil'hop of Exeter. After the death
of his patron, he became a Benediftine monk of Ely.
On the diffolution of that monaftery, he firit obtained
the vicarage of St Matthew at Wokey in Somerfet-
fhire ; and, in 1549, being then doflor of divinity,
was prefented to the vicarage of Much Badew in Ef-
fex* In 1552, he was appointed redlor of Allhallows,
Lombard-ftreet, which he lived to enjoy but a very
(hort time. He died at Croydon in Surrey in June
1552. He is generally allowed to have improved the
Englilh language, and to have been one of the politeft
writers of his time* He compofed feveral original
works ; but was chiefly remarkable for his tranflations
from the Latin, Italian, French, and German langua¬
ges. His verflon from Salluft of the war of Jugurtha
Is accurate, and not without elegance. His lives of
feveral faints, in heroic verfe, are Hill unpubliihed.
His Stultifera navis, or The Jhip of fools, is the moll
lingular of his performances. It was printed by Ri¬
chard Pynfon at London, 1509, in folio ; and contains
a variety of wooden plates, which are worthy the in-
fpettion of the curious^
Barclay, William, a learned civilian, was born
in Aberdeerifhire in the year 1541* He fpent the
early part of his life, and much of his fortune, at the
court of Mary queen of Scots, from whofe favour he
had reafon to expeft preferment. In 1573 he went
over to France, and at Bourges commenced Undent of
civil law under the famous Cujacius. He continued
fome years in that feminary, where he took a do&or’s
degree 5 and was foon after appointed profeflbr of civil
law in the univerfity of Pont-a-Mouflbn, then firft
founded by the duke of Lorrain. That prince after¬
wards made him counfellor of Hate and maHer of re-
quefts. Barclay, in the year 1581, married Ann de
Mallaville, a French lady, by whom he had a fon, who
became a celebrated author, and of whom the reader
will find an account in the next article. I his youth
the Jefuits would gladly have received into their fo-
ciety. His father refufed his confent, and for that
reafon thefe difciples of Jefus foon contrived to ruin
him with the duke his patron. Barclay now embark¬
ed for Britain, where King James I. offered him con-
fiderable preferment, provided he would become a
member of the church of England : but not choofing
to comply, he returned to France in 1604; and, foon
after his arrival, was apppointed profeffor of civil law
in the univerfity of Angers, where he died the year
following, and was buried in the Francifcan church.
He was eHeemed a learned civilian ; and wrote elabo¬
rately in defence of the divine right of kings, in an-
fwer to Buchanan and others. The titles of his works
are, 1. De regno et rega/l potef ate, &c. 2. Commen-
tarius in tit. pandeBarum de rebus creditis, et de jure-
jurando. 3. De potefate papa, &c. 4. Primitia in
vitam AgricoLe.
Barclay, 'pohn, fon of the former, was, as vTe
have above mentioned, fo great a favourite of the Je¬
fuits, that they ufed all their efforts to engage him in
their fociety. Flis father would not confent, and car¬
ried his i’on with him into England, who was already
an author, for he had publiffied “ A Commentary up- Barciity.
on the Thebais of Statius,” and a Latin poem on the -\T—
coronation of King James, and the firH part of Ka~
phormio, 1603. He returned to France with his fa¬
ther $ and after his father’s death w^ent to Paris, and
foon after came back to London : he was there in
1606. He publilhed “ The Hiflory of the Gunpow^-
der Plot,” a pamphlet of fix leaves, printed at Am-
fterdam. He publiflied at London in 1610 “ An A-
pology for the Euphormio,” and his father’s treatife
De potefate papee. And at Paris, 1612, he publifhed
a book entitled Piet as, in aniwer to Cardinal Bellar-
min, w’ho had written againfl William Barclay’s book
concerning the power of the Pope. Two years after
he publilhed Icon Animorum. He was invited to
Rome by Pope Paul V. and received a great deal of
civility from Cardinal Bellarmin, though he had writ¬
ten againff him. He died at Rome in 1621, while
his Argenis was printing at Paris. This celebrated
work has fince gone through a great number of edi ¬
tions, and has been tranllated into mofl languages.
M. de Peirefc, who had the care of the firft edition,
caufed the effigies of the author to be placed before the
book j and the following diftich, written by Grotius,
was put under it;
Gente Caledonius, Gallus natalibus, hie ef,
liomam Romano qui docet ore loqui.
Barclay, Robert, one of the moft eminent among
the Quakers, the fon of Colonel David Barclay, de-
feended of the ancient family of Barclays, was born at
Edinburgh in 1648. He was educated under an uncle
at Paris, where the Papifts ufed all their efforts to draw
him over to their religion. He joined the Quakers in
1669, and diftinguiffied himfelf by his zeal and abili¬
ties in defence of their dodhines. In 1676 he pub¬
lilhed in Latin at Amfterdam his “ Apology for the
Quakers j” which is the moft celebrated of his works,
and efteemed the ftandard of the dodlrine of the Qua¬
kers. The Thefes Theologicce, which were the foun¬
dation of this work, and addreffed to the clergy of
wffiat fort foever, were publilhed before the writing of
the Apology, and printed in Latin, French, Pligb-
Dutch, Low-Dutch, and Engliffi. The dedication of
his Apology to King Charles II. is very remarkable
for the uncommon franknefs and fimplicity with which
it is written. Amongft many other extraordinary paf-
fages, w'e meet with the following : “ There is no king
in the world who can fo experimentally teftify of God’s
providence and goodnefs; neither is there any who
rules fo many free people, fo many true Chriftians j
which thing renders thy government more honourable,
thyfelf more confiderable, than the accefficn of many
nations filled with flavilh and fuperftitious fouls. Thou
haft tafted of profperity and adverfity 5 thou knoweft
what it is to be banilhed thy native country, to be
over-ruled as well as to rule and fit upon the throne 4
and being oppreffed, thou haft reafon to know how
hateful the oppreffor is both to God and man : if, after
all thofe warnings and advertifements, thou doft not
turn unto the Lord with all thy heart, but forget him
who remembered thee in thy diftrefs, and give thyfelf
up to follow luft and vanity, furely great will be thy
condemnation.”—He travelled with the famous Mr
William Penn through the greateft part of England,
3 D 2 - Holland,
jK.a'imes’s
Sketches,
Sk. v.
I'e6l. ii.
,'B A R [ 3g6
e- Holland, and Germany, and was everywhere received
with the higheft refpeft $ for though both his conver-
fation and behaviour were fuitable to his principles,
yet there was fuch livelinefs and fpirit in his difcourfe,
and fuch ferenity and cheerfulnefs in his deportment,
as rendered him extremely agreeable to all forts of
people. When he returned to his native country he
i’pent the remainder of his life in a quiet and retired
manner. He died at his own houfe at Ury on the 3d
of Oftober 1690, in the 4 2d year of his age.
BARCOCHEBAS, or rather Barcochab, a Jew-
ilh impoftor, whofe real name was Ahiba ; but he took
that of Barcochab, which fignifies the Son of a Star ;
in allufion to the prophecy of Balaam, “ There (hall
a liar arife out of Jacob.” He proclaimed himfelf the
Meffiah ; and talking of nothing but wars, victories,
and triumphs, made his countrymen rife againft the
Romans, by which means he was the author of innu¬
merable diforders: he ravaged many places, took a
great number of fortrelfes, and maflacred an infinite
multitude of people, particularly the Chriftians. The
emperor Tent troops to Rufus, governor of Judea, to
fupprefs the fedition. Rufus, in obedience, exercifed
a thoufand cruelties, but could not finifh his
] BAR
“ Save then the poet, and thyfelf reward ;
11 ’Tis thine to merit, mine is to record.”
Odyffey, viii.
Bard.
........ ...o attempt.
The emperor was therefore obliged to fend Julius Se-
verus, the greateft general of that time ; who attained
his end without a direft battle : he fell on them fepa-
rately *, cut off their provifions ; and at laft the whole
contefi: was reduced to the fiege of Bitter, in the 18th
year of Hadrian. Th$ impoftor perifhed there. This
war coft the Romans a great deal of blood.
BARD, a wrord denoting one who wras a poet by
his genius and profeflion j and “ who fung of the bat¬
tles of heroes, or the heaving breafts of love.” OJJtan's
Poems, 1. 37.
The curiofity of man is great with refpefl to the
tranfaflions of his own fpecies ; and when fuch tranf-
adlions are defcribed in verfe, accompanied with mu-
fic, the performance is enchanting. An ear, a voice,
{kill in inftrumental mufic, and, above all, a poetical
gertius, are requifite to excel in that complicated art.
As fuch talents are rare, the few that poffefied them
were highly efteemed •, and hence the profeflion of a
bard, which, befide natural talents, required more cul¬
ture and exercife than any other known art. Bards
were capital perfons at every feftival and at every fo-
lemnity. Their fongs, which, by recording the a-
chievements of kings and heroes, animated every hear¬
er, muft have been the entertainment of every warlike
nation. We have Hefiod’s authority, that in his time
bards were as common as potters or joiners, and as
liable to envy. Demodocus is mentioned by Homer
as a celebrated bard ; and Phemius, another bard, is
introduced by him deprecating the wrath of Ulyffes in
the following words :
“ O King ! to mercy be thy foul inclin’d,
“ And fpare the poet’s ever-gentle kind :
“ A deed like this thy future fame would wrong,
“ For dear to gods and men is facred fong.
“ Self-taught I fing j by heav’n, and heav’n alone,
“ The genuine feeds of poefy are fown •,
“ And (what the gods beftow) the loft)£ lay,
“To gods alone, and godlike worth, we pay.
CJcero reports, that at Roman feftivals, anciently, the
virtues and exploits of their great men w^ere fung. The
fame cuftom prevailed in Peru and Mexico, as we
Learn from Garcilaflfo and other authors. We have for
our authority Father Gobien, that even the inhabitants
of the Marian illands have bards, who are greatly ad¬
mired, becaufe in their fongs are celebrated the feats
of their anceftors.
But in no part of the world did the profeflion of
bard appear with fuch luftre as in Gaul, in Britain, and
in Ireland. Wherever the Celtae or Gauls are men¬
tioned by ancient writers, we feldom fail to hear of
their druids and their bards; the inftitution of which
two orders, was the capital diftin&ion of their manners Blair t Dif-
and policy. The druids were their philofophers andfertathn,
priefts 5 the bards, their poets and recorders of heroic fubjoined
aftions : and both thefe orders of men feem to have ^ ^>JJ'tan 3
fubfifted among them, as chief members of the ftate, voj
from time immemorial. The Celt® poflelfed, from p. 306.
very remote ages, a formed fyftem of difcipline and
manners, which appears to have had a deep and lafting
influence. Ammianus Marcellinus * gives them this * Lib. xv.
exprefs teftimony, that there flouriflied among themc- 9*
the ftudy of the moft laudable arts j introduced by the
bards, whofe office it was to fing in heroic verfe the
gallant ailions of illuftrious men ; and by the druids,
who lived together in colleges or focieties, after the
Pythagorean manner, and philofophizing upon the
higheft fubjefts, afierted the immortality of the hu¬
man foul. Though Julius C®far, in his account of
Gaul, does not exprefsly mention the bards ; yet it is
plain, that, under the title of Druids, he comprehends
that whole college or order ; of which the bards, who,
it is probable, were the difciples of the druids, Z)eBd Gal
doubtedly made a part. It deferves remark, that, ac-i. (j.
cording to his account, the druidical inftitution firft
took rife in Britain, and paffed from thence into
Gaul; fo that they who afpired to be thorough ma¬
ilers of that learning were wont to refort to Britain.
He adds too, that fuch as were to be initiated among
the druids, were obliged to commit to their memory a
great number of verfes, infomuch that feme employed
20 years in this courfe of education *, and that they
did not think it lawful to record thele poems in writ¬
ing, but facredly handed them down by tradition from
race to race.
So ftrong -was the attachment of the Celtic nations
to their poetry and their bards, that amidft all the
changes of their government and manners, even long
after the order of the druids was ex tin <51, and the na¬
tional religion altered, the baMs continued to flouriffi j
not as a fet of ftrolling fongfters, like the Greek Aoj^ei
or rhapfodifs, in Homer’s time, but as an order of
men highly refpefted in the ftate, and fupported by a
public eftablifhment. We find them, according to the
teftimonies of Strabo and Diodorus, before the age of
Auguftus C®far ; and w® find them remaining under
the fame name, and exercifing the fame funttions as of
old, in Ireland, and in the north of Scotland, almoft
down to our own times. It is well known, that, in
both
Barcf.
OJJiariy
II. 22.
Henry s
Hijlary,
vol. i.
P- 3fi5-
BAR [ 397 ] BAR
Both thefe countries, every regulus or chief had his
own bard, who was confidered as an officer of rank in
his court.
Of the honour in which the bards were held, many
inflances occur in Offian’s poems. On all important
occafions, they were the ambaffadors between contend¬
ing chiefs ; and their perfons were held facred. “ Cair-
bor feared to ftretch his fword to the bards, though
his foul was dark. Loofe the bards (faid his brother
Cathmor), they are the fons of other times. Their
voice (hall be heard in other ages, when the kings of
Temora have failed.”—The bards, as well as the
druids, were exempted from taxes and military fervi-
ces, even in times of the greateft danger ; and when
they attended their patrons in the field, to record and
celebrate their great a6Hons, they had a guard affign-
ed them for their proteftion. At all feflivals and pub¬
lic affemblies they were feated near the perfon of the
king or chieftain, and fometimes even above the great-
eft nobility and chief officers of the coiTrt. Nor was
the profeffion of the bards lefs lucrative than it was ho¬
nourable. For, befides the valuable prefents which
they occafionally received from their patrons when
they gave them uncommon pleafure by their perfor¬
mances, they had eftates in land allotted for their fup-
port. Nay, fo great was the veneration which the
princes of thefe times entertained for the perfons of
their poets, and fo highly were they charmed and de¬
lighted with their tuneful ftrains, that they fometimes
pardoned even their capital crimes for a fong.
We may very reafonably fuppofe, that a profeffion
that was at once fo honourable and advantageous, and
enjoyed fo many flattering diftinftions and defirable
immunities, would not be deferted. It was indeed ve¬
ry much crow ded ; and the accounts which we have of
the numbers of the bards in fome countries, particular¬
ly in Ireland, are hardly credible. We often read, in
the poems of Offian, of a hundred bards belonging to
one prince, finging and playing in concert for his en¬
tertainment. Every chief bard, who was called Al¬
lah Redan, or doBor in poetry, was allowed to have 30
bards of inferior note conftantly about his perfon ; and
every bard of the fecond rank was allowed a retinue of
15 poetical difciples.
Though the ancient Britons of the fouthern parts
of this ifland had originally the fame tafte and genius
for poetry wuth thole of the north, yet none of their
poetical compofitions of this period have been preferv-
ed. Nor have we any reafon to be furprifed at this.
For after the provincial Britons had fubmitted quietly
to the Roman government, yielded up their arms, and
had loft their free and martial fpirit, they could take
little pleafure in hearing or repeating the fongs of their
bards in honour of the glorious achievements of their
brave anceftors. The Romans too, if they did not
praftife the fame barbarous policy which wras long af¬
ter praflifed by Edw^aid I. of putting the bards to
death, would at leaft difcourage them, and difcounte-
nance the repetition of their poems, for very obvious
reafons. The fons of the fong being thus perfecuted
by their conquerors, and. neglefled by their country¬
men, either abandoned their country or their profef¬
fion ; and their fongs being no longer heard, were foon
forgotten.
It is probable that the ancient Britons, as tvell as
many other nations of antiquity, had no idea of poems Eaul.
that wTere made only to be repeated, and not to be fung 1
to the found of mufical inftruments. In the firft ftages
of fociety in all countries, the two fifter-arts of poetry
and tnufic feem to have been always united \ every
poet wTas a mufician, and fung his own vcrfes to the
found of fome mufical inftrument. This, we are di-
reflly told by two ivriters of undoubted credit, ivas the
cafe in Gaul, and confequently in Britain, in this pe¬
riod. “ The bards (fays Diodorus Siculus *) fung *Lib.v,
their poems to the found of an inftrument not unlike a fed. 31.
lyre.” “The bards (according to Ammianus Mar-f Lib. xv.
cellinus'{% as above hinted) celebrated the brave ac-c. 0.
tions of illuftrious men, in heroic poems, which they
fung to the fweet founds of the lyre.” 1 his account
of thefe Greek and Latin writers is confirmed by the
general ftrain, and by many particular paffages, of the
poems of Offian. “ Beneath his own tree, at inter¬
vals, each bard fat down wuth his harp. They railed
the fong, and touched the firing, each to the chief he
loved 1.” 1 VoL “•
The invention of writing made a eonfiderable change P'
in the bard profeffion. It is nowT an agreed point, that
no poetry is fit to be accompanied with mufic, but
what is fimple : a complicated thought or defcriptipn Kalmes's
requires the utmoft attention, and leaves none for the
mufic j or, if it divide the attention, it makes but a11 lluPra*
faint impreffion §. The fimple operas of Quinault § See the
bear away the palm from every thing of the kind com- aitide
pofed by Boileau or Racine. But wffien a language, Attention,
in its progrefs to maturity, is enriched with variety of
phrafes fit to exprefs the moft elevated thoughts, men
of genius afpired to the higher ftrains of poetry, leav¬
ing mufic and fong to the bards: wffiich diftinguiffied
the profeffion of a poet from that of a bard. Homer,
in a lax fenfe, may be termed a bard j for in that cha-
rafler he ftrolled from feaft to feaft. But he wTas not
a bard in the original fenfe : he, indeed, recited his
poems to crowded audiences ; but his poems are too
complex for mufic, and he probably did not ling them,
nor accompany them with the lyre. The Trovadores
of Provence were bards in the original fenfe, and made
a capital figure in the days of ignorance, when few
could read, and fewer w’rite. In later times, the fongs
of the bards were taken dowm in writing, which gave
every one accefs to them without a bard ; and the pro- .
feffion funk by degrees into oblivion. Among the
Highlanders of Scotland, reading and writing in their
own tongue is not common even at prefent •, and that
circumftance fupported long the bard profeffion among
them, after being forgot among the neighbouring na¬
tions.
BARDANA, or Burdock. See Arctium, Bo¬
tany Index.
BARDx^RIOTiE, in Antiquity, were a kind of
ancient guard attending the Greek emperors, armed
with rods, wherewith they kept off the people from *
crowding too near the prince when on horfeback.
Their captain, or commander, was denominated pri-
mivergius.—The wmrd was probably formed from the
harder, or houfings on their horfes.
BARDAS, the brother of the emprefs Theodora,
and uncle of the famous Photius, is faid to have had
no other good quality befides that of loving the feien-
ces and polite literature, which he eftablilhed in the
„ E aft era.
I
BAR [ 393 ] BAR
Sar3ed Eaftern empire j for he was treacherous, cruel, and
^ ^ ambitious. In the year 856, he affaffinated Theoc-
'1 ~ tides, general of the emperor Michael’s forces, and
obtained his port. At length he caufed the difgrace
of the emprefs Theodora ; and St Ignatius, patriarch
•of Conftantinople, reproaching him for his vices, he
• had him depofed in 858, in order to make room for
Photius. Bardas was aifaffinated by Bafilius the Ma¬
cedonian, in 866.
BARDED, in Heraldry, is ufed in fpeaking of a
horfe that is capariioned. Pie bears fable, a cavalier
d'or, the horfe horded, argent.
B ARDESANISTS, a febl of ancient heretics,
thus denominated from their leader Bardefanes, a Sy¬
rian of Edefia in Mefopotamia. Bardefanes, born in
the middle of the fecond century, became eminent, af¬
ter his converfion to Chriftianity, for his zeal againft
•heretics..; againft whom, we are informed by St Je¬
rome and Eufebius, he wrote a multitude of books:
yet h$d he the misfortune to fall, himfelf, into the er¬
rors of Valentinus, to which he added feme others of
his own. He taught, that the adlions of men depend
altogether on fate, and that God himfelf is fubjeift to
neceftity. His followers went further, and denied the
refurredlion of the body, and the incarnation and death
of our Saviour ; holding that thefe were only apparent
or phantaftical.
BARDEWICK, a town of Germany, in the circle
of Lower Saxony and duchy of Lunenburg ; formerly
a very large place ; but being ruined in 1189, by the
duke of Saxony, has never yet recovered itfelf. It is
feated on the river Ilmenau, in E. Long. 10. 6. N.
.Lat. 53. 40.
BARD F, a ftrong and rich town of Germany, in
the duchy of Pomerania, with a caftle and fpacious
harbour. It is fubjeft to the Swedes; and is fituated
near the Baltic fea, in E. Long. 13. 20. N. Lat. 54.
•23-
BAR E, • in a general fenfe, fignifies not covered*
Hence we fay bare-headed, bare-footed, &c.
The Roman women, in times of public diftrefs and
mourning, went hare-headed, with their hair loofe.—-
Among both Greeks, Romans, and Barbarians, we
had a feaft called Nudlpedalia.—The Abyflinians ne¬
ver enter their churches, nor the palaces of kings and
great men, but bare-footed.
Bare-FooI Carmelites and Augnjlines, are religious
of the order of St Carmel and St Auftin, who live un¬
der a ftri£! obfervance, and go without (hoes, like the
capuchins. There are alfo bare-foot fathers of mercy.
•Formerly there were bare-foot dominicans, and even
bare-foot nuns of the order of St Auguftin.
BAREITH, a town of Germany in Franconia, in
the margravate of Culembach, with a famous college
belonging to the margrave of Brandenburg Bareith.
E. Long. 11. 50. N. Lat. 50. o.
BARENT, Diteric, an excellent painter, was
born at Amfterdam, and was the fon of a very indu-
ftrious painter. He ftudied in Italy, and became the
favourite difciple of Titian, with whom he lived a long
time ; but at length returned to Amfterdam, where
he painted many extraordinary pieces. He died in
itjSa, aged 48.
.BARFLEUR, a town of France, in Normandy,
2
now the department of the Channel. It was ruined, Eatgiuh
and had its harbour filled up by the Englifh in 1346. tl .
The cape of that name is 12 miles eaft of Cherburg, BarSe"
and near it part of the French fleet was deftroyed in < ccmne'
1692. W. Long. 1. 6. N. Lat. 49. 40.
BARGAIN and JSale a fpecies of conveyance in
the Englifh law. It is a kind of a real contraft,
whereby the bargainer for fome pecuniary confideration
bargains and fells, that is, contradls to convey, the
land of the bargainee ; and becomes by fuch bargain a
truftee for, or feized to the ufe of, the bargainee ; and
then the ftatute of ufes completes the purchafe : or, as
it hath been well exprefled, the bargain firft veils the
ufe, and then the ftatute veils the poffeftion. But as
it was foiefeen that conveyances, thus made, would
want all thofe benefits of notoriety which the old
common-law afiurances were calculated to give ; to pre¬
vent therefore clandelline conveyances of freeholds, it
was enabled in the fame feffion of parliament by ftatute
27 Hen, VIII. c. 16. that fuch bargains and lales
Ihould not enure to pafs a freehold, unlefs the fame be
made by indenture, and enrolled within fix months in
one of the courts of Weftminfter-hall, or with the cujlos
rotulorum of the county. Clandeftine bargains and
fales of chattel interefts, or leafes for years, were
thought not worth regarding, as fpeh interefts were
very precarious till about fix years before ; which alfo
occafioned them to be overlooked in framing the ftatute
of ufes : and therefore fuch bargains and fales are not
direbted to be enrolled. But how impoftible is it to
forefee, and provide againft, all the confequences of in¬
novations ! This omiftion has given rife to the fpecies
of conveyance by lease and release.
BARGE (bargie, Dutch), a veffel or boat of ftate,
furnilhed with elegant apartments, canopies, and cu-
Ihions ; equipped with a band of rowers, and decorated
with flags and ftreamers : they are generally ufed for
procefiions on the water, by noblemen, officers of ftate,
or magiftrates of great cities. Of this fort, too, we
may naturally fuppofe the famous barge or galley of
Cleopatra, which, according to Shakefpeare,
    Like a burniffi’d throne,
Burnt on the water : the poop was beaten gold :
Purple her fails; and fo perfumed, that
The winds were love-fick with them : the oars were
filver,
Which to the tune of flutes kept time, and made
The water which they beat to follow fafter,
As amorous of their ftrokes.  
_____ At the helm
A feeming mermaid fleer’d : the filken tackjes
Swell’d with the touches of thofe flower foft hands
That yarely ’form’d their office. 
There are likewife other barges of a fmaller kind, for
the ufe of admirals and captains of fhips of war. Thefe
are of a lighter frame, and may be eafily hoifted into
and out of the fhips to which they occafionally belong.
Barge is alfo the name of a flat-bottomed veffel of
burden, for lading and difeharging (hips, and removing
their cargoes from place to place in a harbour.
BARGE-Couples, in ArchiteBure, a beam mortifed
into another, to ftrengthen the building.
Barg&-Courfcj with bricklayers, a term ufed for
that
BAR [ 399 ] BAR
Uargh- tliiit part of the tiling which proje£ls over without the
maft'-r principal rafters, in all forts of buildings where there
Barina is either a gable or a kirkin-head.
—iy—BARGHMASTER, Barmer, or Bar-Master,
in the royal mines, the fleward or judge of the barmote.
— 1 he bar-mafter is to keep two great courts of bar-
mote yearly j and every week a fmall one, as occafion
requires.
BARGHMOTE, orBARMor, a court which takes
cognizance of caufes and diiputes between miners—
By the cuftom of the mines, no perfon is to fue any
miner for ore-debt, or for ore, or for any ground in
variance, but only in the court of barmote, on penalty
of forfeiting the debt, and paying the charges at law.
BARI, a very handfoiiie and rich town of Italy, in
the kingdom of Naples ; the capital @f Terra di. Bari,
and an archbifhop’s fee. It is well fortified, is feated
on the gulf of Venice, and had formerly a good har¬
bour, but it w'as deftroyed by the Venetians. E. Long.
17. 40. N. Lat. 41. 31.
Bari, or Terra di Bari, a territory of Italy, in
the kingdom of Naples, of which the above-mentioned
city is the capital. It is bounded on the north by the
Capitanata, on the north-tveff by the Ulterior Princi-
pato, on the fouth by the Bafilicata, on the fouth-eaft
by the Terra de Otranto, and on the north-eaft by the
gulf of Venice. It has no confiderable river except
the Offanto, which feparates it from the Capitanata.
The air is temperate ; and the foil produces plenty of
corn, fruit, and faffron : but there are a great many
f’erpents, and fpiders called tarantulas. See Aranea.
The principal towns are Bari the capital, Frani, An-
dria, Bavo, Bilonto, Converfano, Monopoli, Polignia-
no, Barletta, and Malfetto. The two hrll are archi-
epifcopal, and all the reft epifcopal.
BARILLA, or Barilha, the name of a plant cul¬
tivated in Spain for its allies, from which the pureft
kinds of mineral alkali or foda are obtained.
There are four plants, which, in the early part of
their growth, bear fo ftrong a refemblance to each other
as would deceive any but the farmers and nice obfer-
vers. Thefe four are, barilla, ga%ul (or, as fome call
it, algazal\ foza, and falicornia or falicor. They are
all burnt to allies ; but applied to different ufes, as
being poffeffed of different qualities. Some of the ro-
guifti farmers mix more or lefs of the three laft with
the firft 5 and it requires a complete knowledge of the
colour, tafte, and fmell of the allies to be able to de-
teff their knavery.
Barilla is fown afrefti every year. Its greateft
height"above ground is four inches: each root pulhes
out a vaft number of little ftalks, which again are fub-
divided into fmaller fprigs refembling famphire ; and
all together form a large fpreading tufted bufti. The
colour is bright green 5 as the plant advances towards
maturity, this colour vanifties aw'ay till it comes at laft
to be a dull green tinged with brown,
Gazul bears the greateft affinity to barilla, both in
quality and appearance : the principal difference con-
fifts in its growing on a ftill drier falter earth, con-
fequently it is impregnated with a ftronger fait. It
does not rife above two inches out of the ground,
fpreading out into little tufts. Its fprigs are much
flatter and more pulpy than thofe of barilla, and are
ftill more like famphire, It is fown but once in three, Barilla,
four, or five years, according to the nature of the foil. ^ jjanng-
So%a, when of the fame lize, has the fame appear¬
ance as gazul; but in time grows much larger, as its
natural foil is a ftrong fait marfh, where it is to be
found in large tufts of fprigs, treble the fize of barilla,
and of a bright green colour, which it retains to the
lart.
Salicor has a ftalk of a deep green colour inclining
to red, which laft becomes by degrees the colour of
the whole plant. From the beginning it grows up¬
right, and much refembles a buffi of young rofemary.
Its natural foil is oh the declivities of hills near the
fait marfhes, or on the edges of the fmall drains or chan¬
nels cut by the huffiandmen for thepurpofe of watering
the fields ; before it has acquired its full growth, it is
very like the barilla of thofe feafons in which the
ground has been dunged before fowing. In thofe
years of manuring, barilla, contrary to its ufual na¬
ture, comes up with a tinge of red ; and when burnt
falls far ftrort of its wonted goodnefs, being bitter,
more impregnated with falts than it ffioulcj be, and rai¬
ling a blifter if applied for a few minutes to the tongue.
Barilla contains lefs fait than the others : when burnt,
it runs into a mafs refembling a fpongy ftone, with a
faint call of blue.
Gazul, after burning, comes as near barilla in its-
outward appearance as it does while growing in its ve¬
getable form •, but if broken, the infide is of a deeper
and more gloffy blue. Soza and falicor are darker,
and almoft black within, of a heavier confiftence, with,
very little or no fign of fponginefs.
All thefe allies contain a ftrong alkali j but barilla
the bell and pureft, though not in the greateft quan¬
tity. Upon this principle, it is fitteft for making glafs
and bleaching linen ; the others are ufed in making
foap. Each of them would whiten linen ; but all,.
except barilla, would burn it. A good crop of ba¬
rilla impoverilhes the land to fuch a degree, that it can¬
not bear good barilla a fecond time, being quite ex-
haufted. For this reafon the richer farmers lay ma¬
nure upon the ground, and let it lie fallow for a fca-
fon *, at the end of which it is fown afrefti without any
danger, as the w?eeds that have fprung up in the year
of reft have carried off all the pernicious effefts of the
dung. A proper fucceffion of crops is thus fecured
by manuring and fallowing the different parts of the
farm, each in their turn. The poorer tribe of cultiva¬
tors cannot purfue the fame method for want of capi¬
tal ; and are therefore under the neceffity of fowing
their lands immediately after manuring, vffiich yields
them a profit juft fufficient to afford a prefent fcanty
fubfiftence, though the quality and price of their ba¬
rilla be but trifling.
The method ufed in making barilla is the fame as
that followed in Britain in burning kelp. The plant
as foon as ripe is plucked up and laid in heaps, then,
fet on fire. The fait juices run out below into a
hole made in the ground,, where they run into a vitri¬
fied lump, which is left about a fortnight to cool. An~
acre may give about a tun.
BARING of trees, in Agriculture, the taking
aw-ay fome of the earth about the roots, that the
winter-rain and fnow-water may penetrate farther.
int©
•BAR
[ 400 ]
BAR
Barjols
II
Bark.
into the roots. This is frequently praclifed in the au¬
tumn.
BARJOLS, a fmall populous town of Provence, now
the department of Var, in France. E. Long. 5. 23.
N. Lat. 43. 35.
BARIUM, in Ancient Geography, a town of Apulia,
on the Adriatic •, fo called from the founders, who be¬
ing expelled from the ifland Bara, built this town. It
is now' called Bari ■, fee that article.
BARK, in the anatomy of plants, the exterior part
of trees, correlponding to the {kin of an animal, for
its organization, texture, &c. fee the article Plants.
As animals are furnUhed wuth a panniculus adipo-
fus, ufually replete with fat, which invefts and covers
all the flefhy parts, and fcreens them from external
cold ; plants are encompaffed with a bark replete with
fatty juices, by means wdiereof the cold is kept out,
and in winter-time the fpiculse of ice prevented from
fixing and freezing the juices in the veffels: whence it
is, that fome forts of trees remain evergreen the year
round, by reafon their barks contain more oil than can
be fpent and exhaled by the fun, &c.
The bark has its peculiar difeafes, and is infe&ed
with infefts peculiar to it.—-It appears from the expe¬
riments of M. Buffon, that trees ftripped of their bark
the whole length of their ftems, die in about three or
four years. But it is very remarkable, that trees thus
itripped in the time of the fap, and fulfered to die,
afford timber heavier, more uniformly denfe, ftronger,
and fitter for fervice, than if the trees had been cut
down in their healthy ftate. Something of a like nat-
ture has been obferved by Vitruvius and Evelyn.
The ancients wrote their books on bark, efpecially of
the afli and lime tree, not on the exterior, but on the
inner and finer bark called/>/&z/yrtf.
There are a great many kinds of barks in ufe in the
feveral arts. Some in agriculture, and in tanning lea¬
ther, as the oak-bark ; fome in phyfic, as the quinqui¬
na or Jefuit’s bark, mace, &c. 5 others in dyeing, as
the bark of alder and walnut trees $ others in fpicery,
as cinnamon, caflia lignea, &c. and others for divers
ufes, as the bark of the cork tree, &c.
In the Eaft Indies, they prepare the bark of a cer¬
tain tree fo as to fpin like hemp. After it has been
beat and fteeped in water, they extraa long threads
from it, which are fomething between filk and common
thread *, being neither f® foft nor fo glofly as filk,. nor
fo rough and hard as hemp. They mix filk with it in
fome Huffs; and thefe are called nillaes, and cherque-
tnolles.
Of the bark of a fpecies of mulberry-tree the Ja-
panefe make their paper. See Morus.
In the ifland of Otaheite, the natives make their
cloth, which is of three kinds, of the bark of three dif¬
ferent trees $ the paper-mulberry above mentioned, the
bread-fruit tree, and the cocoa tree. That made of the
mulberry is the fineft and whiteft, and worn chiefly by
the principal people. It is manufaftured in the fol-
lownng manner. When the trees are of a proper fize,
they are drawn up, and ftripped of their branches ; af¬
ter which, the roots and tops are cut off: the bark of
thefe rods being then flit up longitudinally, is eafily
■drawn off; and, when a proper quantity has been pro¬
cured, it is carried down to fome running water, in
Bart:.,
Water.
Barks.
which it is depofited to foak, and fecufed from float¬
ing away by heavy Hones: when it is luppofed to be
fufficiently foftened, the women fervants go down to
the brook, and, {tripping themfelves, fit down in the
water, to feparate the inner bark from the green part
on the outfide : to do this, they place the under fide up¬
on a flat fmooth board, and with a kind of ftiell fcrape
it very carefully, dipping it continually in the water
till nothing remains but the fine fibres of the inner
coat. Being thus prepared in the afternoon, they are
fpread out upon plantain leaves in the evening ; they
are placed in lengths of about 11 or 12 yards, one by
the fide of another, till they are about a foot broad,
and tw'o or three layers are aifo laid one upon the o-
ther : care is taken that the cloth {hall be in all parts
of an equal tbicknefs, fo that if the bark happens to be
thinner in any one particular part of one layer than the
reft, a piece that is fomewhat thicker is picked out to
be laid over in the next. In this ftate it remains till
the morning, when great part of the water which it
contained when it wras laid out is either drained off or
evaporated, and the feveral fibres adhere together, fo
as that the whole may be raifed from the ground in
one piece. It is then taken away, and laid upon the
fmooth fide of a long piece of wood prepared for the
purpofe, and beaten by the women fervants. The in-
ftrument ufed for this purpofe is a fquare wooden club,
having each of its four fides or faces marked, length-
wife, with fmall grooves, or furrows, of different de¬
grees ot finenefs } thofe on one fide being of a width
and depth fufficient to receive a finall pack-thread, and
the others finer in a regular gradation, fo that the laft
are not more than equal to fewing filk. 1 hey beat it
firft with the coarfeft fide of this mallet, keeping time
like our fmiths *, it fpreads very faft under the ftrokes,
chiefly however in the breadth, and the grooves in the
mallet mark it with the appearance of threads •, it is
fucceflively beaten with the other fides, laft with the
fineft, and is then fit for ufe. Of this cloth there are
feveral forts, of different degrees of finenefs, in pro¬
portion as it is more or lefs beaten. 1 he other cloth ai¬
fo differs in proportion as it is beaten 5 but they differ
from each other in confequence of the different mate¬
rials of which they are made. The bark of the bread¬
fruit is not taken till the trees are confiderably longer
and thicker than thofe of the mulberry j the procefs af¬
terwards is the fame.—Of the bark, too, of a tree which
they call poerou*, they manufaflure excellent matting 5 * Hil'ifcus
both a coaife fort which ferves them to fleep upon, and *//;«««» of
a finer to w^ear in wet weather. Of the fame bark they Linnaeus,
alfo made ropes and lines, from the thicknefs of an inch
to the fize of a fmall pack-thread.
Bark, or Jefuit’s Bark, is a name given by way of
eminence to the quinquina, or cinchona. See Cin¬
chona.
Bark, in Navigation, a general name given to fmall
{hips; it is, however, peculiarly appropriated by feamen
to thofe which carry three mafts without a mizen top-
fail. Our northern mariners, who are trained in the
coal-trade, apply this diftinftion to a broad fterned
{hip which carries no ornamental figure on the ftem or
prow’.
IVater-BARKS, are little veffels ufed in Holland for
the carriage of frefti water to places where it is want¬
ing,
i
*
' ■
-
■ ' /v • - y | df
14. ilfl I . . .■
• V te. - - • . ..».4 ». ' ^ t/’; i *• V *i’. •
* * r * , - 1 \ ^ > :m mm
^ *\ >;, “ \ j ' ''•JVf -
-.,>• M'- U’^S : ?, V;>,ir,
-1*,,^ ^ f, -v ,; ^
‘rwfcfc.Vft'®
..^r tf-.jp;
■J" ’ J r, W f** •.? •%&> S y '
^ ,4-, ■? ..M
'3
c^w S' pfci?
/; y-S'
lie
as
■#'V.
* i ’-r i-1
4'r\vhlrv W W5£f
SrWmrsv’&'i
•/* V.
tmll
• " -: . • ., '• ■ . r
v K f 'xv*. s i - S '"■ '' ' ; ^ '-S'l
^ ” 8 * I +\ m M
-- * ■ -+-»» '»‘> i\ ,. ,?. •', ' :;>
| v- -•■.
■> • ’ “ 'J- ^ /'y Si'
iv" "■ - FM* -’“"i
SW®-.A^ «.*",»■;
/ PI^P I? I :■
mi'i: v;
y ,f'?m
/ ?* f -v ^ S I* *«
” • '"'" '* S* 4>^ «V V’t/*'1- j’ ' '“"i *, ^ /S ? V • - .-l..--*'",/S.^r>V^
4 % m
.* -*sf v# V ^ .’flW'
MmSs
^ : :4^!Wc -' 4:4i44:>'
* »• ■/ * .*...' ' ‘-f-: -. ■*:' <85* >? -. i'*
• - ”j **', ' •'’ tMhiZ'
?; •-., - '5-^5*^ ''" ,;!-
•;' .'*f ■ V ■■-■'"■‘'•i*
• 1^5; v • ' .-'S-l" &
*: X , r ^ ,'<fc
’ 'w * 1 \.' ' ^ f 'f " , ^
4 <<4
(A 1 >'*'>> •: r »’ - ?lk: »? ^
■
*Wh'::
:?&
<; %¥i. -TJ, f.'
-
'
I
* v ; 1.4
v tjC-i tJJsR
-ssfflfe "
STA.*
^ ' iV ' 8| ;-flt'' ' 'i* *«! kt '~ £& /
Wmm
mm wm i
s ..'p
. /’ V i-V' ','S.^ is
&mim I -
SIC* ^ • ** , Mr y ,*
.vg f tf^ ..*% 1 *
t f i ^ /SS S1 ,
f: 'j; i±'- S*' ‘!
SSM®;
, ^?$p£a.
V^W ''
.;::i\;X-c
S '1 *’
„S’- ■ ■ k4.S i*;*
, ‘xr' 1 4- r
<’ ^ 'C' * 5* -C-S ,'<•
^ f r >'Sk:-'*S < ’"j : **' ' ^
, ■ I' SpS* m »£ iMtSf-m '-*jl
^ If 4 ^ ^ t-
, ^ M ; I 1
..i, . ,„ ^Yoc/ ' 4 1 ” 1 ; ’' -4 .
, , # ? ^ « 1 %JVi' * ^ “5^ ,
' . ^ ;. s .•■• v.. ^ j*-',,.' pMmm b
4 c-s- ,» s i. / rs
i ;, J j-. .’ir 14 ■ . .S-.
■ -:■ .. i. ^ -• * c • , :- St ,-■, >
' t '*& , . t& l \t T >tx ffiu * S fr
1 1 " ,v ' ’u * »* ( y s h .t «y| $&%
i ■ ■■ ’S .■ •■■■■ y y\^y:.
‘S-: 4*' I lo 1
. : J *, S’ , 4b 4b
jr i ‘ * <P^ 4 l^P v 11 ‘A ^
t, . WMh, „ . -1 mmmm
